What's happening here. Inevitably you have folks that come in and and uh maybe they missed a week or two or or the uh they're not um you know they're not really sure what's what's happening, what's going on here. So I like to take a little bit of time each time we look at this. And just uh make sure everybody knows what's happening here. Of course, King David, he's not king at this point, he was a young man, and his father Jesse sent him Out to the battlefield, the nation of Israel was at war with the Philistines, as they often were, and ongoing And in this particular conflict, the Philistines sent their champion out to face Israel, and they came up with this great idea They said, tell you what, we'll send our champion out. You send someone out, uh a champion of yours, and we'll let them fight it out, and whoever wins that, whoever kills the other uh nations other armies champion, then um they'll be the victors. We'll surrender to them. And of course their champion was who? If Philistines champion was who? Goliath, they sang Goliath out, and boy, what a champion he was. He was uh nine foot some inches tall, uh heavily armored, uh very skilled warrior, trained in warfare And the nation of Israel was terrified by him and were in dismay. Their strength and courage was gone. They said there's no way. And uh they're trembling. David shows up, his dad sent him out there with some cheese and snacks and stuff for his brothers who were in the military. And uh David sees this guy out here, he hears him blaspheming uh the God of Israel and and saying terrible things and nasty things and David uh gets indignant And he says, how are you letting this Philistine dogs blaspheme God like this and say these things? Somebody ought to go out there And uh everybody said, no, they're scared. So uh through a series of end, David, this young boy, ends up confronting Goliath. And uh he went out there very confident. He told the king Saul that he had killed a bear and a lion with his bare hands, and God enabled him to do that, and God's very uh well able to kill this uh uncircumcised Philistine was his term for him. And so David does. Sling, he s throws that rock and uh hits Goliath in the head, knocks him down, he takes his sword, cuts his head off Uh the Philistines flee for their lives. It's interesting they did not keep their contract. They were going to surrender, but they didn't. And they run off and Israel goes after them. Great victory. David is a national hero. Lifted up And uh everybody singing David's praises, and King Saul is so excited that this young man is getting so much attention and being honored. No. King Saul is in a very uh carnal state. He's not very spiritually minded. He gets very, very envious of David's praise and the attention David's getting And that deteriorates, that starts eating away it is thinking, and King Saul absolutely becomes a monster. I think he becomes almost mentally deranged in his attempts to to kill David, eliminate him. So David's on the run. He goes to a little town. He realizes he can't stay. uh in Israel. He goes to a little town Nob we looked at a couple weeks ago, a week or so ago, and it happens to be the where the tabernacle is the most sacred Most sacred item in all of Israel. It's where the mercy seat, where God meets with them, the high priest is there. And uh he gets some food, uh some bread there. He he doesn't have any uh armor or food with him. He gets some bread, he gets uh Goliath's sword And then that's where we're at. He's about to leave. So let's look here. He's fleeing for his life from King Saul. That's the underlying plot, I guess, what's going on here. Let's look at verse 10. And David arose and fled that day. That's from this little town, Nob, where the tabernacle is. David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul and went to Akish, the king of Gath. And the servants of Achuf said unto him, said unto the king, Is not this David The king of the land? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands? And David laid up these words in his heart. He heard them talking to the king like that. And he was sore afraid of Akish, the king of Gath. You notice up in verse 10 he was fear of Saul, and now he's sore afraid of Akish. And he changed his behavior before them and feigned himself mad in their hands. and scrabbbled on the door of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard Then said Akish unto his servants, Lo, ye see here the man is mad. Wherefore then have ye brought him to me? Have I need of a madman that you brought this fellow to me to play the madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come into my house Let's stop there and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would teach us and speak to us from this passage of Scripture. Lord, you've inspired this record of this event. You've preserved it for us. And uh we believe because of that you have something to teach us from this that we can profit. So I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew this hour. And Lord, your Holy Spirit, be the teacher tonight, be the preacher. Show us how this applies to our lives and our faith. And so I ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. Humanly speaking, David has lost just about everything. He is at an incredibly low point in his life. Um, his king who should be his ally has turned against him. Do you ever have somebody that you trusted, you looked up to, you really thought something of, and they totally failed you? Anyone know anything about that? Somebody you leaned on and uh and uh they just uh they turned against you. That's the way it was with David. I think I think uh he had tremendous respect for King Saul Not necessarily because of King Saul as a person, but because of the position he held. And David had tremendous respect for the one that was anointed of God. And he turns on him. That's tough. That's tough. Um his wife is gone. He's uh she did help save his life, but then You know, it was kind of uh uh she lied about it and different things and uh kind of threw uh kind of spoke ill of David made him look bad in the eyes of King Saul. So she's out of the picture now. King Saul has turned against him. Uh his one friend Jonathan, who loved him and was very, very loyal to him, but at this point in time, he's pretty much out of the picture. And Jonathan's not much Jonathan can do for him at this point. So David has lost just about everything, but there's one thing David does have. And what he does have, I believe, is more valuable than the king's loyalty, than his friend's love, than his wife's presence with him Or comfort and uh support. One thing more valuable than all of that, one thing that's going to do him more good than all of that, and that is this. He has God's word that he's going to be king. He has God's word that He, that uh God has a plan and a purpose for His life I tell you, when you get to the point where you think, my life has no plan, my life has no purpose, that's a pretty low spot. You know, that's a pretty low spot. But God does have a plan, and God does have a purpose for us. And when David was anointed by King by Samuel, the prophet Samuel, when David was anointed to be the future king, that was a powerful message to David. That I have a plan for your life. Everything's going to be okay in the end. And the anointing, when they would anoint someone in the Old Testament, when they would anoint someone with oil, a prophet of God when anointing someone with oil, it had several implications. One was that one was set apart, was chosen by God and set apart from all others for a very specific purpose. In this case, to be king of God's people, king of Israel, and ultimately establish the throne that one day Jesus Christ would sit on. So this is a profound This is a profound position that God has chosen David to fulfill. And that has tremendous implications. So he has that promise from God. Anointing of God also implied it represent in some ways represented the presence of God with that one. And so David does not have David does not have the support of the king. He's turned against him, his own king, his own people, his own nation. His wife is out of the picture. His dear friend, the only one he has really at this point, he's out of the picture. But he does have God's word. He does have God's promise. He does have God's presence in his life And God has a plan and a purpose for Him. Now here's the thing. I said all that to say this. At this point in time God's promise to David, God's anointing upon him, has been overshadowed in David's mind by the circumstances he finds himself in. He's looking at King Saul who's out to kill him. He's looking at all of this. And in his mind, all that promise, that that anointing, all the God that God has assured him of All of that has been clouded over, has been overshadowed by the fact that the king and the military is out to kill me. Previously, David's faith in God was the driving factor in his life. When he went out after Goliath, when he killed that lion, that bear, it was his faith in God what drove him. That's changed. Something else is driving David right now. It's not his faith in God. Anybody want to take a shot at it? It's mentioned twice here in this passage we read. Fear. Fear is the driving factor in David's life at this point. Um does God still have a plan for his life, yes or no? Yes, absolutely. Is God's presence still with David? Sure. He's going to be kicked. If you don't get anything else right now, get this. When God says something's going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. And so all of the things as far as on God's side of all of this, all of those things that God has said, they're all still in place. Nothing has changed on God's side. But David's thinking, David's perspective on his situation has changed And the circumstances, and I think this is important to understand, the circumstances have become the driving factor in his life. When I get to the point where I start acting and behaving and making decisions based upon how things appear to be. Rather than how God says they are, I start making foolish decisions. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You follow what I'm trying to say Um when the circum when the circum when my circumstances here, I'll put it this way, when my circumstances dictate my behavior Rather than the word of God and the promises of God, I start making bad decisions. I start making bad decisions. When circumstances are the driving factor, you'll find good men start making doing bad things When circumstances are the determining factor in my behavior and my decisions, you find wise men start making foolish decisions. We studied Ecclesiastes. Man, what a I I love that study. What a tremendous study. We studied Ecclesiastes, and we found in Ecclesiastes the wisest man that ever walked this earth Earth, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, made some of the most foolish decisions. And what was the factor in him making these foolish decisions? He started listening to his pagan wives The Bible tells us, rather than God's word. And he started acting foolishly. He allowed the circumstances and what he was hearing, what he's looking, what he was seeing, rather than what God had declared And he became very foolish in his actions. When circumstances become the driving factor in our lives, honorable men may end up doing very dishonorable things. Now here's my, I wrote this down. Our faith in God and in his word must be the controlling factor in our thinking, in our actions, and our decisions. And that, to me, is the biggest challenge, one of the biggest challenges in the Christian life. Not to react to things as they appear to be. Not to respond and decide make decisions based on uh superficial appearance of things But rather coming to the Word of God and getting God's perspective on something rather than my perspective. You follow what I'm saying I see it. I've been guilty of this. Probably most, if not all of us, have been guilty of this, that we know the Lord. We make a decision based on our own understanding, our own perspective. rather than what God has clearly told us, and later on we come back and say, oh, what was the matter with me? Can I get a witness? And so I believe David is at a point in his life, and there's a couple words here I pointed out, that word fear. That, rather than faith, is affecting David, and he's making some decisions here uh based upon his circumstances. Now let me give you I've I've divided these uh verses up here into four sections. I see four heads here in uh this verse. Verse number 10 in this passage. In verse number 10, I want us to consider uh David's reasoning. David is thinking. He's reasoning. He's a thinking man. He plans and he puts things together. He strategizes. He's a military guy at this point. And notice what it says here. It says verse 10, and David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul and went to Achish, the king of Gath. Here's the question. Was David right or was he wrong on going to Achish, king of Gath? He was right in human thing, but he was wrong in spiritual things. Ah I hate it when people steal my thunder. In reality, we're not told. I and I got looking up cu Yeah, we're not told. We don't know. God never makes an assessment of David's actions here. I can't find anywhere where God says he was wrong, he was out of line, or anything. I've read several commentaries, fellas, that know more than I do, and they suggested that David was following the leadership of the Lord. Now, my opinion, studying this, I don't think that's correct. I'm going to explain why. I think humanly speaking, he was doing what he needed to do, the way he understood it. Let's look at this. Notice his reasoning here. It is hard to imagine. Now what do we know? What do we know about GAF? And uh Akish, the king of Gath. We put brought this out last week. Gath is what? This is where the Philistines are, and more significantly, even than that, It's where Goliath grew up. Goliath's mother lives here. Goliath's father probably lives here. His aunts and uncles live here. He has brothers and sisters, no doubt. They live here. They have family that know how Goliath died, and I'm telling you, they know who killed him. They know David's the guy that killed him. So it is hard for me to imagine a worse place to go to. Then there, of all the places available to David, he goes to Gath. Now I think he had that planned out. I brought this out last week. Wasn't a chance it just happens the tabernacle was there. Wasn't no chance it just happened to be Goliath's sword was there, and then David goes to Gath, where Goliath is from. In his thinking, this is a good idea And David's reasoning, he's got this figured out and uh in his mind, and this looks like a good idea. Now from our perspective, we look at it, and I'm thinking, David I'm I'm I'm studying my Bible and I'm yelling, David, don't do that. But he does. And he's he his thinking is going there. Gath is uh it's enemy territory. It's the home of Goliath. I did a little studying on Gath, and Gath, you know what I found out? It would be what we would call today the capital of the Philistines. It would be the Washington, D. C. , of the Philistine Nation. It would be the Annapolis It's the capital. This is probably one of the most heavily fortified, probably one of the most loyal citizens to the nation of uh to the pe the to the Philistines Of any city would possibly go to. And David goes right into the heart of it. Now think about it. These are the enemies of God's people. They hate the God of Israel. They blaspheme him. Every time you find the Philistines, they're blaspheming the God of Israel. They worship these imaginary, pagan, perverse, wicked gods. If the Philistines had their way, every Jew would be exterminated. It's hard to imagine the hatred That they have towards Israel. We learned this earlier on. The Philistine nation, they were relentless. In their attempts to destroy the nation of Israel, they would come back, and Israel would win, Israel would defeat them, and within a matter of a short period of time, they would regroup, they would re-arm, and they're back again. And this goes on for decades and decades and years and years. David got in his head that this is a good idea to go here. I thought of this. David is dealing with another Goliath. He's dealing with not a physical giant this time. He won that battle. He defeated the physical giant, Goliath. Now he's dealing with a mental giant. He's dealing with a mental issue, the way he's thinking. I'm not suggesting he's mentally ill, but he's thinking wrong. And there is this giant of wrong reasoning that is going on that he is battling. The physical giant, when he saw Goliath, that prompted him to have great faith in God. And man, what an amazing victory he had. when he put his faith in God. But this mental giant that he's dealing with, the fear of Saul and the hopelessness of his situation. He gets thinking, and this mental giant isn't producing faith in God. It's prompting fear of man. And the way he's thinking, the way he's perceiving things, and the way he's reasoning in his mind, rather than Rather than producing a faith in almighty, all-powerful God, God is well able to take care of it. He's not thinking that way. Now it's I'm scared to death. Scared to death of King Saul. And we'll see, he'll be here in a little bit. He's scared to death of the uh of the king of Gath. Um the I don't think he really was. originally when he entered the city. No, not at first. No, that's true. I think his pride, and we know he he had pride. I think his pride got the best of him. Right. And and what his reasoning is we're not told But we do know that after he hears these guys talking, then verse 12, it says he was sore afraid. And then he makes another decision. And so is this is what I'm trying to get at. David's decision making is not based upon his faith in God and what God has promised him. His decision making is based on the way he's seeing things And it's producing fear, and he's acting in fear. And so I think that's one of the greatest challenges of Christian life is to keep my thinking straight. Hmm? That's where the battle is. I've been saying this a lot lately. How many people ever said this? What was I thinking? You know, at the moment, it seemed right, at the moment, yeah, this is the best thing. Then afterwards, like, what in the world? What's wrong with me? Ever beat your head on the wall, what's wrong with me? I didn't either, but I thought of that. To try and keep thinking straight. Here is the challenge. Here's the challenge to keep thinking biblically. To have the mind of Christ, to see things from God's perspective. That was the whole book of Ecclesiastes, was operating under the sun from our perspective, from our understanding, from our reasoning. And that's exactly what David's doing here. He sees the circumstances, he gets scared to death, and then he makes these decisions based on fear rather than faith. Uh David's reasoning, here's my two three thoughts under this one in verse number ten. Number one, it produced fear. That's what I've been saying. Here's an interesting word. Look at verse Look at verse 10. It says David arose and fled that day, and this reinforces the point I'm trying to make. It says that day for fear of Saul. I got looking up that word fear in my concordance and Hebrew dictionary, I found out it's not the typical word that is used for fear in the Bible. If you hear the word fear, what what comes to mind if you're going to define it? You're being afraid. Yeah, fear. You're being afraid. You're scared of something. You tremble at it. You want to get away from it. You view it as something dangerous or bad for you. But the word fear here is translated 350 plus times in the Bible as faith. For fear of King Saul. And I thought, that doesn't make sense. How does that be fearful? Because of the face of Saul? And I got looking up, and there was another little way it's used, and this was the definition. The way things appear on the surface. So David flees to Gath for fear of Saul, for the way things appeared to be on the surface, it produced fear, and he fled. He's seeing things again from hit from uh uh he was looking at circumstances rather than What things really were. And so his reasoning, he got looking at circumstances rather than what God has said, and he gets scared This was a fear caused by how things appeared to David, not the result of anything God had said or done. It was just how Saul was behaving, scared him. Would you agree with me? If God told me to fear something, I ought to fear it, right? God knows. He says that's bad. Stay away from this. No good. Stay away from it. I ought to be afraid of it. I ought to be afraid of it. We tried, and I use this illustration several times, but we tried to instill in our boys a fear of the road in front of our house. And maybe f by fear I should use the word a healthy respect. That they don't take it lightly. They're not trivial about that road and being out there near it. This is a there's a little hill comes up here. Speak of them it's only twenty-five, but that means Everybody goes 75 and um they come flying over there. If those boys are out and they're playing around, they're they're they're gone. And so when God tells us Doesn't look, it looks innocent, I don't see any cars in the road. It's fine. What's the problem? From the perspective, from the surface it looked right But we know what the what happens there. And when God tells us something, we say, you stay away from that. Don't you touch that. You avoid this. You trust me. You go this way. You look. And we say, well, I don't see anything wrong with it We're looking at on the face. We're looking on the surface. Am I making sense, you follow? And that's exactly what David was doing. He had this fear of Saul that was circumstantial only. There was no basis for it because God had already promised him. I keep coming back to that. It's interesting, and we're going to get to this, and while I'm talking, if you want to find Psalm 56. Now stay here. Psalm 56 and Psalm 34. I meant to at the beginning have you turn and just find them and stick something in there. Psalm 56 was written, was given to David by God during this very event. We're going to get there here a little later on if we have time. Psalm 56. 3. Did anybody here ever teach your kids to memorize Psalm 56. 3? Anybody tell me what Psalm 56. 3 says? What time I am afraid I will what? Trust in thee. If you look at the title, the heading of Psalm 56. It was written. It's a psalm of David written during this very event. And I thought, David's actions contradict What David is saying, what David, God is inspiring David to write in Psalm 56, 3 And uh I tried to reconcile that in my mind, and I wonder this. I wonder, now this is total speculation on my part, but I know I've been guilty of this. I wonder if David's head was contradicting what he knew to be true in his heart. I'm wondering. I'm just thinking because he wrote Psalm 56, 3, What time I'm afraid, I'll trust in thee. But in in 1 Samuel 21, what time I'm afraid I'm going to run to the Philistines. Two completely opposite things. So my aunt my only solution I could come up with was either David knew in his heart he should be trusting the Lord and he didn't. Do you ever do some Did you ever not do something you knew you should, you knew you should, and you for whatever reason you just didn't do it? This is confession night at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Yeah. Do you ever have something you knew you shouldn't do it? I should not be doing it in your heart and soul you knew I shouldn't be doing this and you went ahead and did it anyway. So I'm wondering if that's going on with David of this issue and he's scared to death. In his heart he knows he should trust the Lord, but the circumstance of fear is so overwhelming he doesn't do what he knows in his heart. Or the other answer was This, uh, what he wrote in Psalm 56 was the result of what he experienced here. He went through this, he came out of it, I learned this, and wrote it down. Whatever the case is, David is his reasoning, his looking at circumstance produced fear. And then I've got to cover these a little quicker. Then the other thing I noticed here, it prompted him to flee. He runs. Every time David acted in faith, he was successful and he was safe. Every time he acted in faith, he trusted God, things worked out, and he was safe. Every time he uh every at here's the other thing, every attempt by King Saul to kill David was a failure. How many times has King Saul tried to kill David up to this point? At least four or five, maybe more. I mean, flat-out attempted murder, throwing javelins at him in the room with him. And every single time King Saul's attempts to kill David failed, and every time David trusted God, had faith in God, he was successful and he was safe. Now, what should that communicate to you? I'm going to trust God. God's taking care of me. God's protecting me. But again, the circumstances so overshadowed all of that. This is my opinion. I don't believe David had to flee. I don't think he had to leave Saul's presence. I don't think he should have been stupid But I don't think he had God was going to take care of him. We see that over and over and over. But nevertheless, his reasoning prompted him to flee. And then, of all things, he partnered with God's enemies He shows up in Gath, the capital of the Philistines, hated God's people. Think about this. David is going to the enemies of God to find comfort and protection. Um kind of reminds me of the nation of Israel later on. God would say, I'll take care of you. And they're in a situation, God says, I'll take care of you, I'll provide for you. And Israel would run to the Egyptians to help them. over and over. And we have a tendency when we're not thinking right, when we're not valuating things from God's perspective We have a tendency to go to the world and say, oh, the world will help me. The world will I go to the world. We don't need to go to the world. We don't need to go to the enemies of God. We can go right to God. And so now he's with the enemies of God. Maybe he thought I can handle the Philistines. He killed thousands of them, tens of thousands of them. Maybe he went over there thinking I can handle these people I can't touch Saul. He's God's anointed. I can't do anything there. But I can handle these Philistines and maybe in his reasoning and he's got self-confidence and says he's scared. But I can do this. I can do this. I don't know what his thinking was In any case, this was a bad association he's with. This is bad company that he's with. Yes. And by the way, that's something else. This whole experience is boot camp for David. This is all learning, all training for when he's king. But he's going through it right now. He's going through it. So anytime I disregard God's word and God's promises, there's going to be detrimental results. I hope you get that. Is everybody with me tonight? Everybody alright? If I disregard God's anointing, so to speak, If David disregards the fact that God anointed him, if David disregards the fact that the prophet of God told him directly from God, you will be king, if I just disregard that, there's detrimental results. Every time. Every time. He's associating with God's people. He's disregarding God's word and God's promises. And um it's rough. Let me quickly, I've got a cut a little bit of time. Let's try and get through this. Verse 11 and 12, I noticed David's realization. He gets here and apparently things don't turn out the way he anticipated. Look at verse 11. And the servants of Akish, that's the king of Gath, the enemies of God's people, the capital of the Philistines, the servants of Akish said to him, now his servants are telling Akish the king this. Hey! Well, not really. They didn't say hey. Is not this David, the king of the land? Well, he wasn't really king of the land, but he will be So they knew he was up there. He was a big shot in Israel. Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands? Hey Akish, those thousands, they're Philistines. They're us. This guy is number uh what did they call Osama bin Laden when we were chasing him? He he was like the most wanted man in America or something. Wasn't there a title? Um uh anybody that was a long time ago. Um remember you used to be able to buy Target Sheath had Osama bin Laden's face on. You'd practice, sight your rifle in. Anybody remember that? And all those things? Am I right? Osama bin Laden, yeah. Oh that and uh I think in Philistine I got looking in the Hebrew they had silhouettes of King David and they would cite in on No, not really, I don't know But what I'm trying to say is this, that was the attitude they had of David, that he was not their friend. And uh For whatever reason, David apparently had in his mind, they're going to welcome me in. They're going to take me under and protect me. And uh it's not working out. David short isn't there very long, and he realizes This ain't playing out the way I thought. Notice, first of all, his face was recognized. I put this down. Hey, King, this is David. You remember David, he's the one that killed thousands of us. And then his fear is intensified. Look at verse 12. And David laid up these words. He hears what they're saying. He lays these words up in his heart, and look at this. And he was what? Right. Yeah, he went from being afraid of Saul. Now he's sore afraid. Sore afraid. Proverbs chapter 22 and verse 3, and chapter 27, verse 12, says this. It's identical. It says, the prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. What is that verse saying? That verse is saying this: a prudent man, a person that has a little bit of wisdom, They are able to look ahead and think things through and accurately anticipate what the consequences of my actions are going to be. David is not being very prudent here. You and I are reading it, we're saying, David, what are you doing? This isn't a good idea. But at the moment In that circumstance, overwhelmed with his fear, he thinks this is a good idea. Here's what I'm getting at. Sometimes we expect things that are unrealistic. Especially if we get out of, if our thinking gets messed up, and we're not thinking scripturally, we're not thinking accurately, we expect and anticipate unrealistic results. And I think that's what David's doing. Foolish thinking produces unrealistic expectations. Let me illustrate. We probably have plenty of illustrations from our own lives. Let me illustrate a few. A young person expects they can get good grades in school without studying or doing their homework. I don't know why I flunked that test. I studied for five minutes. Um I put this down. Sometimes uh We uh expect God's blessings when we don't trust without trusting Him and obeying Him. Um, how about this one? Uh sometimes I think we always Hit pe peg a lot of this on young people, but I think we almost have an generation now that wants good pay without hard work You know, this ridiculous pay uh bott uh um what's it not bottom rate rate um minimum wage You know, and they make it ridiculously high, people coming in, and alive. And uh I think it's unrealistic expectations. Um I put this one down. Uh it's unrealistic to think that we'll see souls saved without praying and witnessing. I've been churches all the time. Oh yeah, soul safe. But they never go witnessing. They never give up tracks. They never go soul. I don't pray for souls. I taught a class uh last week down at that conference on um on uh winning loved ones to Christ, things to do. I said, one of my points was this. If we have sin in our life, if we're somehow we're out of the will of God and we're disobeying God and we're trying to witness to a loved one, That's detrimental. This is what I was getting at. Is uh I must be willing to confess and forsake, repent of the sin in my life if I want to see my loved one saved. Follow what I'm saying? That's unrealistic thinking that I can somehow live in sin and yet yet some my loved one's going to get saved. And I thought I used for illustration when I was with hospice. A lot of times people had no interest in church, nothing, and then they get the notice from the doctor, you've got six months or less to live, and they go in hospice. They don't have any church, they don't have a pastor, they don't need spiritual input. So they would call up and say, Pastor Letham, can you help this person? Sure I'll go visit. I'm thinking of one situation in particular that um, man, the kids, all the kids and all the grandkids Knew that Grandpa needed to be saved. They believed in heaven. They knew there was a hell. They knew Jesus was the only way to be saved. And they came in and, Pastor Leatherman, you have to get Grandpa saved. And I was as earnest for it as them. But as I worked with them for a little while, they're drinking, cussing. They'll never go to church. I try and get them to come out of church. They wouldn't go to church And finally it was, listen, how badly do you want grandpa to get saved? Is is seeing someone saved from hell uh worth giving up liquor? Is it worth it giving up liquor so that grandpa can be saved from hell and go to heaven? Is it worth being faithful to church? And they had this unrealistic expectation that we can somehow do whatever we want and live however we want and just disregard God's word and God's instructions. And yet at the same time see God answer prayers and do all these things. They're unrealistic expectations. And that's, I think, what David was You know, I can just go marching in there. I've got Goliath's sword. I can go marching in there and this is going to. . No, David, these are the enemies of God. And so he realizes after he's there, it's not working out the way he anticipated. I put this down: don't look to the world to do for me what only God can do for me He's looking to the Philistines to provide protection, and he already has it in the Lord. Don't look to man to do for me what only God can do for me. Three, I've got a couple minutes. Let me give you the last thoughts here. Third thought here is David's reaction. Look how he reacts in verse 13. It starts getting interesting here. So David runs the gath, he shows up there, things don't play out the way he thought. They said, hey, this is David. He's killed thousands of us. And they're telling the king this, and he's picking up, ah, they're not, this isn't going good. So look what he does in verse 13. Remember, he's reasoning in his head. He's he's thinking he's messed up And he changed his behavior before them and feigned himself what? Mad in their hands and scrabbled on the doors of the gate and let his spittle fall down upon his beard. What's he doing? He's acting like he's nuts. He's acting like he's insane. Now the one thing I noticed here is that they he found himself detained. Look, there's a little phrase here. It says there um And he feigned himself mad in their hands. I looked that up. The phrase means this. They had a hold of him When he can when he came in there, they latched on to him. This guy is a danger to us. This guy is not our friend. He is not somebody And he was detained by them. He's being held. In fact, the one thing I was reading suggests that he may have been like tied up in handcuffs or something. And so he finds himself detained. And by the way, I got notice this. There's no mention of Goliath's sword. What happened to the sword? In fact, I could be wrong on this. I looked and looked and looked. I don't find Goliath's sword mentioned ever again. The thing was useless. Putting his trust in a material thing was absolutely And so he's detained. So I put it this way, he found himself detained, then he faked himself deranged. He feigned himself mad. He's just acting. I read one commentary. They said, I think he had an actual nervous breakdown. This ain't no actual nervous breakdown. David's faking it. This is fake madness. Not fake news, fake madness. Fake insanity. Now what does it mean he scrabbled on the wall? Yeah, that was my first thought. Wow, they had Scrabble back then. Funny thing is, my wife said to me last night, we haven't prayed s played Scrabble for a long time. Scrabbling on the wall simply means this. Apparently he was taking his fingernails and he was scratching figures in the wall. If you ever see or read about a Saint Asylons, a lot of times they'll scratch stuff in the wall And uh if you go to the public restroom, insane people scratch stuff on the wall. That's kind of what he's doing. He's just He's detained, he suddenly realizes things aren't going the way I want, and somehow he just starts scratching figures and and uh diagrams and and uh uh uh stuff on the wall And they're like, what in the world? And then look what else he does. He scrabbled on the door and he let the spittle fall down upon his beard. He starts slobbering. Yeah. And he's spitting down and he's just acting like he's deranged. And uh Perhaps the lowest point of David's life. This is the king. This is the man that's going to be the king that establishes the throne the Son of God sits on. And he's acting like an insane man. It's hard to imagine a lower point in David's life. Now he had some issues later on. But man alive, somebody like this, I'm telling you, I put this down, a wavering faith and an overwhelming fear can produce bizarre behavior in a person's life. Get so scared and lose my faith in God. We can do end up doing things that are very humiliating. Then the last of all, I put this down, David's release. Verse 15 14 and 50. Then said Achis unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad. Wherefore then have you brought him to me? Have I need of a madman? Uh that you brought this fellow to play the man man in my presence. This is the way I interpret what Akish was saying. I got enough nutcases around here. I don't need more, is what he's saying. What are you bringing this guy to me for? The guy's nuts. I have plenty of nuts around here. I don't need another one. I like 1 Timothy 2, verse 12 and 13. We don't have time to turn there. We're not going to get to the Psalms I wanted to. But 1 Timothy 2 says that even if we believe not, even if we believe not, God is faithful. And when my faith wavers, and when my faith fails me, God remains faithful. David's faith is absolutely overwhelmed by his fear and his circumstances, but that doesn't change a thing on God's side. You know what happens? I think God moved on King Aeth's heart and said, get this guy out of here. That decision saved David's life. No doubt about it. God intervened. Say, get him out of here. There's no way in the world you're telling me That for how two years, whatever time transpired between when David killed Goliath till he shows up in Gath, that these people weren't plotting his death that entire time. There's no way in the world you're going to convince me The Philistines weren't plotting his death. And now here he is in the king's house. Detained. And what's the king say? Get him out of here. Get him out of here. And here's the point I'm trying to make. Sometimes life Sometimes life overwhelms us Sometimes circumstances come up that scare us so bad that our faith is shaken. But God remains faithful God remains faithful. If I just trust him, if I just learn to trust him. And David probably later on came back on this instance. And he wrote Psalm 56, 3, What time I am afraid, I'll trust in thee. I'll trust in thee. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us learn from David's experience here. Lord, I don't think he's uh there yet. He still has to go through and learn some things, but we sure see your hand here, God. I'm glad, Lord, that you don't give up on us. Glad, Lord, you're faithful even when we struggle. And we ask you'd help us to learn that. And help me, Lord, not to view circumstances from my perspective, but from heaven's perspective. And act and decide based on your Your evaluation, not mine. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, I wonder if some say, Preacher, I've got some things that scare me. There's a little scary situation, maybe financial, physical, friends, whatever. Say it's a little scary. I want to learn to trust God. I don't want that situation to overwhelm my faith. I want the Lord to help me. to to maintain my faith. Any like that by the uplifting hand. We're all there. David goes through it. Surely we do. And not let that circumstance, not that that situation overwhelm my faith in God. Now God's going to be faithful. Trust that. What about us? Father, I pray you'd bless and help us to trust you, Lord, even when we don't see, we don't understand. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I went a little long, but maybe as Jane plays the invitation, maybe you want to take