So it's uh it's one that uh more or less I came up with today. And uh those are always the scary ones is when you've never done one before and uh you don't have a a text to go from. That's always scary. So uh what I'm gonna do is we're gonna get a text so that we have one to start from, to start out with, okay? But I want to tell you a story before that. We uh We've been living in the same house since uh what about 70 about seven nineteen seventy or seventy-one, seventy-two, something like that. And uh I don't know about you but I'm one of those guys that that we just sort of I mean stuff that I get I I I mean I've still I've still my staple gun that I use to staple these staples on here I've got it I got it written on the side of it, bought in nineteen sixty-three. That's the truth. That's the truth. That's a true story. I I I just hate to throw things away. Is anybody else like that? You just uh you got got some out there. Yeah, brother Ed. And uh uh as a result of that I've got I've got out in my garage, I'm uh actually my wife won't go out there. She's afraid someone will get her, you know. But it's uh uh in my garage I have uh I have bottles. Um come to think of it, it there's uh bags out there of stuff I've got a bag that has, you wouldn't believe this, but I've got a bag that has a, it's, it's about this big around. And uh It's a sheep skin. I got it up in Canada. I watched the guy sh uh you know uh what they clip a sheep And I got real interested in in in that and I thought I'd like to have one of those sheepskins and so I bought one and I've got it in a bag at home And that was that was back in the s early seven uh eighties when it when we uh we was up there. What I'm getting at is that uh well see I I've got Bags and uh I've got boxes. You have boxes at home where you have stuff We us guys know what stuff is. Women don't know what stuff is, but guys know what stuff is. I've got bags and I've got boxes, I've got bottles. I've got books too. I've got a whole library of books out there that that uh I quit reading a long time ago. The only reason I quit reading because now they're on the computer and I can just, you know, type them in and there it is, the whole, you know, yeah, every book that I w I need to have Bags, boxes. Um I forgot the other two. Bottles and books. Bags, boxes, bottles, and books. That's what we're going to preach on tonight. Our Father in heaven, I pray that you'd uh uh help us today. You know you know what our needs are. Thank you, Lord, for these folks who've who've uh come out this evening for for a blessing. I I believe that's why they came. I don't think came to be critical. I don't think they came uh to uh just be entertained. But I think they've come to to hear from you. And Lord, I so much want uh uh to preach your word. And uh so I pray that you'd help us as we uh get through this message uh this evening. We pray that you bless the chalk drawing, Lord. You've done real good through the years. I I just thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Go grab your Bible. We're going to look at some verses of Scripture. And in fact, we're going to just read four different verses of Scripture that'll introduce the four topics that we have So the first one is found over in the book of uh uh Job. Job uh chapter 14 and verse 17. Job chapter 14 and verse 17 I'll give you a second to find it. Two seconds for some of you. Three seconds for others. That's a limit right there. Three seconds you got. Job chapter 14 and verse 17. The word of God just s simply says this. My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sowest up mine iniquity. Let me read one more time. My transgressions is sealed up in a bag, and thou sowest up. Mine iniquity. Now let's go over to Mark chapter 14. There we have the bags. Bags are have our sins. Then we have Mark chapter 14 and verse 3, where the Word of God says, And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he said it meet, There came a woman having an alabaster box of an ointment of Spichard, very precious, and she broke the box and poured it on his head Let me read it one more time. And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he set at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of uh ointment of Spikenard, very precious. And she break the box and poured it on his head. Let's look at another one. Psalm fifty-six and verse eight. And I'm gonna have to turn to that myself. Because uh I highlighted you ever do any highlighting w in your uh on your computer? And you highlight it with something darker than what uh Did you ever do that? Well I did it. Okay. I know it's not too smart, but you know. Anyway, Psalm fifty-six and verse eight. I'm getting there Psalm fifty six and verse eight says, Thou tellest my wanderings, put thou my tears into thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? Thou tellest my wonderings. Put thou my tears into thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? And then we'll finish out by uh Daniel chapter seven. Daniel chapter seven, And verse nine, Daniel chapter seven, and verse nine You may have to read the last four words in that because I highlighted the last four words with a darker than the spont I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the ancient of days did sit whose garments was white as snow. And the hair of his head was like pure wool, and his throne was like the fiery flame. I I hope you're I hope you're picturing in your mind what I'm reading to you. This is very descriptive. It's there for a purpose. It's not there just to entertain you. But it's there for you to I he God wants you to understand what he's talking about here. I'm going to read those first few words one more time in Daniel 7 verse 9 I beheld till the thrones were cast down. We're talking about the end times. And the ancient of days, that's God, did sit, whose garment was white as snow. And the hair on his head was like the pure wool. His throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream issued from and came forth from before him. Thousands A thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him The judgment was set, and the books were opened. The judgment was set, and the books were opened. Bags, boxes Bibles and Books I've heard that uh phrase often about the bags. My transgressions are hand are sealed up in a bag And thou sowest up mine iniquities. You know, did you ever wonder what God did with your sin He forgives her sin and do you ever wonder well you know, how does how does you I guess uh that's one of those questions you you you ask your pastors what you do So you do that tomorrow. Call him up on the phone and and ask him, what does God do with my sins? Well he'll he'll maybe he'll tell you this. He'll just seal them up in a bag But then what does he do with them? You know they had a terrible uh way of getting rid of kittens when that you didn't want way back in in the early days before uh animal control got a hold of everything. And uh I'm not particularly fond of cats, but this is not my favorite way of getting rid of 'em. But when you get a you know, you want to get rid of something you don't like, you just put them in a bag and you throw them in the river, is what you what you do. That's just about what God does. You know, uh at my home uh we have what's called a garbage bag. We have it out in the back porch, you know, it's in a garbage can, but it's uh it's a black bag, you know, it fits in that bag uh that uh can real good and whenever we've got something we want to get rid of and something that you know, we just throw it in there and At the appointed time, my wife will say, Don, you need to empty the garbage. And that's when I go and empty the garbage. I think that's just about the way God handles our sin, don't you? The Bible says in that verse, it says, My transgression is sealed up in a bag. I like the idea that God seals that bag because that means it can't get out. It means that when God forgives, he forgives forever. Isn't that a wonderful truth? I li I I've often quoted uh you know John uh five twenty four that uh I've uh through the years. Uh And I can't quote it right now. What's the first word? Verily, verily I got it. That's all when you it just sort of slides out of the way. Verily, verily I say unto thee, he that heareth my word believeth on him that sent me hath it Hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation. You got that? But has passed from uh from uh death unto life. We have a promise from God that whenever we trust Christ as our Savior, he that believeth on him hath life. Hath life. And that's an eternal life that he gives. And the reason he can give that is because he he takes away our sin and puts it in a bag. And he seals it so that he can't get out and uh and once again, you know, say, hey, I'm the one that did uh got away. We don't have to worry about that. All we have to uh understand is that God seals that that sin in a bag. And then then listen to what what um uh Micah says in chapter seven, verse nineteen. And he'll turn again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities. And thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. Isn't that wonderful? That means that uh in the depths of the sea, now I I'm not sure uh how deep the ocean is. Or how deep the sea is, if you want to be specific. But the truth of the matter is, uh uh it's so deep that nobody's ever been down there. It's that deep. And since nobody can get down there and nobody's gonna, you know, dig 'em up for us, and we know that God is is not speaking in the literal terms here, if he was that'd be alright because uh they'd be where nobody could get 'em anyway. But the point that I'm trying to make is that that God has taken our sin from our uh from our life He has borne us into the family of God and give us a life that has the ability to say no to sin. I'll say that again. Has the ability to say no to sin. Doesn't mean we're absolutely perfect. That's not what we're talking about. But what we are talking about is that that When you trust Christ as Savior, the Spirit of God comes to live within, where the Bible says that uh you're uh you're sealed to the day of redemption. Well you please tell me what that that means if it doesn't mean that God seals the Spirit of God in you as an individual? It's a little bit different than it was in the Old Testament when when uh uh you know the Spirit of God would come down upon Samson, for instance, and and Samson with his muscles and everything, why he would uh you know, perform all manner of things, you know, kill lions and and thousands of Philistines and so forth. But the but the thing is that uh uh the Holy Spirit didn't stay on him When he disobeyed God, he lost his power. But the Christian today, what is it? The Christian today. When he receives Christ as his Savior, the Spirit of God come to live within. What know you not? Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, Paul says. He wants you to know that that that that uh uh he's taken care of you two different ways. He first of all has taken your sin and he's He sealed that iniquity up in a bag and threw it in the deepest part of the ocean. That took care of the sin part, and then he implanted the Spirit of God within you Which gives you the ability to say, no, I'm not going to do that. You say, well, well, that sounds yeah, it is. It's wonderful I remember the day when when uh I was telling you last night about uh uh about cherry blend tobacco, how wonderful it smelled, and it does. But I can also remember the day that that uh the smell didn't do anything to me. I just I lost my taste for it. I can remember the day when when I used the Lord's name in vain, terrible. We're using the Lord's name in vain And then the very next moment after I trusted Christ as Savior, I couldn't even, I couldn't utter a curse against our Lord. And just, yeah, I just you say, well, you mean he tied your tongue? I mean he tied my heart. Tied my heart with the Spirit of God. Micah six eleven says, Shall I count them pure with the wicked balances and with the bag of deceitful weights? He's talking about something a little bit different. He's talking about the deceitful ways and putting them in a bag. And then Psalm 103 and verse 12 says, this, as far as the east is from the west. And how far is that anyway? As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. You know, these are these are verses of Scripture that we ought to put to memory and that we that we ought to shout, Glory, hallelujah, whenever we we hear them read. These are precious verses. Bags. Bags for the believer's sins. But then we got to we gotta move on here because there's boxes. Oh my. I've got so many boxes out there in my garage. But and it and they're all precious. And I noticed in the scriptures here that this that is something that that's noteworthy in this. I mean the some of the stuff I got out there is so pre- well, I won't get into that But listen to the listen to this, and we'll get an idea of what we're where we're going with it. The verse that we We read in Mark chapter 14, verse 3, he says, And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leopard, as he as he uh sat at meat There came a woman having an alabaster box of uh ointment of spikers, very precious. It's interesting that God would make sure that we understood this is this is something Outlandish. This is something wonderful. This is something great that this woman did. And she broke the box and poured it on his head. The same story is told over in the book of Matthew. Listen to what it says here because he points out something For in that she hath poured this anointment on my body, she did it for the burial. When the disciples began to complain that way, you took all that, you see, what she did was she took a uh an alabaster box. That was very expensive. And perhaps even the alabaster box itself was more expensive than the ointment that was in it. It's valued perhaps a year's wages of that day. So you think about about uh uh about yourself. And you have this alabaster box and and you're making uh eight hundred thousand a year. All right, maybe it's only eighty thousand or forty thousand or whatever it was. Whatever you make in the year, put your price on it and say, okay, I've got it here. What do I do with it? Well, I want you to I want you to break it over the head of the Lord Jesus and I want you to anoint him for the burial Fifty thousand dollars down to two, so to speak. But oh listen. Ointment of Spikener is a is a is a rare a rare uh ointment. It has a fragrance that is so delightful And the very moment that that box was broken and dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ, as it flowed over his precious body, that that uh that uh fragrance Permeated the household. And that's the way it is in the Christian life. When the Lord Jesus Christ is anointed in your heart When he's when he is given free place in your heart and a key to every door in your in your in your heart. There's a fragrance about your life that everyone can smell. Oh, maybe not literally, but maybe literally, I don't know. Some of you probably would be a big help. However, you know what I'm talking about I'm just saying that that there's there's a preciousness about this ointment and the this the uh uh not just the spikner but but the alabaster box the the sacrifice that she went through that speaks to me of of sacrifice You know, we've talked uh in our home church uh We have a few young men that have been called to preach. That's one of the precious things about a church is to see the young people being called into the ministry. And representing that ministry. Precious. The effects that God has in our lives whenever we allow Him the freedom to uh uh To move about in it without any hindrances at all. I think about the the kings that were anointed. The Lord Jesus Christ was anointed. And I believe we as as Christians, when the Spirit of God uh uh comes into our life and we yield ourselves to him. I believe there's an anointing that goes on in our life that we can uh call to. And then there's uh then there's the the third thing It's bags and boxes and bottles. Bottles. Well Let me go back to, there it is, Psalm 56 and verse 8, where it says, uh, oops, there it is. Thou tellest my wanderings. Put thou my tears in thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? You know, I've I've read a few things about about the tears in the bottle Usually tears are come about by uh through uh several different emotions. I know some some women they they they cry when they're happy. It doesn't make sense to me, but then most women don't make sense to me, all right. I'm not beating on you in. I'm not. That's a that's a pleasant thing. Men like women who are, you know, cheery when they cry or laugh or whatever I gotta be quiet now for a while. When we weep at the graveside that of someone that has uh that we've thought loved It's comforting. It's comforting to know that God is gathering those tears up in a bottle. There's a reason for that. There's going to be a time, I believe, when God gathers all the bottles. Which represent all the the the the different problems that we've had. And and happinesses. Because I believe he's he's not just recording those that that uh you know those tears And and saving those tears that that uh come as a result of of having lost loved ones and so forth, Lord knows they are precious. But I believe it's the happiness, the tears of joy, that when when someone gets saved, there's just something about that that does something to me inside. Just back getting somebody baptized. Does something to me inside. And I I'll cry. You know, you know how I am, I'm kind of soft-hearted and When things, you know, touch my heart, I tears start to flow. It's just a normal thing for me. It should be normal for Christians to weep over the lost. Weep over that one that you've been been working with and trying trying to get them saved, doing the best you can, but just seem like, you know, they're they keep turning you away, turn you off I want you to understand those tears that you're weeping over that particular individual. God's saving those tears in a bottle. He has your name on it when it happened and how long you cried and the burden that you can see. See God's got all that. You say you really believe God hasn't bought all I know is what this book says. You know, that's that's all I know. But I I wouldn't be surprised. Do you think heaven's not big enough to hold a bunch of tears? I think he's I think he's he's concerned. He wants us listen The the one thing we know about the Lord Jesus was here's a here was a a a man, a God man that that that had a burden for the lost. He had compassion. He looked over Jerusalem and and had compassion on the on the people, it says. You see what I'm talking about? I believe God is concerned about our tears. He's concerned about our emotional uh well-being. And the tears that you shed over those who are lost, and the tears you shed over those who are who have died, those who the problems that you've had, understand God cares about you He cares about you. And he saves those tears. And I believe there'll come a time when he'll he'll bring that bottle out and he'll say, Do you remember this? You remember Remember when you you wept when you stared by the graveside of that one that uh dropped by the way? Remember that one? And you'll see Yeah, I remember that. You remember how I brought you through it? Remember how I how I I comforted you and uh the the night you couldn't sleep, uh when you talked to me I talked back Remember the times when, you know, I believe God will do things like that. I believe He's a personal God, someone that is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. So we can uh we can rejoice that God is is saving the bags, the boxes, and the bottles. But then there's one more on this uh let me uh well let me go ahead and then uh get into the next one, which is the books. We've already read Daniel chapter 7, verse 9. And I want to read it one more time as we, and then we'll go to the book of Revelation. I beheld till the thrones were cast down, the ancients of days did sit, and the and whose garments was white as snow, and the hair and his head is of pure wool. And his throne was like the fiery flame, and his uh wheels uh as burning fire See, that's one of those questions that you ask the pastor tomorrow. Call him up and ask him what those wheels are. And then the verse 10 says and uh Fiery st uh the a fiery stream i issued and came forth from before him. Thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The judgment was set, and the books were opened. Now we've come to a solemn point in the message. Because now we're talking about the judgment That is to come. We understand that when the rapture takes place, when we're the trump of God sounds and we're caught up to meet the Lord in the air, and So shall we ever be with the Lord? That's what it says. I believe there's going to be a judgment at the judgment seat of Christ during this period of time. But there's going to be a time where the lost, the dead in Christ, or the dead, as says in in uh Revelation 20 and verse 12. And I saw the dead small and great stand before God, and the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. We know that there's a there are there are books There's a a book. There's the Lamb's Book of Life. The Lamb's Book of Life is that book that has, if you if you've ever trusted Christ as your personal Savior, God has pinned your name down the Lamb's Book of Life. Huh? And done the whole ink. I believe it's done in the blood of Christ. Your name is written down, Lamb's Book of Life. Can't be erased. Can't be destroyed. It's just that it's there. That's a permanent that's that's an eternal thing. That's something that that is set forever. But then it says, and the books were opened. That's an ominous. Ominous ominous statement. And the books were open. That's kind of scary. He's not talking about Christians here. He's talking about people who've never trusted Christ as their personal Savior. Hmm. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he had not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you're lost. I'm not being mean. I'm not judging you. You can say, well, Brother Williams, you're judging. I'm not judging you anybody. I'm just, I read you a verse. That was a quote from the Word of God. And all it uh all I'm trying to say is that that you you don't have to go to hell. There is a hell, there is a place where God has prepared for the devil and his angels and Uh those who've never trusted Christ is going to end up in that place, that awful place. The books were opened. When you think of all the good things we just talked about, how God loves you and saves your tears. How you anoint you with the Holy Spirit. All those good things are now, and the books were opened. According to the word of God Those who have never been born again by the Spirit of God will face this judgment, the great great white throne judgment. And it's that that place that where where you'll be called up to to uh uh to meet God face to face, so to speak. As God sa sits on his throne, and he described that throne, and there are these multitudes of people, you'll be standing there by yourself. An angel will read off your name. He'll look into Lamb's book of life. What's your name? Your name is George. Well, we'll just use that. George, George, George, George, I see the angel that goes down the list. George, George, Lord, his name is not found written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And you may say, well yes, but I've done all these wonderful works in your name and and I've done this and I've done that and and uh I you know it it's gotta be in there. Check it one more time And the Lord may, in his mercy, uh, his grace, he may say, try look one more time, and he'll go down. He'll say, Whoops, nope. There's no there there's an empty space there. Where a name has been blotted out. No, that's I'm sorry, that was just a space. You didn't get that, but that's alright. And so he says, your name's not written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And so then you have to hear the judgment. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you. This is going to be the most awful word you've ever heard. The side of heaven. Depart from me. That's that's what happens if you're lost. But there's another book in here somewhere. So look, let's see what the Word of God has to say about that. I'm looking at Malachi chapter 3. And verse sixteen. It's three sixteen. Malachi three sixteen. I like that. And they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. And the Lord hearkened. And he heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him, for they for them that feared the Lord. And the thought upon his name. Book of Remembrance And that's something that God has made sure that we're in every one of these four categories Here's what this this last book has is recorded for. All those times that you as a believer and maybe a friend of yours Uh I'm thinking of a a friend of mine back in Campbellsville who um uh he and I go down to Hardy's every chance we get and drink a cup of coffee and and He'd uh egg biscuit or something. His name is George. He's a very precious friend of mine. Cuts my grass when I'm away, all that kind of good stuff. Just have to brag on him a little bit. But he and I will sit there at the at Hardy's and and uh we of course we solve all the world's problems there at Hardy's but A lot of times the conversation just goes over to, you know, uh I was talking to so and so about the Lord the other day and or uh you know uh thinking about this Bible verse everything You know that the things we talk about when we're talking about the Lord and and thinking about him and and having a conversation. You know God is recording that? He's saying, hey, this is precious. It's like that ointment that was spread over my body when they anointed me for the burial It's a uh this is this is precious stuff. Listen listen to how God describes you and I. Now he's talking about the Jews specifically, but he's talking about those who are God's people. Listen to this. Verse seventeen. No, and never mind. I'll just read verse 17. And they shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in that day, when I make up my jewels. And I'll spare them. And as a man spareth his own son, serves him. You see, these are my jewels. That's the way God refers to you and I. A jewel something is special, something precious, something is, you know, and God's, God, that's what God thinks of us. And he says, uh uh listen to the the wording up here. Let me get over and and back and balakai. I have a hard time reading my blots. I know I'm getting close to it because I'm in Matt Matthew. All right. Um Malachi chapter three verse sixteen It says, and then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened. Let's see how God he perked up. When they started discussing him and talking about the Lord, talking about spiritual things, talking about things that that are of interest to God and and the only thing that God's really interested in, he's not interested in the politics of the USA. But he is interested in in Christians who care about him. And the Bible says that and notice the the wording there one more time. It says, And the Lord hearkened, and he heard it whenever they talked about him. And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name. And listen as good as verse 17. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels. You hear that? And I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serves him. And then shall ye return. And discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not What this what this tells me is we have a God that loves his people He's not he's not standing up there with a thunderbolt waiting for you to step out of line and zap you. He's not doing that But instead he's gathering up the tears as you uh weep for joy or as you weep over a lost loved one. He gathers those up in the bottom Every time you step out of line and oh man, that slipped, he gathers that up, throws it in a bag, and he tosses it in the sea. You see, we have a God that cares. You're here tonight and you've never trusted him as your Savior. I can highly recommend him. I've been there at this for a few years, and I've never seen anybody yet that did not say in in truth. I am uh I I wouldn't want to be a Christian no matter what. Or I if I could get out of it, I never haven't heard anybody want to want to be not a Christian. I haven't heard anybody do that You're here tonight and you you've never trusted Christ tonight. You know you can get that settled in just a few moments' time, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. There's all these good verses of Scripture that we that we pin our not just our our life, but our eternal life on, because this is God's word, and we can trust it. I trust that something in the message spoke to your heart. Maybe it's your need to get in your attic and throw out all those bags and Boxes and bottles and books. Whatever it is, I hope she'll be obedient to the Spirit of God