Chapter twenty-two if you would turn your Bibles in Numbers chapter twenty two. I wonder how many school teachers or folks that are involved in uh school system at all. Do we have any here? School teachers or involved or were at some point in time? There we go. We got a few of them. And uh you'll appreciate this. While you're going to Numbers 22, uh there was some kids in the class This teacher's class that were trying to be the teacher's pet. Do you know what I want? They were just working real hard. They wanted to be her favorite student And so they had this little thing and one day uh the son the son of the florist, the town florist, came in and he had this beautiful blue bouquet, and he presented it to the teacher And um uh it was all wrapped up and he presented the teacher and she goes, I'll bet this is flowers. And the old boy smiled and she opened up and he says, Yeah, that's right. She opened up, lo and behold, it's beautiful flowers Uh the another girl in the class, her daddy owned the local candy store. So she brought a package in, it was all wrapped up, and the teacher shook it and smelled it. She says, I'll bet that's a box of candy And the little girl said, Yep, that's correct. And uh she goes, Wow, that's beautiful. The next day, uh little boy uh came in and uh his daddy owned the local liquor store. And uh uh he brought in uh he he brought it in uh this package and uh it was leaking out the bottom a little bit. And the teacher looked at it and uh she knew he was uh owned a liquor store and thought of the other uh gifts and uh she held it up and it was leaking and she goes, Is this uh bottle of wine? And he said, No. So she took it and tasted it a little bit, and she goes, Is it champagne? He said, No. She goes, What is it? It's a puppy. Numbers chapter twenty two I'm going to read one verse that Brother Pat read a few moments ago, and then I want to pick up and read some more of the event that's taking place here in this portion of Scripture. Look at verse 12 with me. Numbers 22, verse 12. And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them. Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed. Would you agree with me? That is very clear instructions. No question about what God's telling Balaam he should and should not do. Now come over if you would, and I want to begin reading in verse 22, where Brother Pat left off. And God's anger was kindled because he went. And the angel of the Lord stood in the way for an adversary against him. The hymn here is Balaam. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants were with him. And the ass saw the angel of the Lord standing in the way, and a sword drawn in his hand. And the ass turned aside out of the way and went into the field. And Balaam smote the ass to turn her unto the way. But the angel of the Lord stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that side. And when the ass saw the angel of the Lord, she thrust herself onto the w unto the wall and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall, and he smote her again. And the angel of the Lord went further and stood in a narrow place where there was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left. And when the ass saw the angel of the Lord, she fell down under Balaam, and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with a staff. And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee that thou hast smitten me these three times? And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast mocked me, I would there were a sword in my hand now, uh, for now I would I kill thee. And the ass said unto Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since I was thine, unto this day? Was I ever wont to do unto thee? And he said, Nay. Then the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand. And he bowed down his head and fell flat on his face. And the angel of the Lord said unto him, Wherefore hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? Behold, I went out to withstand thee, because thy way is perverse before me And the ass saw me and turned from me these three times, and unless she had turned from me, surely now I had slain thee and saved her alive. And Balaam said unto the angel, Lord, I have sinned, for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me. Now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again. But the angel and the angel Lord said unto Balaam, Go with the men, but only the word that I shall speak unto thee shalt thou speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balach. I'll speak this morning about Balaam and his talking donkey. Let's pray and ask the Lord to uh speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. I pray, God, that you would help us to Put aside the cares of the world, and I pray that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths given to us here. I yield myself to you anew, I present my body anew, dear Lord, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And uh again, speak our hearts, have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think most of us are familiar with this story of Balaam and the talking donkey. Uh we were taught it as children in Sunday school, and it's actually one of the most famous Bible stories uh recorded in Scripture. I want to make a few statements right up front here, though. We need to understand that this is a literal actual event. This took place exactly as the Bible presents it We have no reason to think the way Bill O'Reilly tells us we should think about the Bible. Does anybody recognize the name Bill O'Reilly? famous newsman on Fox News, he has been recently saying that we are not to take the Bible literally, that the stories in the Bible are simply allegories or just stories made up to give, teach us spiritual truth. He is wrong. And I'm convinced he is doing tremendous amount of damage to the cause of Christ. by getting people who respect him and are influenced highly by him, getting them to question and doubt and put aside the accuracy and the uh the uh uh uh the inerrancy of God's word I have no doubt. There's no question in our mind that this happened exact listen, if God can create a donkey, he can make it talk. If God can hang the stars in space out of nothing, it's no problem to give an animal the ability to speak. So this is a literal event. There's no reason to spiritualize this away or explain it away in any way. Second of all, just by uh opening statements, is uh this Event is recorded for us for our spiritual benefit. Um it's this is given to us here in this portion of scripture for us to grow in our faith. Romans chapter 10 and verse 17 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. This is the Word of God. So God has recorded this event here so that our faith can grow. Our confidence in God can be stronger. Our understanding of the Lord can be clearer. And so God has given this here for our spiritual lessons, our growth in faith. 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 11 says that this event and others throughout the Old Testament were written for our admonition. To help us be better Christians, to help us understand God's will for our lives, to help us understand how to respond and how not to respond To God's working and leadership in our lives. And so this is a very important portion of scripture. What I'm trying to say is this: it's more than just a nice story. This is a very important lesson here. This is a very important teaching tool that God has given to us by recording this event here. It's not just for our amusement. Now I'll be honest with you, this is kind of amusing. I would love to have been a little lizard up on the wall of that cliff watching this take place, wouldn't you? What a hoot. And uh a talking donkey. Man, if you'd get that in the circus, you'd make millions. Nevertheless, there's important lessons here. Now I want to give a few just introductory thoughts. And then I want to share some lessons from this portion. I read this in my devotions a week or two ago and uh God spoke to my heart. And so Uh I want to share them, but first I want to give you some background and just some information about this. Three characters I want us to look at just to introduce this whole thing. The first one is the donkey I did a little study on the donkey. The more I studied and thought and learned about the donkey, the more I thought of Phil Sherman. Not because he's anything like a donkey. But Bill Sherman raises donkeys. Am I correct? Or used to? He's being shy on me now. I know he loves all this attention, but uh he raised donkeys. Now I thought of I thought that was I practiced saying that last night over and over and over because I thought it was hilarious. But um anyway This donkey here. Someone has suggested, I was doing a little research and studying, someone has suggested that the donkeys were the ATVs of the Old Testament. All-terrain vehicles They were equivalent to what a lot of uh outdoorsmen and farmers have the gators. Do you know what a gator is? And uh These big uh all-terrain vehicle type things. That's what the donkey was to these New Testament folks. They could go anywhere at any time. They were used for transportation. They were used to transport heavy loads. They were used to plow fields. They were used to grind grain. They could do it all. Um, as my impression, as I study what scripture says about doggies, is they're very dependable. People relied tremendously on them. My impression in Scripture as I study Scripture, now I don't have any firsthand uh experience with donkeys, um not directly, but um uh but Uh I've dealt with some donkey like people, but um no one in this crowd, of course. No one no one in this crowd. But uh as I studied scripture, I found that they were uh apparently are very gentle and for the most part are very friendly animals. Uh this was uh uncharacteristic of the donkey here to uh be doing this, apparently Uh donkeys are known for their what? Stubbornness. And uh uh it's uh uh chief characteristic of what we think of when we think of donkeys. But as I studied I found that apparently That stubbornness is a safety mechanism that God has put into them. And uh whenever the one article I was reading, it said whenever a donkey senses danger, it has a tendency to freeze up And it'll just lock itself in and and uh won't move. And that explains uh Balaam's donkey's response here when the angel of the Lord was standing for him with That thing would freeze up and push aside and and whatever. And so it fits the characteristic of that. I studied scriptures reference to donkey. Boy, aren't you glad you came to church learning about donkeys I wonder how many other preachers in Garrett County are preaching about donkeys this morning. I found they're involved in a lot of many Bible events, important Bible events. In Genesis chapter 22, when Abraham was instructed by God to take his son Isaac and take him and offer him up as a sacrifice, a human sacrifice. You know what Abraham went to when he was going to transport his family and whatnot and uh the materials needed? He went and got a donkey. So a donkey was used in that very significant event. In Genesis chapter 42, when Joseph's brothers moved down to Egypt to be with Joseph during the great famine, they loaded up the donkeys. They relied on the donkeys to transport their goods, that long journey, down to Egypt. In Exodus chapter 4, verse 20 When Moses came from the wilderness at the instruction of God to come down to Egypt to confront Pharaoh and uh to let the children of Israel go, he brought a donkey. He came on a donkey down there And donkeys, donkey, of course, was used by the Lord Jesus Christ when he rode into the city of Jerusalem in his triumphal entry. So they are important animals in Scripture. The Bible tells us some things about donkeys that are very unique. A firstborn now let me back up a little bit. Let me see. Here's a little Bible trivia question. In the Old Testament economy, under the health laws of Israel, you could call it, were donkeys considered clean or unclean? They're considered unclean. They were considered to be an unclean animal. But of all the animals that were considered unclean. The donkey was the only one that the firstborn was to be redeemed by sacrificing a lamb. Isn't that interesting? Now that tells me, that implies to me anyway, that God viewed these as very, very important animals in the society, in Israel's society. And so of all the unclean animals, the donkey was the only one, from my understanding of Scripture, that was to be redeemed, the firstborn donkey be redeemed by a sacrifice of a lamb The law of God required, it says specifically that donkeys are to rest on the Sabbath day. Isn't that interesting? That's in Exodus 23, verse 12. When a thief stole a donkey from someone, he was to pay back twice the value of the donkey. Not just restore it like other incidences, but he was to restore twice its value. Again, that's in Exodus 22 and verse 4. And the donkey is one of only two animals mentioned in the Ten Commandments. We're told you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, house, his ox, or his ass. And so a donkey is mentioned in the Ten Commandments. Donkeys apparently are very valuable animals to God. And what that the impression I got from that was Sometimes God considers things that the world esteems very lightly, God holds to be very, very valuable. You would think, oh, it's just a donkey. But in God's economy, they were key animals. Now listen, if God can use a donkey, And he considers that and that valuable. How much more valuable are you and I in the eyes of the Lord? How much more could God use us? So we have this donkey. That's one of the individuals in this event that took place. They don't want to look at Balak. Balak was the king of Moab. Apparently things were going fine for him until this huge nation of Israelites, several million perhaps strong, started moving through his kingdom. Now put yourself in daylight shoes. You've got your kingdom, you've got the responsibilities, you have all the problems and issues and logistics of dealing with the kingdom and keeping people happy and ruling and keeping society safe and all that, suddenly you've got mo uh several million foreigners moving through your property, through your kingdom. They're not going to stay, they're on their way to the promised land. But nevertheless, would you agree with me? That could be a little disturbing for a king Suppose we had a million uh uh Mexicans coming up through our border, moving into our country. That would oh wait, we do have that, I forgot. Um but uh that would be a little disturbing And so uh uh so he's in this situation. He's done his research, and you read through here, and this is we're told this, he's done his research, and he knows That every kingdom that withstood this nation coming out of Egypt got whooped. I mean, absolutely cleaned their clocks. And he has enough sense to know we can't stop these people. We do not have the military might, we do not have the manpower to withstand this nation coming up here. The word around the United Nations of that day was, man, God is fighting for these people. No weapon form can stand against that. So Balak assesses the situation. He determines, I can't stop that. I don't want him coming in here. And as far as he knows, they're just going to trash the place. They're just going to spoil his land and move on. Leave nothing behind. Now Israel was not going to do that, but he didn't know that. Um So his only option In his mind, was to somehow get Israel's God to turn against them. Because that's the only explanation for their success, is that God is fighting for them, and that was the conclusion of the nations around. No one could stand against them. So Balak, and actually it's pretty creative thinking on his part. But I need to get God's, I need to get their God to turn against them so that they can be destroyed and I can maybe have some victory and save my nation. Thus, Balaam comes in, the third character in this event. You have the donkey, you have Balak, and now Balaam. Apparently, Balaam was a very famous Jew of that day and age. The impression I get as I study the life of Balaam is He actually lived over in Mesopotamia, hundreds of miles away from this where all this has taken place. But Moab had heard about him. Balaam was a very famous prophet of God And uh, but the interesting thing, he was not a Jew. Now, as I studied the commentaries, there was a bit of a debate among the commentators. uh different views whether prop Balaam was l a legitimate prophet of God or not. Some commentators suggested that he was just a sorcerer, he was a pagan uh prophet and all that and uh but as i studied it i i don't buy that i think he was legitimate prophet of god and several reasons for that one is god communicated with him God interacted with him. And so I don't see God doing that with pagan prophets. The only thing I find in the Old Testament God doing with pagan prophets is chopping their heads off. So the fact that God would communicate with Balaam tells me he's probably not a pagan prophet. He's probably a legitimate prophet. And uh the other thing is uh Balaam always refers to God in the Personal name of God, Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. That is Jehovah That is God's personal name. It is highly unlikely that a pagan prophet would refer to the true and living God as Jehovah or Yahweh or Lord in the sense that Balaam does. And so this tells me that he is a genuine prophet of God. By the way, there's another reason. Look over if you would. You got your Bible there. Turn over to chapter 24. And look with me at verse 17. Balaam actually makes a prophecy about the Lord Jesus Christ. In Matthew, uh Matthew, in Numbers chapter 24. And verse 17. This is Balaam speaking. Now, this is later on into the conversations and the back and forth going on with him and Balach. But notice verse 17, I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. Look at this. There shall come a, what's that next word? What do you notice about the word star there? The letter S is capitalized. There shall come a star out of Jacob. And a Scepter, capital S, shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab and destroy all the children of Shepherd Who is he referencing, this star of Israel, this scepter out of Israel? Who is he referencing there? Jesus Christ. I put in the marks in my Bible. Jesus I underscored that that phrase and I put Jesus beside it. He's making a prophecy of the coming king of Israel. who during the millennial reign will rule and conquer the nations of the world. And so Balaam is a very gifted man. He's a very popular prophet, known throughout the world at that time, as being a prophet of Jehovah. And um uh but here's the thing, and this brings us to our message Balaam's spirituality, as popular as it is, and as legitimate as his position is, his spirituality is all show. There's no depth to him. There's no conviction behind his statements. When he preaches, he is simply giving out words, not the conviction of his heart. Famous? Yes. Gifted? Obviously. Hold a legitimate position? Yes. Was there any debt to him? No. And for a little bit of reward, he is willing to deny his Lord and sell out God's clear command. Isn't that tragic? Isn't that tragic? Isn't that characteristic of Christianity of our day? We've dropped our convictions. Despise what God has clearly stated. And boy, we'll talk the talk, and we can sing the songs, and boy, we're known as this, that. And it reminds me of the church in the New Testament Where they had a name that they were rich, but they were what? Very poor. And that's exactly what Balaam was. He had the show, he had the position, but he had no substance to him. Not one time, not one time In the New Testament is Balaam referred to in positive light. Three times he's mentioned, all three times. The error of Balaam, the doctrine of Balaam. Every one of them is negative, negative, negative. Now here's my question. What is God? The New Testament is God's commentary on the Old Testament, really, in many ways. Now here's my question: What is God's commentary? Critique of me. We see his critique of Balaam. Big show, famous, well known, but nothing to him. There was no his faith was shallow, weak. No conviction. What's God's assessment of me? What's God's assessment of us as a church? Are we legit? Uh I put a few thoughts down here. Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Everybody happy? You don't look happy. Everybody, uh how many people are glad it's not snowing? I'm trying to think of something positive here. Praise them. Now just sit still for a while. I think they're calling for six inches tonight, I believe, but no, not really. Some people are demented, you know, they like it. Let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. Number one, this is what I gleaned from this. Number one, God had given Balaam clear instructions It's very clear what Balaam is supposed to do. Come back to chapter 22 and verse number 12 again. I underlined and bracketed this verse in my Bible. And God said unto Balaam, now look at this. Try and figure out some way where you cannot understand what's being said here. Thou shalt not go with them. Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed Clear instructions by God. No question as to what Balaam was supposed to do, no question as to what he was not to do. God's will for Balaam in this circumstance was absolutely clear. There was no question What God wanted Balaam to do. Now, I'll be the first to admit: there are times when determining God's will is not so easy. Sometimes the will of God in a situation is not crystal clear. And there's processes to go through to determine the will of God when it's not clearly not spelled out in Scripture. You know, you you look for principles in Scripture. You look for examples in Scripture. You go to wise counsel, people that have been around, been through maybe that situation, and uh ended up successfully in I as far as what God considers successful, and uh you glean from that. And there are situations In life, where it takes a little bit of wisdom, it takes a little bit of maturity, a little effort to determine what God's will is in a situation. I admit that. We deal with them as we grow in our Christian life. But This is not one of those situations. There's no question. And God has given to you and I, as believers, He has given us some very clear instructions. There's some things in the Christian life that there's no question about what we are to do or not to do There are some things in the Word of God, in the will of God for us, that are abundantly clear. There's no debate, there's no misunderstanding what God wants me to do or not to do. For instance, in the matter of salvation, it is very, very clear that it's God's will for an unsaved person to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior and become saved. That's clear. Um if by chance there be someone here this morning that does not have assurance of sins forgiven. That when you die you go to heaven and not to hell? I can tell you very emphatically from Scripture what God's will is for you. God's will is that you accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. We were out yesterday. We were down in um uh Kaiser and then we came over to um uh Western Port and Piedmont and we were given out tracks, got just under 2,000 tracks given out. That's I can figure And um every person that we met, so walked up, every person we met I knew for an absolute fact it was God's will that that person be saved. God has made it clear, abundantly clear in Scripture And it's his, that it's God's will. God is not willing that any should perish, but that all come to repentance. Ah, there was two fellas. I told the Sunday school class that there were two fellas leaning on their pickup truck and uh they're talking back and forth. I walked up and said, Hey fellas, I'm Pastor Leatherman. I had a handful of gospel tracts. I said I'm giving out gospel tracts to anybody that will take it. One guy closest to me says, okay, thanks. And I gave it to him. And the other fellow I started to hand him one and uh he says, I'm not from around here. I said, well that's fine. These are universal gospel tracts. Now, you guys that heard it in Sunday school, laugh anyway, okay? I said, these are I don't I didn't even think. It just came out. I said, oh, these are universal gospel tracts. He said, what do you mean? I said, they're good in Europe, South Africa, Peru, they're good all around the whole world. He goes, oh, in that case, thanks. I know what God's will is for those two fellas that they be saved. God is very clear on this matter. There are other things God told us. Once we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God wants us to grow in our faith. God, I like this statement. Are you with me? God will take anybody just the way they are, but he will not leave them the way they are. When someone comes to Christ, they come as a sinner. Listen, you do not have to clean your life up before you come to Christ. You come to Christ right as you are, a sinful wretch, and Christ cleans you up. If somebody would have told me before I got saved, I was on drugs, liquor, I mean just a mess. If somebody would have told me, Dennis, you've got to clean your life up before you can be saved, I would still be lost today I was trying to clean my life up. I was trying to get off of that junk. I couldn't. I needed a savior. But once I came to Christ. Then he started changing things. And God gave me, as a believer in Jesus Christ, now some very clear instructions. One of those instructions is and uh is tremendously clear in Scripture as that is that we are to be baptized after we get saved. There's no question about it. The most important thing a new believer can do in their Christian life after they're saved is to follow the Lord and believers' baptism. Very first thing. I understand scripture that when someone got saved, they got baptized as soon as possible after they trusted Christ. Didn't put it off a few weeks, didn't go through a class, didn't wait several months, they got baptized. It's the Bible way. And so the Bible is very clear. If you're here this morning and you've trusted Christ, you've not been baptized, I can tell you very clearly, just as clear as as Balaam's instructions were, I can tell you God's instruction to you is God. Intends for you to be baptized. Church attendance. The Bible is very clear. God wants his people to be faithful to church. Amen? You can say Amen. You're here. Alright. And uh God for shape not the what? Assembling of yourselves together as the manner sum is, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So as we get closer and closer to the coming of the Lord, we actually, if according to that verse, we're to be more and more faithful to the Lord. And so you say, preacher, what's God's will for me concerning church? God expects you to be faithful to church. Amen? Don't get mad at me. God said it. I thought yesterday, this is I think this is cool. And since I'm preaching, I'll tell you. I was going door to door giving these tracks out and I got thinking. I thought, I can't wait for somebody to ask me what I am. I'm gonna tell 'em I'm God's mailman. Isn't that cool? I'm God's mailman. I don't know what that has to do with the message. Oh, uh I'm God's mailman. I'm just telling you what God said Uh God wants us people to be saved. There's clear instructions, they be baptized, his clear instructions, they'd be faithful to church. God's clear instruction. Here's one you don't hear much, but it's clear in Scripture. God wants us to be separate from the values and principles of this world. We're not to be conformed to the image of this world. We're not to take the world's uh dress values. We're not to take the world's uh the way the world views money. We're not to take uh entertainment all the way the world does. God has given to believers a higher standard. And so God's instruction is clear: come out from among them. Be ye separate, saith the Lord. Love not the world, either the things of the world. And so uh God's very clear. God wants his people to be distinct from the world. Now we're not different just for the sake of being different. We are to separate from the world as we are separated unto Christ. I wonder if there's people I've been saved this May, next month, it'll be 34 years that I've been saved. It's hard to believe. I wonder if there's anyone else here that feels this way. Every week goes by, I feel like I fit in this world less and less and less. I feel like I I don't even fit in here. I'm not even comfortable. Even among, you know, we're conservative. Even among the conservative aspects of the world, I feel like an oddball. You know, some of the things that I believe are true, some of the things that I see right and wrong, even our so-called allies in the world attack us. So God wants us to be distinct. God wants us to be separated of the Lord and incorporate His values and His principles into our life. Not not mimicking the world's. So it's clear instruction. Soul winning. God instructs us to be soul witty, our giving of missions and giving of our tithe. It's clear instructions in there. So God came to uh Bala He said, Don't you go with them and do not curse my people. Number two, quickly, Balaam tried to manipulate God for his own gain. Now, what maybe I don't know if you picked this up as we were reading through there, what Balak, the king of Moab, did, he says, Balaam, if you will turn God against his people. I'll make you rich. I'll give you all kinds of things. And I'm just going to pour it on. You'll have all the money you want. You want all the prestige you want. You will be rich and popular. And that appealed to Balaam. And this is the thing that gets me about Balaam. I gotta be careful here because We could very easily fall into the same trap. But Balaam valued the things of this world higher than the call of God. And when it came down to the clear word of God or the things of the world, Dalon said, I'm going to manipulate this so I can get the things of the world. So I can have the pleasures and riches of this world, and I'm going to manipulate God. How did he do that? He did it just the same way a little child does their parents. He kept pressing the issue and pressing the issue and pressing the issue and pressing the issue. And finally God says, all right. You want to go with them, go on. Don't curse them, but you go on. You want it that bad? You have to have that. Go ahead. Now, God did not want him to go. He made that very clear. In fact, we read a little later: God finally steps in and was going to kill Balaam for doing it. And Balaam's donkey saved his life. But here's where we've got to be very, very careful. We know what God tells us to do. We know it. It's clear. It's just as clear as Balaam's was. But for whatever reason, uh, we love the loot of the world more than we love the Lord. And for whatever reason we think, all right, all right, I'm just going to get God to give in on this. I'm going to get God to let me have my way. And you know what's scary? Sometimes God lets us have our way. Sometimes God says, all right, that's what you really want. Alright, you can have it. It's yours. Balaam tried to manipulate God. I'm here to tell you, God will not be manipulated. If God gives some clear instructions, there's reasons for that. It's for our well-being. And we want to push the issue and push the issue and push the issue. And God may just go ahead and say, all right, go ahead. Go ahead. I wonder what the New Testament commentary on Balaam would have been had he obeyed God's clear instruction. You know what I think? I think he'd be included in God's hall of faith. He'd be praised and honored by God. But he demanded it his own way. And he wanted that stuff. You get to the New Testament, and he's used as an example of what not to be, what not to do. And that said. Obviously, Banham thought he could disregard God's clear instructions and get rich. He thought God would accommodate, God would compromise God's righteousness. So that Balaam could get his way for his greediness? Here's the problem. For a lot of us, what we think God is And what God really is are two different things. What Balaam, I I can now the Bible doesn't say this, but I put myself in Balaam's shoes and I try to think perhaps the way he's thinking. And I can see here I'm thinking, oh, God will change it. God will it's fine. It'll work out. You know, God will come around. Where in the world do we get the idea that I can deliberately disobey God and somehow everything's going to be okay? Where do we get that from? We get the idea I can just disregard God and everything's going to be fine. It doesn't work that way. Never has, never will. Balaam's thoughts of what God was and what God really was were two different things. I like this statement I came across. The true and living God is not a trivial God that can be manipulated by man Man has tried to manipulate God for years. Think about this with me. Kathy and I were talking about this last night. Think about modern Christianity. Now bear with me. Just tolerate me a little bit, would you? We modern Christianity, you can be a homosexual and be a Christian. I have a fellow that worked on the Sunday school bus route with us down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Him and his wife worked their route with us. We were friends. I knew him for years. About three years ago I found out and they started his wife started following Kathy on Facebook. I found out he left her about seven, eight years ago for his male lover. He pastors a church in Chattanooga. Open. You know what that is? That's trying to manipulate God. You just take what God teaches and twist it around? Somehow it's okay. Now listen, I know what I'm saying here is not politically correct, but I'll tell you this: I'll go to jail before I stop preaching this. Absolutely. And that day may very well may come. But that is manipulating God. Our modern Christianity. Listen to this. Now stop and think about this for a minute. You can bring rock and roll and put Christian words to it, and that's Christian. And that's okay. No, it isn't. Rock and roll, and its very sources perverse. Origins were out of sex and drugs. Yet we've gotten to the point in modern Christianity. Where we can take the perversions of the world and somehow manipulate it around and be able to say, oh yeah, I'm living for God. It's just as wrong as Balaam was. It won't fly at the judgment seat of Christ. It doesn't stand up to the holiness of God. We are trying so hard to take the pleasures and sins of the world and somehow manipulate God and bring them together in an unholy marriage, and it will not work. Yeah, yeah. It's what Balam tried to do. We've got We take the, we have a modern Christianity that takes the precious word of God that the Bible says he has preserved for every generation. Not one word is in error of this book, and we have modern Christianity that takes the Bible and cuts it up and changes it and turns it around and Leave stuff out and put stuff in and says, Oh, here's a better version of the Bible. That's trying to manipulate God. God's word stands. Now today they come out with the Queens Version. All references to God being male taken out of it. Doctrine of Bala. I know what God says, I know that, but You know what I'm afraid God's saying to modern Christianity? Saying, go ahead. Go ahead and do it. Let's see how that turns out. Let's see what that produces. We can see what it's producing. God's word is a final authority. We must not mess with God. God is not mocked. Balaam mocked God. Third thing, God did not give up on Balaam easily. Three times God stood in Balaam's way. I'm telling you, God will not let his people do wrong without him intervening at some point or another. You say a Christian can't be saved and sin? Yes they can, but a Christian can't be s saved and sin and not God deal with it. Not have God deal with it. If somebody can live in sin month after month, year after year, decade after decade, and God never intervenes in any way, I say, let's question that person's salvation. I don't question them if they sin. Good night. If not sinning was the requirement for being a Christian, none of us would be a Christian. But God intervenes in the believer's life. He chastens us. Read Hebrews 12. And God intervened in Balaam's life, and he's not going to let him do wrong without confronting him. Praise the I like I like this statement. Praise the Lord, God gets in our way sometimes. Amen. God gets in our way sometimes. And last thought was this: God will use whatever is necessary To accomplish his will, even if it's a talking donkey I come away with a distinct impression that God loved Balaam very much. God wasn't going to let him do something stupid without confronting him about it. God sent a talking donkey to intervene in Balaam's insanity. And that's what God does for you and I. I got saved May 7, 1979. Did I ever tell you about that? If not, see me afterward, I'll tell you. That first year, there was a couple other folks and where I worked that were had gotten saved right about the same time, in separately from me, just happened to be at uh Anyway, God was working, I was growing, God was changing my life. And I don't know how to say this other than to simply say I started going down a direction that was not God's will. It wasn't sin in the sense that I was disobeying any command of God. It was just going a direction that was not God's will. And I knew that. You said, surely, preacher, if you knew it wasn't God's will, you wouldn't pursue it. Surely not. If you think that, praise the Lord, I'm glad you think that. Now before you look at me so pious, you've done the same thing. And I knew it wasn't God's will. And you know what my argument was? There's nothing wrong with this. This is okay. But it wasn't God's will. I knew that. And looking back now, I can tell you emphatically: if I'd have pursued that, I would not be in the ministry today. I could not be in the ministry today. Because of what I was pursuing. Man, I did what I did what Balaam did. I said, God, there's nothing. Come on. I'll just do that. God, come on. We can work this out. God, please, just we can work this out. And one day, I was driving back about eleven o'clock at night, and a drunk came through a stop sign and plowed in. I was in my car, my Toyota Celica. And uh 1980 had a vinyl top, it was nice. Five speed. And this drunk came through a stop sign, plowed into the passenger's door, and just spun me around. And by the time that while that car was spinning, I can still see it in my mind. While the car was spinning, I was in my mind, I was thinking, God is confronting me. This is God. This is God. This is God And the car spun around, I was facing the opposite direction. Before I did anything, I bowed my head and I said, Okay, God, I'm going to do what you're telling me to do. And I surrendered my will over to his. Now I'm not suggesting every time you have a car wreck, that's God intervening. Alright. Pastor, you get accused of all kinds of stuff. Okay, so I'm not I'm not suggesting that. But you know what that was to me? That was my talking donkey. That was God standing in the way of me going a direction I ought not to have been going. And that wreck was my talking donkey. Now here's my question. What's your talking donkey? You know what it might be? It might be a sermon like this. Where God is, you're going somewhere, it's clear what God wants you to do, you're not doing it, and God puts a preacher up. Now don't take that correlation too literally, alright? I know some of y'all are thinking, joy. But uh that's really pretty funny, actually. You know what? It may be a Bible verse you read in their devotions. That's why it's so important to read your devotions. And God could and all Saint Anybody ever do this? And your reading a verse also, boom, it's dealing right what you're dealing with. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that might be? That might be a talk eating donkey. God saying, hold it, hold it, hold it, don't go this way Could be anything. God will use whatever is necessary to intervene in the life of a believer to direct them into his perfect will. And we can yield to the God and let him have his way, or we can do what Balaam did, and just force it and force it and force it and force it. Now God's will was not foiled. Do you notice that? He never did curse Israel. He never did get his loot. You know all he did? Ruined his good name. Destroyed his reputation, destroyed his testimony, destroyed his influence. That's all he did. He didn't foil God. God cannot be manipulated. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to trust you and to obey you