Mark chapter number fifteen. And I want to just reread not the whole passage that Pastor Matt read a little bit ago. But I do want to pick up in verse number 6 and read a portion of this here to set the context for our message this morning In verse 6, of course, this is Jesus is before Pilate, and he's being unjustly condemned. Surprisingly, Pilate is speaking up in Jesus' defense. Nevertheless, the crowd prevails. But look at verse 6. Now at that feast, he, Pilate, released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired. And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them, that had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection. And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them. The multitudes crying out, Hey You always dismiss, you release a prisoner every year at Passover, you do this, and they're crying out wanting him to do that again He says verse 9, but Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the king of the Jews? I think Pilate wanted Jesus out. He knew he was innocent. He didn't want that blood on his hands, and so he thought, here's the opportunity. I'll release Jesus. You brought him, I'll release him. But look how they respond For he knew, verse 10, for he knew that the chief priest had delivered him for envy. He thought maybe the people would rally behind Jesus. But The chief priest moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. Pilate answered and said unto them. To me, it sounds almost like he's incredulous that they would want this. He answered and said unto them, What will ye then that I do unto him whom you call king of the Jews? They cried out again, Crucify him. Pilate said to them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the more, exceedingly, Crucify him. So Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them. And delivered Jesus when he had scourged him to be crucified. I want to talk this morning just a little bit about this fellow named Barabbas Barabbas. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we come to you this morning with our Bibles open on our laps before us. And Lord, I know no doubt I speak for myself and for many of us in the auditorium here and maybe tuned in. We want you to speak to our hearts. We want you to teach us and instruct us and help us. Lord, some of us need our faith strengthened. Lord, some of us need to be corrected, no doubt. Some of us need to be taught truth from your word. Some of us need instruction in righteousness, what to do and how to do it. So I pray that whatever the case may be, dear Holy Spirit of God, I ask that through my lips, my body You would teach and apply your word to each of our hearts and lives as we see fit. I yield my will to you, Lord. I don't want my agenda or my understanding to interfere with the truth of your word. I present my body anew that you could fill me with your Spirit and speak through me, and that victories would be won and decisions made. And maybe, Lord, some supernatural changes take place in our lives. So help us, we ask, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I mentioned in a message not too long ago, just within the last four or six weeks maybe, that there are approximately 3,000 individuals mentioned in the Bible by name. Approximately 3,000. Many of those, many of that 3,000 are simply a name in a list given, maybe in a genealogy. For instance, in Genesis, there's some lists of names. First Chronicles has chapters and are just lists, Father, Son, beget, so-and-so, and just the lists of individuals and their names are given uh other places in the Bible. Matthew and and Luke we have genealogical lists. And just name mentioned. We're not told anything about them. We don't know We don't know anything other than their name on many of those cases. A few of that 3,000 names given in the Bible are given extensive coverage. Some of the people mentioned in the Bible, entire books are devoted to a portion of their life or an event they went through. For instance, Esther. It's the account of Esther before the king and pleading on behalf of the Jewish people and how God miraculously intervened there. Ruth Uh brother uh Michael McCurry had a tremendous message recently on the book of Ruth and um and so ones like that. Job, there's an individual and an entire book is devoted to their experience. and uh the their events and lessons we can learn from them. Uh others, maybe it's not an entire book, but a large portion of a book. Psalms uh many many chapters. For instance, King David, almost the entire book of 2 Samuel is devoted to King David, his exploits. Others' chronicles mention them in Kings. Joseph, the last fifteen chapters of the book of Genesis devoted to Joseph. Moses, you've got Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy Moses all through there. And so 3,000 people approximately mentioned in Scripture, some just a name and passing Others get quite a bit of attention from God. There's lessons we can learn. And then there's some. That they're mentioned kind of just in passing. They come on the scene for a bit, and then you don't hear from them. Didn't hear them before, they just kind of play a role in that portion of a person's life or that experience, that period of history, they play a small role, and they move on. They may play a small role, but that does not mean they're unimportant. That does not mean that they don't have lessons from their life and their experience that we can't learn from them. Some that are mentioned just briefly are amazing men and women of great character, great integrity, great faith. Not told a lot about them, just a little statement, a little event, but nevertheless we pick up very quickly. This is a tremendous man. This is a tremendous woman. They have great faith. They have great character. They're a man or woman of integrity. Just a little bit we get out of them And then there's others that are mentioned that are not so much people of great character, great integrity. And this morning, I want us to look and consider one fella. We're told very little about him. He plays a brief role in the gospel record, and he is not a man of great integrity. And he is not a man of character. He's not a man of faith. That's Barabbas. Barabbas. He's only mentioned eleven times by name in the four Gospels, and he's only mentioned in the Gospels nowhere else in the Bible Paul and Peter, later on in their writings, they never reference Barabbas. There's no prophecies concerning Barabbas. He just shows up for a little portion and he goes off to sea. The only time he is mentioned is during the trial of the Lord Jesus Christ when Jesus stood before Pilate. It's the only time Barabbas is mentioned. Jesus faced three what I call kangaroo courts. How many people know what I mean by a kangaroo court? You ever hear that term? Kangaroo Court is a court where there are no recognized standards of justice. A court that ignores the due process of law. Generally a kangaroo court, especially in the situation that Jesus faced. is a court where they begin with a predetermined outcome. They've decided ahead of time Jesus is guilty. And doesn't matter what the evidence brings, doesn't matter what the witnesses say, it doesn't matter what the account may be, he's guilty. Determined ahead of time. One of these courts was where he stood before an ecclesiastical court, in other words, a religious court. This is where the scribes and Pharisees and the Jewish lawyers bring him before them, and he's charged with blasphemy. If you would, come over to Mark chapter 14. And notice with me verse 55. Mark 14 and verse 55. It says, And the chief priests and all the council, this religious council, these authorities and the Jewish religion, traditions, sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death. So he's before them and they have authority to condemn a man to death if he blasphemes uh what they consider blaspheme of the Jehovah and of the Jewish tradition, religion, and they have authority to condemn them to death, hand them over to the Roman authorities. They carry out the execution. Generally, sometimes the Jews took it upon themselves to carry out the execution. And so they have Jesus, they have this kangaroo court. They brought him in. And notice what it says there. It says they sought for witnesses. It sounds to me they're having a hard time finding witnesses. And notice it says to put him to death, and they found how many? None. They couldn't find anybody to speak up against Jesus Christ. They couldn't find anybody to give witness that he did anything, blasphemed at all, ever I think, can I give you my opinion? I think their primary witness, their key witness, had just killed himself. I think Judas. I think they had arranged for Judas to come in and testify against him live, of course. And Judas went out and hanged himself. And so now they don't have any witness and they're scrambling trying to find somebody. And they can't find anybody. Confusion. Takes place here. It goes on, it says, For many bear false witness against them, but their witness agreed not together. They're contradicting each other in their witness. And there arose certain and bare false witness against them, saying, We heard him say, I'll destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I'll build another made without it. But neither did their witness agree together. It's confusion in this court. So then they take them and they pass them on to Pilate's court. This is a civil court. This is the government, the secular government court. And this time he's charged not with blasphemy. Pilate and the Roman government could care less about whether Jesus blasphemed Jehovah or not. So they changed the charges to fit the court. You would come over to Luke, chapter number 14. And we have this account, Luke chapter 14, or I'm sorry, Luke chapter 23. And beginning in verse 1, we have this account before Pilate. Now, Jesus is before Pilate here, and they're bringing these accusations. Look at verse 1, Luke 23. The whole multitude then arose and led him unto Pilate. All right, so they left the religious court. That's confusion. So sent him over to Pilate. And they arose and led him unto Pilate, and they began to accuse him, saying, Now look at the charge this time. What was the first one? It was what? Blasphemy. But that's not what they say this time. And they began to accuse him, saying, we found this fellow perverting the nation. And forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a king. They're accusing him of insurrection. And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And he answered and said, You say it. Thou sayest it. He says, That's what you say. Are you king of the Jews? Well, that's what you say. And Pilate said, And Pilate, Art thou king of Jews, verse 4. Then Pilate said and uh Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man. And they were more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning in Galilee to this place. When Pilate heard Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilean. And they said, yeah, he's from Galilee. So now he goes to the third court. Now he's before Herod. Um Pilate acquits him, really, says I don't find any fault in this man. Get him out of here. They said, well he's And they started up, oh, he's causing trouble in Galilee. Galilee! Oh sent him over to Herod. Pilate says, Good, I can get rid of this mess. So he goes over to Herod's court, verse 6 through 11, and when Pilate heard of Galilee, verse 7, as soon as he heard that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. Now look at this. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad, for he was desirous to see of him a long season because he had heard many things of him. And he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him. What is Herod wanting? Now think with me. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? We're laying some groundwork here. What is Herod wanting? It wants entertainment. Oh, I heard about this guy who does miracle and stuff. Hey, show me a miracle. He could care less about justice. He could care less about right and wrong. Says verse 9, then he questioned him with many words, but he answered him nothing. That's usually a good response. And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him. And Herod, with his men of war, set him at naught and mocked him, arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate. So this kangaroo court is nothing but a mockery. It's wicked entertainment at the expense of the dear Son of God. He comes back to Pilate. And that's where we pick up. He's declared to be innocent again. Look at verse 15 of Luke 23. Pilate called them together. Verse 14 I should say. He says to the chief priests and the rulers, religious rulers, Ye have brought this man to me as one that perverted the people, and behold I, having examined him before you, now here's the official judgment, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof you accuse him. Nor yet Herod, for I sent you to him, and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. I will therefore chastise him and release him. He's declared innocent. He's acquitted. The Jews refuse that verdict. And they press for Crucifixion, and that's where Barabbas comes in. Few thoughts about Barabbas. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Number one, Barabbas was a criminal. This is the man the Jews say we want Barabbas, not Jesus. Barabbas was a criminal. His name is interesting. It tells us a little bit about him. I think we get a little insight into who this guy was a little bit. We're not told a lot. Barabbas Bar Abba Bar means son of. Abba, if you read Galatians, Abba means what? Father. Son of a father. I mean people say, well, that makes sense. Son of a father. I don't know any sons that aren't sons of a father. But there's a little bit more to it. It actually has this idea, son of a priest that is a father. That's how the term was used. Barabbas' daddy was a priest in the temple of Jehovah. His family was a highly respected family. Well known. No doubt a man of integrity, no doubt a man of faith, much like John the Baptist's father. He's a priest. Barabbas had respectable parents. He had honorable parents. His parents were known by the people of Israel and highly respected. Did you know that even the best of homes sometimes children will go astray? Even in respectable godly homes. You see, each child, and this is kind of the point of the message, each young person makes a decision. At some point, they make decisions for what kind of person they're going to be. Now, parents have influence, there's no doubt about it. Parents have tremendous influence, a tremendous responsibility Barabbas come from a apparently came from a highly respectable, possibly blitzly a godly home And yet he's a criminal. He's a criminal. In Matthew chapter 27 and verse 16, I wanted to go to all these verses, we won't. But Matthew 27, verse 16, he's described as a notable criminal. Notable. The word notable means remarkable or illustrious. One word is used for that word notable is infamous. If somebody's infamous, it means they're what? Somebody talk to me. They're famous in a bad way They're infamous. They're known for their badness. Barabbas was a notable prisoner. And I want to point this out. We're going to look down through his crimes here in just a bit. But I want to point this out. Keep in mind, Barabbas was not just some petty thief. He wasn't just some criminal off the street, some thug off the street. He was notable. He was well known. Everybody knew who Barabbas was, and everybody knew what Barabbas did. Infamous, infamous. Well, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but Barabbas, I'll just tell you this, was a well-known leader of a very violent rebellion against the Roman government That was his position. He was the leader of a very violent rebellion against the government. If you'll read in the Gospels, sometimes you'll read about somebody is a zealot. They were a zealot. That was a group of people. Jews who rejected the authority of Rome over the nation of Israel. And they viewed Rome as occupiers. They viewed Rome as a foreign government that has overtaken Israel. And they were fighting back against Rome to establish an independent nation of Israel. Now what they wanted was not a bad thing, but how they went about it was bad. They used violence and deception. In fact, if you would, come back to Matthew 15 there, if you would, and verse number 7 tells us a little bit about this Barabbas fella. Mark uh Mark uh uh fifteen. Did I say Matthew? I meant Mark, I'm sorry. Mark chapter fifteen And verse number seven, back to our original text. And it says, and there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound. Now, here's an important statement. We're going to see this in a little bit. I hope you're hanging in here with me. He lay bound with them, apparently there were some others, that had made insurrection With him. So he's an insurrectionist. We hear that term in the news today, and it's all uh big issue. But I'm telling you, an insurrection is nothing new. The Jews were known for their rebellion against Rome. They were known for their resistance, their insurrection against this, what they considered a foreign government ruling over them An insurrection, I looked up the term, it means a violent uprising against authority or government. So Barabbas was part of an armed rebellion against the Roman government, Roman authorities As I was reading about this types of insurrection they had, did a little research, the types of insurrection, most likely what Barabbas was involved in was guerrilla warfare They didn't line up a militia and go head to head with the Roman army. They did guerrilla warfare. If you're familiar with guerrilla warfare, it's kind of like cheating in war I mean he's hiding and sneaking and taking pot shots and stuff like that. And so this is Barabbas. He's an insurrectionist, he's a leader. Look at verse 7 again. He says he made insurrection with them who had committed what? Murder in the insurrection. While they're opposing the government, going through this, they're murdering people. Now, what is murder? Murder is the unjustified taking of a life. If somebody is in uh if you're in warfare and you're and an enemy is trying to take over and you're killing in self-defense, that is not considered murder. If somebody's breaking into your home and they're going to molest your wife and they're going to take your possessions and you in defense and you kill them, that's not murder, it's self-defense. You follow what I'm saying? Murder is pretty specific on what it is. In other words, Barabbas, as a leader of this insurrection against the Roman Empire, was killing people unjustly. If they got in his way, boom. Now it wasn't boom, it was more like boom. But he's a murderer. Barabbas was willing to end another man's life if that man disagreed with him. He's willing to end another man's life, take his life, if that man stood in the way of what he wanted to accomplish. He's a murderer. He's an insurrectionist. In John chapter 18 and verse 40, there he's called a robber, a robber, a thief, a liar, an outlaw. His goals, whatever the morality of his goals may have been to establish an independent Israel, whatever we can make judgment on that, whether it's right or wrong, but how he was going about it was absolutely wrong. He's stealing from people to uh uh stealing from innocent people to uh finance and supply his men in this rebellion against the government. He's a robber Now I want to remind you something. That word robber in John 18. 40 means thief, liar, or outlaw. Now look in chapter 15. You're in Mark 15. Look at verse 27. I want to start tying this in here a little bit. Look at verse 27. This is where Jesus is being crucified. And notice what it says here. And with him, they crucify two what? That's the exact same word as the word robber in John chapter 18. These guys, these thieves, Jesus on the cross. On his right hand and on his left hand are two thieves being executed with him, being crucified with him. They were the exact type person that Barabbas was. Now here's where I thought it got interesting. Barabbas is not just some petty criminal off the street Next in line to be executed. Alright, we're getting brought up all these drug dealers. We got these, you know, people uh um uh what are they doing now? They'll bust in a store, a whole gang of them run in and grab uh grab and run That that's not Barabbas. He was uh He was a a leader of an organization That had no qualms about killing innocent people, had no qualms about stealing from innocent people, and he had others with him. Here's what's taken place, I'm convinced There was three men that morning when Jesus was standing before the court of the religious court there that of the Pharisees and the scribes and the lawyers and the Jewish religion And there had this chaotic court trying to condemn Jesus in the cell In Pilate's cell, the Roman cell, waiting to be executed that day, were three men. They were all associates. They were all involved in the same thing All three thieves, all three murderers, they're to be condemned. Finally, as the day goes on and these courts play out, the Jews demand that Pilate released to them one prisoner. Pilate actually introduced it. And by the way, that was kind of a tradition at Passover. The Romans had set up a deal with the Jews, trying to keep peace. And most of their prisoners were Jewish prisoners in this type situation. And they say, listen, a Passover, we'll you choose who you want, we'll let them go free. Just let them go. No questions they asked, they just go free So Pilate says, hey, do you want me to let Jesus go free? There's three others over here to be condemned. And they said, no, we want Barabbas. Of the three, they chose Barabbas. He was the most notable. He was the most well known. We went Barabbas. Do you know who was originally designed to hang on that middle cross? It's Barabbas. And his two associates. He was the leader. The leader, the most notable of the criminals, always got the middle cross. And then the lesser level criminals got the two side ones. That cross was designed for Barabbas. And the two thieves on either side were his associates. Barabbas was a criminal. He was a violent, notorious leader of an anti-Roman organization. He would be what we would call today a terrorist. In every sense of the word. Condemned to be crucified between his two associates. So Barabbas was a criminal. Did I get that across? Did I mention that? I'm trying to make the point. He's a bad man. He's not just some guy that messed up. It's a murderer, thief. Number two, my second thought about Barabbas is he was chosen over Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 15, look at verse number six again. Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner whomsoever they desired. And that was a tradition, as I said, every Passover they would release a prisoner to the Jews whoever they wanted. Um some have suggested that this tradition that they had, this custom went back to the uh the scapegoat on Passover. They uh they would crucify one, but then they had this uh uh uh a ceremony that God had given where they would take a scapegoat and they'd confess their sins over the scapegoat and let that thing loose Some have suggested that that's kind of where this tradition came from, trying to keep the Jews happy so they keep these rebellions down. The Jews have to choose between a murderer and a savior. They have to choose between a man who took life. And a man who restored life. They have to choose between a man who hurt people and a man who healed people. They gotta make a choice between a man who took away people's food and a man who miraculously provided food. They gotta make a choice. And Barabbas is chosen. Now, here's my question, and this is the message. I said all that to get to this point. Why in the world? Why in the world did these people choose Barabbas over Jesus Christ? What in the world got into their head to make them think that this is right? That this is a good thing to do. Come back to Mark chapter eleven, if you would, with me. I think we have to come back here to figure out why they would make this decision. Why would they do this? Mark chapter 11, look with me at verse number 7. Jesus is about to make what we refer to as his triumphal entry. And he sends a couple disciples ahead and they get this cult, the fall of an ass. They bring it and they put their coats on it, verse uh um uh verse seven. And it says, and they brought uh unto them even as Jesus uh verse seven and they brought the cult to Jesus And cast their garments on him, and he sat upon him. And now Jesus is about to enter the gates of Jerusalem. He's about to go into the city of David. And spend a week there where he ultimately is condemned and crucified. But as he enters, look what happens, verse 8. And many spread their garments in the way. And others cut down branches off the streets and strawled them in the way. This would be not exactly the same, but it would be kind of like giving him the red carpet. They know what I'm talking about that? I mean his is a grand entrance and they're strawing out carpet garments and they're putting out the the palm leaves and everything. And Jesus is riding in there on this colt. It has jack coats and things laid on it. And he's riding into this city. And look what happens as Jesus Christ enters the city Verse number uh verse number nine. And they that went before and they that followed cried saying, Crucify him, crucify him, right or wrong. Exact opposite. They're saying, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Exalt him, he's wonderful. He's to be worshipped. Blessed be the kingdom, verse 10, of our Father David that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. They're worshiping Jesus Christ. They're exalting him. They're praising him. Just a few days before. Now come back to chapter fifteen. Verse twelve. Verse eleven But the chief priest moved the people that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. Pilate answered and said unto them, The people, not the priests, the crowds out here that have gathered, What will you do? What will you then that I should do unto him whom you call king of the Jews? And they cried out again, what? Crucify him. What in the world happened in those six days? When he entered in, the whole city is singing his praises and worshiping and Hosanna and the highest. And six days later, they're yelling out, crucify him. Give us the criminal. Give us the murderer. Give us the thief. He stole our food. He killed our family. But we want him. Crucify this man who fed our, blessed our children, and raised our dead, and fed our hungry, and healed our sick. We want him crucified. How do people like me think, what in the world? How does that happen? We're told, look with me at verse 11. But the chief priest, look at this, moved the people that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. What changed, I'll tell you what happened. They were influenced by ungodly men. We have this thing now I've been reading and I don't really understand all this, but I I try to stay up on this so I stay cool and up to date and modern and hip Are you impressed, young people? No. But they have this people that they refer to as, see if any of y'all heard this term, influencers. Anybody ever hear that? They're influencers. And um I thought what in the world who what's an influencer? I guess an influencer would be somebody that what? Influences people. But they have a very specific thing. These influences, in influencers. Are folks primarily on social media who will use these different platforms of social media to influence People to make certain decisions or behave in certain ways or dress in certain styles or go to certain places And they have profound influence over people. Most of the time, it's young people they have influence over, but it's not limited to young people. And some of the influencers may be politicians that get on a certain uh uh social media platform. And they use that and they'll have in some cases a million plus followers. And they will say, this is what you need to do. And this is where you need to go. And this is how you need to vote. And this is what you need to buy. And people by the hundreds and hundreds of thousands will listen to what they say and allow that person to influence the decisions they make. It's what took place here is not the it is happening today. It may be politicians, it may be celebrities That say, oh, the and they don't say it this way. I know this is my corny uh ignorant old-fashioned way, but they're saying, like, listen, if you want to be cool, you've got to do this And if 500,000 people click, yeah, we agree with that. Well, I don't want to be a weirdo. I'll go, then I've got to do that. I'm telling you, some of these influences, if they said wear a boot on your head or you're not cool, people would be walking around boots on their head, right or wrong. I mean it's the most ridiculous stuff But they have influence. Sometimes it's athletes. Teachers have our influencers, right? Kids sit in a classroom four or five hours a day. They go off to university, sit under teachers, those teachers are influencing them And we live in a day and age, and I don't mean to get off on this, but we live in a day and age where it'd be a heap uh be a whole lot better if these teachers would just get back to r teaching how to read and how to write and how to add instead of telling them how to live. They're influencers. Influencing our youth. Influencing the coming generations. What is right and what is wrong in their mind and how to behave and what not to do and what is just and what is unjust. That's what these scribes and Pharisees were doing. Exact same thing. Preachers are influencers. Preachers, pastors, preachers, evangelists have powerful influence in a lot of ways. There are preachers out there that are influencing people away from the Bible. There are preachers out there influencing people away from Jesus Christ. Away from godliness I say this so often, but it's so obvious. We live in a world even within the religious community that has perfected the ability to make that which is evil seem so good And that which is good seems so evil, and they're influencers. It's exactly what happened with these crowds. They were influenced. Friends are influencers. Um most of many of us maybe we were young, we want to do something. Maybe mom or dad says, you ain't doing that. What are you nuts? Everybody else is And what was the pat answer? If everybody else is jumping off a bridge, would you jump off a bridge too But I'm telling you, our friends have a powerful influence over us. Am I right or wrong? And we think of the young people, and it's true with the young people, peer pressure is very true with the young people, but I'm here to tell you it's true with adults also. And it's true with preachers also. Again, sir, I used to go to different preachers' fellowships, and you wouldn't believe the pressure they try and put, get me to change this or agree with them or go the direction they're going. I'm telling you, I ain't gonna do it. How in the world do they go from a man that's feeding them miraculously, thousands, tens of thousands of them miraculously And they reject him, crucify him, and we want the guy that stole our food from us. Here's a man that raised their dead, healed their sick. made the lame to walk, the blind say. And they say, Cursify him. We want the fellow that killed our neighbors and our friends and our family. What in the world? Influence. Influence. If you would, got a couple minutes left. Come with me back to Proverbs. I want to show you a few words of wisdom from the book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 22. Are you with me, everybody alright? I tell you, I I think we need more preachers to stand up and say, listen, that garbage is wrong. Look at Proverbs. Actually, let's go to 13, would you? Proverbs 13. And notice with me verse number 20. Proverbs 13, fifth uh verse twenty. Chapter thirteen, verse twenty. He that walketh with wise men, wise influencers, shall be what? Oh, how about that? You get around wise people, they'll influence you to be wise. But a companion of what? Fools is gonna what happened. Be destroyed. Here, listen, I'm telling you, you better be careful who you listen to. You better be careful you're listening to somebody that has a little bit of scriptural wisdom, a little bit of biblical wisdom about them. If you listen to a fool, you end up like a fool. Come over with me. And verse number chapter 22. Proverbs twenty-two Say, what are you so mad about this morning, preacher? I'm mad about satanically induced influence destroying our young people. And destroying our families and destroying our homes and destroying our churches. We're listening to the wrong voices. Look at Proverbs 22, verse number 24. I mean he makes it he lays it out right here. Make no friendship with an angry man. I just talked about being angry some. You know the Lord has a way of getting you, doesn't He? So I just lost a lot of friends right there. With a furious man thou shalt not go. Look at this. Lest thou what? Learn his ways and get a snare to your soul. We have to be careful. This is what I'm trying to say. I'm getting worked up a little bit. This is what I'm trying to say. We have to be very, very careful who we allow influence us. That television, that computer, that radio, books we read, that stupid phone, social media, all of that has an influence on us. And if we are not careful, if we do not filter it, if we do not consider and think about what we're being told to do and what we're being told to believe, We're going to end up just like that crowd back there. 1 Corinthians 15. 33 says, evil communications corrupt good manners. You get a wrong around the wrong crowd. I read years ago a guy, um, let's see if I can remember how this went. There was a bunch of there was a uh a bird um that could sing really well. And it got loose and it got out with a flock of crows. And um one day the farmer was out there and here's this beautiful songbird, in with a bunch of crows, and this is what the songbird was saying Ka! Ka! Ka! Ka! And the farmer said, What in the world happened to you, Bird? Said, wrong crowd, wrong crowd, wrong crowd Huh? Evil communication, corrupt good manners. They listen to satanically inspired rejection of Jesus Christ. They're ungodly people. Jesus' sharpest statements were against the hypocrisy of the scribes and the Pharisees, and they influenced an entire crowd, a city, to reject Jesus Christ. Crucify him. Six days earlier, Hosannahais, the son of David. Crucify him because of influence. Here's what I'm saying. Avoid the wrong kind of influence Avoid it. If it that's what I'm telling you, I've been hammering this. If it doesn't line up with this book, you stay away from it. Stay away from it. Choose the right kind of influence. Avoid the wrong. Choose the right kind of influence. Choices matter. Choices determine the direction of life. In many cases, choices determine heaven or hell. Who am I going to listen to? Who am I going to listen to? And let me add this, be the right influence Make sure I'm influencing people to Christ, to the Word of God, to what is right. This when when they said We want Barabbas, crucified Jesus, we want the murderer, we want the thief, we want the insurrectionist. What was taking place here was much more than an exchange of prisoners It was a substitution. Because God is able to take that which is a mess and turn it around and raise up the Savior of the world. You follow what I'm trying to say? The rejection of Jesus actually made Jesus the Savior of the world. The Savior of the world. So here's the question: what are you rejecting Jesus for? God has a plan for your life. God has a will for your life. He teaches you from his word what you want. Every day we make a decision. Am I going to go with Jesus or am I going to go with money? Or is it popularity to fit in with the crowd? Or is it some pleasure? There are people all across our country that are rejecting Jesus Christ for pleasure. Rejecting Jesus Christ for more money. Here's the question I thought. I almost titled the message this: what's your Barabbas? What are you choosing over Jesus Christ? You're here and you're unsaved, you're tuned in, you're unsaved. You have a choice to make: trust Christ or reject him. I read this past week, I read about a young lady, mid to late teens. She lived at home. She had a godly grandma and grandpa or godly parents, godly mother and godly father. She was being allured by the world. She had influence drawing her out. They went to church one Sunday morning, and the account said that The preacher preached a powerful message that morning on salvation. After the service, they were home. Mother was preparing a meal, and the young lady said this. Her name was Mildred. She came in and said, Mother. Do you know that I came very near to going forward and giving my heart to Christ this morning? I had to literally hold on to the seat to keep from going forward Dear old mother said, Mildred, why didn't you do it? Mildred, why didn't you go forward and trust Christ? She said, Mother, do you know that this Wednesday night my friends have invited me to a dance? And I promise God that if next Sunday, and if I'm at church next Sunday, I'll give my heart to Christ, but this Wednesday I'm going to the dance. She rejected the Savior for a dance. The story goes on, the mother is telling the account of what happened. She said that Wednesday night, her daughter came home from the dance. She was coughing. She said by midnight she was coughing almost uncontrollably. That morning we had the doctor come out. Our daughter could hardly breathe. She had developed some rare form of pneumonia. And they said by Thursday night our daughter was dead. Our daughter was dead. True account. Choosing a dance over Jesus Christ. The crowd chose Barabbas over Jesus Christ. You and I, those of us that know Christ as Savior, who are we choosing to live for? Our Savior or the world? Barabbas, just a short little account of him, but boy, what a powerful lesson The powerful lesson. I'm here to tell you, if you're unsaved, choose Jesus. I'm here to tell you, if you're saved, choose to live for Jesus. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take this message and somehow touch a heart. I pray, dear Lord, decisions would be made for Christ, whether for salvation or dedication. Or how we're living our lives. Have your way. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, pray for me. There are decisions I see in my life to make between Christ and the world Between God's will and my will, or the world's will. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me, that I'll make the right decision, that I'll choose Christ, that I'll choose God's wills, or any like that by the uplift of hand. Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. How foolish to choose the world over the Savior. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know some friends that are going the wrong way, and I want to be the right kind of influence. And I want to influence them to come back to the Lord. I want to influence them to come and live for Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray for me, that God will give me wisdom and give me boldness. courage to be that influence, not arrogant, not bossy, but just an influence. For what? Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. God bless you. My hands raised I want to hear some say, preacher, I'm not saved. Say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven all my way to heaven. And I need to choose Jesus. And you'd say, pray for me, preacher, that I can get this settled. And I'll make the right decision to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Would there be any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I need to make that choice to trust Jesus as my Savior. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now, I ask. Take these words and use them in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.