If you'd come. We're all turning to the book of Acts. I hope you've got a copy of the Bible and turn with me to the book of Acts. I've got Seth up here to be an usher. Good. And he's going to help out. That's good. No your Seth man. Just change your name, boy. Here, come on, sir. We need you. E every person in this room needs one of these quickly. Um Acts chapter four is where we're turning. And uh Oh, the choir's doing well. Both of those were new songs for them to sing tonight. That was good choir. And choir is going to be here at 6 30 tomorrow evening, uh warming up, getting ready for um uh The uh evening service. Now be back in your place. Everyone, be in your place. Monday night and Tuesday night. Be in your place. And um I I'm all out May have to go one per family on some of them, yes. I didn't think we had enough in that that little box. We we've we've got fifteen thousand of those cards. That's the number. We just printed fifteen thousand of them and they sent about a hundred it looks like on this trip. So we may be a little bit short. Well, preacher, thank you for these twenty-one years of great service and how you've been used of God. And the sword 80 years old today. And and Brother Don Williams, his birthday today, too. And I think Brother Charlie his birthday. A lot of birthdays going on today is a significant day. Praise the Lord. And two people born in the family of God today. That's great. And that testimony of the man who got saved, May of this year, that's great. Praise God. And then the one that was saved in 1946, the year after World War II. That's great. It's great. And uh praise the Lord. Now in the hallway we do have some uh music CDs and several of you getting some. Thank you. They're any size donation. You wait till Wednesday when I'm gone, they're fifteen dollars apiece on the webpage. That's too much. You know that 1495 is plenty for these things. You know what I'm talking about? We uh we spend money, we we spent over a hundred thousand, well over a hundred thousand dollars producing these seven CDs of the Bible songs for kids We did our dead level best. And God has blessed. We've we moved our seventy-five thousand. We just gave a thousand of these away. We were contacted uh by a group that was giving away one thousand book bags to uh 1,000 of the poorest American children and with school supplies in them. And they contacted and asked if we wanted to put a Bible song for kids C D in each of those 1,000 Book bags. And I said, yes. Amen. And uh and some people helped us and so forth get those in, and we're glad for that. Um get get your card for one moment. Hold your cards up. You got your cards? Hold your card up. Would you hold that up? Let's see how the ushers did. Yeah, most of you got 'em. Good Look at the card for just a moment. Some of y'all are in this program. Every other month we release a brand new CD. In fact, the CD that just was sent out is by Scott Caudle Songs that he and I have written. There are a total of uh ten different songs on there. Well we put there as a fountain that we sang tonight on there, but most of these songs are new songs. uh that he and I written. And they're beautiful. They're really, really beautiful. Scott has done a uh Dr. Cordle has done a great job. He's a good singer and a good preacher Every other month we send out a new CD in this program. And uh if you want to get in the program, fill this card out neatly, give it to me, and we'll get you in the program and six times a year you'll get a brand new CD. And can you ever get out once you sign up? No. Just how it is. You're in, friends. You can get out. You can contact us and say, I don't want any more, and we won't send you anymore. Let's get the Bible. Y'all ready for the Bible? Amen. Well mo some of y'all ready Acts chapter 4, starting verse 34. Acts 4, 34, neither was there any among them that lacked. Oh, all the disciples. None of them lacked. Why? For as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them. These early Christians, they're selling land, they're taking care of each other, they're helping. They're not being selfish at all. They're being very very uh beneficial to each other, benevolent, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made unto every man a according as he had need. And Joseph, oh, this fella here. We're going to look at his life tonight. Joseph. Who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas. That was his nickname. Barnabas, and that's what we usually refer to him as. We refer to him as his nickname. Barnabas. Well what does Barnabas mean? Which is being interpreted the son of consolation. Mmm. And the man was a Levite, the Bible says here, and of the country of Cyprus. And Barnabas, it says, having land. He had land, and he sold it. and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. This man Barnabas, his name is Joseph. I mean, uh he you'd probably call him Joe if he was a member of our church here tonight. Except we have this special nickname for him. It's a surname, which means nickname, basically. Barnabas. And Barnabas, what a great guy he is. Son of consolation. Well, what does that mean? That means he's an encourager. He's an encourager. See, consolation means comfort. It means sympathy. It means compassion. It means pity. In fact, if you look up the word consolation in the dictionary, it means this. It means a person. Or thing that provides comfort to those who have need or those who are suffering Now Barnabas, that's exactly who he was. He was a saved man. He was a Levite, and he was Mr. Encouragement. It was it was like it was like high tide coming in. You know, when high tide comes in, everybody's boat floats a little higher. When you were around Barnabas, your boat just floated a little bit higher. He was like high tide. He just lifted everybody up a little bit. Now you can't lift others up unless you're on the rock yourself. Amen. This man's a saved man. He's sold out to God. He loves the Lord and he loves God's people. And there's several things about Mr. Consolation, Mr. Barnabas. That I want us to notice tonight. And by the way, where did he get all this consolation? Where did he get all this comfort to give others? Well, the Bible says in 1 Thessalonians Um excuse me in 2 Corinthians the listen in 2nd Corinthians it says that God is, listen, the God of all comfort. All this comfort that Barnabas was giving to others, all this encouragement, he was getting it from God. He was getting it from God, he had given it to others. And if you will let God comfort your heart, he will Somebody wrote me a text this past week said, I'm I'm too stressed. I wrote them back, I said, I'm too blessed to be stressed. Amen. I mean this world will get you down if you get your eyes on the world. You get your eyes just on how high gasoline and health care premiums are to get you down. But keep your eyes on the Lord, hallelujah. He's the God of all comfort. And I heard somebody, it was two Tuesdays ago, two preachers were telling me after the service, I mean it's just our church is down, our church is down, and down, down, down. I said, hey! The church is not going down. God's church is not going down. I said, in fact, men, one of these days, God's church is going up. Amen. And that's true, friends. And God is in charge. And this man, Barnabas, is God's man. And he is getting all this encouragement from the Lord, and he is giving it to others. There's several things about About this man Barnabas, that's just so striking. But let me read you one more verse before we get into Barnabas. If you're listening, say amen. Listen at this. 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 14, it says, Now we exhort you, brethren. All right, this is written to save people. We exhort you, brethren. Christians, we exhort you, warn them that are unruly. Okay? First thing in that verse says, warn them that are unruly. People are getting out of line. We take him back in that room and brother uh Doc Williams said, get him straightened out is what we do. Straighten straighten this fella out. Amen. Well, we warn those who are unruly. When people are out of line with the Bible, we gently, but we we say, hey, that's not according to the Bible And so we warn them that are unruly. But here's the second part in that verse. The second part says, comfort the feeble-minded. It says, Christians comfort the feeble-minded. You say, well, feeble-minded, you're talking about people who just um Don't have very much sense, very, very low IQ. No, it's not really not what it's talking about. Of course we have a heart for everybody, no matter if their IQ is high or their IQ is low. Really that feeble mind is talking talking about people who just small of soul People who've just been worn out by the devil, been uh abandoned by people, suffered affliction, betrayal, you you name it, people suffer all those things. This is a have y'all noticed this is a hurting world? There's hurting people everywhere, and the Bible says that we Christians are supposed to comfort the feeble-minded Try to encourage those feeble-minded folks. And then it says this. 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, then it says next thing, Christian, support the weak. Those who are helpless, we're supposed to support them. We that have a little bit of strength about us, we're supposed to give them aid and strengthen them. And then it says this. Last part of that verse says, be patient toward all men. Just being patient with folks I've had people get upset with me. I twice last year I saw a gun. Listen, when they get the gun out, I'm out of there, man. That's somebody who doesn't want to get saved right then. I'm leaving. But you're supposed to have patience with folks Amen. And uh be benevolent and kind and uh well now Barnabas, he's that way Barnabas is that way. He is Mr. Encouragement. Here in Acts chapter 4, the first passage we're going to look at about his life, this man is number one, he's a giver. This man is a giver. I mean, there's preachers who had need, and this man, Barnabas, he was a giver. He made sure the Christians were taken care of. He sold land. He had some money and he was distributed to others. He actually was a giver. Luke 6 38 says it this way: Give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure. pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give unto your bosom. For with the same measure that ye meet withal, it shall be measured to you again. Have y'all noticed you can't outgive God? I got a little little spoon to give with. He's got a big shovel. Amen. And Barnabas here he's a giver. He had possessions, and he saw that others had need, and Barnabas gave He was not just a man of talk. He was a man of action. He did something about it. You know, it's not what you have left At the end of your life that matters. It's what you have given that really counts. And you better do your giving while you're living, so that you're knowing where it's going. Yeah I was at a church in in Kentucky. Dr. Lonnie Madding was pastor of the church at that time, and he was making announcements, and he said this. He just got into his announcements. Somehow he said, he said, I would rather be a giver than a taker. Man, I wrote that down. I said, that Lord, I said, that's what I want to be. I'd like to be a giver rather than A taker. And friends, you can't take it with you. And so let's let's give. And uh now some people say, well, Brother Fox, I'd give if I had something, but I don't have anything to give. Yes, you do It may not be that you've got a great big bank account, but now some of you may have some that you can give like that. There may be things that your house just trinkets around the uh uh down in Florida there's a church that that needed to build. I mean desperately needed to build and the senior saints of that church They said, we've got to do something. It's critical that we reach our city for Christ and we've got to have a bigger building. And one of the senior saints said, you know, I've got a clock over at my house. He said, I got a clock. See, that clock, they tell me I can get four thousand dollars for that clock. He said, I'm going to go and sell that clock and I'm going to take the money and give it. And then another one said, Well, yeah, I've got some jewelry And man the senior saints began to have a great big yard sale on Craigslist or whatever they did it, I don't know. eBay, whatever it was And man, they helped that church build their building. Amen to that. They said, we gotta do something. We've got to give. I heard about this Christian businessman. He had a shipping company He had a shipping company. They shipped cargo around the world. The pastor stopped by his business one day, just making a visit, and they was having a fine visit. And the Christian businessman said, Pastor, before you go, said I'd like to write a little check to the church Take it back, just want to give a gift. I'm so glad you came back. It was a big operation. He said to one of his men, say, Hey, uh, write the church a two thousand dollar check. I want to give it to the preacher, something take it back there to the church. And uh while they were writing the check Word came to the shipping company that actually one of their ships had just sunk. I mean, they had lost a lot, man. I mean, the ship, all the cargo, it all sunk. I mean, right after the man had just said, hey, write a $2,000 check to give to the church. And he got the word. He just right there got the word that one of his ships sunk. He said, Hey, don't write that $2,000 check. He said, write it for $4,000. He said, we're going to do our giving while we've got something left to give. Amen to that. Marta was a giver, but you know you can give more than money. You can give your time to others. You can give your time. You see somebody broke down on the side of the road, who ought to be the one stopping and helping them? Christian folk. When somebody's got a flat tire, I've changed people's flat tires. And while we're doing that, talk to them. You know, a a a washing machine repair man While he's out there giving some of his time and getting paid for it. And while he's out there, he can give folks the gospel. Amen. There's all kinds of ways that we can give. We can give advice. You can tutor a child in math As a man that is a as a boy I didn't know math. As a Christian man helped me learn math. That's helped me my whole life. You know, you can give to a young person. You can give your life. You can teach. There's over there I was preaching a church in in New York. I was preaching at a church in New York City. On February 29th, on February 29th, man came down the aisle to be saved. His name is James. James is about 60 years old. James came forward to get saved on Leap Day. He came forward to get saved. James had been arrested 53 times in his life. He had never held or held a regular job. His life was a bungled mass of confusion. He didn't have a regular place to stay. Homeless kind of fellow. His life was a fiasco. The devil will take everything you've got And man, James' life was a mess. He came forward to get saved. Hallelujah. I went back to that church, held another meeting, and there was James standing up in the choir. And he was singing. And he was singing right beside a lawyer. Now in this particular church in New York City, they've got folks from Swedish folk, they have Chinese folks, they got all kind of people groups. New York City, every country in the world has got some people there. And that church, I mean, they've got all kinds of people groups inside that church and in the choir, and it's good, you know. And they got folks from every rung of the social ladder. Those that make big money, $100,000, $125,000, big money up there, and they got people who are just barely above homeless Well, there was James. Got saved on leap day. I'll go back a year or so later, and there he is singing in the choir. And he's singing right beside the lawyer. Who makes all the big money? And there he is. There's the lawyer man. He's saying, and right beside him, has that man been saved about a year, who was homeless the year before, and life was a mess And this lawyer, he was a barnabus to James. He taught James how to open a checking account. He helped him get his first real job. 60-some-year-old man. Never really had a real job. Lawyer said, I'm going to help you. I'm going to help you. I'm going to give some of my life to you. Now James, he's got a check in a book. He's got a checking account with a checkbook Woo! He can balance a checkbook now. How'd he learn all that? Lawyer man. Christian lawyer man said, I'm going to give to you, man. I'm going to teach you something about how to live the Christian life. James has a regular place to live now. I just wonder how many folks we'd see in the house of God if we had more bar Barnabas giving themselves, helping others. Amen. Boy, I want to be more like Barnabas. In fact, while we go through all this, we're going to study tonight. Maybe God is going to put somebody on your heart tonight That you can be a Barnabas too. Turn over to Acts chapter 9 real fast. Number one, Barnabas was a giver. Acts chapter 9 and verse 23. Acts 9, 23. Here's something else about Barnabas. He's not only a giver, But he befriended others. He gave to others, but he befriended others. Barnabas did. Verse 23. And after that, many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to Kill him. To kill who? To kill Paul. See, Paul had just gotten saved. Paul had just gotten saved. And all of his old friends said, let's kill him. That's what the friends will sometimes do. They'll turn on you when you get saved. Yeah, have y'all ever noticed when somebody gets saved, a lot of times they lose all their old friends because now they don't want to get drunk now that they've gotten saved. Now all they want to do is talk about Jesus and lost folks, they they sometimes Lost friends, they don't want to hear you talk about Jesus all the time. They don't want to hear you talk about the Bible all the time, and a Christian just can't help but talk about the Bible. Amen. And here's Paul. Christians and want to trouble the church and all that. Now that Paul's saved and said, let's kill him. Hmm. That's some good friends Verse 24, but lay in their weight uh was known of Saul, and they watched the gates day and night to kill him Then the disciples took him by night and let him down by the wall in the basket. And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he sayed to join himself to the disciples. He said, Now Christians, you disciples, I want to join up with you. And what does it say? But they, those disciples, were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple He was reaping a little bit of what he had sown. But Paul had been persecuting the church and Christians so much that they were scared of him. This might be a trick. He might be manipulating. But what happens? Verse 27. But look at your Bible. Look at your Bible. But Barnabas. Here's Barnabas. Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and the Declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. Barnabas Here's Paul. He really is saved, but man, his old friends want to kill him. The disciples were scared of him. And who was it that said, I'm going to be your friend? It was Barnabas. It was Barnabas that reached out to Paul when Paul's life was in danger. It was Barnabas who reached out those great big long arms of consolation. that he had and he loaned he loaned Paul his influence. Barnabas said, Paul, I'm going to stick up for you I'm going to give you some of my influence. You know, when I went into evangelism 20 years ago, October 21st, 1994, I'd been on church staff for 12 years. I was working hard as an assistant pastor, having a time in my life And then I knew God had called me to be an evangelist. And you have to launch out, you know. And after six months of saying, Lord, I don't think I can do that. I don't know how to do that. Lord, nobody wants me. They don't even know who I am. On October 21st, 1994, I said, Yes, sir Lord, I'll do it. How many meetings did I have on my books? On October 21st, 1994, the total number was zero. And I wrote that day out my letter of resignation. I said, Lord, I'd think an evangelist ought to have some meetings. And I had a church call me. And so I I booked that meeting, man. Yeah, I'll I'll get you in there. And then a man who's been in the sword of the Lord many times, his name is Tom Wallace. The Sword of the Lord ran a little article. In fact, on page three, when I resigned, the Sword of the Lord wrote an article. The title of page three was this: Byron Fox Resigns. I called the sword. I said, that's a terrible title. They said, no, it's perfect. I said, it sounds controversial. They said, exactly. I said, it sounds like I've done something wrong. I said, that's why we're trying to get people to read it. They're going to think you did something wrong, start reading it, say, oh, it's something good. I got 18 meetings out of that article But the second person to call me was Tom Wallace. Dr. Tom Wallace, pastor of Franklin Road Baptist Church, which was sort of the headquarters of the sort of the Lord. Tom Wallace called me and said, Brother Fox, I'd like to have you come to a meeting for me. He said, You got such and such date open. I said, let me check my calendar. I did because I had one meeting and it might have been on those exact dates. I said, let me check. And it wasn't the same month, you know. I was scared I was going to get double booked, you know, right away. The only week I had I looked, I said, Oh, Dr. Dr. Wallace, I've got it open. And I went down there. And my first itinerary that I released. Preachers across the country saw that Tom Wallace, that Dr. Wallace was using Brother Fox. What was Dr. Wallace doing? Well, he is he has given me opportunity to preach for God and sing for God. But he is loaning me his influence. I'd done meetings with Dr. Wallace. He knew I was trying to do something for God, and he believed in me. You know, you can sometimes just loathe somebody, some of your influence. You can just have a little faith in somebody. And that's exactly what Paul uh needed and it was Barabas who stuck up for him and helped him and was his friend. I came across this recently. There's a doctor who said this. I wrote it down. He said 70% of Americans are suffering from loneliness. There's a lot of lonely people that could just use a good Christian friend. There's a fellow I write back and forth with. He lives in Virginia. He's broke all the time. He has a hard time keeping a job. He doesn't he's not real intellectual. But we write back and forth. I just try to be his friend There's an atheist I'm writing back and forth. Some of y'all probably seen it on Facebook. Some of the things I'm trying to win him to Christ Just trying to be his friend. You know, you just try to be folks' friend and and try to try to help one another. And sometimes just some eye-to-eye contact can encourage people and and a little smile and some conversation and just really being a friend. Well Barnabas, he was a giver. He was a friend. And then number three, Barnabas was discerning Acts chapter 11, real fast. Acts chapter 11, verse 20. He had some discernment about him. I'm talking about some spiritual discernment. Acts eleven and verse twenty And some of them uh were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which uh when they were come to Antioch spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which was at Jerusalem. And they sent forth Barnabas. That he should go as far as Antioch, who, when he had come uh came and had seen the grace of God, Barnabas was glad And exhorted them all that with purpose of heart that they should cleave unto the Lord, for he, Barnabas, was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost, and of faith, and much people was added unto The Lord. Well, here's Barnabas. He's in this church. Look this way. He's in this church in Jerusalem. And this church in Jerusalem, they said, hey. We've heard that down there in Antioch, something is going on. It might be revival fires. Or it might be wildfire. We're not really sure. Let's send somebody from our church Let's send somebody down there to find out if it's of God or if it's foolishness. Who should we send? Oh, why don't we send Barnabas? He knows a lot about the Lord. And if it's the right thing, he'll encourage them. If it's the wrong thing, he'll go against it and he'll tell us it's wrong. Well they sent Barnabas down there. And Barnabas went down there and he began to observe what was going on. Now do you think do you think an Antioch That they were doing everything exactly the same way as they were doing at the church in Jerusalem, I doubt it You know, I go church. I was in 103 different cities last year preaching the gospel. I preached 488 times last year, all by the grace of God. That's all by the grace of God. And I went to lots of different churches. I went to a church in South Carolina. Ooh, refined. 120-voice choir. Rogues, man. Woo! Best, best church orchestra I have ever heard. Man, they were good. It was refined, brother. I wore my cufflinks. I was trying to fit in, man. And Pastor Miller there, he said, now Brother Fox, you be right at home. He said, we need revival. We want you to We want you to preach. We want you to testify. We want you to help us. We want you to be used of God. Just make yourself at home, Brother Fox. I was glad for that. And uh we did see some revival at that church. But that's a sophisticated kind of church. The next church I went to in North Carolina, Moravian Falls, North Carolina, I was driving up that dirt road, up that mountain. My GPS girl said, You have arrived. No, I hadn't. I was in the middle of a forest, man. I said, this is not it. I just kept driving for another mile or a mile and a half or so. Got to the very top of the mountain. White building up there. No church steeple, no sign, nothing like that. I said, well that's got to be the building. And I got inside there and about 150 mountain folks came And man, they began to glorify, they began to testify, they began to shout a different atmosphere, but they loved the same Bible. They love the same Lord Jesus Christ. Little different culture. Little different atmosphere. Oh, and I by the way, every service I preached there I had to preach over an hour I knew if I didn't preach over an hour, they'd think I was a backslidding Christian. And tonight I don't want you to think I backslid. No, no, don't get nervous. Don't y'all get nervous. No. Another 45 minutes will be done. Don't you get nervous? Yeah. Now wait a minute. Those two churches But I'm just describing one in Greenville, South Colida, and one Moravian Falls, North South, different culture, different kind of people Uh one set of people that I mean uh highbrow folks. Nothing wrong with that. Nothing wrong with sophistication. I'm against dead formalism, but uh they love God at that church The other church where they shout a little bit, nothing inherently wrong with that either. Nothing wrong with that. I I shout a little bit too. I like it When I hear things of God, I've got a short fuse. I get excited about the things of God. But sometimes emotions are shallow. Now look, maybe when Barnabas went down there Maybe in the church in Jerusalem they used a green hymn book, and maybe down there in Antioch they used a maroon hymn book. You know, sometimes we can be nitpickers And not use good discernment. But but Barnabas, he had some spiritual discernment about it. He got down there and he said, Man, this is of God. I can tell you folks love the Lord Jesus Christ. And you want to see people saved. And you've got a lot of baby Christians here. He said this is good. And Barnabas had some spiritual discernment and he encouraged that brand new church. Now he could have been a wet blanket. There are people who seemed like to me they just go around trying to put people's fire out. When somebody is on fire for God, please encourage them Sometimes, Brother Grant, you've got such a burden for young people. There's some old mossy-back Christians that young people get wound up for God, and old Mossy-backed Christians that wonder how long that'll last Hallelujah, that they got on fire, ladies and gentlemen. Amen to that. And we ought to encourage young people when they're trying to do something for God. And they're going to wobble some. They're young. But let's encourage them. Amen. And Barnabas, boy, he's an encourager. Now find somebody. Somebody that you can affirm. Somebody that you can affirm in the Lord. Maybe you know somebody who's trying to start something. Somebody who's trying to start a bus ride. I was talking to my wife. I said the other day said I was I was helping a brand new uh bus route get started. I said we went out, about nine of us went out begging folks to come on the bus route the very first uh Sunday. The very first Sunday. I was preaching that very first Sunday that of that brand new bus route. And that bus route we had gotten several promises how many people came on that bus on that very first Sunday how many rode that bus one But you know that one came down the aisle to be saved. Hallelujah for one. Hallelujah for somebody trying to do something. Affirm them. If they're doing something for God, maybe they're trying to write a book, well, encourage them, maybe they're trying to Or a Bible study at work, encourage them. Maybe uh some young uh uh couple in the church trying to have a baby and they're frustrated. Encourage them. Listen, there's all kinds of ways that we and can encourage and affirm people and give 'em a little guidance. Man, Barnabas, he's a Christian man. And he's there to help. Number four, Barnabas was a recruiter. Look here in chapter eleven, real fast, verse twenty-five. Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus for to seek Saul. And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves in the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians, first maniac. Here's what's going on. This brand new church down there in Antioch, they had a lot of new converts. And they needed somebody to teach the Bible to them. Now Barnabas was a good Bible teacher. And you know, he could have just done all the teaching, but instead he was a recruiter. He got people into the ministry. He said, I know just the man. I'm going to go get him. This man knows the law. He can quote the Old Testament. I'm going to go get Paul. He's a little bit of a risk taker. He brings Paul back. He's sort of the fellow that God used to discover Paul. And Paul comes back, and for an entire year It was Barnabas and Paul that got this new church grounded into the doctrines of the Bible. Amen to that. It was Barnabas. He's a recruiter. He believed in people. He encouraged good things. He encouraged good people. Hallelujah. We need some more Barnabases. One last thing In chapter 15, everybody turn with me, Acts chapter 15. Barnabas, woo, he is such an encourager. And I'll tell you, I've had people encourage me. I I can tell you about Sunday school teachers who believed in me when I wasn't anything. Nothing. When I could barely talk publicly, I had people encouraging me. I had a preacher who said, We're gonna We've heard you've come forward. You're going to give your life to serve God full time. He said, I'm going to teach you how to be a soul winner. He said, You're going to be my song leader down there at the rescue mission. I'd go down and lead singing. Brother Mark, Brother Jerry, you song leaders, I'd go down there and lead singing. I had no idea what I was doing. Everybody turn in your book. And I just started man because our song leader moved his hands around. He didn't know what it would do either. He just did something, so I just did something, you know I knew they were supposed to do something. I was terrible. But I had people encouraging me, teaching me, helping me. Amen. But now here's one last thing. Acts chapter 15, verse 36. Young people look at this. Acts chapter 15 and verse 36. And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city. where we have preached the word of the Lord and see how they do. And Barnabas determined to take with him John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work, and the contention was so sharp between them, between Paul and Barnabas, these two co-laborers. Man, contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from the other. And so Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. And Paul chose Silas, then departed, being recommended by the brethren to the grace of God. And he went through Syria and Sicily, confirming the churches. Here's what happens Paul says, Barnabas, let's go back on that missionary trip again. Let's go back to all those churches we went and preached in and and uh and helped them and and tried to win folks and tried to teach the Bible to folks. He said Barnabas, Paul says, let's go and do it again. Let's go do it again. Barnabas says, man, that's a great idea. Let's go. And Barnabas says, hey, by the way, let's take John Mark again. Paul said, have you forgotten? Barnabas, have you forgotten we took John Mark last time and that boy quit? Barnabas said, I know we quit. I know we but Barnabas says, hey, let's give him another chance. Paul said, No way. I don't like quitters. Old Schlackard had to go back and hold his mama's hand. And man, it was a little sharp between them. Logically, Paul was right. Logically, you can make a logical argument You can make a logical argument that Paul was making the logical choice. But Barnabas He said, let's give him another chance. Boy, I'm glad he gave him another chance. And you see, John Mark had quit on God. John Mark, he quit on God. But God did not quit on John Mark. And if you read in the Bible, God's the author of the Bible, he was about forty different folks over about 1,500 years, write it down for us. And one of them was John Mark And you look at the book of Mark in the Bible, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you look in the book of Mark. Mark's the most intense of the Gospels. It's got words of incredible action, like immediately, straightway, forthwith. Woo! Paul. Yeah, yeah, you didn't want John Mark around. I'm glad hey hey I'm glad Barnabas said, Let's give him another chance and gave him another chance. Aren't you glad God has given you another chance? Hallelujah. Barnabas believed in giving folks another chance. I'm glad of that. I'm glad there's a fellow named Barnabas. That lived all those years ago, that really got into the work of God and really, really helped others. And Barnabas, hey, Barnabas was ready to help folks that even failed. Folks who had failed. I mean made a disgrace. He was still ready to help. Do you know some folks that have messed up pretty bad? Yeah. Well, they need a friend, don't they? They need somebody who won't just cut them off. That's it. Never speaking to them again. Well, that doesn't sound right as a Christian. Let's try not to saw all the bridges off. Let's try to help people. Amen to that? I mean for Jesus Christ. Now we can't compromise with sin. Can't do that. But let's be a barnabas and try to restore folks as we can. Would you stand with me quietly? So, and look this way. So, why was Barnabas Mr. Encouragement Why was he a man so used of God? Look this way and let me read to you why Barnabas was such a great guy. Let me read the verse. It says in Acts 11. Listen. In verse 24, he's talking about Barnabas. It says this, he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith. He's a good man. He's filled with the Holy Ghost, and he's full of faith. You want to be a Barnabas? Well, you number one, you've got to be a Christian. Werner's a saved man. He was a good man. He is a saved man, you see. But he is not just not just a saved man. He is a spirit-filled and spirit-led man. Should that be the desire of everybody in this meeting? Is to be a Holy Ghost-filled Christian. Amen? If we're going to be a barn, we're going to have to have that. And then he's full of faith. He trusts God. He believes God. We're going to pray. And maybe God has put somebody on your heart that you can do something for. At this very church, in one of the sword meetings, I came to the altar right there And God put something on my heart, a gift I was to give to a Christian camp. And it was a big gift. It was a big gift. And I came to the altar and I said, Lord, I'll do it. And I started in the sword meeting a few years ago. I started going back to that seat. And I said, I better start doing something about it right now. And I got the phone out and I sent a text to the leader of that camp. I said, here's what I'm going to send to you this week. I said, I better make a commitment and kind of go public with it so that I don't back out of it You ever know what I'm talking about? Am I preaching to the choir? Maybe God's put something on your heart. You better take some action now. Let's pray, and then our piano's going to play, Take My Life. And let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Lord, that's what we need to do is give our whole lives to you. Everything we have. Lord, I told somebody the other day You heard me say it. I want these folks to hear me say it to you, Lord. I said to somebody the other day, Lord, a whole group of folk, that everything that I have that is above zero. Everything I have above zero all came from God. And I am to be a steward of what God has given me. And isn't that the thing with our whole church, Lord, for us to be stewards of what you've given to us? Our time, our talents, our abilities, our treasure. I pray that we'll be givers like Barnabas and faithful. Please bless this invitation in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed.