Samuel chapter number 19 and uh I'm joking around here. I need to get here. Verse number thirty-one The Bible says, and Barzelei the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and went over Jordan with the king to conduct him over Jordan. Now Barzilei was a very aged man, even fourscore years old, and he had provided the king of sustenance while he lay in Mahane, for he was a very great man. And the king said unto Barzilliai, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem. And Barziliai said unto the king, How long have I to live that I should go up with the king unto Jerusalem? I am this day fourscore years old. Can I discern between good and evil? Can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Wherefore then should thy servant be a burden unto my lord the king? Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king, and why should the king rec recompense it to me with such a reward? Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city and be buried by my mother. But behold, thy servant Shimham Let him go over with my lord the king, and do to him what thou shalt seem good unto thee. And the king answered Chemham shall go over with me, and I will do him that which shall seem good unto thee. And whatsoever thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee. All the people went over Jordan, and when the king was come over, the king kissed Barzilei and blessed him, and he returned to his own place. Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Shimham went on to with him, and all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel. I entitled it, Barzillii Meets the King. Let's pray together and we'll have our message for tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, again for the opportunity to be in your house. And I ask now, as we uh have our Bibles open before us And Lord, we ask that you would speak to us from your word. I pray you'd point out to us truths and principles here that can help us to be better Christians, stronger in our faith. And Lord, we need you to do that. I cannot. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit And that you would speak through me and challenge us and encourage us, instruct us from your word. I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. We're studying the life of David, of course. And uh we're approaching the final years of his life, really. He only lives, if I have my numbers correct, he only lives about 10 years, maybe a little bit more, uh, after these events here So we're coming towards the final days of David's life and uh administration as king of Israel. Uh Absalom, if you'll recall, rose up in rebellion against his father and actually didn't just want to uh usurp the throne. He wanted to kill his father. And uh we studied that. Of course his uh his attempt at rebellion was very short-lived And uh David's uh military, his ragtag military, did a short work of Absalom's army of Israel Absalom's killed. David's returning to Jerusalem. He's returning to the palace. He's returning back to his throne as king. And uh as he's returning, he's approaching the the river of Jordan to cross over and go up to Jerusalem. He's been out in the wilderness with this battle, fleeing Absalom As he's returning, there's a series of men that come down to the river and come out and they meet David. You could say, in some cases, they confront him And um uh and the and and Barzeli is one of these that came to meet him. Our study of David We're coming across a lot of interesting people. Now, David is fascinating in so many ways. I love the life of David. I look forward to the day, get to meet David. Won't that be an amazing thing? But as we've studied David, we've seen a lot of very interesting people that have crossed paths with him and interacted with him. A lot of these people, as we're studying David's life, these other people we've met, a lot of them are rascals. In fact, I'd say m many, if not most of uh folks that David dealt with in our record of David's life, were rascals, and by rascals I mean dishonest scoundrels mean people. Can you think of anybody we studied a little bit as we studied the life of uh David? Can you think of any rascals that David came across uh uh that we came across we were studying David Shemiah is one of them. We talked about him just recently. Anybody else? How about Nabal? Anybody remember Nabal? You talk about a rascal, that guy was a rascal. And then um and then um I just thought of it the uh that city um Uh here, Jeff Jerum, I think it was, they uh David protected them from the Philistines, and then when Saul showed up, they turned around and betrayed Saul. That's rascal-ish And so we've met these some of these folks are were rascals is my term to describe them. Most of the people that uh ran came across David uh with a few exceptions, were very selfish. Of course, the classic example of a selfish person in the life of David would be who? King Saul. You're not going to get much more selfish than that. Absalom is very selfish. Amnon, we talked a little bit about Amnon, his son, very, very selfish And so, as we're studying David, we're meeting these other people, and we're seeing qualities about him, we're seeing characteristics about him. A lot of them are rascals, uh many of them very, very selfish, but every now and then We come across a fella that is absolutely outstanding. People in David's life That were exceptional in their person and in the quality of person they were. Barzillii. I said all that to get to this. Barzillii Is one of these exceptional men that was a factor in David's life and a part of his life story He's one of the four that approach David as he's returning to Jerusalem. He's returning to the palace He's returning to re-establish his administration as king of Israel. And these guys come down. He's one of these that met him. I would imagine that David at this point. He's been out for probably several weeks. We don't know the time frame exactly, week or several weeks maybe, living in the wilderness, not knowing what's going to happen. His son has been killed horrifically His heart is shattered. He's been rebuked by Joab for overly grieving, and he's got his thoughts together, he's got his emotions under control. And I would imagine David is eager to get back to home. Get back home. Anybody here ever been on a trip? And there's a certain point in the trip where it's, alright, I'm ready to go back home now. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think David passed that point some time ago. He is anxious to get back to his own house. Um we've uh sometimes we take vacation, we get these house rent these rental houses. Um uh forget c R B B R um B B O B R B and B Airbnb. I knew there's a bees in there. Speaking of bees, we got bees outside here, so be careful if you're walking around the church out here. So anyway, we get these nice, and some of those are very, very nice. We've stayed in ones that are like, whoa. And um but there's still no matter how nice it is, at some point you want to get back home Right? I think David's there. Some point you say, boy, it'd be good to sleep in my own bed again. And uh just get back. I I would imagine David is anxious to get back And get the get the country up and running again. And that's what he's called to do. He has been anointed to be king of Israel. And he's been removed from that. And you know, when you know what God's will is for your life, when you know what God's calling is your life, that's where your heart is. That's where your mind is. And I can imagine David is very eager to get back on that throne, get the things lined up, clean clean house a little bit, get things straightened out, and get this country back uh uh up and running again. And so he's very anxious to get back to this. And then he runs into Shemi. And then Zyba's in the mix. And then Mephibosheth comes along and, you know, he's a good guy, but still And now he has barzillii. And I just thought, as I was thinking about barzillii and looking at his life a little bit, it sure is refreshing. To have somebody come into your life or come at just the right time, and they want to be nothing more than a blessing to you. Somebody that's just an encouragement, somebody that just kind of knows the right things to say at the right time. And they're just a blessing. You know what I'm talking about? You've heard me talk about a little lady down in Chattanooga in the inner city projects, Anna Nixon Tate. And what a blessing that dear old lady was. And we would make it a point on Saturdays. We'd be out visiting two, three hours. We'd make it a point. We're going to stop by Mrs. Tate. I called her house my haven of rest We go in there and she just nothing more than a blessing. And she had nothing. I mean a light bulb hanging, no shade, nothing, just a wire and a light bulb hanging in her living room. But she loved God She let me get you a glass of water, Brother Danny, she called me. And um just a blessing. Uh I thought of also there's another fellow when I was in Indianapolis, uh young man um that helped in our youth group. He I didn't recruit him, he just kind of started coming around helping us out. And man, he became my right-hand man. Gary was his name And old Gary, he would just all he wanted to do was help Pastor Dennis, what God has called Pastor Dennis to do. And I mean, you talk about a blessing. He didn't ask for a thing ever He told me one time, he said, Brother Dennis, he says if uh if uh if it ever sounds like I'm complaining, I'm not, I don't mean it that way. He just wanted to be a blessing. He just wanted to be a blessing. And I think that's barzillii. That's the kind of person I view barzillii. Just refreshing. I I put down, this is a great man that's little known. I wonder if before tonight somebody would have said, who's Barzillii and what do you know about him? Very few of us would have been able to give much information. But he is a great, great man. Here's my outline. Number one, I want us to notice, first of all, the care of Barzillii, the care. Look with me at verse 31. And Barzaliai the Gileadite came down from Rogalim and went over Jordan with the king. Now look at this last statement, to conduct him over Jordan. Now David's got to cross this River Jordan. It's not a massive river. It's not like the Mississippi. But it is crossing a river with a mob of people is a challenge. And uh so uh Barzeli comes down and he's and he got word David's coming back. No doubt he was in the know. He wasn't out with David But he got word that David's coming back and he says, you know, I'm going to go on down there. I'm going to make sure David gets across that river okay. I want to conduct him across that river. I've got studying the word conduct there and different places and how it's translated and where it comes from. The word conduct means this, to extend a hand out. Or to stretch your hand out. And the the picture I have in my mind is Barzillii gets down there, and no doubt it was more than just putting your hand out But with his resources and he has some servants with him and whatnot, he's extending a hand to David to help him get across that river. Now it's more than just putting his hand out, obviously. But here's the point. He's concerned that David gets back okay He doesn't come down to David with any sins. He has to confess of horrible things he said about David when David was on the run, like Shemi. He has no sins to confess to David. He's not coming down with any drama that he has to explain to David and Mephibosheth and Ziba, they had plenty of drama going on there And uh Barzeli doesn't have any of that. Doesn't come on. I don't got any sins. I need to clear up with David. There's nothing I need to get right. We're good. Uh there's no drama going on. He has no axe to grind. He's not coming down to complain to David about something what David did or didn't do or why he didn't Stand up and fight against uh Absalom rather than run. No acts to grind, no criticism to level, no drama to explain, no sins to confess, no agenda to promote He's coming down for one reason and one reason only. He cares about David. And he wants him to be okay And he wants him to be able to cross the Jordan with his family in a safe, efficient manner. Barzilli is just a good guy with nothing to prove. And I like that idea. I tell you, we could use some more good guys with nothing to prove Just want to be a blessing. Just care about the well-being of the church. Just care that somebody's okay. Just care that their needs are being met and everything's going okay. Just a good guy that has nothing to prove and just cares and wants to help others. I think a word we use for that is called compassion. And I'll tell you, one thing we sure could use, and I'll say in our country, but I mean in our churches, is just good old-fashioned compassion. Just caring about people and loving people and uh no agenda, uh no acts to grind, no drama we want to work up Just want to be a blessing. I say this often humorously, and it doesn't literally happen this way, but sometimes you have somebody walks in those back doors, push it open, and says, All right, bless me. You know. Barzillii wasn't that kind of guy. He's the guy that would walk in humbly, meekly, and he'd look for someone to be a blessing to. He looked for somebody I can help, somebody that has a need. So the first thing I notice is that I study about Barzillii and is his care. And if you remember, we came across him a little earlier Uh when David was heading out and he supplied. He gave see what it says there in verse uh uh number thirty-two, it says, um Uh Barzelius very aged man even four score years and he had provided the king of sustenance while he was out at Mahanahem. And so He was cared about David. He cared about David. I put this down, just a good guy that's very confident And who cares about David? Very confident. I see confidence in the life of Barzeliai. So, number one, the care of David. Number two, and this is what caught my attention a little bit, was the character of Barzillii, the character of them. Now what do we mean when we talk about someone's character? Now I want you to talk to me a little bit so you don't fall asleep. Somebody Uh what would we say uh uh we talk about someone's character. What do we mean by that? How they behave? All right, anybody else? What they are when no one's looking. That's a classic definition. I think Bob Jones Sr. might have said that. I'm not sure. Your character is what you are when no one's looking, how you behave when no one's looking what you would do if uh you knew you could get away with it. Um character. Barzillii was a character. Character is a very important aspect of the Christian life. It is impossible to be a victorious, successful, mature Christian if I'm lacking in character. It's very important. I found this definition for character, I thought it was pretty good, to possess moral and ethical qualities that demand one to do what is right. In other words, I have these qual if I'm a man of character, I have these qualities about me That prompt me or drive me or demand of myself that I do what is right If I have to be coerced, if I have to have my arm twisted to do what is right, I am lacking in character. But if I can of my own drive, my own standards that are ingrained within me, that have been ingrained within me, and I do what is right in the right way with the right attitude That's what character is. Barzillii was a man of character, I believe. Abraham Lincoln said this: character is like a tree, and reputation is like a shadow. The shadow is what we think of it, but the tree is the real thing. So character is like a tree. Reputation is what people think of us. Do you know a person can have a great reputation but be lacking in character? You can put on a show and put on all this stuff out there and but there it's uh it's just a shadow. Um you have a sh you have a shadow of a tree Depending on the sun's angle, man, that shadow can be long. Make that tree look like it's huge. Or, depending on the angle, the shadow can be small and may look like it's not much of a tree. All you see is a shadow. But the tree is what it is. And some people, they can have a reputation of being somebody, great reputation, but be very small in character. And I think there are some people who are very great in character, but people see little of it, there's little or no reputation about them, but they are very great in character. I think Barzillii is one of those We don't know little about him. What we do find out as we study, here's a tremendous man of great character. Character to possess moral and ethical qualities that demand me to do what is right. It comes from within. Such as honesty. Brother, that's something lacking in our world, yes or no. Just good Honesty. Just somebody being honest. Their word is good. I was talking today, and uh someone, and we said there was a situation, and I said, you know, in that situation, you don't know who's telling the truth. You have no idea. This person says this, that person says this. I don't know if either of them is telling the truth. But you have somebody of character that you know, you say, well listen That person's a person of character. If they say it, you mark it down it's true. Wouldn't it be good to have a heap more people like that? Orzilli, I believe, was a man of honesty. Uh and along with honesty, integrity. Characters, just something about their very character conduct is uh portrays, displays integrity, doing what is right. Like what Bob Jones Sr. said, he says, do right till the stars fall. And he says, and if the stars fall, keep doing right. That's integrity. Honesty, integrity, uh, courage. Courage to stand up for what is right, courage to stand when everything else is going wrong. I'm still doing right. I put down compassion. is a mark of integrity, a mark of character, to have compassion, self-discipline. Boy, that's lacking. That's lacking self-discipline. And so the character of Barzilli. Notice what it says here in verse number 32. Barzilliai was a very aged man, fourscore, even fourscore years old, he had provided the kings of uh of sustenance while he was in Manaham. Now look at that last statement it says, for he was a very great man. Now what he's talking about here, I think he has three things in mind when God says he has a very great man. Number one, I believe he was great in wealth He provided he used the prosperity that God had blessed him with. He used that to help David for the good of God's people For the good of the nation. Question, which would have been better for Israel? For David to be king, who's anointed of God, or Absalom to be king, who was usurping the position David. And so Barzillii sees that and he understands that and he wants what's best for his nation So he is willing to use of this great wealth that God had given him and invest that into the well-being of the nation. of the nation. So he's a great man in his wealth. He's a great man in his influence. Barzilliai was a very influential man. He didn't hold position He was an elected official. He wasn't a priest. But I'll tell you, just I hate to even use it this way, but I think you understand what I mean. Just a common man With genuine character, can make a profound difference in his community. Just somebody that will be right and do right in all circumstances with a right attitude Is going to make a difference in their community. Barzillia was a great man. He was great in his wealth. He used it for God's glory. He was great in his influence. He influenced people for good. And I think, I added this, he was great in his character. Just a a good man with character. Nothing to prove, just a good man. That wanted to do right and help God's people. So number one, I noticed his care for David. Number two, I noticed his character. Number three, and I'll have to explain my point here on this one, I want us to notice the clarity of Barzillii, the clarity. Look at verse number 34. And Barzilliai said unto the king, How long Now the king invites him in verse 33. King says, Hey, come on over. I'll feed you. You come on, live up in Jerusalem with me. You come with me. You've been good to me. You've taken care of me. I thank God for you. I love you. Why don't you come on and live up here in the palace in Jerusalem with me? I'll take care of you. I'll feed you. I'll take care of you. Barzeliai responds, verse 34, and said unto the king, How long have I to live that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem? Anybody remember how old is he? We just read it here. He's eighty years old. He said, how long do I have to live to go up to the uh with the king to Jerusalem? I am this day four score years old. It's 80 years old. Now he makes a few statements that kind of remind me of Ecclesiastes chapter 12 Remember where he describes there the uh he describes his body is um uh get getting weak and the the uh I forget the word he uses the choppers And he can't hardly hear the birds singing. You know, it's a very descriptive, artistic description of of the body failing. And it reminds me of uh Barzilliai's statement here. He says Uh how and can I discern between good and evil? He's saying I can't stand in judgment, help, you know, make judgment in situations. I'm I'm I I couldn't help you there. And uh can I servant taste what I eat or what I drink? And uh can I hear any more the voice of singing men or singing women? His hearing's gone bad. He wa if he came to church, he'd have to use one of our little hearing things back there I can't hear what Wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my lord the king? Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king, and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward? I put down the clarity of Barzillia. And what I mean by this, he had a realistic understanding of who he was and where he was in life. I'm learning this the hard way. Sometimes, maybe this is more true of fellas than ladies, but sometimes us fellas think we're younger than what we really are And our mind tells us, oh yeah, you can move that piano. And our back says, after we move it, you idiot, you couldn't move that piano. And Barziliai says, listen, I understand where I'm at in life. I understand who I am and what my position is. He's got clarity. In his understanding, and he's not going to attempt something he know he can't do. He's not going to attempt something that he knows would not help the cause. That would be a burden And so he says, no, no, no. He has clarity. I put these two things down that he clearly understood. Number one, he understood the brevity of life. He says in so many words, life has slipped me by. It's gone by fast. I turned 62, and I know that's young But I turned 62 this past May, May 6th. And um, but uh I thought I thought it would take a lot longer to turn 62 than what it did. You know, it's just like, come on, right or wrong. It's like, man, alive. And uh our uh Braziliai, he understood, man, life slips by. James said it's but a vapor It's here for a little while and it's gone. He understood his aged body now had its limitations. And um And and he says, uh I understand where I'm at in life. I'm not gonna act like I'm uh you know like uh uh I'm younger than I'm not, I'm not. And I'm not trying to suggest there's no role he had to play. He obviously did. God was using him. But he knew where he was at. And here's the thing, and I'm learning this, I'm getting the point in my life where this is becoming very vivid to me. The older you get, you tend to clarify your values a little more. The older I get, the more I see what I thought was so important when I was younger. Now that I'm older, it's like, you know, that really wasn't that high of a value. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? The things when I was younger were such a priority in my life. I had to have this. I had to do this. Now it's like, I don't know, I don't need that. Well, I went through this phase, I hate to admit this, I went through this phase about 40, 45 years old. I wanted a BMW uh Z3 so bad. And for whatever, I everywhere I went, I went and looked at them. I mean they're like, there's no way I was gonna have that. But I just had to have one. Now I'm just glad to drive my dad's H H R around, you know, get from point A to point B Kind of clarifies things a little bit in your mind. Values. Age tends to clarify our values and our priorities And the things that we were so important, I say this often anymore, I catch myself saying it. But the older I get, the more concerned I am about finishing well. When I was first came here as pastor, I wasn't worried about finishing. I just wanted to get things started. And now I'm at the other end of the spectrum and I say, Lord, help me stay faithful. God, I want to finish well. I want to finish well. I always wondered my dad as he approached the end of his years, he read his Bible five times more than he did before. I mean he always read his Bible. He prayed, always prayed. But man, he would just pray. You know what he was doing He was getting ready to cross over Jordan. Suddenly these things were much more important. He saw clearly that uh I'm not living here forever. I need to prepare for the other side. And so I think Barzelli I saw that. I think he's saying this. Listen, I uh you know that's holding a position and living in the palace and being part of with the king, boy, years ago, that would have been awesome He says, ah, I just I'm good to go back with my family. I'm good to be with my family. So he clarified, he had clarity, he understood the brevity of his life. And I put this down. Number two, he understood the blessings of family and friends. And again, the older I get, the more important family comes, huh? The more important my friends are to me, the older I get. Uh Derek's been listening. He got one of the the those old jump drives of Bill Barons preaching. Everybody remember Bill Barons? Probably my dearest friend in the world. I loved him dearly. And uh he's talking about Bill Barron's got reminiscing. He goes, I want to see a picture of him. I got him out. Remember about that tall, bald head, insult everybody Family and friends become important. Look at verse 36. He says, Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king. Why should the king recompense me with such a reward? He didn't want anything from David. He had given so much to David. He he didn't want anything in return. He just wanted to help. He just wanted to be an encouragement. He just wanted to be a blessing. That's all we wanted. Dave, you don't Dave. He said, King David, you don't need to do anything back. I don't I I just want to be a blessing. I just want to serve the Lord. I just want to serve God's people. And uh what a blessing that is. Sometimes folks, you know, and I would never do this deliberately, but sometimes folks, maybe they do something, it gets overlooked inadvertently and fail to recognize something. And I've had it happen rare occasions over the years, but I've had it happen where folks got highly offended because they weren't recognized for something they did Now that's a mistake, and I want to recognize people, but you know, we have to stop and ask ourselves, why am I doing this? Who am I doing this for? And um Barzelli said, David, it's not about me, it's not about getting recompense. I just want to serve my God and serve my people and give myself Acts chapter 20, verse 35, it's interesting. The Bible quotes the Lord Jesus. Now we don't find this quote anywhere in the Gospels. But Acts quotes Jesus saying, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Now Jesus said that And what a tremendous principle to live by. Jesus said in Matthew, he says, I came not to be, I think it's Matthew chapter 11, the end of the chapter, he said, I came not to be ministered unto But to minister and to give myself a ransom for many, give my life a ransom for many. Wouldn't that be a tremendous example for us to follow as Christians? I'm not in this for people to do stuff for me. I'm in this to serve others. Not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And Barzillia had that attitude. This is taught all through Scripture It's better to give than receive. It's illustrated in the lives of God's people all through Scripture and here Barzillii. And so he didn't want anything from David. He understood the clearly understood the blessings of having family and friends. And notice verse 37, he wants to invest in the next generation. Verse 37, David had said, Come on up to Jerusalem with me, Barzelei. You'll live up there, I'll feed you, we'll take care of you, you'll be in the king's table, it's going to be great. And he goes, No now, I'm good. My I just want to be with my family. I just back with my friends back home. I'm running out my life's running down. I just want to spend with my family. I don't need those big that all that pleasure and and and everything And look what he says in verse thirty uh verse thirty-seven, the last part. He says, Let thy serv for the verse, let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city and be buried by the serv grave of my father and my mother, there's his love for his family and his commitment. But behold, thy servant Shemham Let him go over with my Lord the King, and do to him what shall seem good unto thee. See what's happening here? Barzilliai saying, No, no, no, I'll pass. Thank you. I'll pass But I got this servant here, this young man. He's got his whole life ahead of him. And the opportunities that he could have working with King David And the experiences and what that would do for him as he serves his generation would be a tremendous thing. David take in. And I see in Barzillii a concern for the generation following him. And I tell you, in our independent fundamental Baptist churches, we better get a concern about the generations following us. Or we're going to lose this thing. Now, God said the gates of hell won't prevail against his church. But I'm telling you, a church without a concern for the next generation is a church that's on its way to the grave. And so Barzillii at his age he says, no, no, no, here's Chinnam. You take him, give him those opportunities, you provide for him, and you help him, and he can serve his generation. And then I end with this, verse number 38 through 40, the conclusion of Barzillion. We saw his care for David and his character The clarity of thought he had, he understood these things, and then the conclusion, verse 38, it says, And the king answered And the king answered, Jim Ham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good unto me. Whatsoever thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee. David says, You got anything else? Anything else you want, I will do it. You just give me a call. Here's my cell phone number. You call me. Whatever you need, whatever you want, you need something done, you call me. All the people went over Jordan. Look at this. And when the king was come over, the king kissed Barzilei and blessed him. And he, Barzilei, returned to his own place. And we never hear about Berziliai again. He's off the scene. That's the last we hear of him. He shows up out of nowhere, brings a ton of supplies for David when David needed them desperately. When David's coming back, Barzillii shows up and says, hey David, I want to make sure you get across this river, okay? I want to make sure I just want to uh um uh get you over here, okay? Conduct you across the river And uh David says, Oh, you've been a blessing, you've been a you've been a help to me, Barzela. Listen, tell you what, you come on back to Jerusalem with me. You you live the rest of your years up there. I'll feed you, I'll take care. No, no, no, I'm good, I got my family, my friends back home I just want to go be with them. Here, you take Jim Hammond. You take him along and give him these opportunities. And then Barzillii is off the scene. Kisses David, they hug, bless each other, and he's off the scene. Just shows up for a little bit. But here we are, 3,000 years later. And we're being influenced by a man that had no great position, but he did have character. And God blesses that and God uses that. He is mentioned one more time. Now there's a couple other Barzellies. You'll come across that name, but this Barzeli is only mentioned one more time. If you would, just turn a few pages over. To 1 Kings chapter 2. David is on his deathbed We don't hear anything more about Barzilliai. We assume by this point, this is about ten years later or so that 1 Kings 2 has taken place. We assume Barzilliah is going to be with the Lord And David, on verse number one of 1 Kings 2, it says, Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die, and he charged Solomon his son, saying And then he makes this tremendous, gives this tremendous charge to Solomon. David does on his deathbed. And if you come down to verse number seven. Look what it says. It says, but show kindness unto the sons of who? There he is, the Gileadite. And let them be of those that eat at thy table. For so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom, my brother. Barzillii had a profound impact on David. And he had a lifelong impact on David on his deathbed. David tells Solomon, listen, you take care of Barzillii's boys. You take care of them. What an influence that even outlives his physical life. It carries on. It carries on. Um and the other thing I thought about with that was this. If we live godly Lies, if we be men and women of character, if we would be men and women of character, I believe it will affect the next generation. And be a blessing. I tell you, we're more of a blessing to our offspring by being men and women of character than we are by being men and women lacking character. They don't always turn out everything we would like, but I tell you, they're better off for with a daddy or a mama with character than they are with one lacking character. And Barzillii's boys reap the benefit of their daddy's character. And so my challenge, I guess, tonight from this passage, I don't know how the Holy Spirit might work in your heart about, but the challenge to me is develop my character. Say, well, preacher, by this point in my life I kind of am what I am. You know, I think we can keep working on that I think we can keep growing and we can keep developing. And even those areas maybe where we were lacking in and years gone by, we can still work on that. I want to cross heaven's threshold Working at being the all being the man God wants me to be. I don't want to ever settle and become content with what I am before I cross that threshold. And I'd like to learn from Barzillii. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this man we know very little about. We know books written by him or about him A little portion of scripture here, but Lord, what a tremendous man. And uh I ask you would help us to learn from him. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some say, preacher I know there's areas in my life that need attention. I want to be a man of character, of compassion, integrity, honesty. Care about others. Be a blessing rather than being blessed. Is there any say preacher God spoke to my heart tonight? He sure did. He spoke to my heart. And I need the Lord to help me. Is there any like that? My hands raised. God bless you. All around. Maybe we give an old fashioned order, maybe just kneeled and older, say, Lord, don't give up on me, keep working on me, keep working on me, help me To be all that I ought to be in Jesus' name. Father, I ask now you'd bless this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed