2 Peter chapter 3. I want to read the first four verses. We're not going to look at all of these tonight. I just want to uh pull something out of verse number one, but I want to read the four verses to keep the context as to uh what we're talking about. He says there in verse 1, 2 Peter 3, this second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us the apostles and of the Lord and Savior. Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation I've entitled the message tonight, The Battle in the Mind. Let me get wired up here real quick. The Battle in the Mind. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask now as we look into your word. That your Holy Spirit would take your word and the truths here and principles that are in this passage. And I pray your Holy Spirit would apply them to our hearts and lives, as you know better than we do, what we have need of. I yield my will to you tonight, this hour, and I ask that you would guide my thinking as I preach. I pray you would give me the words to say, and Lord, I pray that I would say and preach only uh that which you would have me to say and preach tonight. I present my body anew to you. Pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me And speak through me and be the preacher tonight. And give us open hearts and open minds to your will for our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Chapter number two Uh Peter was dealing with false teachers, and we spent a long time, we went into pretty in-depth studying what he said in warning us about false teachers, about their coming judgment He gave illustrations from the Old Testament, what they were like, what their character was. And we looked at chapter 2. Now he's making a bit of a transition here in chapter 3 Chapter 2 was false teachers. Chapter 3 now he's dealing with scoffers. Did you catch that in verse number 3? He says, In the last days there will be scoffers. Now come back to chapter 2, verse 1. He says there were false prophets among the people, even there shall be false teachers among you. Now he says there will be scoffers in the last days. Now, question is, and we're going to deal with this more in depth a little bit later on, we'll preach on that, but what is a scoffer when he says these people are scoffers? Well, scoffer is someone who mocks or ridicules something uh they find fault with and they make fun of. uh of uh something, a truth or whatever. And uh as I was looking up various definitions for this and looking at where the word came from and how it's used various places I kind of got this. This is my definition, my understanding of the scoffers he's referring to here. These are people, and they would fall under the category of false teachers. There's no doubt about that But he's talking about their attitude particularly towards the return of Jesus Christ. And so my understanding of what he's describing here with that term scoffer is this. Someone who rejects this truth with scorn. They look down on it. They're they're uh Uh they look on it the uh uh they reject this truth and pretty much this, you're ridiculous for even believing it. This is ludicrous to think that Jesus Christ is coming back again. And that I think captures the idea their attitude that he is describing here with that term. Now we'll look at, like I said, we'll look at that in a little more in depth later on. I want to preach just on that at some point. But we're starting this new chapter. I came across an outline by J. Vernon McGee. Anybody recognize that? Great Bible teacher, years gone by. And he outlines the chapter for whatever it's worth, but it caught my attention, and I think he captured the content of this chapter pretty well. First of all, he uh verses 3 through 8, the attitude of these scoffers. And again, as I said, we'll look at those in more depth later on. Look at that. Then verses 9 through 13, he described it at the agenda of our Lord in the last days. What God's agenda is as far as the return of Christ, the new heaven, new earth, and all of that. And then the last, verse 14 through 18, the admonition to believers. And so as I got studying this chapter, I thought, well, that's a good outline of that chapter. And so there you have it. Now I want to zero in tonight in verse number one. He says, this second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you. And he gives the reason that he's writing 2 Peter. He gives a reason here. He says it's to stir up your minds. Want to stir your minds up. That's why he penned this. Now, of course He's writing this, as we always emphasize, it's under the inspiration of God. This is not just the writings of Peter, this is the word of God given to us through the pen of Peter. Right? So he's penning this, he's writing this to stir up the minds of the believers he's writing to, and then through the pages of the preserved word of God, stir your mind and my mind up It's to stir our minds up. If you would, come back to chapter number one. He made a very similar statement in verse 13 of chapter one, as the earlier on in this letter that he wrote pen, he says, Yea, I think it meet. As long as I am in this tabernacle, in other words, while I'm still alive, while I'm here still on earth in this body, as long as I am in this tabernacle to stir up To stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Again, he's addressing the mind there, remembrance. And so one of the purposes, the purpose he says here for this book is to stir us up. Stir our minds up in particular. Now, what does it mean to stir something up? Well, if you have a fire burning, And maybe you're camping out or something, or maybe you have a wood stove at home, and uh you bank that fire at night before you go to bed And uh let that thing burn through the night. And uh in the morning you come in. A lot of times uh it may just be some ambers there, maybe at your campfire in the house. How many people can picture that in your mind The fires burn down. There's just ambers there. A little smoke maybe. There's some heat there. And you take a stick, you throw some water, and you stir up those ambers. What are you trying to do? Trying to rekindle that flame. Trying to get that thing to come back to life. Trying to you're stirring it up. And that's what he says this book, 2 Peter, is about to stir us up. It has the idea of waking someone up. They're drowsing, they're nodding off Maybe they're in church and the preacher's preaching and they're nodding off. And And the preacher slams the pulpit and uh you think he's just worked up when all he's doing is trying to wake some folks up and stir them up. Are you with me? Rouse them up. They're drowsy and oh you stir them up, stir them up. Has the idea of um uh rekindling, making active again It got dull. It got uh uh uh dwindled down. And I want to stir you up, I want to stir you up. I think Peter was a fiery preacher I I just that's my impression when he preached, I think he poured his heart into it. Uh I know sometimes uh every now and then some would say, Well, I don't know why he has to raise his voice so much. I think Peter, if you read Acts chapter 2, the Bible says he stood up there on the day of Pentecost and he preached out. And he's wanting to stir him up through his pen Through his pen. And then he says, look what he wants to stir up. He says, Write unto you, both in which I stir up your pure minds. Now I circled that phrase, pure minds. He wants to stir their minds up, their thinking, their understanding. That's the idea behind the word minds. I want to stir up your understanding of these false teachers and these scoffers. And have you aware and have you alert and awake to what's happening and what they're saying and what they're doing. I want to stir you up, stir you up. God does not want his people's minds to be dull. God doesn't want us to have dull minds. Anybody here ever, your mind ever get dull? And you're just um my wife talks about it sometimes you get brain fog. Anyone ever know that? I live in the fog. It's like northern London. Brain fog. Now I don't think God wants our minds to be dull, lazy minds. Sometimes we get lazy in our understanding, our thinking. I don't think God wants his people to be unthinking. If you'll study the book of Proverbs very carefully, and I'm going to challenge you to do this We're coming up on a new year. I want to challenge you to spend uh read one chapter of Proverbs for every day with the calendar. How many people ever heard me say that? How many people heard me say that seven hundred and twenty-two times? Yeah And I want to challenge you, as you read through Proverbs, I want to challenge you to look how many times Solomon, under the inspiration of God, is telling his son, get understanding. Get knowledge. Get wisdom. Over and over and over and over. I don't believe God wants his people to be dumb I don't think he wants us to be unthinking. Sometimes people get a anti-education. Somebody asked one time, Are you are you an educated preacher or are you a God-called preacher? Well, I think it's not bad to be both. Um now you want the right kind of education. But God doesn't want us to be dumb. He wants us to understand some things. I think He wants us to understand how the Bible relates to the day and age you and I live in. Now we don't have to get caught up in all the garbage going on in the world. We don't have to get worked up about all of that. But we ought to understand how that fits in with what God says And he says, I want to stir up your minds. I want to get your understanding active again and working. And be aware of all of this. If you would, keep your place here and come with me to the book of Acts. And chapter number 20, interesting story. I love the book of Acts. And chapter number 20. And I want us to start in verse number 7. Acts chapter 20 and verse number 7. Paul is preaching, he's about to depart. And uh he's preaching in verse 7, Acts 20. If you found it, say amen. All right. And upon the first day of the week When the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow. So he's preaching to them. He's going to leave tomorrow. He's probably never going to see him again He preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued his speech until midnight. Paul's preaching until midnight. Now I've always taken that as a challenge. And there were many lights, verse number eight, in the upper chamber where they were gathered together, and there sat in the window a certain young man named Eutychus. Look at this. Being fallen into a deep sleep, and as Paul was long preaching He sunk down with sleep, and look at this, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead I tell you, he fell asleep. Paul's preaching. He fell asleep and fell out the window three stories down. And they think he's dead. I tell you, it's a dangerous thing to fall asleep when the preacher is preaching wall. The point I'm trying to make, I'm trying to illustrate here, Eutychus' brain got dull. And you know, there's various factors. Paul was, no one, it was midnight. Paul was preaching long, it was midnight. Number two, it points out that there was uh uh l lights in that chamber. So there's probably a bit of a lack of oxygen there, as people believe, because it's burning and and uh that there were several factors. But nevertheless, his mind became dull And Peter is writing to these believers. He said, I don't want your mind to be dull. I don't want your understanding to be clouded. We want this to be crystal clear. We want you to be alive, alert, awake to what is happening, and the threat to your church and the ridicule. That is being made about the return of Christ. I want to stir up your pure minds. I think the devil wants God's people to be dumb I think he wants us to be ignorant and dumb. I think he wants our minds to be dull. Sometimes um Sometimes churches and different folks will they'll say, well, that that old time religion, that old singing hymns and preaching and all of that That's just boring and uh you can't reach people with it. So we gotta liven things up. We'll bring in some rock and roll and we'll shoot shoot off uh smoke bombs and we'll have flashing lights and we'll dance and carry on and and uh we need a live in this place uh Uh I don't think uh I don't think the old time religion is dull because of uh uh uh what it is. I think sometimes people think it's dull because they don't have any interest in it Follow what I'm saying? This is not what they want. I don't know. You get a you get a church like ours singing and preaching and and fellowshipping. Uh what we need to liven it up is the presence of the Holy Spirit, not rock and roll music. My opinion you get the Holy Spirit in that thing, brother, it it stirred up So uh devil wants God's people wants God's people to be dumb. He wants our minds to be dull. He doesn't want us to think Doesn't want us to use the brain God gave us. I had a roommate in Bible college used to say about somebody, he says he doesn't have the brains, God gave a billy goat. God wants us to use our brains. The devil wants us to believe some of the most ridiculous stuff. He doesn't want us to think. He doesn't want us to think things through. Just swallow. Just whatever's given. Just swallow it. Just just receive it. This idea, the devil's, it gets God's people to buy into this idea that we somehow evolved from nothing. That somehow life came from non-life. And the most incredibly complex technology that exists is found in the eyeball. And somehow that just by chance came together. The amazing thing is, as brilliant as many people are, they still can't replicate the eyeball. Not to the degree it is. And so we just go along, we just buy this. Oh yeah, everything came from nothing. Oh yeah, all this. I tell you, the devil wants God's people d dumb. And I'm telling you, and I don't mean to be unkind, I don't mean to be harsh or rude, but if you buy into this evolution stuff, you're dumb. You're a my mom used to say, you're a dumb bunny. Bunnies are smarter than you. And so he said, I want to stir up your minds, your understanding. I want you to think. I want you to use your head and understand my word and my will and my plan and what I've done. Spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. That's where it's at. In our mind, in our understanding, that's where victory or defeat takes place in our mind. We touched on this a little bit this morning, but I am what I am because I think the way I think. My understanding determines my actions, my attitudes, my behavior. People buying into this nonsense of 150 different genders. Just buying into it, buying, not even using their head. Spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. In the mind. We don't have time. We won't take the time, go back, but in Genesis, when Satan in the form of the serpent confronts Eve. You know what he did? He got Eve to change the way she thinks. As far as we can tell, they were content. They had all the food, everything. They had one tree God put there for his reasons. He had one tree. Knowledge of good and evil said, don't eat it. You can have 10,000 others. Don't eat that one. Serpent comes and gets to her to change her mind completely about God About eating that fruit, obedience to them, changed her mind. The battles, the point I'm trying to make is this: the battles in your Christian life and my Christian life are won and lost in the mind How we think, our perspective, our understanding. Peter's writing to them and he says, I'm going to stir up your mind, ignite that. That understanding so you can see and think things through and don't make stupid mistakes and fall for these these false teachers and and fall for this false doctrine and and give in to these scoffers I want to stir up your mind. Stir up your mind. Now let me real quickly give you two thoughts and I'll shut down. We'll go home. Number one, we need pure minds. Look at verse number one. Now I stir up your pure minds. Pure minds. The word pure there has two thoughts. One of the definitions of the word pure. Now hear me out, because the definition's not going to make sense. One of the definitions of the word pure means this, to be without wax. To be without wax. Now, what in the world does that mean? In Philippians 1:10, I wish we had time to turn there, we don't. Philippians 1. 10, Paul talks about them being sincere. This comes from the same word, to be without wax. You say, what in the world does not having wax do have to do with being sincere or being pure Here's the idea. Back in the day, they would have potters who would make various vases and pottery out of clay. And they would mold it and form it. They were very good, very gifted. You looked in history and go back to some of the stuff. They were phenomenally talented. And sometimes as they formed that vase, for sake of illustration, we'll say it's a vase. They put it in the kiln and they'd burn that thing. How many people know what I'm talking about? They'd burn that thing, make it hard, they'd put it in a kiln for a period of time, and they'd take it out. And on occasion, depending on the moisture of the clay or various factors, sometimes that vase would crack. In the kiln when they bring it out, there'd be a crack there. Well, if you're looking to hold water, a crack in it is makes it useless. An honest potter Would throw it away. It's no good. He'd just, it's no good. He'd throw it away. A dishonest potter would take wax, melt it down, and fill that crack in with the wax. And then paint over it or whatever. And to the eye, it looked like it was perfectly fine, but it wasn't. It was fraud. And when Peter's writing to them, he says, I want your minds to be pure. He says, I want them to be without flaw. Nothing phony about it. The idea is this, and when Paul uses it in Philippians, the word sincere means that sincere. It is what it is. It's honest. It's true. And Peter, I believe, is writing here, one of the ideas behind using that term pure minds is the idea that we be honest in our thinking. Be honest with ourselves. One of the worst things we can do is be dishonest to ourselves. And sometimes we even get to the point where we believe our own lies. And I tell you, it's a dangerous place to be. I've often said to lie to another person is destructive. It'll ruin a relationship. It may hurt that person. To lie to another person, that's destructive. To lie to God is foolish. Because he knows the truth. But to lie to myself is deadly. Is deadly. We've got to be honest with ourselves. We've got to be able to look in the mirror. And say, Dennis, this is where you're at. This is what you are. This is what you need. And Peter's writing to him, and he says, I want to stir up your understanding, but you've got to, your mind has to be pure. You have to be honest in your thinking. So one aspect of this pure minds is to be sincere and honest, thinking honestly, thinking truthfully. I said this recently, I read this back in the summer. And it stuck in my mind. Uh, don't believe everything you think. Right? Anybody ever think something later on? You thought that was stupid to think that I think we ought to think about our thinking. Right? And just be honest. Just be honest. And then the second idea behind it is to be what we normally think of the word pure is be without defilement Be clean, pure water, there's no defilement, there's no um uh in in the water there's no um uh what's the term I want? Uh sediment or Ba bad stuff in it. Well, impurities is what I was looking for. I like bad stuff better to be honest with you. How many people like to drink pure water? Yes. He's saying I want your minds your mind needs to be pure. No bad stuff in your thinking, in your mind. David prayed in Psalm 51, verse 10. Of course, Psalm 51 is his great prayer of confession. I mean powerful. And God had David penned down his confession of his sin with Bathsheba. I think every Christian would be very familiar with Psalm 51. And in verse number 10, David prays this prayer. He says, Create in me, O God, a clean heart. A clean heart. As we pointed out this morning, the heart and mind are often synonymous. Lord, make my thoughts clean and pure. Make my understanding, my reasoning clean and pure. And so we need to be honest. We need to be sincere, our minds And they need to be clean and pure. The battle in the Christian life or my Christian life is won or lost in my mind. And my mind, my thinking has to be stirred up, it has to be honest, it has to be clean and pure We live in a day when our minds are bombarded with dishonesty, dirt, and distraction. And I think This is me, but I think compared to previous generations, you and I have a greater challenge to keep our minds pure than ever before in the history of mankind. We are bombarded on every hand with things that would distract our minds, that would defile our minds, and hurt us. He says, keep your minds pure. Then he says, he says, I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. By way of remembrance. The word remembrance means this: to continually remind you. It says, I want to keep on reminding you and keep on reminding you so you don't forget. We need minds. Our minds need to be reminded over and over and over. Right or wrong. Need to be reminded. What time was that meeting? Tell me again, what time was that meeting? Over and over and over and over. I think this is a little off, but I think memorizing scripture helps our minds to stay strong and healthy. Just the act of memorizing. It's good for us. Forget a major factor in Israel's downfall was their failure to remember God's goodness. Their failure to remember what God had instructed them to do, and over and over and over in the book of Psalms and throughout the History books of the Old Testament, he says to them, remember, remember, you forgot, you forgot, you forgot You forgot about how I divided the Red Sea and brought you through safely. You forgot about how I fed you in the wilderness. You forgot about the miracles I did in Egypt to get you out of there. You forgot. You keep forgetting What I've done for you. Peter says, I'm writing to you, your pure minds, and keep reminding you and reminding you and reminding you. A major responsibility of a pastor and a preacher in particular is to remind God's people of what some things they already know. Just keep reminding you and reminding you. Somebody said this: my forgetter is getting better. But my rememberer is broke. To you that may seem funny, but to me that's no joke. For when I'm here, I'm wondering if I really should be there, and when I try to think it through, I haven't got a prayer Of times I walk into a room and say, What am I here for? I rack my brain, but all in vain, a zero is my score. At times I put something away where it's safe, don't you see? The person it's safest from is generally me. When shopping, I may see someone and say hi and have a chat. And when that person walks away, I ask myself, who in the world was that? My forgetter's getting better while my rememberer is broke. It's driving me plum crazy, and that isn't any joke. Peter's writing to them and he's saying, Listen, I need to keep reminding you and keep reminding you and keep reminding you of what God has told us and what he's taught us and what he's done for us and what his plan is and what his purpose is. And we forget. We forget. Look back in chapter one, same book here. And verse number 12, he had already touched on this previously. He says, Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in what? Remembrance of these things, though you know them. And be established in the present truth. Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Come down to verse 15. Moreover, I will endeavor that you may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in what? Remembrance. Preacher keeps preaching the same thing over and over and over. If I don't, you'll forget it Well, I read the Bible through. I don't need to read again. You need to read it over and over and over and over and over and over and over. Put us in remembrance. Put us in remembrance. I had somebody said they were following our Bible reading calendar we give out at the beginning of the year, and it has you reading through Proverbs every month. They got to the end of January and they said to me, uh, they said, well, I read Proverbs and it has there's something wrong with this schedule. It has me reading it again. I said, yeah, that's on purpose. Why? I already read it. Why would I have it read it again? I said, just do it. But we need to be reminded, don't we? And Peter says, I want your mind, your minds need to be pure. Your understanding or thinking needs to be pure. And you need to be reminded over and over and over. Paul told Timothy, a young preacher boy in 1 Timothy 4 6, he says, if you're going to be a good minister, put the people in remembrance. Just remind him. If you have a preacher who comes up and says, I'm going to tell you something you never heard before. I'm going to give you a truth that's never been told before. I'd walk out of that place. Because there's nothing new under the sun. And whenever they say something like that, I'll tell you what they're doing. They're just dredging up an old false doctrine, an old heresy from years ago, and recycling it through as something new. Remembrance, remembrance, remembrance. We take the Lord's Supper. Why? To remember the price Christ paid for us. The body that was broken, the blood that was shed, so you and I can be forgiven. And have eternal life. We would forget. In fact, Peter says back in chapter 1, there were some people who forgot that they were cleansed from their old sins. Forgetting, forgetting. I don't know about you, but I take medicine every day. We're going through our insurance for next year and looking at different stuff. And one of the big things is your prescription, copay, and all that. How many people know what I'm talking about? Young people, you don't have to worry about it, but and I take medication on a daily basis And depending what your medication is, if you forget to take it, that could be very, very dangerous physically, right? If you forget that medic, oh man, I didn't take that for a whole week. If we forget our medicine, it could be fatal. It's very, very dangerous. But if we forget God's word, and we forget who the Lord is and what he's done for us and what his instructions are, I want to suggest to you that's just as dangerous. That's just as dangerous. God's been good to us. And we need to remember that Say, preacher, I'm going through a valley. I don't see much goodness. You remember that God was good to you, it'll help you get through that valley when you come out the other side. Remember, remember, remember, remember, remember. Let's pray. Father, ask you to help us to remember. What you've done for us, what your promises are, what you're fixing to do for us in the future. Help us to keep this in remembrance. Lord, help us to have our minds pure And not let us be so bombarded to minimize the bombardment from this world that would affect our thinking, affect our understanding. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, pray with me? God spoke to my heart tonight. One way or another, God spoke to my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's finish out the Lord's day. How about an old altar Just say, Lord, purify my mind. Give me created me a clean heart, O God. Help me remember, walk with you, read my Bible every day, remember, so I can be a good witness. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As the piano plays, how about it? Sunday night