And one verse in particular that I'm sure you are familiar with, it is the battle cry of the Christian family. In Joshua twenty four and uh verse fifteen And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell, but as for me, And my house, we will serve the Lord. I wonder this morning If you can say that about your home. And I don't know what kind of a home you have. I really don't know hardly any of you here this morning Whether you're a single parent, whether you're just a single person and living in an apartment, or if you live in a trailer, it doesn't matter Uh you you have a home. If it's just a husband and wife, that is your home. And can you say With straight conviction, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. That is what America needs today. We need homes that will serve Jesus. I'm thankful for the president we now have over the president that is not in office. There's no doubt about that. But over and above all of that, we need revival in America. And it starts in churches like mine and yours, and it starts in homes like mine and yours And it starts where God's people who represent their homes can say, as for me in my house We will serve the Lord. I trust that every one of us can say that as we leave this place today. Before we go any further, let's look to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we gather here today, we're so thankful that we have a place that we can come to this morning. We thank you for Pastor Leatherman and Kathy and the great job they do here. We thank you for this wonderful crowd of people gathered here on this Sunday morning. And what a blessing to see uh uh a lot of good folk here today. And I pray we can say something, Lord, that Would encourage and would speak to our hearts. I pray, Father, if there's anybody here that is not genuinely born again and not saved That this would be the day, the hour, the time that they will call upon you and come to know you as Savior. I pray, Father, for that Christian who's contemplating sin and really can't say that they want their house to serve you. And I pray that, Lord, you would bring such conviction that at the end of the service they'd get that right. I pray, Father, for those that have carried some heavy burden into this place this morning, something about the affairs of life that have burdened them down, I pray in some way that that might be lifted. Lord, you're the only one that can take just a simple verse, a simple message and a simple messenger, and take and apply the truth to the heart and meet the need. And Lord, we're counting on you to do that today. We're asking, Father, you'd work in our midst as only you can. We'll thank you, for it's in your name we pray. Amen. You know, it's a real blessing to see parents come with their children to Sunday school, and uh and we had a good Sunday school hour. We saw a good number of parents and a good number of children coming for that hour. It's a great, great time for the teaching of the Word of God. And that is what we need today. We need God's word to permeate us and help us and show us how to live in this life. But Sunday school is a great time. There was a Sunday school teacher who asked her Sunday school class her draw pictures of their uh favorite Bible lesson or favorite Bible uh story. And uh and they did, and at the end of the class, she was puzzled by one of the pictures, and uh and so she Uh she uh asked the little boy about it and and it and he drew a picture of four people in an airplane. And she asked him, what in the world, what is this picture about? And the little boy said, well, that's the flight into Egypt. And the teacher looks, she says, Well, I see Jesus, I see uh Mary, and I see Joseph, and I see the baby Jesus, but who's the fourth person? And he says, well that's Pontius the Pilate. Somebody explained that to the preacher later on, you know what I mean. But uh Sunday school, you know, Sunday school work is uh work that is essential to the life of a church It's essential to the life and the welfare of the Christian family, those that make up the church. The Sunday school is so valuable that it should have the cooperation of every church family. Whether you have children or not, it doesn't matter. I know they've got a good adult program here where the Word of God is taught and given, and everybody needs the Word. Everybody needs taught. If we're going to go anywhere in America, if we're going to bring America back to where it needs to be, we've got to have our families and our homes in the church under all of its ministries so that the church can do something in teaching and helping you in your Christian life. Because families are messed up today They are messed up. You I mean our young people, uh, they see Miley Cyrus uh doing uh sexual type things and on stage with a bunch of young people watching her do that and and uh and and they see that they think that's okay Uh out in um uh there were three teenag teenage boys in Oklahoma. Uh they murdered an Austr an Australian uh man there and according to authorities They were always in trouble, even though everybody in town said they were good kids, they were always in trouble. The overwhelming evidence, they were anything but good, a background check on their parents found that they were largely irresponsible, apathetic, and even one of the mothers was at that time in jail. And Spokane, Washington, a 16-year-old, two 16-year-old boys murdered a World War II uh veteran blungeoned him to death. The father of one of the accused uh killers told the media that he didn't understand how in the world that can happen But on further investigation, the father had not been in contact with his son for many weeks. He was basically being raised by his grandmother, and it was just a mess. Sociologists in America today pretty much across the board agree about this about homes. Not Christian homes, but just homes in general. They pretty much agree on this across the board. They all feel that chaos in our homes causes violent behavior Educational failure and social alienation. They believe this. Educators today have have have those stats and they've got in their ear these sociologists uh telling them these things and and this is why today, you know when I went to school there was no such thing as kindergarten. So that Takes you how old I am. We go way, way back. And uh but now there's kindergarten. Then all of a sudden we've got preschool. And now we've got pre preschool. And then we've got daycare. And we've got all of this. And I don't know. And if you're an educator in here this morning, my hat's off to you to uh to do what you do with children today. But the average uh in in the education system, they think they have this mentality that Parents are doing such a poor job today that the earlier that they get our children, the more they have to work with. And you cannot blame them for that thought, because it's true. Homes are in a mess. Our families are in a mess. It is just terrible what goes on today And uh the Sunday school is not certainly foolproof because you're dealing with the free will to choose. But But normally a kid that goes to Sunday school and is faithful is not going to blunge into death a World War II veteran Uh kids that go to Sunday school are not going to be found doing the things that young people are doing today And America desperately just needs some moms, it needs some dads to stand up and to claim our text that as for me in my house We will serve the Lord. And I I'm asking you this morning, is that you? Can you say that? Honestly, with conviction, that as for me in my house, we will serve the Lord. You and I have both seen this text used as a motto a motto in our homes, and uh a lot of times you you can see it uh when you go through the door and and uh it's on the walls and displayed in homes, conspicuous places. But really, this cannot be our family motto If you do not use the teaching, all the teaching arms of the church, there's no way If you don't do use the church to full advantage in spiritual things, there's no way your house is going to serve the Lord Joshua made this battle cry of his family when he was an old man. In fact, he was giving his farewell address to the people of Israel, and he knew that he didn't have long to live. So with the children of Israel all gathered around him, he challenged them to serve God who had prospered them, and then he warned them. About following false gods that would destroy them. And then he declared: as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So can you say right now, along with Joshua, can you agree with that this morning? I want you to think And I'm glad you didn't answer that out loud. But I was looking for people to say, amen, yes. But I want you to think, and I just have two points. I want you to think about the value of right choices, right decisions. I have a I say choices because I have a hard time saying decisions. I'm not sure it comes out right. Is that right? Decisions. And uh I am from West Virginia, you know, so we kind of don't talk right sometimes. Amen. Amen. Yes And uh and I know that they make fun of us and stuff and all that, but it's not right. Yeah. Sure we'll hear more of that later. But uh Joshua's statement here, I mean he wasn't double talking, I mean he wasn't uh he he didn't mence words You know, the Bible says in James, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. That was not Joshua. He was making a statement here, brother and sister. Joshua was saying, I am going to take this course. I don't care if anybody else takes this course or not. I'm going to do it. And me and my family, we are going to serve the Lord no matter what. You know, that's our problem today. We want to follow the other gods, just like Israel wanted to do there. We want to follow the gods of the Amorites. We want to follow Baal. And Christian families today, they're worshiping Baal. They are. They are. There's no doubt about it. There's basket Baal Foot bail, base bail. I mean they're watching them all, you know, right there. And uh we had a family, a young family in our church, great family Uh they uh homeschooled their children. They were so concerned about them, members of our church Sang in a choir, served, I mean just wonderful, wonderful young couple and family Then Le Little League, they got interested, the boys got older, they got him into Little League. And I don't have anything against Little League But uh the boys were pretty good at it. And so they got on traveling teams. And that means you play on Sunday. You play Wednesday night with practice And eventually it started to take them out of the church. Of course this is years, years, years and years, like seven, eight years Just a little bit at a time, just little increments at a time, here and there, missing this Sunday, missing this Wednesday, missing this Sunday. They were faithful to all the services and everything and and before long they quit homeschooling and and as the kids got into high school they put them back in the public is nothing wrong with that because you can have children wear them at it it starts in the home. This is where it all is. And they got away from the Lord, and I can tell you right now, they don't go to church anywhere. Nowhere That is just so sad. It is so sad because of base bail, because of a little league Uh we had another family because of of uh music. Uh you know, the the they And dress. She wanted to sing. And she's getting ready to get up on the up in the pulpit to sing. And I saw her sitting there. And her and I'm not kidding her. Her dress was way up to here. It wasn't close And it was that exaggerated. And I had to say, you are not going to get up on our platform with that kind of address on. There's just no way. We had these things going on all the time because we're following the gods of this world. We let the gods of this world determine if we're going to go to church or not. what we're going to wear, the music we're going to listen to, the things we're going to do. These are all the gods of the world. And whether whether you homeschool, Christian school, public school It doesn't matter. You've got to choose God. You've got to have Him magnify. You've got to magnify God in your home, no matter where you send Him to school. Magnify the Lord. Always. You've got to say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Can you say that today? Do you say that today we will serve the Lord? If parents are not in the habit of making right choices in their homes, You've got to seek the Lord. You need his help. Parents, older, people, you are faced with decisions and with choices that need to be made that are very critical to your home. You need God's help. You need you need his uh still Quiet spirit uh speaking to you in the in the back of your mind and leading you and guiding you uh as to what to do. Life is all about choices and we've got to learn that when an issue confronts us, how to make the right choice, if we hesitate on it, if we vacillate in it, if we are double minded with it Our homes will be lost. But if a man, uh if a woman can say and sit down and say, It doesn't matter, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord Then you've made the right choice, and God is going to help you in whatever choices you've made. Right decisions are a good influence on everyone around us. Noah, I mean, he had to make the right choice. He did. It preserved all of mankind. Moses did it. And Joshua, right here in our text in chapter 24. His example in taking the course he took, it influenced all Israel. Notice what it says in verse 21 of chapter 24 of Joshua. It says, and the people said unto Joshua Nay, but we will serve the Lord. Amen. They did. Verse 31, and Israel served the Lord. all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua. They served God, and which had known all the works of the Lord that he had done for Israel. The choices you make, they affect everybody around you. And I can tell you this morning Not taking advantage of all the ministries of the church, Sunday school, you name it. It is hard, it is hard and becomes hard to say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. I mean, that's just wrong choices. It has far-reaching consequences. You need to be able to say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. The second point is this. Joshua's statement not only magnifies the value of a right choice. But it magnifies the value of a right home. The right home is the greatest institution for the world's welfare The welfare of the United States of America does not depend upon the church, although it has a part to play. It does not depend upon the government, although yet has a part to play, too. But the welfare of our nation depends upon our families, our homes. And if our homes are strong, then our churches are strong If our churches are strong, then our nation is strong. But it all begins with our homes, with our families, having that right Life is at its best when things are right in our homes. There was a a young lady that had been going to a boarding school years ago And she was escorted home after a break by a young boy, a young man, who opened the door for her. He helped her uh with all the courtesy of a fine gentleman uh into this school and when the matron at the school asked her who it was she said that was my brother That was a great credit that that brother and that sister, I mean, unless I mean that they just had been taught At home, at its highest. And he treated her with respect. She treated him with respect. And they've been taught that. And unless life is at its highest in the home, there's not much chance that it's going to be outside the home. It I mean, I I have grandchildren. We've got nine of them And uh and it is from nine years old and down. And it is if they all come at one time, brother, you you want to I mean you want to find a place in the basement or in a corner, uh anywhere to just get away Because it's chaotic. And and kids today don't raise children like we did. I mean we disciplined children and all that, but man, these kids today they they get away with with a good bit And uh and uh uh they act up at the at the dinner table when you want to eat, and the kids, you know, the moms and the dads they say, this is what my girls say, well they're they're tired Well, they're awfully tired an awful lot, I'll guarantee you that. And I know exactly what goes on. They let them act like that at home, around their table. And so when they go to somebody else's table, it's no different for them. They act the same way. And uh if your kids are it's not because they're tired, it's because you let them get away with it in the home. I'm talking about my own family now, not about anybody else's. So I know what it's all about. Because the home is that is the training ground for your kids so that they'll act right when they get out of the home. Most of us rightly magnify the place of a mother, and rightfully so. Moms, you do such a great job. And uh and you do, I mean, a great deal, far more than we as men, uh, and as dads, amen, ladies or not. Oh me, okay, so you're a little bit subdued, but that's okay. I remember one time, my we only had three three children at the time. We went to a a restaurant to eat and We were sitting there and I was enjoying the scenery outside. We was in a great big window there and and my wife had taken two of the kids to the bathroom and my youngest at the time, Sarah, she was in the high chair and man I'm enjoying the food. I was eating blue crabs, you know, and And looking outside and enjoying things, you know, and just eating and looking and and s and sooner or later there's a lady sitting beside us. She said, Sir Uh you you need to look at your child. And I looked over. Here's Sarah. She had fallen down in the uh high chair and she was hanging there by her neck like that I thought, good night. I've got to finish these crabs and so but no. No, she she was okay. She she was not turning blue yet And uh so she was fine. She was fine. And uh and you know, your children When you're babysitting as a dad, this always happens. When they're in diapers, you know what happens as soon as mom goes out the door. They leave you a present. And uh I'll tell you what, I just don't do diapers, I'm sorry. And so mom comes home and I said, he must have just did that. And uh she says, Well, why is it caked on his legs like that? He's gonna get a diaper rash and all of that. But um One time Tim and I was uh babysitting by uh oldest grandson Austin and uh he was just a little infant and uh they'd gone somewhere and So we were babysitting him and and uh the dog had to go out, a little puff dog, and it was like zero out, so we left him out to go to the bathroom and And so we left him out there and so we're just pulling around the baby and he starts crying and he's crying and he's crying and crying and crying. But what in the world? We changed the diaper, what in the world? Nothing seems to help. Then all of a sudden it dawned on us He's got to eat. He's a little infant. And so we get that out there and we feed him and her feeding him and and we kept hearing this noise, a scratching noise, and We kept feeding him and moving around there and about an hour goes by and we still hear this noise and it gets louder and louder. We forgot the dog. He's outside. It's below zero Man alive. And by the way, we're available for anybody who wants us to babysit. We will be able to help you. Just give us we'll give you the phone number. We love it. It's wonderful. A mother is a child's, I mean, kids need a mom, you know. And that's her first Christian educator. She comes before the preacher, before the Sunday school teacher. And she makes that child, she takes that child from God, she imparts herself into him. And yet there's a sentence in the Bible that is heard over and over and over again About a child following in the steps of his father. And dads, we need to be very careful about the path that we take. Because our children may follow that path and probably will. And something someone told me many, many years ago. Is is this little saying, what you do in moderation, your children will do in excess. And it's true. You maybe do a little social drinking every now and then. They're probably going to be drunkards. You watch a few movies that might be a little bit questionable. They'll watch pornography What you do in moderation, they will always do in excess. And uh and and I would just appeal to you to just Look to the Lord. Just be able to go to Him and promise Him as for me in my house. We will serve the Lord. Could you do that? Would you do that? And I would appeal to you young people On behalf of your parents, really, on behalf of your God, your Lord, your moms, your dads, your nation, your cat, your dog. Listen, you are responsible human beings. Every one of you young people, you are responsible Before the Lord. You're responsible for your life. Look over if you would, real quick. The preacher reminded me of this verse last night. Chapter 30 of verse 17 of Proverbs. Chapter 30 and verse 17 of Proverbs. I told this one time to a bunch of little kids in our church, and the parents got a little bit upset at me. But it's a good verse. We have a little thing after Sunday nights, first Sunday night, and we have little children come up and I give them a little verse of scripture and teach them a little bit and I taught them this one. Says, the eye that mocketh at his father and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagle shall eat it. That just says there, if you disrespect your mom, your dad, that those crows are going to come and they're going to pick your eyeball out and they're going to feed it to their young That's good Bible truth right there. Amen. And so well, we don't want to scare the kids, but some of the kids are some of the parents at church there, they were a little bit squeamish about that. I want you to know that I know you young people want to be happy. There's no doubt about that. And I know that you want to make others happy. And I assure you, and I know that you want your family to be happy as well. But do you realize that by your right behavior, that you can make your family happy or not happy? That by the way you act That by the way you behave, you can make your home a happy place or you can make it an unhappy place. If you are selfish, if you're disobedient, if you're disrespectful, if you are careless, if you are unkind in what you say and unkind in what you do. You can spoil the happiness of everyone around you. And that goes for everybody. It goes for everybody And so as we close up here, the truth of Joshua's resolution applies today. Is there anybody here this morning? Who by carelessness, who by preoccupation has allowed their home to maybe just drift a little bit into sin Or drift a little bit into worldliness. Maybe not a lot, but enough that the Spirit of God has pricked your conscience and your heart and your soul. And uh and you see just a little bit. Friend, danger, death, eternal loss Are ahead for you and yours if you continue in that direction with great determination. I'm begging you today We've seen it over and over. We know what happens. I beg you today, with great determination, make the right decision. Make a right choice. Let your declaration be. Listen, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord Who will step forward today? Who among you will come today? Who among you will be like Joshua? And be the power of a great example. Who among you loves the Lord enough that you want to be a good example to your sons, your daughters, your moms, your dads? And who will come? Does anybody say, well, I'm guilty of neglecting the spiritual welfare of my family? I've let some things go. I know that. Then do something about it. Somebody does somebody say I have drifted too far. Well, you don't have to go any farther. Do something about it. Does somebody say I have memories that burn within me because of my carelessness and the things that I have done and I don't know if God can forgive me? Listen, you don't have to stay where you're at. You can come back. The Lord, He wants you. He's begging you to be. And by coming forward today, you can tell the Lord that you want that. He's standing with open arms to welcome you. It is always the right time To make the right decision, to have the right home, always the right time. What parent, what teacher, what young person this morning will declare by coming to an old-fashioned altar That as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Who will come? Who is already doing that? And will come and reaffirm that. That we are going to continue to do that. Who has not maybe just drifted just a little bit? Who will come and recognize that and thank God that you see it and say, as for me and my house, we are going to serve you, Lord, because we love you. Who's going to come and do that? Who wants to be a good example? Who wants to set the tone for their family? Who wants to do the right thing? And it's always the right time to make the right decision, to have the right home. Who will use that battle cry of the Christian family as for me and my house? We will serve the Lord. Who will dare come? Set the right example. Let's all stand as we close in a word of prayer. Father, as we pray, we thank you for those that have already started to come. We ask, Lord, that in this invitation time You'd just work in hearts. You'd speak to hearts. May there be some homes that are strengthened here today. Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking up, nobody looking around If God has spoken to your heart in some way, come right now. Pray around this old-fashioned altar. How long has it been? Since you've come around the altar and even prayed. How long has it been since you've even come to thank God for the home you do have and what God has done in your heart? Why don't you come? Do that this morning. Let the Lord work in your heart. If you're here today, you say, preacher, I'm not even sure I'm saved. I don't know if I know the Lord I don't know if I'd die right now, whether or not I'd go to heaven. If that's the case, with heads bowed, eyes closed, Christians praying, slip out right where you are And come up front here and we'll talk to you so we can tell you how to know Jesus as your Savior. Anyone at all. Christian, is there some sin you need to pray about? Something in your life that is not right Come. We'll be happy to talk with you. Happy to pray with you. Happy to tell you how to help with your problem, whatever it might be. Whatever the need, you come this morning. Jennifer's making her way to the piano. The invitation is open. This is the time to respond. I think it'd be a good thing, husbands and wives, maybe kneel at an altar together. Just make a commitment. Join our hearts. Our homes going to be what God wants us to be. How about it, young people, moms and dads? uh praying together. As Jennifer begins to play the piano, there's folks already at the altar. We want you to come. We want you to make the right decision.