First Peter or 2 Peter chapter number 1, verse number 5, I think this is our third message from this verse It says, and besides this, all the uh he had mentioned to them before about these exceeding great and precious promises God had given to us, and um uh he we have his divine power available to us to live the Christian life. Then he says, besides this, giving all diligence, and he's saying, listen, you apply yourself to this. This needs to be all out. You need to be enthusiastic about what he's instructing them to do He says, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. We looked at that last time, it's about a month ago, but we talked about virtue, the first step in Christian growth. And virtue, if you remember, we said is moral excellent. It's doing right no matter what. He says, add that to your faith. And then he has the next one. This is what we want to look at tonight He says, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue what? Knowledge. Knowledge. I want to title the message tonight: Be an Intelligent Believer. He says, add to your faith knowledge. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now, or time as we finish out the Lord's day and together in your house. And Lord, we have your word open before us, and I ask that your Holy Spirit would speak to us and challenge us. Lord, encourage, convict, instruct us. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, Father, that you could just use my body as a conduit for you to speak your word through me. And that we would have open hearts and minds and respond in faith to what you speak to our hearts about. I yield my will to you. I just pray your will be done. And be accomplished this evening in this time. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we say, mention every time we look in Peter, we did all through 1 Peter now and 2 Peter Just a reminder, he is writing, he is addressing believers who have exercised tremendous faith in the midst of very difficult circumstances. As we said a hundred times already, they they're persecuted in they've been persecuted intensely, and they stayed faithful, and they stayed true to the Lord. And he writes to them, and he's encouraging them, particularly on 1 Peter. They've proven themselves faithful in the midst of intense persecution and intense adversity. They were faithful to God. And that says a lot about it. He's exhorting them now in 2 Timothy and 2 Peter particularly. He's exhorting them to go forward in their Christian faith. They had the danger, if you remember, we mentioned previously in 1 Peter, they had this danger from without And that was the persecution of the world, taking away their liberties, treating them unjustly, in many cases, treating them violently. Family members pushing them out. We've talked a lot about that. That was external danger to the believers. 2 Peter, there's a new danger he's addressing, and that's from within. And later on, we're going to see where there's false teachers coming up from within the church, and there's uh uh um uh false prophets within the church, there's a there's an internal threat. to the spiritual well-being and the spiritual health of these believers and the churches that they're re-establishing. And so he addresses that in 2 Peter. And I believe what he's doing here in this section we're looking at now He's urging these Christians, these believers who have been faithful, he's urging them not to become complacent. How many people know what I mean when I say becoming complacent? What are we talking about? Somebody help me. Hmm? Just content where I'm at. Uh mm-hmm. Comfortable where they're at, complacent. Just uh like the one guy they said to the one guy, he says, uh uh what do you what do you think about all the uh ignorance and apathy in the world? He said, I don't know and I don't care. He's urging them, all right, listen, you've been through it, you've proven yourself faithful. Don't sit back on your laurels now. You've got to keep pressing forward, keep pressing forward, keep pressing forward. And that's what he's urging them here, because there's dangers within. They need to be strong spiritually to be able to withstand the threat from within. And so he tells them, you got faith, that's the starting point. And he says, now add to that faith virtue and knowledge. He's urging them to press on in their spiritual development. He's urging them to press on in their maturity. If you would keep your place here and come over to 1 Peter, or not 1 Peter, Philippians, I'm sorry Philippians chapter number three. And Paul addresses this, but Paul addresses it in a personal manner Paul in Philippians chapter 3, he's not exhorting others to press on and grow in their faith and keep maturing. Paul is referring to himself And look what he says there in verse number 12 of Philippians chapter 3. He says, not as though I had already attained Anybody ever hear anybody say this? No, I haven't arrived yet. That's what Paul's saying. I'm not there yet. I'm not everything I should be. I'm not at the level of maturity where I can be. I haven't met my potential yet. Does Paul saying this? Not as though I had already attained, neither were already perfect, but I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which I am apprehended of Christ. In other words, I want to be what God saved me to be. I want to be that Christian Jesus died for, so that He intends for me to be. I want to apprehend that for which I was apprehended in Christ. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind And reaching forth to those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Does Paul sound very complacent there? No He says, I want to grow. I want to go on. I want to be that man that Jesus Christ died and rose again. I want to be that man Jesus saved me to be. I want to be that Christian Jesus saved me to be Paul's pressing on. And what I'm saying to you and I as individuals, and what I'm challenging us as a church, is let's be careful we don't get complacent where we're at God's been good to us. Wasn't that a great song this morning? God's been good to us and God has blessed us. And I can stand personally. Derek and I were praying together for the service this evening. And we were praying, God, you've been so good to me personally. God, you've been so good to me. Listen, thank God for it, rejoice in it, but let's not settle on what God's done for us in the past. Let's press on and grow. And that's what he's challenging these believers to be. And that's what Paul is seeking. All Christian disciplines begin with faith. Every aspect of the Christian life begins with faith. And we add to that faith, our faith in God, our faith in the Word of God. We add to that and we press on. Now, back there in 2 Peter, he says, add to your faith virtue, as we mentioned. That means moral excellence. That means be above reproach. We ought to be virtuous in our lives. We ought to seek to be excellent in our morals. And by that I mean this: our thoughts ought to be virtuous. Is anybody with me out here? Our thoughts ought to be pure and clean. Our thoughts ought to be above reproach We ought to have the mind of Christ. He says, add to your faith. If you have faith in God, good. And that faith has seen you through the persecution. Now add to that faith moral excellence. You be pure and godly and excellent in your thoughts. We ought to be virtuous in our works, the things we do. I believe Christians ought to be distinct from this world, in our morals, and how we live our lives. Now we don't put on a show, amen. But people ought to see us. We ought to be uh unconsciously virtuous. And by that I mean this. We ought to just be virtuous and people see that and say, hey, there's something about them that's different than this whole world. Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, Do your good works that men may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. We ought to live our lives in such a way they say there's something about I see God's in that person's life. Our works, our thoughts, our words. Christian ought not to use the vernacular the world uses. Amen or not. Christian ought to be, we ought to be virtuous. In how we speak, in the words we use, and in our deeds. So he says, add to your faith virtue. And then he says this, he adds one little word there, and to virtue knowledge. It's the second one on the list. I got studying this word knowledge. Do you ever have a word you think you know what it means and then you study it and say, wait a minute, it's not exactly what I thought it meant. Knowledge, the word itself, when we think of knowledge, we think of uh how would all right, let's have group participation, girls. Uh uh How would you define the word knowledge? Alright, I'm going to add to my faith my virtue knowledge. What is he talking about? What would you say? Hmm? Knowing. Knowing. Knowledge would be the know to add to your faith knowing stuff. Yeah. Anyone else want to take a shot? Yes, information. Facts. Gaining information. Gaining facts about something. Alright, stuff that would be in a nonfiction book. Right, add to your faith knowledge, things that are true, things that are facts, information. Uh somebody, uh uh Randy's back there. He's knowledgeable on painting houses. He knows something about painting houses. Knowledge. Add to your faith knowledge. It means to uh uh to possess information, to per uh to possess facts, but The word here, as it's used here, has a little bit more to it. It has this idea, having the information about a particular thing or or activity or occupation. I have the information, I have the facts about it, but understanding how that information is to be used. Follow what I'm saying? It's possible for somebody to have a whole heap of facts in their head and don't know what to do with those facts. We've got universities filled with highly educated fools. Right or wrong. And so the when he says add to your faith knowledge, he's not saying just uh or add to your virtue knowledge. He's not saying just, oh yeah, get uh accumulate a lot of facts about God and about uh the Christian life and about the spiritual things. Uh get a lot of facts in your head He's talking about a whole lot more. He's saying, listen, know how to use that. Know how that applies to you. Know how that applies to life. Remember in Acts And somebody just, was it uh Brother Um Grinstead, I think, Wednesday night reference says, the Ethiopian eunuch. Did he was he preached on that, right? And this Ethiopian eunuch's leaving Jerusalem. He's in a chair. He's heading back to Ethiopia. He's a big shot. He's a high-level government employee. I mean high level. And he's leaving Jerusalem. He'd come to Jerusalem to worship. He's leaving Jerusalem and he has a copy of Isaiah. Anybody here remember uh Brother Grenz say talking about that? And he's reading it in his chariot. And the Lord leads Philip to go and catch up to him. Philip comes up and listen to what Philip asked him. He says, Understandest thou what thou readest? Now, the Ethiopia Munich had the information, he's reading Isaiah 53, the greatest Old Testament account of the gospel you're going to find. And he has all this information, he has all the n the facts about what Isaiah 53 has, but he didn't understand it And he says, how can I unless somebody chose me and tells me? Peter is saying, listen. Do right, live right, clean up your act, be ver be moral, be virtuous, live your life virtuously But add to that knowledge. Get the truth and the information about God and the things of God and learn how that applies to living a godly life. Add to your faith virtue. Here's my definition. How many people want to hear my definition? I'm excited. I want to say it The word knowledge means this: to acquire information and the ability to apply that information in a practical way to my life. So I learn all this stuff about God, and it's like, all right, how d what does that have to do with my life? And I learn how the fact that God is all-knowing, and that affects how I live my life, and I learn the fact that God is holy And that affects how I live my life. And I learned the fact that God is a judge of all the earth. How many people agree with that? If we knew and understood and convinced that God is going to one day judge us, would you agree with me? That might affect the way we live our life. So it's one thing to have the information, it's another to be able to apply it to my life and be able to live like I should Be able to apply to my life that information on how I live and how I talk, how I interact with others, the way I think. I put this one down. Knowledge, he says, add to virtue knowledge. Find out the information about God and spiritual life and see how it applies to your life. And I put it this way: how I love. You say, oh, Brother Leatherman, what do you mean how you love? Uh all you need is love. That's all we hear anymore is just love, love, love, love, right? That's all we hear. I mean in a perverse way I want to say to you, our love life, as Christians, our love ought to be according to knowledge. In fact, you say, oh, give me scripture for that. I'm glad you said that, because I was really wanting to show you this verse. Philippians again, come back over to Philippians. Chapter 1. Paul is praying for the Philippians. In this letter, he's writing them. He records his prayer down what he's praying for them. In Philippians chapter 1 And verse number nine. Notice what he says. And this I pray. Alright, here's Paul praying for the church at Philippi, the believers there that made up that church. That your love may abound yet more and more. Alright, it doesn't stop there He says, Oh, I want you all to love and love and love. Oh, I want you to love more and more and more and more and more. But he qualifies it. That your love may abound yet more and more in what? In knowledge and what? Oh judgment. Did you know there are some things we ought not to love? I didn't say there's some people. We ought to be loving to everybody. But my Bible says, I think it's in Romans, hate that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. There's certain behavior we ought to hate. There's certain actions we ought to hate. There's certain teachings we ought to hate. And we need knowledge to know that which is acceptable and that which is not. Now we ought never, I'm not suggesting we hate people. We don't hate people. For God so loved the world. And we're to love like God, the love of God shed abroad in our hearts. We ought to be loving to every single person we meet, regardless of their behavior, their lifestyle, their attitude, regardless of what they do to us. We ought to love them. However, that love needs to be qualified according to knowledge. So Paul's writing to them saying, listen, you need knowledge. Add to your virtue knowledge. Be intelligent about this. I cannot live the Christian life without the Bible knowledge of what the Christian life consists of. It is possible, I hope you'll bear with me because I'm kind of doing shotgun statements here a little bit, it's possible to have knowledge of what the Bible teaches a Christian life is It's possible to have knowledge, what the Bible teaches that Christian life is, and yet not live the Christian life. Am I right or wrong? Anybody here uh anybody here on a job or somewhere maybe family member unsafe and maybe you do something they don't agree with or maybe you've just gotten a flesh a little bit and said or did something you knew you shouldn't And they say they said something like this, oh, and you call yourself a Christian. Anybody ever hear that? Yeah. You know what that tells me? They know what a Christian they know the way you ought to behave. Now they're not. So it's possible to know how a Christian should live. It's possible to know how a Christian should treat other people. Christians should uh separate from the world. It's possible to have all that information, have all those facts, and yet not do it. That is not the knowledge he's talking about Now, on the other side of that coin, I can't live the Christian life if I don't know what it is. So I've got to have the information to begin with. I've got to know what God expects from me as a Christian if I'm going to be able to live it And so knowledge. Add to your virtue knowledge. Knowledge. And that means I have to apply myself intellectually to get the facts from the Bible. How many people are still with me? Everybody alright? I've got to get the facts about God. I kind of I think I might have touched on this a little bit this morning. Everybody in the world has ideas about God. Ever have somebody say this? I get it fairly often. Everybody somebody say this to you? Well, this is what I think about God. Well, God would never do that. Just talking somebody. Well, God just made them all that way. Talking about people living in sin. Listen, I need to find out the truth and I need to find out accurate information about God If I'm going to be able to live for him like I should, I have to apply myself intelligently and find out what is God like? What does he want? What does he expect? How does he respond to our actions? What is he doing? I have to have that information if I'm going to be able to live for him the way he wants me to live. I need a, by the way, I ought to have, I need a little bit, at least a little bit of information about God's enemy, the devil. Paul said we're not ignorant of his devices. He's saying, listen, you better know a little bit about the devil, because he's out after you like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. You better not be ignorant about the devil, because he'll eat you alive. There's nothing there is n there's nothing good about scriptural ignorance Nobody ever succeeded in the Christian life, and nobody ever lived a life that pleased God that was scripturally ignorant. I've got to know who God is and what he's like. I've got to have information about the devil. Do you know what I found out? You know what I noticed over years hunting and facing? A predator does not want its prey to know about the predator. Are you with me? That's why we wear camouflage and we spray ourselves with stuff and we put little scents out and we climb up a tree, four o'clock in the morning, ten degrees out, freeze to death Because we don't want that prey to know about us there. I'm telling you, that's exactly what the devil is. And so we need to have some we need to apply ourselves a little bit intellectually to find out about God, find out about the devil. Find out what is right and wrong? What does God say is right? What does God say is wrong? I've gotten the point, sixty-three years old, in this for years, I've gotten the point I don't really care too much what the world says is right and wrong. I want to know what God says is right and wrong. This world don't even know themselves what is right and wrong. Wait fifteen years, it'll be completely different So we need to apply ourselves intelligently and say, oh right, what is right? What is wrong? I need to find out. I need to apply myself intelligently to determine what is sin. How is a person saved? How do I find forgiveness? I need to add to my faith virtue, and to virtue I need knowledge. I need this knowledge. Not just so I'm a biblical egghead. But so I know how to respond, I know how to act, I know what to do and what not to do, I know where to go and where to stay away from. Knowledge. I must apply myself deliberately to put the knowledge I get about these things into practice. The knowledge I get from Scripture, I need to know how to put that into practice in my life What worries me as a pastor sometimes, and you know, you know, we bring I try to bring good preachers through here and we try and be true to the Word of God. What worries me sometimes is Folks come in, Christians come in, sit under the teaching and the preaching of the Word of God, and then walk out and don't respond to it at all. They don't apply it to their life. It's just check out at the door, check back in next Sunday. You follow me? But Paul, Peter is writing to these believers, say, hey, add to your virtue knowledge, take it with you, get this information and live it out. Apply it to your life. He's challenging them to be intelligent believers and know what they believe, why they believe it, and how to apply it to their life. How to apply it to their home. How to apply it to raising their children. How to apply it to their marriage. How to apply it in the workplace. How to apply it in the schoolroom And how to ply it in the neighborhoods Now how do we do this? How do I get this information so that I can apply it to my life and live the life the Christian life God wants me? Let me give you super duper quickly. How to do this. Number one, spend time in God's Word. How many people knew that was coming? Yeah. Oh crap. I knew he was going to get to that. I had a guy tell me one time. I used to, I used to every Sunday, some of you all remember this. I used to every Sunday night say How many people read your Bible every day this week? I used to do it every single Sunday night. Anybody here remember uh we don't do it as often. I need to start doing that again There's one guy said to me one time, you know, raise my hand. He's gonna ask you how many people have read their Bible. I'm glad he's reading his Bible. Spend time in God's Word. It's impossible to add to my virtue knowledge if I neglect my Bible. Psalm 119, verse 9, and verse 11 tells me how to deal with sin. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. How am I going to avoid sin? How am I going to I've sinned, preacher, I messed up. What do I do? Ah, find out what the Bible says to do. Don't go to the priest downtown with a little block, oh brother, I've sinned. No, no, no. Go to the Bible. Amen or not. Tells me how to deal with sin when I mess up. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. I need to get the information. You know what? I can avoid sinning. If I find out what the Bible says and do what the Bible says, I can avoid sinning Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the storm fall, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the waters. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. You know what he's saying? He's saying, don't go to the wrong information, go to the Word of God, and you can prosper as a Christian. You can live that life God intends for you to live. So spend time in the Bible. Spend time in the Bible. Psalm 118, 165 says, Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Well, she offended me. Well, spend some time in the Bible. It'll help you not be offended. Can I give a little bit of advice? I'm not going to ask how many people want me to, I'm just going to do it. Whenever you say so-and-so offended me, you know what you're telling me? You don't love the word of God. Because my Bible says, Great peace are they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Don't get mad at me. I'm just telling you what God said. So go to the Bible, spend time in the Bible, get the information. Knowing God and knowing God's word is inseparable. Number two, be faithful to church. Say, how do I get this knowledge? Add it to my virtue knowledge. I want to do right, I want to be virtuous. Now I need out knowledge. Where do I get this knowledge? Well spend time in God's Word, I think every day. Spend some time in God's Word. And number number two, be faithful to church. Hebrews ten twenty five. Forsaking not the assembling of yourselves together, as a matter of sum is, but exhorting one another daily, building up, encouraging, teaching, helping one another Even as you see the day approaching, the return of Christ approaching, how many people see the day approaching? I do So I need to get around God's people. I need to get in church. I need the teaching and preaching of God's word. So I have this information, this knowledge, so I know how to live. And I'm ready when the Lord comes back. That's one of the purposes the church exists. I put this down. I have learned more. This is the truth. If I ever say the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth. I have learned more about God's word and living the Christian life in the local church. Then I have six years in one of the best Bible colleges at the time in the nation. That is absolute truth. You'll learn more and I'm not I'm all for going to Bible college. Don't misunderstand. I'm for it. But I'm telling you, you'll learn more about God and the Bible in a local Bible preaching church than you will any other institution that man comes up with. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. And so if I'm going to add to my virtue knowledge, I'm going to know God and know how it applies my life, how to live my life. I've got to get in the Word of God, spend time in the Word of God, and I need to be faithful to church. I believe that with all my heart. I've learned more in the local church. about God and Christian living the Word of God than anything, any else, any place else. And I like to read more than books I read. Number three, be committed to prayer. Be earnest in prayer. I went through the book of Psalms and noticed how many times the psalmists, sometimes it was David, I think some were Moses and other uh Asaph, a couple other penmen. And I went through these prayers that they asked God to teach us his word. This is what they prayed. Teach me thy paths. Teach me thy way, O Lord. Teach me thy way, O Lord. Teach me thy statutes. One, two, three, four, five times I read where he says, Lord, teach me thy statutes. What are God's statutes? It's the word of God. They're praying. God, teach me. Psalms 119, 66, teach me good judgment and knowledge. Teach me thy judgments. Psalms 143:10, he said, Lord, teach me to do thy will. They're praying that God will give them the knowledge Peter is writing and saying, you need to add to your birth, add to virtue. How many people here like me, you really want to learn a little bit more about God? You'd like to know a little bit more about the Lord. How many people here like me, you'd like to live a little bit better Christian life I'd be like to be a little more like Christ. You know what? Hey. Ask God to give you the information I need. So that I can apply it to my life and live like I should. Get in the Word of God, be faithful to church, pray diligently. Number four, I put this down: study godly Christians. Study victorious Christians. Study Christians that were faithful to God and lived victorious virtuous lives and lived the way God wanted to. Study people in the past like that. And by that I mean Bible characters. Study the life of David. Study the life of Joseph By the way, we just happen to be starting a new series. I'm injecting a little commercial here. On Wednesday nights on the life of Joseph. I'm here to tell you We can learn, gain a lot of knowledge about God and living the living as God wants us to by studying Joseph and others in the Bible. Study, godly Christians, study men and women of God. Read biographies of great men and women of the past. I'm telling you, helps you. I'm reading George Whitfield Big Two Volume. I'm in the second volume now. Man, I read that. I tell my wife. I read this thing. I feel so convicted I want so badly that power and see God do in our day what he did through George Whitfield in the early 1700s. It helps us study good godly Christians that are alive now Get around, folks, that God's using. Let be influenced by Him. That's one of the reasons I bring these preachers in that we do. I want to rub shoulders with them. I want us to know them. I want them to influence them. I want to see. That's the one thing I like about Bible time, bringing these young evangelists in, on fire for God. Let them mix it up with the kids Influence. Don't imitate people, but allow them to influence us. Number five, look to the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 2, we don't have time to turn there, 9 through 13. 1 Corinthians 2, 9 through 13 tells us that the Holy Spirit's the author of God's Word. And it tells that the Holy Spirit is the teacher of God's Word. I come to this book, and if I'll lean on the Holy Spirit and I'll look to the Holy Spirit, He'll teach me, He'll give me information, insight into Scripture. And what he's taking. And I'll end with this. Number one, spend time in God's Word. Number two, be faithful to church. Number three, be committed to prayer. Number four, study godly Christians. Number five, depend on the Holy Spirit to teach me and help me learn and gain knowledge. And last of all, I end with this. Be faithful in trials. I'm telling you, you and I will learn more about the Lord. In the storms of life than we do in the sunny days of life. We'll learn more about God's power and God's grace and God's wisdom. In the adversities of life, than we ever learn when everything's going our way. If I if I didn't have needs, if God didn't allow me to have Tremendous needs in my life, I would never learn how God is able to meet those needs. You with me? If I'd never been through storms, if I never had my heart broken, ever in my life, I never had my heart broken, I would never know what the comfort of the Holy Spirit was like. I tell you, we will learn more about God and His power and His wisdom and His love and His goodness in the valleys than we ever learn on the mountaintops. Charlie, I was thinking about Paul when I was preparing this. I don't know how many times Brother Paul had that kidney disease. Um I forget the name of it, had that kidney disease. And it got in his liver. And I don't know how many times Paul said to me, of course he's with the Lord now. He would quote to me from Psalm, I think it was 119. I I don't have the reference, I don't think I have the reference here. And in in Psalm one nineteen the psalmist says this. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, for then I learned thy statutes. And Paul would quote that verse to me. He said, Preacher, this has taught me about God. This has taught me about God's power and God's peace in the midst of a storm and God's presence. In times of loneliness. And what I'm saying is this: when storms come to your life, and when trials come, and when there's adversity and you feel like you're at the bottom of the battle, I'm here to tell you that's the time to have faith in God and trust God and let Him teach you about Himself. Eventually the storm subsides, and I come out and have a greater understanding of who and what God is. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? Add to your faith virtue. Do right. Determine. I'm going to live a pure, godly life in every aspect. I want to be morally excellent. And then to that, add knowledge. Find out about this great God that made us. Learn, get the information about the spiritual world we live in, right and wrong, heaven and hell, learn about this. And then ask the Holy Spirit, Lord, teach me how to apply this to my life, how to live my life. How to live my life Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to add to our faith virtue and Lord to virtue. Help us to add knowledge. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say tonight, preacher, I need to commit myself to spend time in the Word of God. I cannot neglect God's word anymore. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I need to commit to spend time in God's word. Amen. God bless you. Hands all around. Probably all of us could use a bit of that. Young and old. I wonder how many would say, and of course this Sunday night you're here, but I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I could I need to be faithful to church I just need to be faithful. Can I get any anybody there, God deal with that? I need to be faithful. I'm telling you, it helps us How about prayer? Rachel, I need to pray. I need to pray. God, my hand's raised. Goodness. Leaning on the Holy Spirit, studying other believers. And then being faithful in trials. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. Help us. To leave here tonight prepared to live for you according to knowledge this week in Jesus' name. Let's stand together