First Timothy chapter number four. For those who are teenagers here, we're going to hear a lot of reaping over in a lot of these messages. But from what I can understand from quizzes we take downstairs, it looks like you could use it anyways. I want this to be in drilled into your brains. But in 1 Timothy chapter number 4, you're going to hear what I've been speaking with the teenagers throughout the whole summer on Wednesday nights Every evening we've gone to 1 Timothy chapter number 4. We have not yet gotten out of this verse. I'm hoping to be able to get out of it within the next three weeks. I'm going to go over those three first three characteristics though in this verse. In 1 Timothy chapter number 4, reading verse number 12 says this. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers. In word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Tonight I just simply entitled my message, The Examples of the Believers. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you so much for this day, God, that you've given to us. Lord, another opportunity, Lord, to learn of your word, Lord, to dwell in it, Lord, and meditate upon it. And Lord, I pray that each and every one of us, Lord, would take something that we learn here tonight. And Lord, if there's one here that does not know you as Savior tonight, Lord, I pray that they would get that settled. Lord, that they would feel you saved tonight, that they would hear a clear presentation of the gospel. As we come to First Timothy chapter number four, I like the book of First Timothy and Second Timothy. First Timothy and Second Timothy was written to a young man named Timothy. It's not that hard to understand. It was written by the Apostle Paul to a young preacher. I don't know about you, but I like young preachers I happen to be one of them. I got a couple of them in school who are my friends. But Paul writes this to young preachers. I can love to read this book because I could take it Here in 1 Timothy chapter 4, verse 12, we see something that was written about young people. It says, Let no man despise thy youth. Now I believe Paul here is focused on Timothy's youth. A number of people were looking down on him because he was young, thinking, this guy cannot be a leader. There's no way it's gonna happen. I mean come on Paul, look at his age. You expect this guy to lead us But Paul said, Hey Timothy, look, don't let anybody despise your youth. You be the example. You set the example. And though he was talking to a young person It says here in this passage, example of the believers. We all are believers and we all need to set the example. If you look at that word up example up, it has an interesting meaning. It means the idea of a pattern And if you were to look at a pattern, a pattern is not something that is mixed up, but something that copies over and over and over again. And we, as Christians, we are to be that pattern that others can see, that they can copy, that they can mimic, somebody that they can look up to You say, well, we're supposed to be examples for him, but how? Paul tells them how to be example. We're gonna look at three of those tonight. Now I've heard somebody say this afternoon, you went really short this morning. I can go for a while if you want me to Uh it took me three about six weeks to do this all three of these sermons I'm going to preach tonight, but I'm going to get them all in one. Now don't let that worry you. I'll let you out on time. But in Ephesians chapter number or Ephesians First thing for the first thing we're going to look at is that word word. It says, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers. And word. Now it's not that hard to understand the definition of the word word. It's something that is spoken. We as Christians need to be examples first off in the way we speak When others surround us take a look at us and see us as Christians, they are going to watch, first of all, the things that we say. And those things need to mimic our God or be after our God. So we need to be an example in our words. I got a couple of things, Jaya, down here about our words. First off, there is a worldly mouth, a w mouth that is filthy, a mouth that we should not mimic or follow after. The first characteristic under it is backbiting tongue. For sake of time we'll turn there, but Psalms fifteen one three uh one through three tells us about that backbiting tongue. Now when you hear that word backbiting, that's an interesting word. It's not a word we use And we as Christians should never have this characteristic We should not talk down about others. We should not put others down. And we especially should not put others down for our benefit. So we need to watch what we say when we talk about others. We shouldn't slander. Secondly, cursing. Now I don't know about you, but before I got saved, I didn't have the cleanest mouth in the world. And this is one of the hardest things I had to ever clean up in my lifetime was this idea of cursing But Ephesians chapter four verse twenty nine, we won't take time to turn there, tells us we need to let no corrupt communication come out of our mouth. Now I don't think it takes a rocket scientist to figure this out, but that word corrupt means something that is decaying, something that is going to fall apart. And that filthy communication that cursing should not be a part. That is words that we as Christians should not be using. Cursing. Third, perverse language. Something you may say, well it's not cursing or anything Well it's just flat out perverted. In Proverbs chapter seventeen verse twenty, in Proverbs chapter four, verse twenty four we look at the man, the person that has that type of mouth. Usually these people are referred to as foolish Now I don't know about you, but I don't like being called a fool. I don't like to be thinking of as unwise. But if you have that kind of mouth that talks perverted all the time That's what the Bible tells about us. Claims that we are foolish to use such language like that. Next one, destroying, I got written down here The destroying tongue. If you were to turn to first or I'm sorry, Psalm 52, verse 1 through 4, we see uh the man or actually you know what? I'm gonna just r I'm rushing through this. Let's go ahead and take a look at Psalm 52, verse 1 through 4. No hurries here tonight. We'll go ahead and look at one of these examples, the destroying tongue. The reason why is so many times I believe if any of these here uh there's another one we're gonna look at, it's the next one. But of these five that I'm mentioning, I think two of them are very popular in the Christian Christian circles, and I say Christian circles. They shouldn't be. One of these is a destroying tone. Psalms fifty-two, verses one through three, it says, Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth Continually. Thy tongue devisest mischief, like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteous Look at verse five. It says God shall likewise destroy thee Forever. This person, their tongue is described as a razor. In other words, it's something that hurts people. They're out to get somebody. That shouldn't be our mouth. We shouldn't be out to get others. Look what it says. God says he will destroy that person God does not like this idea of putting other people down. As a Christian, we shouldn't do that. Now another one popular in the Christian circles, lying. Some people may say, well, there's nothing wrong with a little white lie. God does not like lying. In fact, if you turn over to Proverbs chapter number six, verses sixteen through seventeen, I won't take time to turn there. But he gives seven things that he hates Two of them have to do with the word lying. God wanted to make it very clear that these two things here, God does not like them. In fact, he calls them an abomination. He hates lying. And as a Christian, we should lie. We should be honest. So what should come out of a Christian's mouth? Well, I'll go ahead and mention honesty. If we're not going to lie, we should do the exact opposite. We should tell the truth. Ephesians 425 tells us that we are not let lying come out of our mouth. So the lying or honesty, we should have an honest mouth. Number two, this one needs the uplifted so to speak in our Christian circles. We need to have a mouth that praises God. Often times when we go to God in prayer we go to God. We ask God, Lord, I got this request that I need, I got this request I need, I got that and then we go on our way. Let me ask you something. Think really hard here now. When's the last time you talked to God and thanked him for something? When's the last other than your meal? When's the last time you stopped to talk to God and praise him for his wondrous works? For his goodness, for his power? When's the last time you told your God that you love him? When's the last time you actually spoke good for God? You talked to him instead of asking him something. We should have praises that should go to our God. We see this in Psalm 712 four. Number two. Oh I like this one. This one's something that is so important. A Christian mouth speaks the word. In fact I so good I want you to turn there. Psalms one nineteen verse one seventy two. We used this in a message not too long ago. But in Psalms 119 verses 170 when verse number 172, it says, My tongue shall speak of thy word, for all thy commandments are righteousness. As a Christian, we should be able to share God's word. In today's society, a lot of Christians have a problem with that. They're maybe they're bashful, maybe they don't know. By the way, if you do not know how to share God's word, I encourage you, the thing that you need to do right now. Go home, study God's work, learn how to share it. I was going to make mention before I got in the message of our teens. I am so proud of our teens. I was the expecting when I started Teams Alive to have one team dominate the whole thing, but we've had a lot of teams get involved. I've when I started soul winning for the teenagers I was shocked to actually sa see teenagers come out to it. It was such a blessing. I didn't expect it, but God does a great mighty work. We have teenagers that want to get involved But the now why am I getting on this rabbit child? Oh. Anyways, next week we're gonna have a couple of teenagers, at least I hope so, that are gonna try to give a brief devotional downstairs in Sunday school. I believe Teenagers ought to be able to share God's Word. I believe everybody ought to be able to share the Word of God. And as Christians, we should be able to share God's Word. People have tried to make it so simple. We've got gospel tracts. Here. Claire, you have to be in my message. Can I give you a gossip track? There you go. You keep that. See, it's not that hard. We need to get God's word out there. As Christians, our mouths shouldn't stay shut. We need to have boldness to speak, to share God's word efficiently. A Christian should want to speak God's word because of what it's done in their lives So, a Christian mouth praises God. It's honest. It speaks the word of God. Another thing, a Christian tongue is a controlled tongue. I don't know about you, but I've heard illustrations before. In fact I have one friend down in school who says he didn't look up highly to one of the preacher boys down there because he could not control his mouth when he was angry. If you have your Bibles with you, turn to Proverbs chapter ten, verse nineteen. Proverbs ten nineteen. Proverbs chapter ten verse nineteen It says this. This is a verse actually I believe Pat introduced me downstairs. It says, In a multitude of words there wanteth not sin. I'll stop there for a minute. Multitude of words. In other words, somebody that is running their mouth. It's not saying that there is no sin there, it says there's no need for it. It's bound to show up. It doesn't want sin because it's already there And a multitude of words there want to not sin. But he that refrain refraineth, wow, that's an interesting word to stumble in anyways, he that refraineth his lips is wise. What he's saying here is look If you are going to have a wise Christian mouth, you need to be able to control it. What's one way you can control it? There's a good illustration in Psalms number 39. Turn to Psalm 39. I hope you have your Bibles down. I hope you're ready to use them. I'm going to jump around a lot here. But I want you to see these passages of scripture. In Psalm 39, in verses uh see one through four we see this. It says, I said, I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. I held my peace even from good, and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me, while I was mus fire burned. Then spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know my name. and the measure of my days, what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Here in these first four verses we have a man or someone who is not in a very good mood. This guy is not in a very pleasant mood He's hot inside. He's angry. He's bitter. But notice what he does. He says he doesn't even speak good. Sometimes when we're angry, the best thing we should do is just not say anything And notice who he speaks to. Look at the verse. Verse number four. Who does he speak when he finally does speak? Look at verse 4. He speaks to the Lord. By the way, the Lord wants to hear us if we do have a burden. I'm not saying we shouldn't take our burdens to the Lord. The Lord does want to hear our burden. If we have something though, we should take it to the Lord. But this person here was able to control his tongue. Last or let's see, number five on this A Christian tongue should be a building tongue, an encouraging tongue. If you go over to Proverbs chapter 12, verses 18, and in Ephesians 4. 29, we see that we are supposed to help others by using I don't know about you, but it's good to get an encouragement once in a while from somebody. And we should be one willing and able to give somebody an encouraging word. We should be able to open our mouth to anybody and give them a word of encouragement. The Christian person is one who encourages people. not puts them down as we already looked at. And lastly, and more importantly, Hebrews 13. 15 tells us our Christian mouth should be a thankful mouth. If there's anybody in the world that should be thankful, it is Christians. Those who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior have been saved from sin and hell, and they are on their way to heaven. As I mentioned, I described heaven this morning. What a glorious place we are going to We as Christians should be the most thankful people in the world. And we need to use our lips. We need to tell our God. Hey, we need to tell others about. Hey, look, we got a lot to be thankful for. So that's the mouth. Now what am I going to say closing in this Well the mouth. As James describes it, it's more po it's hard to control. It's like a flame out of control, he describes it. How can we control such a ungodly thing that wants to speak wrong things. How can we get control over that? Psalms 1914 I believe has the answer. Psalm 1914 In Psalm chapter 19, verse 14, I'll give everybody a chance to get there. We see the psalmist gives a great illustration on how to keep our mouth tamed. It says this, let the words of my mouth, notice he said my mouth. He didn't say his friend's mouth or a person who's given him a hard time's mouth, he said my mouth Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, here's the key. My strength My and my Redeemer. The Lord's our strength. He's our Redeemer. And we need to ask Him to let our words be acceptable. Let our words, our communication to be an example of the believers. We need to be an example of the believers and our word. Secondly, turn back to 1 Timothy chapter number 4. In First Timothy chapter number four verse number twelve we see that word conversation. Now the first I asked the teenagers what that word uh conversation, what they thought it would mean. And it's interesting. Most people think Sid has the idea of speaking. So you think, hey, we got word here, we got conversation here, we got the same idea. Although the word conversation or today's age has the meaning of the word conversation to talk with somebody. It doesn't mean necessary though through our mouth. The word conversation there has the idea of the way we talk through our actions. And we as Christians not only need to be careful how we speak, but we need to be careful about how we act. And as I looked at that word conversation, I got to study and I found it in a number a couple of places in the Bible. I want to look at each and every one of them. As I mentioned, that word conversation has the idea of a manner of lifestyle, behavior, conduct. How should the Christian lifestyle be? Well, if you study God's Word, it tells us how our conversation, as the Word of God calls it should be. First of all, I want to take a look at 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verses 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 12. We'll take a look at the first time I found this word conversation. In 2 Corinthians, I'm in 1 Corinthians. Maybe that's why it doesn't look right. In 2 Corinthians chapter number 1, you can ask teenager sometime how often I get mixed up 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, 1 Corinthians. Corinthians, 2 Corinthians. But if we look at 1 Corinthians chapter number 1 in verse 12, it says this for our rejoicing is this The testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world. and more abundantly to you word. What is he trying to get across here? He said, We have had our conversation in the world. We used to be something else. Now what is that idea there? Simplicity and godly sincerity. Well if you look up that word simplicity, it has the idea of this, singleness or oneness. Now I thought that is weird How in the world do you get singleness here? Well if you look up sincerity, you get the word honesty. What that word s or simplicity is, look, you're one person And you're honest about this. So in other words, you're not so-and-so on Sunday. You're not somebody else on Monday. You're not the preacher on Sunday and the bartender on Monday. You are one person, somebody that they can trust with their action, oneness. Not only is it honest, but it's godly. Notice it says godly sincerity. Boy, do we need Christians with a godly conversation, godly actions. So, now as I mentioned, we had an old nature. That's the second thing I find this word conversation. Turn with me to Ephesians 2, 1 through 4 In Ephesians chapter two, this is a very good passage of scripture, we see The apostle Paul describes in great detail what we were without Christ. And then he describes great detail how we And verses one through four says this, and you hath ye quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we have had our conversation in times past, in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we and were by nature the children of But read those first three verses, study them out, look out for a few minutes. Look at what our conversation used to be. Conversation of wrath. We were children of the world. We were under the devil's power. In verse 1, we see that we were dead in trespasses of sin. We were spiritually dead. Think about what you were before you're saved. A life that was spiritually dead. A life without hope. That was our conversation. So we see the conversation that it's supposed to be an honest this conversation, supposed to be a godly conversation. It was a conversation that was in the flesh, but now is a conversation Renewed unto God, which we see in Ephesians chapter number four. Ephesians chapter four, verse number seventeen through twenty-four, it says this He again describes as that life that we were. He says, This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lascivious. To work all in cleanness with greediness. But ye have not learned so in Christ. I love that phrase there. I'm gonna stop there at verse 20. We have not learned so in Christ. These ungodly ways, if there's something in your life that is not sinned, Paul makes it clear, hey, this is not what you've learned through Christ. This is what you learn through Christ. We have something new. And verse number twenty one says, If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, had ye put off concerning the former conversation, the old man which is corrupt according to deceit. And be ye renewed in the spirit of your mind that you put on the new man, whichever God has created in righteousness and true. So I want to see from this conversation. Before we saw the old man, now we see the new man. And if there's not a change in your life, there should be. As a Christian, you're a new creature. You have a new life to serve Christ. Now you may say it's going to be hard. Yes it is, but you can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth you. By the way, I like how he says a change of mind. Sometimes we get into some sin, and it's sad to say in this world today, we have a lot of people who don't know what sin is. I find more and more as I go out soul winning. Do you understand what this word sin means? They'll look at me and say, No, I don't See we have to go through the Bible, show them what sin is. Some people don't know the specific sins, like lying, cheating, stuff like that. Some stuff they don't know is sin. And we have to explain it to them But as Christians, sometimes we get in our mindset some things that we don't think is a sin, some things we think is okay to get by with. And so know what I have to say to that? You're probably right. You're probably one hundred percent right. Your mind will think that. Your mind will think some sin is okay. But God says in Romans chapter twelve, verse two, we need to have to be transformed by the renewing. of your mind. That old sinful flesh is going to think some sin is pleasant, some sin is right. There's nothing wrong with it. But when God's word says it's wrong, our mind is wrong. When it says that we need to not be doing something and it our mind says the go ahead and do it, it's there's nothing wrong with it. God's word is always right We need to have that changing of mind. Next up, our conversation should be like that of a Christian. Philippians chapter 1, verse 27. Philippians 1 27 In Philippians 1. 27 we see this. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ Get this, that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, and ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. What is he saying? Say, hey Christian Here's what you need to do. You need to make your actions. You need to make your lifestyle that of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What it teaches you, that needs to be your life. Why? So when I come, I can point you out. I can recognize you. You. Can that be said of you today, Christian? Can somebody look at you and say, you know what? That person there, I can tell by their actions, that person's a Christian. We need to have a Christian life self. Next one. Our conversation should be heavenly focused. I'm not gonna take time to look at this when we focus on the But we as Christians have something to look forward to. And our actions should point that out. Someday we got something to look forward to that's better. Something that we can glory in. And then lastly This one is not one that I hear a lot on. But in Hebrews chapter 13 verse 5, it says, Let our conversation be without covetousness. We need to have a content conversation Our actions should point out that we are thankful for the things that we have in our life. As Christians, we should not, as we I mentioned, we should be we have so much to be thankful for We should not have a need or want. In fact, go ahead and turn to Hebrews 13, verse 5. I want you to see this. I could stand here and explain all I want, but God's Word explains it the best way. And Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5, it says this, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have. Here's his reason why. For ye have sa ye have said I will never leave thee nor forsake thee When you are not thankful for something, when you say, I have this needed, I ain't getting it, you're telling Jesus Christ, hey, you're not helping me. You're not providing for me. You're not there for me. Christ said, I will be there for thee. As a Christian, our conversation, our actions, our lifestyle should point out that we are thankful for the things that we have. So what about your lifestyle? What about your conversation? I went through a number of things downstairs with the team Some things are obviously pointed out that shouldn't be in our life, like alcohol, smoking, drinking, and all that stuff. Okay, as a Christian, we got the idea. What about some things that we don't look at so lightly, like music It's not to say that many Christians don't have a good standard on this idea of music. What does the Bible have to say? I think the Bible is pretty clear. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 19 tells us about what kind of songs we should listen to. Down in Pensacola, Christian College they have a number of friends. And as I listen to some of the new music they have, I'm thinking, you know, this is a Christian school. They have standards on the kind of music we should have But still it gets in there. And at Christian schools music still gets in there. And a lot of those songs I heard that were ungodly that we shouldn't listen to. It wasn't the business majors that I heard hearing him. It wasn't the nursing majors that I heard hearing him. It was the pastoral ministry majors that I heard listening to him. And it hurt me, it struck me. Oh God, how much we need you. If you try to take time to look at Ezekiel, we see the devil when he was in heaven, what his job was. The devil knows his way with music He knows how to play good music. He knows how to play appealing music. He knows how to get our attention with music. And it's sad to say I think uh seeing Christians say the devil's got a lot of people where he wants them in the Christian world easily with the music IS. Because they easily just take that bait that they got in their lives. We gotta watch out for that. We could go over a number of things that we Another thing we should uh w uh there's things we could go on and on. I can stand up here all day and some things people don't find wrong, some people Some people don't see it as sin. God's word deals with it. But I won't take time to turn there because I I want to go ahead and get to this third one before we round time We see our c we're supposed to be an example in our word. We're supposed to be an example in our conversation. Thirdly, as a Christian, we're supposed to be this one I think is most important. We should be an example in charity. Timothy chapter 4, verse 12 tells us. You don't have to turn back there, but turn to 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. If there's ever a chapter in God's Word that talks about charity, describes it the best, it would be First Corinthians chapter number 13. We'll spend the r remainder of our time there and get through as much of it as I can. And in 1 Corinthians chapter number 12, Paul describes a number of gifts. He describes the gift of prophecy, the gifts of tongues. the gift to be a preacher. As he goes through all these gifts, he uses a great illustration of how the Christian body or the Christian uh people is like a body. The ear has its function, the eye has its function But the eye doesn't do the function of the ear. The ear doesn't do the function of the eye. You may say, well, I'm not the preacher or I'm not the person in the choir. No, but you have a place in God's body or body of believers. You have a a specific job that God wants you to do. As he mentions all these though, he gets to chapter number thirteen minutes This in verse number one Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass. or a tingling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it prophecies mean nothing In these first three verses, he gives us four good examples of things a Christian can do. Number one, it's a great speaker. We see that in verse one. The second thing we see is a person with great knowledge we read about in verse number two. We also read of a person with great faith. In verse four, or the fourth thing we see is a person of great giving. But in a person that has all these things, you when you read down through there, it doesn't matter if they're the best speaker in the world. It doesn't matter how much knowledge they have. It doesn't matter how great their faith is. By the way, we need people of great faith Christ said that faith as a muster seed can move mountains. It's not how much faith you have, but what you put your faith in. And Christian I encourage you. A good encouraging chapter on that is Hebrews chapter eleven. We see many men and women who've done so much for God through faith alone, just in faith. But we need to have that great faith. But he says here that man of great faith That person has great giving, whether it's money or their life, whatever it is, he says if you have all these without charity It's worth nothing. You could be the best speaker. You could be the best person with knowledge. You can have you could be the greatest person of faith the world may ever know. You can give until you have nothing left to give But if you don't do it out of love is worthless. That word charity there has the idea behind it, that brotherly love. Now when I explained it to the Nowadays, I don't know about you, but if I ever use that word brotherly love, I have to be careful I use it because I think of how my brothers And I get along, and people might not see that as brotherly love. We do have a brotherly love, which is people look at it and might not see it that way. But anyway, so that's the idea behind it. It's that good Christian love that we are to have And then he goes on. He mentions, hey, if you put on charity, it's going to help you out in your life with a number of things. And we're going to see a look at those things. Charity suffereth long. The first thing it will help us is to be patient I don't know about you, but I am not the type of guy that has patience. If you look at in the car with me, you will notice that. I am not a very patient person, but if you have love, God says it'll help you. to be patient with others. We will get to see that in verse fifteen first Thessalonians chapter five verse fourteen. If you love an individual for who they are, you will be able to be patient with them Not only will love help us to be patient, but also will help us to be kind. It goes on to say, charity suffers long and is kind. Now I don't think I have to stand up here and give up uh Webster's dictionary to explain what kind is. I'm sure a child could tell you what kind is. But we as Christians need to be kind. Even to those people that we have a hard time with. You say, I don't have a hard time being a guy Kind anybody. Well go work at Burger King. I worked at Burger King for four years. Let me tell you something. There's some people out there in this world it's hard to be very kind to. But we need to put on that love. That love will help us to be able to be kind. In Ephesians 4. 32, most of us could probably quote this verse, and be ye kind one to another. Tender hearted forgiven one another. Why? Even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. We've been forgiven us so much. Our God's been so good to us, we should be good to others. I'll hasten on. Number three, hatred Number three is hatred. We uh if somebody puts on love, they will not have a problem with hatred. It goes on, it says, charity envieth not. Now if you look up that definition behind that word envy, there could be a number of ways that you could it could be used for good. The word behind the word envy has the idea to boil. But when it's used in this context has the idea to be boiled in anger You have that wrath. Somebody who's just got a temper problem. I don't know about you, but I've been around people who have temper problems. And in this verse here, or in this verse, we tell if we put on love We're not going to have a problem with that. In Proverbs twenty-three verse seventeen you say, Well I don't hate my brother. Okay, guys a Krishna I don't hate the Christian. Well if you look at Proverbs chapter twenty-three verse seventeen, we're not supposed to hate the sin or envy the sinners either And if you look at Romans 3. 23, that includes all of us. We're all as sinners. And we shouldn't show hatred toward anybody. And the way we're going to do that is simple. Just do the opposite. Love them. Love will also help us with the idea of pride. It says that charity vaunteth not. Isn't that an interesting word? Vaunteth not. Is not puffed up. In other words, charity doesn't build somebody up. Charity is not going to give you the idea of look at me, how good I am If you have a problem with pride, if you have a me I and myself problem, you need to put on that love. If you put on that charity, that love, you will be focused If you look through the book of Proverbs, Proverbs tells us in a number of places. And 1618 brings us to our destruction. We should not be prideful people. So we see that charity helps with pride. Next up, I like this one. Charity will help us to be more mature. Charity will help us to be more charity I looked up that word, I looked at that word unseemly, I'm like, well that's an interesting word. That's not a word we hear often in our English what day or dictionary today, so I wonder what it means. I got to study that word. It had the idea of not becoming Not becoming. I thought wow that's a that's really clear definition. But if you get to study that has the uh charity uh it puts off that uh character that is unseemly or not becoming like Christ If we put on charity, we'll become more like Christ. So as if put off that charity, you're going to have an unseemly attitude or an unbecoming attitude. We need to be sure that we mature as Christians. We need to watch our actions. And Luke fifty two, fifty two I use this illustration for the teenagers. It talks about Christ. He grew in wisdom. He grew in stature. He grew spiritually. He grew socially. So we need to grow mature. We need to be mature. You say, well, I didn't know that was in the Bible. It is. We need to be mature as Christians, not careless. Which goes on to our next point If you read on through the verse it says, seeketh not her own. Has the idea of that way, kinda goes back to that word pride, but they're not focused on themselves. They care about the needs of others. If we're going to care about others, we need to put on that love. Philippians 2. 4 will help us. It tells us that we are not to be focused on our needs, but the needs of others. Next one, anger issues. Charity helps us with anger issues, as we already looked at. He goes on to say, is not easily provoked. I don't know about you, that one back up there has the idea of boiling anger, but this one has the idea the slightest thing will take the that person off. It doesn't take much to make them mad. That should not be the Christian. A Christian should be slow to wrath It should not be somebody that gets e uh easily irritated. Ephesians four thirty-one we see all that we're to put off anger. Next one. The one who puts on charity does not enjoy sin, but loves the truth. Look on verse number six. Says, Rejoices not in iniquity. Well, that's interesting. But two ends iniquity Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in truth. That word iniquity there is an interesting word, which is another fancy word sin. You look out through the Bible, you'll find words for sin. transgression, iniquity, unrighteousness, ungodliness. The Christian who puts on that love will not have a love for sin I know about you, but it seems like it bothers me. I mentioned up here before. It bothers me when I find somebody who says they are saved and they love to do the things of the world. That's not the Christian. That love for God will keep them from wanting to do those things They don't have a love for sin. They have a love, as the verse says, a love for the truth. And we can find God the truth in God's Word. This was uh Psalm chapter one verses one through two. It says Blessed is the man that walketh not or this man he did not walk in counseling guide, stand in the way of sinners, nor sitting in the seat of the spirit Where was his delight? His delight was in the law of the Lord. His meditation was in God's Word. We as Christians shouldn't love sin, but we should hold to the truth. I'll hasten on. Next up, the Christian should be helping. Puts on love to be helping. I don't have time to turn there, but Galatians 6. 2 bear ye one another's burdens Here in the person says, cher or I'm sorry, beareth all things. When you bear something, it has the idea of lifting up, taking it on your own shoulders. And when we see somebody with a burden With a heartache. We are to take that and put it on our shoulder. We're supposed to help others with their burdens. Next up. Let me get a drink here. I'm losing my voice. We see that beareth all things. Number two next one, it believeth all things. Charity gives us confidence and assurance. It says believeth all things, hopeth all things. If you have problems, if you have doubts in God's word, one thing you can do is get a love for the Lord Jesus Christ, get a love for His Word. And let me tell you something. It will build confidence in your life. It will help you to grow spiritually. It will help you to be able to move on by putting on charity. Lastly, we'll see that charity fails not. Oh I'm sorry, I skipped one. I had to back up. Endure with all things. I'm getting too ahead of again to uh too far ahead of myself. Endure with all things. In other words, if you're going through that hard time, you're going through that struggle A way you can make it through that, to have that love. That love for God, that love for others. If you will put on that charity, it will help you make it through. So lastly, charity faileth not It says in verse number eight, charity never faileth. I couldn't describe it any better than how he describes it right here. But whether they be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether they be tongues, they shall see Where they be knowledge, it shall banish away. Those things that he mentioned in the first part, those things that we look at great things, they'll fail one day. And he gives the reason why. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. In other words, we as Christians we may think we know it all, but we don't know it all. God is the only one that knows it all. One day he mentions we will get to know everything when we see our God in heaven. But right now We don't know it all. We don't have all the answers. And when we go out, when we have a testimony to this lost and dying world, we may not be able to speak everything to them. We may not know everything to tell them. But he says there's one thing There's one thing you can do. That is love 'em. In verse number twelve it says, For now we see through a glass darkly, but then the face to face, now I know in part, but then I shall then shall I know, even as also I am known. And now by faith, hope, charity. These three things. These uh these three. But the greatest of these is charity He says, Hey, this prophesying, this knowledge, it's going to fade away, but there's something you can hold on to. You have your faith, you have your hope. You need to have that love. The grace of these things. If you don't have any of these things, Have that love. Put them on the cross. Charity. We need to put it on that's bad, so bad as Christians. That's all I have time for this evening. Those first three. We need to be examples First of all in our words. Watch what we say. We need to be examples in our actions, in our conversation. I think of the song of Be Careful the Things I Used See, I don't see them anymore. The things I used to hear I don't hear anymore. The things I used to say I don't say anymore. We think of it as a child song, a kid's song. It's a song for each and every one of us as individuals There should be a change in our lives. And lastly, we need to put on that charity. My challenge to you tonight is be an example of the believers. Now it says, let no man despise thy youth. Paul was focused on the young people as I try to get across to the young people downstairs. Well he says that we all need to be examples of the believers. We all are believers We need to set the pattern. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, thank you so much for this day, God and Lord. Thank you for your word. Lord, the blessing it is to us. Lord, we have uh so many other things that we could have covered, Lord. Lord, I think of faith, Lord. We need to uh be examples of the faith. We need to be examples in spirit, we need to be examples in purity, oh how we need to be examples there.