Acts chapter one tonight. Acts chapter one. I'm not going to take a long time tonight. Pastor said I can go till ten normally, so but uh No, he he didn't say that, but I do not have a long sermon. I just want to leave you with one last challenge. Acts chapter one. Wanna leave you with one last challenge as we look at here. As we wrap up Mission Sunday, but definitely not the missions emphasis. That keeps on. And it should. But let me encourage you. You know, uh it it it's it's incredible how often we just kind of let things not get old, but just get monotonous, and we just kind of Let it go. Don't let it go. You know, always keep excited about missions in the church. And I think I know this church enough to know y'all will never let it get old. As far as talking about missions and keeping it in the highlight here. Tonight I want to just give you just a couple of things to help us. The title of the message is Keeping the Main Thing, the Main Thing There's a lot in this world today to get us sidetracked, isn't there? You know, I am so sick and tired of hearing about our political things. uh about all the what is it critical race theory and uh just uh just all these this nonsense that you hear in the news. I mean you I wish I can take that stereo out of my car sometimes and just throw it out the window. I don't want to hear it anymore. But uh there's so many things if we're not careful The devil will use. I mean we need to keep up with what's going on because we need to know how to pray for our country. We need to know how to pray for our leaders. We need to know how to how to protect ourselves with what's going on in this world today But don't get to the point where we let it sidetrack us from the focus that God wants us to be focused on. He has called us to stand up for what's right. He has called us to do what we can to put the right leaders in government, to be a part of it, be involved in that. I believe that with all my heart. But that's not the main purpose that God has put us here for. Here in Acts chapter 1, as we as we look to see what's going on here, the Lord is having one last conversation face to face with the disciples and other Christians that are gathered around and watching him about to ascend up into heaven. At this point, he's preparing to ascend up into heaven to sit at the right hand of God, and he's not coming back till he returns to come take us home. Amen. So he has one last opportunity to talk to them face to face. And it's interesting here what the Lord takes the time, this last opportunity, what he takes the time to talk to them about. I want us to read our passage here. We're going to read the first eight verses of Acts chapter 1 here. The former treaties have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began to do and teach. Until the day in which he was taken up. And after that the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. Now pay attention to what they start asking here. The disciples and those that were around. It says, When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel? I don't think they got the answer they were looking for here. Look what the Lord answered back to them. And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part. Read verse 9. It says, And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. I have another sermon that goes along with this, and don't get nervous, I'm not going to preach two sermons tonight. But afterwards, as they all these men were standing there looking up into heaven, and the angels say, Hey Let's get busy. Why are you standing around looking? You know, and you know what one I one thing I want us to keep focused on here tonight is, you know, Jesus took time here to make clear what the main focus he wanted them to be working on till he returned again. And that was to be a witness. To be a witness. And you think about this. Even while you know Jesus here was trying to hold the very first missions conference. Basically, is what he was doing. Telling them to go be a witness unto me, unto Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, and the uttermost part of the earth. And the disciples wanted to make it a prophecy conference. Lord, tell us, are you getting ready to set the kingdom back up? When is the time coming? And Jesus was just very blunt, very straight out with him. He said, listen, don't get distracted. Here's what I want you to focus on. Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. That is what I want you to focus on. Nothing has changed. Nothing has changed. For the rest of the New Testament, do you never see God change that focus The focus that the church has today, this day, this Sunday, what is today, December the 4th, I believe, right? It is still the same focus that this group of people received as Jesus was ascending back up into heaven. It's amazing though, and and there's nothing wrong with us, you know, taking part in other things. I I enjoy conferences. I enjoy hearing good preaching. I enjoy getting together last week. I don't know if we'll ever do this again, but last weekend a bunch of us guys got together and we went camping. It was 30 degrees outside, and we were trying to sleep out in these tents. I don't know what in the world possessed us to do that. It was great fellowship, though. We did it while we were around the fire at least, we still enjoyed a lot of great fellowship. Pastor Leatherman gave me the idea of do y'all still do the men's takeout? Sometimes. Yeah, he gave me that. It's great to eat steak together with a bunch of guys. Anytime you get to eat steak, it's a great thing. Yeah, all all that kind of fellowship and all these different things that we get involved in, those are all good things As long as we don't lose our focus. We've got to be careful that Satan will put things in front of us to distract us from the very purpose that we are being left in this world to do. Jesus here commands his disciples that living in and not just these disciples but all the disciples that were to come, all the Christians that were to come, the churches that would be planted They have all been given the same command to be his witnesses to the world of his gospel and his saving grace. Go to 1 Corinthians with me and let's make clear what we're talking about here tonight. You know these verses, but I want you to read them with me in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Look at verse 3 and 4. What is this message that they were to be a witness of? Look in verse 3, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3. For I delivered unto you first of all that which also I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. What is that? Look up in verse 2, by which also ye are saved. In vain. And then he goes into talking what he had delivered. And that is the gospel. That is the gospel. One thing that has never changed is how a man, a sinner, a man or a woman, gets saved. It has never changed. The gospel is always the same. Man has tried to change it. That's why man has confused and watered down or made it more confusing. I I I feel so sorry for people that have grown up in a denomination where they teach and they have to accomplish this, they have to accomplish this, they have to keep this sacrament, they have to keep this They have to go to church so many times, they have to give so much of their life away. They have to it's all works, and the Bible very plainly, clearly says that it's not by works that you are saved. Verse 8 here that we looked at is clear as a bell. There's no cloudiness to it. I am so glad that God did not make this book here so complicated we can't understand it. And part of that also, like we talked about this morning, the Holy Spirit helps us to understand it. But he helps us understand it. It's not, there's no question in it. Every believer is commissioned and commanded, instructed. Constructed. God has made you, constructed you, put you together so that you can be a witness unto Him. You know, in uh second Corinthians chapter five, God calls us the word ambassadors He uses the word ambassador. I looked up ambassador in the dictionary, and here's the definition that it gives. He is a minister of highest rank. Employed by a prince or state authority to manage public affairs of his own prince or state authority and representing the power and dignity of his sovereign. That's nothing to play around with. It's not a joking matter. We're not witnesses of some sort of fairy tale. We're not witnesses of something that's a theory. We're not being a witness of Bigfoot or Sasquatch or Yeti or Loch Ness Monster. You know, we talk about people. I saw a UFO the other night. We're not witnesses of something that's just thawed up. It's a fact. Tonight I want us to look at just a couple qualities That we all share, that we all need in our lives to be a witness. And I want to use it to encourage us as a church here at Mountain Lake To keep the main thing the main thing. The first thing that we must have, very plainly, you've got to start here, or you can't you have no basis to build off of. You've got to have the right message. You've got to have the right message. You know, Jesus tells his men that they are going to be witnesses unto who? Me. Himself. Jesus Christ. Jesus is to be the sole focus of what we tell. It's the he is the sole focus of our message. That's not changed. It has never changed. We're to tell the world about him. I didn't go to Puerto Rico and spend 12 years preaching about Jim Shelton. I didn't go to Puerto Rico preaching for 12 years about my pastor, Pastor Williams. No, we went to Puerto Rico to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That was the message. We weren't there to talk about ourselves, our own lives, our own beliefs, our own denominations. We weren't even there to talk about our own church. No, none of those, none of those messages have any power to save. It was the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, Romans 1:16, many of us know it already, for I am not ashamed of what? The gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that hath, if I can read my own reading here, that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Folks, it is the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ that saves. We're to tell the message of his love, of his death, of his resurrection, like we read there in chapter 15, 1 Corinthians. That is the message we're to share. Romans 10, verse 9 and 10, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead. thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Who's who who who who are we confessing there? It says the Lord Jesus. We know John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he begged his only begotten son. Who was that? Jesus Christ. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And then again in Acts 16, 31. And they said, believe On the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thine house. Folks, it's all about Jesus. He's the message. Our only mission is to point people to Christ. He's the only hope this world has of salvation. Our hope does not lie in the government. He's not in our governor. He's not in our senators, a congressman, but only in Jesus Christ. I've heard it said by many uh illustrations, by different messages I've heard how uh we are one beggar telling another beggar where to find bread. Well, you know, in John chapter 6, Jesus said, I am the bread of life. That's the message. He's the solution to spiritual hunger. That this world has. You know, 2 Timothy 2, verse 2, it says, And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses The same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. You know, when God saved you, He committed something to you that you're to share with others. And as you grow in the knowledge of Christ and you grow in the knowledge of the Bible, He is committing unto you that knowledge so that you can share it with other people. That is our message. Folks, if we're going to get the job done and keep our focus on the main thing, we've got to make sure that we keep our minds on the right message. Keep Jesus Christ as your focus. When you're out there witnessing and you knock on a door and they answer that door, it's not our job to go up there and tell them how they should dress. Or how they should stop cussing. Now those are good things, they need to learn that, but they're not going to learn those things until they get saved first. Our first focus is to knock on that door and share Jesus Christ with them. To see them saved. The second thing we need to have is the right method. The right method. We can use different kinds of illustrations here. Pastor probably remembers this and those others that came down to Puerto Rico. When you go visiting with us, going door to door, you don't go up to the door and do that. You stand out at the gate, just about every house has a gate around it. You stand out at the gate, and you might take a quarter or a pen or something and tap on the bar and, bueno Dios! You just yell for them and wait for them to come outside. Try that around here. How would that work? I wonder. Somebody call the police on you probably There's different methods that we can use to be a witness. I'm not going to argue with that. But each method involves telling them. Being a witness is the method that's given us to given to us there in verse 8. Ye shall be witnesses unto me. That word witness comes from a Greek word martis. You can kind of guess which word we get from that. Martyr. It is it speaks of those who bear witness To the truth. Many laid down their lives for that truth. That's where we got the word martyr, like we just said. The issue that I'm want the point I'm wanting to make here is that, like we said a minute ago We are not witnesses of a myth or a theory or a legend. We are witnesses of facts and truth Of the man, Jesus Christ. Jesus is calling his people to tell others the truth The word witness was used in the Bible many times also for those who testify in a court of law. You think about it, a witness in a trial is called upon To tell to give a witness of what he saw with his own eyes Not what he thought he saw. You know, you get up there on a stand and you start, well, I think he did it, the judge is going to stop you pretty quick. He doesn't want you to want to know what you thought you saw. He wants to know the facts. What did you see? What did you know to be the truth that you saw They tell what they've seen and what they know to be true. God is calling his people to tell what they know and what they have seen to be true. I know, because I was there, on May 17th, 1991, I was in the car with my dad. He had just gotten out of the dentist's office. We were heading back home. And I know, without a doubt, because I was there, I was there with Saw with my own eyes, I spoke the prayer with my own lips, that I prayed and asked God to forgive me for my sins, and he came into my heart, and I trusted him as my personal Savior that day. I know God saved me that day. I know that to be true for me. Now my wife says, she gives testimony of her salvation. I can't give a testimony of that. I was not there. I did not see that happen. That's between her and God. But she is to be a witness of what God, what she knows to be true in her life, of what God did for her. So are you. God is calling his people to tell what they know to be true in their life. Here's my question. Don't answer this out loud, just think to yourself. Do you know anything about Jesus Christ? Has God done anything for you through Jesus Christ? If you can answer yes to those questions, that is what you are to be telling this world. That is what you're to be a witness of. Do you know that God loves you? Amen. Do you know that? You can answer this time, okay? I hope so. Praise the Lord. You know what? Tell the world about it. Do you know that you're saved? Tell the world about it. Do you know that God wants to save all sinners? Let's tell them about it. Now here, let me ask you this question. Do you know who you can tell? You know, if we went around this room tonight and we asked, and you know, i even in our church, you know, we have prayer time on on Wednesday nights and we give a chance for everybody in the auditorium to get special requests, and I can't tell you how many people raise their hand Pray for my lost loved ones. Lost loved ones. We have a lost loved ones list. We had the prayer list for those that are sick, all the ministries, the missionaries, and that takes up one paper all by itself And then there's a whole nother sheet of paper that has lost loved ones on it. People were praying for to be saved. Do you know who you can tell? You have something to be a witness of. You know the truth. Have you told them? We have some great examples of some of these we looked at this morning in church. You know, some great examples of people that got it They realized what they needed to do and how what they were to be a witness of, and they started testifying. We saw Peter there in Acts chapter 2 this morning. Over 3,000 people came to know the Lord as their Savior When Peter preached the gospel there. Philip shared the gospel and helped him understand the scriptures there in the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts chapter 8. He got saved. Not always do people get saved, though. Paul witnessed before King Agrippa and other government officials. The blind man came before the Sanhedrin and testified of what this man named Jesus had done for him. What is something that all of these have in common? They just simply told what they knew to be true in their life. What Jesus had done for them. That's what we're to be witnesses of. That's what the Lord wants us to do. Look at this verse with me in 1 Peter 3. First Peter chapter three. Look at verse fifteen Says, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Now look at this next part. Read the next three words with me. And be ready. Ready for what? Look what it says. Always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason. Of what? The hope that is in you with meekness and fear. We are to always be ready to give an answer Of who we're to be a witness of. Of Jesus Christ. That's why it's so important. The brother you have a teen class or something in the mornings where you teach soul winning how to go soul winning and such. That's why it's so important that we learn. One of the first things we should learn after we get saved is how to win somebody else to the Lord. Because we've got to be ready to give an answer. You go home to your parents or to your family or to your friends at work, your co-workers And you say, hey, listen, I got saved this past week at church. The Lord saved me. And somebody speaks up and says, Yeah, how did that happen? And it's just something we as we grow, we learn how to do. But we need to learn how to do it. How to give an answer of that. Hope that is within us now. How to testify and witness to others. We need to have the right message, Jesus Christ. We need to have the right method, and that is to be a witness. Then we also need to have the right mindset. The right mindset. You know, I'll be, and I'm just as human as anybody else. Sometimes when I go out door knocking, it gets discouraging Not everybody wants to talk to you. I can't imagine why nobody would want to talk to me. Now I understand that pretty clearly. But I I can't imagine why somebody would not want to know how to get to heaven. Why somebody would not want to know how to make their life much better. The best life you can ever look for. The answer's right here. Why don't people want to know that? But they don't. And there's times you knock on the door, they peek through the curtain and see you, but they never answer the door. Or they'll answer the door and said, go away, I'm not interested. How do you know I'm not there to give you some money or something like that? You know? I guess people are just like that sometimes. Maybe some of us were like that before we got saved. I don't know. That's why we have to keep the right mindset in this task that God has given us to do. You know, a witness in the court of law is to testify to the judge and the jury. The witness of Jesus Christ is to testify to the world. That's a big task. We talked about that this morning, over 8 billion people in the world this morning. And Jesus breaks it down for us there in that verse in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, in the uttermost part of the earth. We begin close and we move out. I like what John Wesley said about this mindset that he had on missions. He said this: the world is my parish. The world is my parish. He's not saying, you know, John Wesley couldn't go to China and South America and Asia and Europe. He couldn't go everywhere. But he simply had the mindset that listen, wherever I'm at, that's my parish. That's where God wants me to be a witness. Wherever He sends me. Wherever I go. Anywhere sinners could be found. There was a need for the gospel. And he was to be a witness. He understood that. Our mission field is anywhere people can be found. There are people in Oakland, Maryland. Say, well, duh, yeah. But think about that. You don't have to leave town to go be a witness. Witness right here. There's a mission field in Colorado. We just heard there's people there that have never been to church. They don't know what it's like to even go to a church. The mission field is right here, folks. Start here. Be strong here. Because if you're not strong here, you can't help these other missionaries going elsewhere. You must be strong here. Most of us will never even get to the uttermost part of the earth. Now we can help people go there, but we'll never go there ourselves. But we can serve in our Jerusalem. We can serve here at home. We can witness to our families, our friends, our neighbors, co-workers. Total strangers. The fact of the matter is that we're to always be on mission. Wherever we go, telling the lost of Jesus Christ Everyone we meet, you think about it this way, and this is what we're talking about as a mindset. Just get ourselves, train ourselves in this mindset. Everyone we meet is either a believer or is lost. One or the other. You're not going to know which one unless you do what? Talk to them. Be a witness. You'll know pretty quick if they're saved. You'll also know pretty quick if they're lost. Tell them about the Savior. What's sad, and I'm not saying necessarily here, but just in general among Christians Most Christians will not talk to anyone outside their comfort zone. I talked about this in our church at home one time, and I had three ladders up here. I had a little stepladder, then a six-foot ladder, and then we have this great big ladder we use to fix the ceiling tiles in the auditorium and chandeliers and stuff like that, and it's a great big 15-foot A ladder. You get up 15 feet, you'll know it. It makes you a little nervous. Well, I brought this gentleman up from he was probably about 60 years old. Say brother won't you step up on that step ladder? No problem at all. He stepped up on that stepladder. Okay, hop down. Now climb up on the second la on the second ladder here. I can see his wife starting to get nervous like Don't ask him to do that, please. You know, this is a six-foot ladder. So he climbed up about three or four steps and he wouldn't go any further. That's fine. I said, okay, now climb up there and take one of those bulbs out of the chandelier real quick He wouldn't touch it. No, no, no, no, no. I'm sorry. That was his comfort zone. That's as far as he can go Folks, we all have a comfort zone. I've been in the ministry for 30 years almost now, and I still get nervous talking to somebody and witnessing to them that I don't know I get even more nervous talking to my own family that's lost. That's the way we are. That's human. But that's where we talked about this morning, how the Holy Spirit kind of sticks in there, and He gives us boldness that we do not normally have. He gives us wisdom on what to say and what not to say. Why is this serpent as harmless as doves? He does that for us. Folks, we've got to step out of our comfort zone. And just get out there and be a witness. If we really believe, if we really believe that people are dying and going to hell without Christ. And if we really believe that the gospel is the answer for them all, then why aren't we doing more to get the gospel to them? I'm not talking about at this point, I'm not talking about faith promise. We talked about this morning. I'm talking about your personal witness. Myself included. Why don't I do more? You know, in a way, when we don't do it, what we're saying is, I really don't believe it. If I truly believed it, I'd be doing it. You know, it's good. We have it also where we're on live stream now, every service. You know, we we say the same exact thing. We wish he were here. We understand there's folks that have health issues and such that can't be here today. It's good to have that ministry, but we can't use that as an excuse to say, well, hey, listen, if the world wants to watch, all they have to do is tune in We can't use that as a substitute to be a witness. That is no substitute at all. The last thing that we see here, and I'm not going to spend much time here at all, I'm just going to mention it basically because we talked about it this morning. You need to have the right message, method message, Jesus Christ, the right method to be a witness, the right mindset. Get out of your comfort zone and just understand that the world is our mission field. But we also have to have, and we talked about this this morning, the right muscle. Who is that muscle that we talked about this morning? The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. That is why Christ told them after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. He understood and he knew they would need him to get the job done. It won't happen without him. And that's why it's so important, like we said this morning, that we pray for God's power on our life each and every day. When God lays somebody on your heart to go be a witness to them, and you're getting in your car, you're getting ready to go talk with them, stop and ask God for the Holy Spirit's power. They give you the words to say. They give you the boldness of what needs to be said. You know these people When they were waiting up in that upper room and the Holy Spirit came down, you think about what they were like just days before. You think about the disciples themselves. When Christ was arrested, what'd they do? They ran. They scattered. They hid themselves. Peter, Peter. You know, you'd read the rest of the New Testament. Look what God did with Peter. Praise the Lord. But look where he was. When Christ was being tried, he was around that fire with those other people, and he denied Christ and even cursed Christ three times. But when the power of God came on him, what a change we see in his life. He was the first one we get a testimony of that preached, and over 3,000 souls were saved. That's what the Holy Spirit of God can do for us. That same power is available. For us today. And like we said, we're not going to say much about that because we looked about it, I looked at it already this morning. But folks, understand, we as a church, we as a Christian, desperately need God's power on our life. So to close this up tonight, as we wrap up Mission Sunday, praise the Lord for what came in this morning in addition with the faith promise this morning. What a blessing that is. Stay faithful at it. But with what we're talking about here tonight, how important is being a witness to you? How much importance does that hold in your life? This command, this commission that God has given us to be a witness unto Him to the world. Wherever your world is, wherever God takes you throughout the day, those people that He puts in your path, how important is it to you to be a witness to them? What are you willing? When God works in our hearts and He He convicts us about it, what comes along with conviction? Something's got to change. Something's got to change. What are you willing to change in your life so you can be a more effective witness? Maybe you might have to give out give up a day of your own time to come up here and take some lessons on how to be a soul winner. I'm sure if you came up to Pastor tonight and asked him, maybe I'm putting you on the spot here, but I think I'm safe in saying this, he'd make sure you got taught. He'd do it himself if he had to. Just to help teach you how to be a soul winner. What are you willing to change to be a more effective soul winner, a more effective witness? What are you willing to deal with? So the power of God can rest upon you. You know what keeps God's power from resting upon us? It's that ugly three-letter word. What do we call it? Sin. Sin has to be dealt with. No fun. But it's got to be dealt with, doesn't it? So that God's power can rest in our life. What price are you willing to pay for the touch of God on your life? Let me just ask you, how long has it been since you've told anyone about Christ? Folks, those are questions that we gotta ask ourselves. We've got to keep asking ourselves, because it is so easy to get away from the main thing. And that is what God has put us here for. To reach others to the gospel. You know, we'll all give account to Christ one of these days for how we were a witness to him, for how we witnessed to others. How's it going to be on that day when we stand before Christ? I don't know about you, but I wan I I I know we kind of tend to just throw it out there so easily, but I can't wait. And I pray that I hear that day when the Lord says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. That's what I want to hear him say. I don't want him to be displeased with the way I lived my life and the way I was a witness or not a witness. Church, let's not be distracted from our mission. Let's keep the main thing, the main thing. Let's pray, and Pastor, I'll hand it back over to you.