Second Peter chapter three. We've been working our way through here the the the primary the most of the book of Second Peter he addressed Like the book of Jude, we study the book of Jude, he was addressing false teachers, false prophets, uh coming into the church. He addressed that all through chapter two, and we spent uh a lengthy period of time just working our way through understanding what exactly this danger of false prophets coming into the church was and how to deal with it. Chapter three, if you remember, he is addressing Folks, that in the last days, he starts off the chapter, he says, points out, in the last days there's going to be scoffers and people that mocked the idea that Jesus is ever coming back again And he had he deals with that all down through there. And he really and this is what kind of captivates my imagination, he gives the most detailed description of the end of the world you're going to find anywhere in Scripture. Now remember this is not speculation. A lot of the scientists, their statements about the future is speculation, right? They don't know. Oh the world's gonna it's going this is gonna happen, this is gonna happen. They don't know This is not speculation. This is prophecy of God. It's going to happen. In fact, we call it history before it happens. It's pre-history account. And how this world is going to end. It's going to melt, be dissolved, and we looked at all that. Then he said, in the verse previous to this, that there will be a new heaven and a new earth. Now notice what he says here, verse 14, wherefore, because those things are true, that's what the word wherefore means, because it's true that this world's going to be uh destroyed, it's going to be melted, it's going to dissolve, the very elements are going to melt, and there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. There, wherefore, because of that, beloved Seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent, that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless. Right in the middle of that verse, he says, Be diligent, be diligent. Don't be negligent, don't be indifferent, don't be apathetic about this. Be diligent. That's what I want to talk about here, just real quick in a few minutes. Father Pray you bless now or study this passage. It'll be in a good day, full day, Lord, we praise you for it, and I ask now that you would just speak to our hearts, show us some s some things from this passage that would help us in our walk with you, our service, our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people look out at the world, see what's happening in society And uh it bothers you. Anyone here? See you look out and it bothers you. Sure, I'm the same way. I get looking in scripture, and really, to be honest with you, as a Bible believer We really shouldn't be too alarmed at what's going on in the world. I was down with uh it's been a several years ago, I was down with uh Dr. uh Brother Mike Creed at the Independent Baptist Church in Clinton, good friend. And we know Dr. Creed, uh Pat Creed, very, very well. He's helped us in missions and a number of things. And we uh brother Mike and I, we were out, we uh he took me out to dinner and we were talking, and um Just gone off about everything that's happened in the society and all this nonsense and chaos in our society. And then he stopped. About halfway through we're talking, he just stopped. And he says, you know, my dad, Dr. Pat Creed. He keeps telling me, quit getting so worked up. Jesus said it was going to be this way. And it's good for us to remember periodically, just stop and remember God told us this was going to happen. And we don't have to be alarmed that all the chaos and all the corruption that's going on, the Bible is pretty clear. Now we can take time and look at multiple passages that tell us that what we're seeing in the world is exactly what the situation would be at this point in time. And so we don't have to be alarmed about that. And along those lines, as a Bible believer, are there any Bible believers here tonight? Anybody? Sure, absolutely. As a Bible believer, we want to be very, very careful that we don't put too much of our hope in this world. We put a lot of, man, we put uh I don't know if hope's the word I want, but we put a lot of uh hope in politicians sometimes. We think they're going to solve all our problems. They're going to do all that. We put hope in the stock market. I don't know if you've been following that, but um that hope went up in smoke here recently We put hope in the stock market and in government and all these things. Well, we need to be very, very careful. Don't put too much hope in this world, because this world's burning up here It's temporary at the very best. We know very clearly from Scripture this world is doomed. So we're not worked up, we're not all bothered and And uh all alarmed about what's going on in the world. This is what the Lord said would happen. Doesn't mean we're okay with it, but we we know this is what he said it would be at this point in time I'm not putting my hope in this world. I'm not investing in this world. I want to, I don't know how you feel, I want to lay my treasures up in heaven where moth and rust does not corrupt Rather in this old world where it's temporary at best. As Bible believers, what we need to do is this, and this is what Peter's getting at here. I think you'll see in a moment. What we need to do is keep our focus on the Lord Jesus Christ and His Word. Keep our focus on that. Don't get distracted by the chaos of the world And all that's taken place here, that's all going to pass away. This is temporary. We need to keep our focus on Christ and His Word, particularly His promises of a better day coming. And I'm here to remind you tonight, there is a better day coming. The Bible promises that. The Bible promises that. There's going to be a new heaven, a new earth. How many people are anxious to see what that's going to be like? Wow. Wow. And so we have reason to be optimistic. In the midst of a pessimistic world, we can be optimistic. We know what lies ahead. We know how this turns out. And our investments of our life and our time and our love and our confidence is not in this world, it's in the Lord, and it's in that better day coming. I look here at verse number 14, I see three things. I want to give them to you very quickly. First of all, with all of that in mind, I notice here our focus. He talks about our focus. Look at the first part of verse 14. He says, Wherefore, beloved, because of all that he just gave us, all this information he just gave us, Seeing that ye look for such things, that new heaven, that new earth, that coming day. Seeing that you look for these things. That phrase look for has this idea to be in tanticipation for. To be in expectation. I don't know about you, but I believe we ought to be every day anticipating and even expecting the Lord to come back. Rapture of the church, be with the Lord, and then all the events that take place that follow that. Seeing uh wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, all the things he just described here. What is the such things? Well, the end of this world and the new heaven and the new earth. And over and over and over, all through Scripture, we're instructed to look for the Lord's coming, to watch for the Lord's coming If you would keep your place here, and I'd like for you to notice a few verses, and we'll use our Bibles. We might as well. Go with me to Matthew chapter 24. And what a great chapter on end time events, right from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ, Matthew chapter 24. And Back in verse number three, it says, as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us When shall these things be? Now he just told them that the temples, they're looking at the temple, they're amazed the temple, and he's telling them that thing's not going to last forever. One of these days, that thing, there's not even going to be one stone upon another. It's not going to last forever. We look at this world, we understand it's not going to last forever. Come a day when it's over. And they say, well, tell us, what shall when shall these things be, and what shall be the signs of thy coming? That's the two questions we always want to know. Well, Lord, when are you coming back? And what are the signs that you're coming? The Lord goes on and responds to that in verse 4. He says, Jesus answered and said unto them, Now I find this interesting. The very first statement When they ask them, when will it be, what will be the signs? The very first statement is, look at this, take heed that no man deceive you. And then he goes down, he uses that statement repeatedly. Verse 5, deceive many. Verse 11, deceive many. Verse number 24, deceive the very elect. Deceive, deceive, deceive. One of the chief characteristics of the last days is going to be deception in the religious world. It's referencing Christ here. They're going to say Christ is here, Christ is there, this, that, and the other. Listen, don't be fooled. Don't fall for that And then if you come over to verse 42, notice what he says. Watch, that's what Peter said. Watch, therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Look at verse 43. But know this that if the goodman of the house had known in which hour the thief would come, he would have what? Watched. And would not have suffered the house to be broken up. Therefore, be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Watch And he basically is saying, this guy, this house got broken into, he should have been watching. He wouldn't have gotten robbed if he'd have been watching. I think what the Lord is telling us is we ought to be anticipating, ought to be watching and looking for these things, looking for the Lord's return. Turn over to chapter 25 of Matthew And notice verse 13, watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Watch. Be looking, be anticipating. Come over to First Thessalonians. Working our way back to 2 Peter. 1 Thessalonians Right after, if this helps you, it's right after right before 2 Thessalonians. It's right after 2 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Now, Matthew, that was the Lord Jesus saying it. Here we have the Apostle Paul under the inspiration of God making this statement, verse 2. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as the thief in the night. For when they shall say, peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child And they shall not escape. The day of the Lord so cometh as the thief in the night. We need to be watching, watching, watching. Seeing then ye look for these things. Titus, just a few pages over, 12 Timothy, Titus, chapter number 2 and verse 12. Classic statement. Titus chapter 2 and verse 12. How many people are glad we have a church that uses the Bible? Look at verse 12. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live gives us the list here. And by the way, Peter touches on this, you'll notice here in a minute. We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Now look at the next statement Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Peter says, seeing that you look for such things. His assumption was that Bible believers are looking for the Lord's return. Seeing that you were looking for those things. I was um uh Saturday morning, I woke up early Saturday morning And for whatever anybody here, you ever wake up and there's just a song on your heart? I mean, just the moment you wake up, there's a song there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I woke up and the song of my heart sat in my mind. I mean, just before I was out of bed, it was in my mind, maybe today my Lord will come for me. Maybe today my Savior eyes shall see. Maybe today uh something I shall be free. Jesus will come and I will go home. It may be today. I got up and thought, wow, maybe today the Lord will come back. I think that's what Peter's talking about. Seeing, then you're looking, anticipating, expecting. Maybe today the Lord will come back. Maybe today. So the first thing I notice he references here is our focus Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, let's keep looking for the return of Jesus. Let's keep anticipating, expecting it. Maybe this week the Lord will come. We don't know when he's coming, but it might be tonight. Might be tonight at 10 o'clock. We don't know. Number two, he says, be fervent. First of all, be focused on the return of Christ. Then he says, be fervent. Look what he says. Therefore, wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent. I put be fervent. This is the third time Peter's used that word diligent or a form of that word back in chapter 1. Look flip over there in verse number 10. He used that word and we looked at it back at the time. He says verse five, besides this, giving all diligence Then he gives that list of eight characteristics we ought to seek to incorporate into our lives, uh faith and virtue and knowledge and Temperance and patience and godliness and brotherly kindness chirit. He says, be diligent in developing these characteristics in your life And then over in chapter one, verse fifteen, he uses it's the same meaning, it comes from the same word, but he uses a different word. He says, moreover, I will endeavor That ye may after my departure have these things always in remembrance. This comes from the same word, means the same thing. Be diligent, be firm. And he's saying, Listen, I'm imply I'm being very diligent, endeavoring that when I'm out of here you remember everything God said. You know, I think every pastor that's worth his thought, when he's gone, he wants that church to go on in the things of God. I think every pastor, every church ought to work for the next generation, being able to carry on with the old book. And preaching the old gospel and living by the old standards and the old convictions. And that's what Peter's saying, I'm being very diligent, I'm endeavoring. And now here he says that we're to be diligent, since we're looking for the Lord's return, we should be very fervent, very diligent Uh looking for that new heaven, that new earth, not out of curiosity. Boy, I wonder what it'll be like. I wonder if they'll have bass fishing in the new heaven and new earth. I wonder if you'll go bow hunting I wonder if they'll have Macy's and be able to buy coach purses in the new. That's not what he's talking about. We don't look for the new heaven, new earth out of curiosity We look at the uh for the new heaven new earth so uh to call us to diligent Christian service, anticipating the Lord's coming I wonder how many of us, if we knew for sure Jesus was coming back tonight at 10 o'clock. Now, listen, it's just us, so be honest, okay? How many people, if we knew for sure Jesus coming back at ten o'clock tonight, we may do some rearranging really quick between now and then, huh? I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but how many of us would say, Mm, I got to go through something. I got to go make some things right with some people. I got to do all that What Peter is saying, we ought to be very diligently applying ourselves that whenever the Lord does come back, I'm ready. I'm good to go. Ideally, if we knew the Lord was coming back at 10 o'clock, ideally we wouldn't do anything different than what we would plan on doing. Right? And that's what he's saying. Be diligent about your Christian life. Don't be indifferent about your spiritual well-being. Don't be apathetic about your standing with God and your testimony to the world, whether you're doing right or wrong. I don't worry about that. No, he's saying you need to be fervently living for God. We're looking for the Lord to come on, come back, come on, wake up. Let's get serious about this. And I tell you, our time our churches, our homes, our country needs, a little bit like what Derek was saying, we need Christians that are serious about living the Christian life And diligent about it. And not just playing games. We're starting a series in Auditorium Sunday School class on Malachi And the whole theme of Malachi is not just putting on a show, but being for real. And being right and being what God wants me, not just outwardly, but in my heart and soul, in my walk with God, my relationship with others. And he says, be fervent, be fervent. We don't look for the return of Christ passively, but we're diligent in our attitudes. Anybody here ever struggle with a bad attitude? He says, be diligent. Make sure that's right. Guard your heart in mind. Don't keep your heart with all diligence. Don't let it get sour. Don't let bitterness creep in. Don't let worldliness and lust creep in and take over. He says, be diligent in your behavior, in your attitudes, in your service for the Lord. We joke around about track month and all that, and we horse around and have a little bit of fun. But I tell you, and I think I speak for most of us, surely, we're dead serious about getting lost people to hear of Jesus Christ. And it's not a game and it's not a a uh uh uh uh uh a fun time thing. Well we have little fun. Well there's nothing wrong with that, but we are dead serious Bringing missionaries in, getting them to the mission field, getting them to New Zealand and other places. We're dead serious about that. We need to be diligent, fervent. The Lord's coming back. This thing's for real. And then last of all, I'll end with this. He says, this is the way I put it. He said, be faithful. Notice what he says here back in Peter. He says, wherefore, beloved, seeing you look for such thing, that's our focus on the return of Christ, these coming promised events, be diligent, that's our fervent, being fervent, man, we're taking this seriously, we're getting after it. And then he says this, why should we be diligent? That ye may be found of him when he comes, be found of him. He lists three things: in peace, without spot. And blameless. In peace, without spot, and blameless. Now, we don't have to be fearful about the Lord's return If we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, there's nothing to be fearful of the Lord's return. Notice he says there that we may be found of Him. Believers in the Lord Jesus Christ found of him. We should not be we don't need to be fearful, but we must be faithful. Faithful to the Lord. It's required of stewards that a man be found Faithful, faithful. One of the greatest things we can do for the Lord and for His church and for His cause and the gospel is just be faithful. Just be faithful. Say, preacher, I don't know that I can give out the most tracks in in our church. Wonderful, great if you can't. But I tell you what, you can be you can give them out faithfully. Opportunities you have, look for them. Be faithful. Be faithful. Be faithful. Say, preacher, I could never stand behind a pulpit and preach or sing like these folks sing and teach a class. I could never. Oh, but you can be faithful. We can be faithful. Faithful. And that's what the Lord's come when the Lord when he told the story about he gave the talents and he said to the ones that were that did what he told him to do and used it the way he told them to use it. He says, well done thou good and faithful. Faithful And so he says we can be faithful. Look at the terms he uses here. He says that you may be found of him In peace. What is peace? It's the absence of hostility. Peace. I put three areas we ought to have peace. Number one, I ought to have peace with God. How do I make peace with God? Somebody talk to me. How do I make peace with God? Get saved, right? When I trust Christ, the enmity, the sinful enmity between God and I is removed, and we're at peace. May 7, 1910, I trusted Christ. My peace was made with God. So we make peace, we ought to have peace with God. I put this down, we ought to have peace with ourselves. Now, peace with God begins at salvation, is established at salvation. The enmity is removed, the sins removed. But peace with myself. I wonder how many Christians are at peace with yourself. And by that I mean this: a clean conscience. I know my heart is right with the Lord. I know my attitudes of the Christ. I have the mind of Christ, my attitudes. My behavior is a testimony of the grace and goodness of God. I don't have to lay my head down at night with a guilty conscience and a hard heart, animosity in my own heart. And he says, in peace, be faithful, in peace, peace with myself. That comes in submission to the Lord and to the will of God. Not my will, but thy will be done, Lord. That's where peace is. I demand my way, no, it's going to be me, mine, all about me, what I want. There's no peace. There's no peace. There's no peace to that type of thinking, that attitude. But a heart that's yielded to the Lord and surrender, God, not my will. I submit to you, boy, that conscience, that clean conscience there. I acknowledge my failures, my sin, my pride, and God gives peace. How many people know what I'm talking about? That peace that God gives submitted to him. Do you have that? You have that? Lord's coming back. Wouldn't it be awful to meet the Lord and have a guilty conscience stand before him? Man. So peace with God, that's salvation. Peace with myself, that's submission. And then peace with others. Be at peace with others. No no no no odds between me and someone else. Well we got it right and we meet the Lord and I'm not out of fellowship with a brother or sister in Christ. I'm at peace with others. I s I mention this periodically and it just stuck out in mind. I find it a little humorous. But years ago as a lady Somebody we were just kind of standing around after service talking and somebody's name came up and the one lady said, well, we are not on speaking terms. And I didn't say it. I was very dignified and very me, but my thought was, well la dida You know, when we say something like that, you know all we're saying is, I'm not right with God. I'm self-centered. It's all about me. The Lord comes back, I'm going to be ashamed of that. I'm going to be ashamed of that. We ought to get along with God's people. Amen. How good and pleasant it is for God's people to dwell together in unity. And so, peace, he says here Be faithful, be faithful in this matter of peace, peace with God, peace with your own heart and soul, peace with your brothers and sisters in Christ. Then he says, without spot Be faithful, without spot. Now, what's that phrase without spot? It means to be unblemished. Or I like this definition, to be uninfluenced by something that is not right. We hear in the news a little bit and you hear people talk and I it took me a while to figure out what they were even talking about, but they talk about these people who I believe are in social media and they refer to them as influencers. Anybody ever hear that term? These people are influencers. They have great influence. They have a tremendous following and they'll give advice and they'll do these things. And their whole their whole mission in this social world is to influence people in a certain way, to think a certain way. Did you ever hear a news program or something say something like this? Here's what you need to know about Then they'll have some subject. Anybody see that? They do that all the time. Here's what you need. You know what they're saying? We're telling you how to think Trying to influence you, how you think and what you how you your conclusions you come to and and uh uh the way you view a situation or a s or a person or a or an event. Peter's telling us under the inspiration of God, he says, Listen, you know the Lord's coming back. We ought to be looking for him We ought to be very, very fervent and diligent, living for God. And then he says you ought to be faithful and keep yourself unspotted, not uninfluenced. by this world's values and this world's priorities and this world's principles it lives by. I'm not going to let that influence me. Unspotted, unspotted. If you would, just very, very quickly, go over to James, not too far away, just before Peter, you run into James. And James talks about this. In chapter 1 in verse 27, he talks about pure religion. In other words, sincere, genuine Christianity, and undefiled, pure religion, and undefiled before God and the Father, not just in people's eyes, but before God, my Religion, my faith, my Christianity is pure, it's undefiled before God. And look what he says it is. To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. Now look at this last statement And to keep himself what? Unspotted from the world. That's what Peter's talking about. Without spot, without spot. Don't let the world influence us. Our world has its influencers. I'm saying stay away from the world's influencers. I was there with Brother Bowman preaching a little bit, a couple days, and we got talking about these different things on YouTube and other things like that. Now listen, there might be some helpful stuff, but I want to say if you're going to get on some of that stuff, you be very, very careful. You need to have an element of discernment. I don't go get on there hardly at all. Every now and then, maybe once every two, three months, I'll look at a fishing video. And uh but uh uh you be very, very careful. There's a lot of bad influence out there, these young people in schools, and I'm not trying to be overly critical But I'm telling you, there is an element in our schools that is trying to influence and spot our children with the world. Universities and in society I wouldn't worry, listen, can I just give you a little of my advice? I wouldn't worry too much about being popular in the eyes of the world. I wouldn't worry about that too much. I think our concern ought to be my heart clean and pure before the Lord, my testimony unspotted from the world And so he says, be faithful. This matter of peace, without spot. Then one more, I'll end with this. He says, and blameless, and blameless. What does blameless mean? It's used other places in the Bible to refer to being without reproach. In other words, this idea, one who cannot be blamed. You say, what does he mean? Well, he doesn't mean this. When he says be blameless, he doesn't mean be sinlessly perfect. All right, that's impossible. If somebody tells you they are no longer sinners, they are sinlessly perfect, ask their spouse if they agree with that. They're going to say no. I thought that was funnier than you all reacted, but It doesn't mean sinlessly perfect. To be blameless doesn't mean I ignore my sin or justify my sin or excuse my sin. To be sinless, to be blameless, to be without reproach, means that when I do sin, I confess it and forsake it immediately. I get it right. Would you agree with me? David sinned. King David sinned, right? Is there anybody out there? Are you with me? I'm winding down. Hang in here with me. David sinned grievously. And we say, well, he's not blameless, not in that fact. But read Psalm 51, he dealt with that sin the most thorough scriptural way is humanly possible. A phenomenal testimony of how to deal with when I sinned, what to do, and how to deal with it. Every Christian ought to be very, very familiar with Psalm 51. So when he says, be faithful in this matter being blameless, he's not saying be sinless. That's impossible. We can't. If any man says without sin, he's a liar John says that. But what I do when I do sin, I confess it and forsake it right away. And I Get it off of me. Get it out of my heart. Get it out of my life. Confess to the Lord. The blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses me from all sin. I forsake it, and I get up and I go on for God. Somebody sins and they don't forsake it. Somebody sins, they don't confess it, they hold on to it, they regard it in their heart. That person's not blameless. They have reproach because they're holding on to their sin, they're cherishing it, they refuse to deal with it. Do you know somebody that sins and messes up and they right away go, God, I did wrong God, I judge it the way you judge it. I condemn it the way you condemn it. I put it away. I can't, that person doesn't have reproach. They've dealt with it the way they're supposed to. You follow what I'm saying? And we need to faithfully face our sin, confess it, and forsake it, and get up and go on. I would hate to be regarding sin in my heart when the Lord Jesus comes back. Wouldn't you? Wouldn't that be awful? Say, well, how I'm not sinless. How can I do that? Confess it, forsake it right away. My prayer for many, many years has been, Lord, keep me on a short leash. Don't let me wander far. Lord, if I start messing up wandering, if my heart starts getting cold, I start getting attitude, I start getting tempted, drawn into something, Lord, pull me back. Keep me close to you. And he says, be blameless, be blameless. Keeping a clear conscience, keeping a tender heart. Keeping a Christ-like attitude and behavior because, beloved, we're looking for such things. Jesus coming back. We need to be looking for them. We need to be ready. Amen. Father, I ask you to bless now. Take these thoughts. I've tried to rush through them here a little bit, but I pray. And you'd stir our hearts. And we'd just be honest with ourselves and with you. Pray you'd put a love in our heart for one another and for you. Holy Spirit, I pray the love of God be shed abroad in our hearts. Now we be clean and pure and a good witness. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, God's touched my heart about some areas of my life. God's touched my heart. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, not the preacher. God touched my heart. God touched my heart. Father, bless us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jeffers play that invitation.