Begin reading in verse number 13, and I am going to read down through verse number 16, and uh we're really just going to look at one word. You say, preacher, if we just look at one word a week, we're going to be in this book for 72 years. Well, maybe, maybe not But I just want to look at one word tonight. I think it's a very important word. Verse 13, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. And actually two words. The next two words, what do they say? Gert up the loins of your mind. Be sober, be sober. And hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. I want to speak on that phrase, be sober. Or uh I'll explain why I'm using the terminology I am, but uh uh be sober or you could put it this way, be disciplined. Be disciplined. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask Lord now you'd speak to our hearts from your word. Lord, I'm uh I know probably as well, if not better than anybody else, I have nothing in and of myself to offer that's of any spiritual or eternal value. Or just an old sinner. But Lord, you authored this book, and you know it, and you understand it, and you can apply it to our lives in ways I can I never could. And so I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you would challenge us and help us to grow in our faith. And Lord, I pray the day we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, Lord, it'd be a wonderful thing if every one of us could hear you say to us, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So please bless and use tonight's thought to help us achieve that. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter, of course, as we say every time we open this book is writing to uh believers who are being intensely persecuted because of their faith in Christ. They've been run from their homes, they've been run from their communities. They're all through these little areas of Asia Minor there. They're under intense persecution. And Peter's writing to them two reasons thus far. One is to encourage them. To let them know that their salvation's secure, that God's with them, and he highlights the fact that even in the midst of this persecution, they're rejoicing incredibly, miraculously Now he's challenging them, and in the midst of persecution and injustice, when we're treated wrong, now see if you'll uh see if you agree with me on this, when we're treated wrong, sometimes if we're not careful We can get messed up in our thinking. You know what I'm talking about? When there's some injustice, people are mistreating or whatever. If we're not careful, we can get out of whack. And he's telling them, he's exhorting them now to stay focused and to remember they need to maintain and they need to be holy as God is holy. We see that in verse 15 and 16. Now last time, two weeks ago, we looked at the first part of verse 13, gird up the loins of your mind. And we said, that is a uh if we're gonna if we're gonna be holy, uh if we're gonna be holy, we have to think holy. Our thinking, and we talked about the importance of keeping our thoughts under control. Now he uses this little phrase here. He says He says, uh gird up the loins of your minds. Be sober. Be sober. Now what do you think of when you hear that word sober? What's the first thought comes to mind? Opposite of drunkenness. You think of liquor, you think of alcohol, you think of of uh drinking. Be sober. Well, that would be an aspect of it, but when he's writing here, be sober, he's not, he doesn't have the idea of liquor or the influence of liquor in mind. He's writing to committed Christians. He's writing to people who are dedicated to Christ. And can I say this? A committed, dedicated Christian does not drink liquor. Amen or not? I have nothing to do with it. Stay away from that. Can I say this? Liquor is absolutely of the devil. Has no place in a Christian life. So when he's writing to these believers and he says, be sober, he's not taught he's not concerned about them getting drunk and drinking whiskey and wine and liquor and all that He's not concerned about that's not what he's addressing. The word sober there has this idea. It means to be self-controlled. It means the ability to control my behavior. Now, thinking of the opposite of getting drunk, uh, when a person gets drunk, they lose control of their behavior, right or wrong. That liquor takes over. And uh you you maybe have heard this. We used to say years ago, is that you talking or the liquor? You know? Because the liquor takes over and you say and do things that if you were in control you would never do. So the word sober here has this idea to be self-controlled. to control my behavior, it is uh it is i it it's this is what he's talking about be self-disciplined self-disciplined Now we live in a day and age in certain elements, even within Christianity, that idea of self-discipline is almost a bad word. It's almost a concept that isn't even conceived. Self-discipline. He's not saying this to be self-disciplined and be uh and to have self-control And to be disciplined in my life does not mean I'm miserable. In fact, can I say this? The most miserable people are people who lack self-discipline. They become a slave to their passions. They become a slave to every little whim and wish they have at that moment, rather than being controlled and disciplined by principles and by truth and by what is right and wrong. uh by what is right, uh their control by that, and they're not happy. The happiest people I know are people who are disciplined in their Christian life. Disciplined in their Christian life. It means to, that word sober there means to exercise power over my actions. It means to have, I like this one definition I came across. It means to have lordship over my behavior. It means to control my thoughts. And he brought that up there in the first part. Gird up the loins of your mind. Control your thoughts. Bring those thoughts together. Keep them in place. Don't let them loose. It means to control my thoughts, to control my words. Proverbs talks a lot about the ability to control my words and to limit my words. It means to control my desires. There's a verse the Lord has used in my life for many, many years. I came across it in college. The Lord spoke to my heart. It's from Proverbs, I believe it's 18, verse 1. It says Through desire a man separateth himself and intermeddleth with all wisdom. Now think about what he's saying. My desires, if I do not control them, I just give in to my desires, I'm meddling with wisdom. I'm being foolish. Destroy my life. He says in another place, if you be a man given to appetite, in other words, here's a person who doesn't control their appetite, and they put themselves in grave danger. So it means to control my thoughts, my words, my desires, my actions. So he's telling these New Testament uh believers that are being persecuted, that are on the run, they're They're suffering intensely. Their hearts are broken. And he's saying to them, Listen, gird up the loins of your mind. Don't let what's happening to you, the trials you're going through, mess your mind up. You keep that mind straight and clear And he says, you control your actions, you be disciplined in your Christian life. I want to give you a few thoughts, and I really want to be very brief tonight because Brother Matt has an important meeting. So I'm just going to give you a few thoughts on the on this word here. Number one, here's my first thought. Self-discipline is absolutely necessary for spiritual growth and spiritual victory. Can I say that again? Self-discipline is absolutely necessary for spiritual growth And for victory. I believe one of the most important characteristics in the victorious Christian life is personal discipline or self-discipline. This is necessary in every single area of life. Some folks get themselves in a horrendous mess. Listen to this. They get themselves in a horrendous mess, and it takes them their whole lifetime, if ever, to get out of it. Because they are not disciplined with their money. Amen are not. They cannot control that. They cannot discipline that. And before you know it, they're in debt tens and hundreds of thousands of dollars I had a roommate in Bible college and a fine fella, and I don't mean to be critical of him, but he illustrates my point here perfectly Uh uh we showed up uh uh I think he might have been a year behind me, I'm not sure. But uh we were roommates for one year, and uh he met a gal and they got married right off the bat, which was fine, I guess they were alright But he had in his head that he needed to own a house and have furniture and drive a car just like his parents had. I mean right off the bat And I'm telling you, within a year or two after getting married, that guy had run himself so far into debt, I'm telling you it's 35, 40 years later almost, I guarantee you, and le barring a miracle, that guy so is still in debt uh uh up to his eyeballs. And it was all because he could not control that. He could not control that financial thing Listen, you need to remember, young people need to remember, your parents, it took them years and years and years to get to that point where they have the possessions they have to then come right out off the bat and have those exact same things is absolutely foolish. I need some of you to talk to me tonight and and and uh I I know what I'm saying is true. One of the most important characteristics in the victorious Christian life is that of being disciplined in every aspect of life. in my finances and and in my spiritual life. It is possible. Well let me s let me put it this way. We can have correct Knowledge. We can know this book. We can know the Bible. We can know what God tells us, what he warns us of, what he instructs us to do, what he promises us. We can know all of that But yet for that to be any good, it is dependent upon me being disciplined in my life to take what God has instructed me and applying it to my life. It's dependent upon discipline. I can have holy desires. Oh, I just want to serve God. Oh, I want to be a soul winner. And over the years I've had so many people tell me all this stuff they wanted to do for God and they wanted to be for God. But if you and I don't have discipline in our life, if we don't have self-discipline, we're never going to be anything for God. We're never going to be anything for God. Holy desires. Somebody said, I'm not sure I think I read John R. Rice saying it one time. I don't know that it's original with him, but they said this: the road to hell is paved with what? Good intentions. Good intentions. Oh yeah. I'm going to do this. Oh yeah, I intend to do that. Oh, tomorrow I'm going to do this. You know, some people it's always what they're going to do. Some people it's always they're gonna do this, they're gonna be someday I'm gonna do this, tomorrow I'm gonna do that, oh yeah, I'm gonna do this But you know, without with you can have the best intentions in the world, but if I don't have self-discipline, they're never going to achieve anything So my first thought is this self-discipline is absolutely necessary for spiritual growth and spiritual victory. My second thought is this: lack of self-discipline is the leading cause of failure in the Christian life. Lack of self-discipline. What would you say is the opposite of self-discipline? What would be the opposite of that? Anybody take a shot? I got a The opposite of self-discipline would be self-indulgence. You got it. You get a star, Dave. The leading cause of failure, I believe, in the Christian life is a lack of self-discipline, self-indulgence. I want to show you something, I want to illustrate from scripture. If you would come back to the book of Genesis. We have two polar opposites on this issue of self-discipline. Genesis, first of all, Genesis chapter 49. Now I use this fella every now and then when I'm talking on this subject Because he illustrates it uh uh perfectly, I think. Genesis chapter 49, all the way back to the beginning of the Bible. Genesis 49, and we're going to start in verse 3. We're going to read verse 3 and 4. Now Jacob is here, is coming to the end of his life. And um uh he is blessing his boys. Now in this dispensation When a patriarch like Jacob calls the family in and he is bestowing blessings upon them, they are almost prophetic. in their significance of his blessings on them. When he's making these blessings. These were very, very significant. And these these were very very tied into their relationship with God and uh how they're living their lives. Now notice in verse number three. Who is Jacob blessing here and making comments on in verse 3? Talk to me tonight. Reuben Look what he says to Reuben. He makes an interesting statement here. I have it underscored in my Bible. He says, Reuben, thou art my firstborn. Alright. And would you agree? In Bible times, firstborn was good. Yeah, they got the inheritance and they get the birthright usually. Thou art my firstborn, my might. And the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity. Reuben, you are a dignified man. You are a strong man. You have potential You are gifted, you are talented, and the excellency of power. He's saying to an extent, Reuben, you could be anything you want to be. Your potential is tremendous. But look at verse 4. All of that is undercut. He says, what's the next word? Unstable as water. Look at who he says: thou shalt not excel. You know what he's saying to his son, his firstborn son, the son that generally the father would You know, that's his right hand. He's saying, Reuben, you're a tremendously gifted young man. You are good looking. You're dignified. You are strong. You have everything a young person, you have everything a young man would want in life, but there's one thing you're lacking. You have one problem, and it's going to undercut all of that. You're as unstable as water. What do you think he meant when he said you're unstable as water? You cannot be trusted. You have no discipline. If the wind blows this way, you're going that way. If the current is this way, then you're going that way. Whatever whim you have at any given moment, that is what you run after. Whatever light sparkles and catches your eye, that's what you go running after There's no consistency there. There's no substance there. There's no self-discipline there. You can't be What God has intended for you to be. You just run after every little thing. I'm telling you, I'll tell you what kill is killing our churches, it's killing our homes what's killing our ministries, what's killing our own spiritual growth is a lack of self-discipline. I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He says, do right. Till the stars fall. Do you ever hear that? You know what he's saying? He's saying, discipline yourself Do right till the stars fall. Reuben is an example of someone who lacked self-discipline and they never excelled. They failed. Now, if you would turn over. Let's look at the opposite of that to chapter number 39. We have another young man, very gifted, very intelligent. Tremendous pet potential, and he has self-discipline Chapter 39, let me get there. In verse number, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 7. Some of you there, who are we talking about here? Joseph. Look at begin reading in uh verse 39, beginning in verse 7. Now Joseph has been betrayed by his brothers. He's been sold into slavery. Uh he's he's been bought by the uh the um uh potipher, the treasurer. Uh he's been bought by him. He's his own personal servant. Joseph, because of his discipline, because of his integrity, because of his character, has worked his way up. He is trusted even by the uh their enemies to some extent the uh the Jewish uh the um uh Egyptians and uh he's worked his way up but old Potiphar has a wife that is bad news His master has a wife that's bad news. Look at verse 7. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. What does that mean? She's doing this number. She's catching his eye. What's she doing? She's flirting with him. I mean heavy duty, full blown This is his master's wife. Cast her eyes upon Joseph. Look at this. You talk about a strange woman in the in the new in the proverb sense of the word. And she said, Lie with me. Now think about who she's saying this to. This is a young man. He's alone. He's knows nobody around. Nobody there knows him from any anybody. There's no father looking over him that he has to answer to. He has no family that he goes home, has to look them in the eye If ever he had an opportunity to get away with something, if ever had the opportunity to indulge himself, here's the opportunity. Who would know? What would happen? But Joseph was a young man of character. Joseph was a young man that had self-discipline. He was sober. And look at his response in the next verse. But he what? Refused. I have that underlined in red ink and I have it circled in my Bible. And off in the margin I wrote this. Character. integrity. He had the he was sober enough to say no. In fact, I put in the margin of my Bible under that, I put this. Joe said no. And he said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wadeth not what is it with me in the house? He doesn't know what I'm doing in the house. He doesn't he's trusted me with all of this. And he hath committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in this house than I Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee. In other words, Potiphar gave Joseph full use of the house. This is yours. Whatever I have is you take and use. He trusted him completely. Look what he says. Because thou art his wife. Now then How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And it came to pass as she spake to Joseph day by day. He hearkened not under her. I put in the margin of my Bible. Job kept saying no. He hearkened not to her, to lay by her, or to be with her. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men of the house there with him. Now, whether he was aware of it or not, that was a big mistake. He might not have known the situation. We don't know. But he ends up, he's in the house alone with her. Big mistake. Verse 12, and she caught him by his garments, saying, Lie with me. Again, second time she said that. And look at this. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. Jacob says to his oldest son Reuben, Reuben, you're gifted, you're handsome. You have everything a young man would want to have in life, but you don't have any discipline in your life You don't have any self-discipline. Your character is lacking. You're unstable as water. You're never going to succeed with that type of character. And here you have Joseph all alone. And a woman approaches him and he's given this opportunity to indulge himself. And he says, no. He says, no. Joseph is a tremendous testimony, a tremendous study in character and self-discipline. Self-discipline. My point is this: the lack of self-discipline, lack of being sober that Peter is writing to these New Testament believers, be sober. The lack of that As I believe the Lord leading cause of failure in the Christian line. And l and I believe with these young people, you were talking about young people tonight Let me say this to the parents. One of the most important characteristics that must be instilled in our youth is to be sober, is to be self-disciplined. Our young people have to be taught to discipline themselves to do what needs to be done, to do what is right, whether we feel like it or not, whether those are opportunities or not. Paul understood this. Would you turn with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 9? Paul was uh I think Paul was some a fan to some extent of sports. And I think for maybe maybe personal reasons, I believe this, he liked boxing. And in verse number uh twenty-five of first Corinthian nine, he references this in verse Verse 25, 1 Corinthians 9, and every man that striveth for the masteries. Now he's using the illustration of sports world. Every man that striveth for the masteries, what's that next word? is I mean uh is what? Temperate. Underline that word temperate. It means to be self-controlled. In all things. Now they do it. They discipline themselves. They get up when they don't want to get up. They go work out when they don't want to work out. They uh uh watch their m what they eat when they wanna eat when they wanna go to Dev Lars and get an extra large uh um twist with uh sprinkles on it. Uh they don't do it because uh they discipline themselves. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we are but we an incorruptible I therefore so run, not as uncertainly. So fight I, not as one that beateth the air. Boxing. See that? But look at verse 27. He says, but I keep under my body, I discipline myself, I have self-discipline, and bring it into what? Subjection. Look at this next statement. This is scary. Lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be what? I'll be set aside. I'll be set aside. I wonder how many, I wonder how many Christian workers. Sunday school teachers, pastors, missionaries, eacans have been set aside in the work of God because they could not discipline themselves They weren't temperate. They weren't sober. They weren't sober. And so Paul understood that lack of self-discipline is the leading cause of failure in the Christian life. And I end with this. Okay, all right, preacher, I understand. And I'm not I don't want you to respond to this, but I wonder how many of us struggle with self-discipline. I wonder how many of us would say, boy, you know, I could sure be a little more disciplined in some areas. I I see where uh this is a weakness in my Christian character of the self-discipline, self-discipline You say, how do I develop self-discipline? How do I get where I'm sober? Did you notice there in Peter, he said, be sober. That was a clear instruction. He's telling them, you need to make a decision. You need to be this way. It's a clear instruction. It can be done It is possible to be disciplined. It is possible for us to be sober and control ourselves and do what's right. It is, hey, let me say this: it is possible to do what's right when it's right to do it. It is possible to say no to that which is wrong. It's possible to do what God has told us. We can discipline ourselves to do this. You say, well, how do I do that? How do I develop that characteristic? Number one, it's not easy. It's not easy. Self-discipline does not come natural. How many people here ever knew a baby that was self-disciplined? Middle of the night, two o'clock, I'm a little hungry. I'm not going to scream and holler. I'll just wait in the morning till everybody gets up And uh until it's convenient and then I'll let 'em know I'm hungry. Uh or it we're talk about the other end. Well, I'll wait until it's appropriate time and uh uh never mind that one. But uh I've found that self-discipline does not come naturally. We want what we want when we want it. Anybody ever see a little child get distracted? Here, take this out to the garage and give it to daddy next thing you know, they're in the backyard on the swings. What are you doing? Oh, I saw the swings and went over there So, number one, I put this down, it's not easy, it doesn't come natural. Number two, I put this down, uh self-discipline is best learned early. The earlier we learn it in life, the better. Hey, let me say this. The earlier a child learns to make their bed in the morning, the better off they are. 35 years old they don't make their bed. You know, you got kids living at home, uh twenty-nine years old living at home, mom still makes their bed. Come on, grow up. Talk to me now. Even if you don't make your bet, say amen. Help me out. Some people, if their clothes are clean, it's because somebody else cleaned them. If their dishes are clean, it's because somebody else, they don't have any discipline. And so the earlier, the younger a child learns to be disciplined, and by the way, that's the responsibility of parents to teach children and give them responsibility. And teach them how to this morning, I think it was this morning I was joking around a little bit about the Board of Education applied to the seed of knowledge. You know what that is? That's teaching a child to be disciplined in their life. It's you and I disciplining it's the parent disciplining the child on their behalf till they learn to do it themselves. Until that character is developed, until that character becomes first nature to them to do what needs to be done and fulfill my responsibility. Peter's writing to these believers, he's saying, Be sober! It's not easy, and the sooner you can teach it to a child, the better off they're going to be. I put this down. Number three, it's a fruit of the Holy Spirit In Galatians chapter 5, and I really want to wind this down, but in Galatians 5, verse 22 through 23, he references this idea of being self-disciplined. Jesus said in John 15, verse 5 Um boy this is a helpful statement. Jesus said, without me, ye can do what? Nothing We said, preacher, I want to be disciplined, I want to be disciplined, and do right, and not just give in to all these things, but uh be sober But man, it's hard. Yeah, it's hard. And I wasn't taught it as a child. Okay, but it's a fruit of the Holy Spirit. If I'll yield myself to God, if I'll just say, Lord, I need you I died a self and I need you to incorporate this in me and Holy Spirit bear this in me. Jesus, I can't do it without you. By the way, a consistent prayer, effective prayer life is dependent upon discipline. To discipline myself to pray, to read my Bible, to be in church, to be on time. To be on time. It's part of discipline. And so it's a fruit of the Holy Spirit. Let me give you a last one real quick, and this isn't comprehensive. But I think this one is a key, especially maybe if we're older and we struggle with it, it requires constant effort. It requires constant every say, preacher, I wasn't raised to be disciplined. You know, I know it's an area weak in my life, and I intend to and I want to do right, and I end up putting it off or getting distracted. Oh, I'm going to pray. I'm going to ask the Lord to help me. But I'm telling you, it's something you have to work at and work at and work at and work at. I thought of this. It takes discipline to be disciplined. And it takes an element of discipline to learn to be disciplined. But there's a great encouraging verse. It's in Proverbs chapter 24 and verse 16. It says this. A just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. How many people have ever heard me on a Sunday night say, how many people got your Bibles here? Anybody remember that? Oh, you got your Bible, wave it around. And then I'll ask that next question. How many people read your Bible at least one day this week and uh people wave it around? Anybody remember I say this? Uh how many people read it every single day And uh some go down, folks wave their Bible, amen. You say, what are you trying to do? Are you trying to embarrass people? No, I'm not trying to embarrass people. But what's the next thing I say I say, all right, this coming week, regardless of what happened, this coming week, just determined, I'm going to read my Bible every single day. You know what that is? That's working at it, working at it, working at it, working at it. So I can discipline myself to where I'm spending time in the Bible, I'm spending time in prayer, and whatever every other aspect of life it needs to be learned. When I was young, probably, I was trying to think the age, probably 12 years old, down there, around that age, I had gotten to know a friend through school. His name was David Toole. I don't know whatever happened to him. He moved away in our mid-teens up to Central PA Williamsport area. And uh but we were buddies and we did a lot of stuff together. He lived down in town in Harleysville down in town and he was right along the main road And his house, the main road was here, his house was here, and it was a steep hill, went down to a um a cr we called it a creek. I got down here, I found out it's a crick And um there's a cricket there. And so he had his house. It was like two story house, three story house, had his house, rode up here, sidewalked house and hill like this. It's built right on the house. Everybody got a picture in your mind and this hill there. And there's a a lot between beside his house and the next house down, this open lot Well we had our bikes. And um I had my green bike. I still see it. The big handlebar, what were the um monkey bars? Is that Yeah, I had the big bites, you know, and the banana seat and uh I had the big uh what was the bar came up the back sissy bar And uh, you know, and we had the handbrakes, and I'm telling you, we'd set up there on the top of that like Easy Rider, you know And uh he'd be and we had this huge hill went down, and our goal was to go down. We had made this little ramp, and we were gonna jump that cricket. And she go down there and we start going down and every time it never failed, we'd start going down there and uh we'd get scared, we'd put the brakes on, we'd slow down, we never made it across that crit. So one of us, probably him, one of us got the great idea we're going to disconnect our brakes. This is a great idea. So we got the brakes all disconnected. We're gonna jump that quick. We went off the edge. I mean, we wrecked, ended up in the crick, bloody, knocked out, oh, just horrible. And I learned a lesson. I learned a life lesson. Here's the lesson I learned. Brakes are good. In fact, if you're going to succeed, if you're going to live, breaks are good. You know what being sober is? It's having breaks and using them. Make sense? It's having breaks. Say no, I'm not going to do that. Alright, that's something God says I should do. I'm gonna do it. Yeah, I don't feel like it. No, I don't feel like it, but I'm gonna do it. Yeah, but it's inconvenient. Yeah, it' Tink amene it, we're good Well, I'd sure like to have that thing. Yeah, but you really, you know, you got missions money. God sent you that missions money. You made a promise of you made a faith promise. Give it to missions. Yeah, but I really want this If I'm not sober, I'll steal money from missions, buy something for me. But if I have breaks, if I'm sober, I'll say, no. I made a vow to God. Boy, there's so much you could say about that. We finish out today. We're going into a new week, Thanksgiving week. Let's ask God, would you join me? And let's pray that God would help us to be sober. Just discipline these young people. Now we all need it, but I tell you, if they can get a hold of this at this stage of their life, my word, how much better off they'll be. Discipline. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take this thought. Lord, I need it as much as anybody, no doubt. I pray you'd teach us to be disciplined. Help us to take this instruction that you've given us. And to take it seriously. And we need your Holy Spirit to help us. And Lord, we want to work at it and work at it and work at it. Until we're disciplined Christians in every aspect of our life. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many between you and the Lord? How many say, preacher? Man, God's God's God touched on it for me. Any like that? God touched on it for me. That's a need in my life. Probably if we were honest, about every one of us would have this to some extent. Let's ask the Lord to help us tonight. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Father, bless our invitation, I pray. Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are clear.