Challenge of the whole chapter is just to walk the way you know you're supposed to walk. Just walk in light, walk according to the Word of God Just do what God wants you to do as a believer. And I think now more than ever, uh, the old devil is hard at work and trying to divide us trying to sidetrack us, trying to get us off of God's possum trail for our life. And I think with all that's in us tonight We ought to just have a renewed strength and a renewed fire to just say, God, if you'll do it one more time, I'll be right there with you And we need that today. Our country deserves that, by the way. The men and women that came here today, that they deserve a church that's on fire They deserve Christians that are full of joy and just want to see folks get saved and see folks grow in the Lord and then have that fellowship one with another I just won't talk a little bit about that this evening, but we'll begin here in our text. In verse number 15, the Bible says, See then that you walk, that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time because the days are evil. Wherefore? Be ye not unwise about understanding what the will of the Lord is. Be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then verse number 21. Submitting, submitting ourselves one to another in the fear of God. Let's pray. Father, help us. I do pray. Lord, I'm thankful for this great church, and I pray, God, you speak to our hearts, speak to the need of each individual. Lord, it's represented here. Be with our people back home, Lord. Speak to their hearts as well, and we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen One of the things that I've become uh very uh accustomed to and and have realized, uh especially in the day that we live in Is it goes against a person's nature to have someone or something controlling their lives We live in a generation today where young people, middle-aged people, older people, nobody feels like that we should be told what to do. And that is a hindrance in the life of a Christian because that's exactly what the Spirit of God's job is: to guard us, to guide us, to control us, to protect us. We have an innate desire to control our own lives and our own destinies. And yet we don't always have control over our circumstances. Often storms and troubles will come our way that we wish we could stop. It is at these points that it will reveal whether or not we have been building lives yielded to the Spirit of God. Below our salvation. More than salvation, how much are we yielded to the Spirit of God on a daily basis? I think it's important for us to investigate this evening. At the moment of salvation, obviously we receive the indwelling of the Holy Spirit of God There's nothing new to us concerning that. In in chapter number one, if you look there with me in verses number thirteen and fourteen, the Bible says this In whom ye also trusted after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. Obviously we're sealed by the good grace of God. Once you're saved, you're always saved. Aren't you glad for that? And once you're saved, you get all the Spirit of God that you're ever going to get. Now it's time for him to get all of us. But though we are given the Holy Spirit at salvation, and he will never leave us, we must make a decision to surrender to him on an ongoing basis. This is what it means to live the spirit-filled life. It's more than a cliche. It's more than a saying. It's more than a bumper sticker nor a book. It's something that we can have today. It's something that we can do today. So I want us to look briefly at a couple of things. Number one, the spirit-filled path. The spirit-filled path that the Bible teaches us in fifteen through twenty-one that there's a spirit filled path, and the spirit filled life isn't accomplished in a moment or a decision, but rather it's a path which which we choose to continue to followed to continue to go down. It is comprised of choice made throughout our days. Look with me in Galatians in chapter number five. And we'll see our verse here in verse number 16. The Bible says, this I say then: walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. The hindrances, the weaknesses, the the sin that that rises up is because we've let our guard down and we've started to slowly take control of our lives instead of continually continuously yielding our lives to the Spirit of God. The word walk here refers to the way one conducts his daily life It is referring to one's lifestyle. God wants us to walk in his spirit as opposed to walking after the flesh. Our key text here gives us two descriptions of this path. First, we see there's a path of caution. We see that in verse number 15. See then that you walk circumspectly not as fools, but as wives, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Now obviously Paul writing this some uh a thousand some odd years ago uh in in writing to the church at Ephesus and and understanding this the times have gotten better, haven't they? Oh Papa Joe, he doesn't have a clue whether he's coming or going. We're living in a wicked world. Our country's going down the tube, and we got Christians that can't decide whether to do right or do wrong. I'm telling you, we're in a mess today. We're in a mess, and we need to understand there's a caution that we need to heed. The spirit-filled life is living our lives straight up, circumspectly. You can do it. In Spanish. Sí, se puede. That's a saying, it's a detail in Mexico. It's a saying, and when you say that it it has the uh it has the idea behind it that you come together. And man, if you want to get folks fired up, you bring them together. And you know what? That's why we're here tonight. Because you need you, and you need him, and she needs her, and her, and she needs her, and he needs him, and we're all in this together. And so when we have these troubles, we ought to have one another. Help me, church. Newborn, first generation Christians say Amen whenever the truth is preached. Amen. This is this is a tough one. Although not one uh we use daily in conversation, di this word circumspectly is related to a word we do use, which is circumference. It refers to the entire perimeter or being alert and cautious in in every direction And I just want to say that that's part of our problem today. We have been uh shifted and and we've been divided. And and let me just say that the next division that's coming in our country is coming right in here And and look, uh vaccine, no vaccine, COVID, no covet, uh all of the uh political non-polit listen, listen, listen, listen. It doesn't matter The devil wants to divide us. And he's using stupid things like this to divide us. Well, you don't care enough. And you don't care. No, circumspectly. Loving one another, helping one another. A person who is walking circumspectly is less likely to stumble Look with me what Colossians teaches us about this walking in wisdom in Colossians chapter number four. In Colossians chapter number four and verse number uh five The Bible says walk in wisdom toward them that are without doing what? Redeeming The time, redeeming the time. We ought to live with the awareness that a spiritual storm could come at any moment. Because we're walking circumspectly. That means we're looking around. We're walking with We're walking with wisdom spiritually and making sure that nothing is going to throw us off of God's path for our life. And while we're doing that, we are walking towards those that need to hear about Christ. God wants us to be prepared for these storms. God wants us to be prepared and walk with caution. After all, we have a real enemy. And he's real. And he's patient. And he's lurking nearby and always seeking whom he may what? Devour. 1 Peter 5 and verse number 8. To be vigilant is similar to being circumspect. It means watchful. Peter warns us of this, excuse me, Paul warns us of this, attempted to discover and avoid danger, and it is to provide safety, walking circumspectly Provides personal safety, spiritually speaking. You see it coming. You know it's coming. The Spirit teaches you it's coming. The Spirit then teaches you how to avoid it So think about this. The devil hasn't changed his tactics. He's not going to advertise that he's hiding in i in this world We tend to think that he will somehow let us know when when he is and when he is going to attack. The devil has used us that he comes in subtle. That's why it's important for us to walk in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit. Though we have seen the demise of others who disregarded God's word, we keep doing the same thing, expecting a different result. If you're here this evening, it's by the good grace of God that you're here. There is a whole world out there that knows not that the church even exists. That's our job. But we're having too many casualties in the day and time we live. Too many people are deciding that it's okay, it's not important. Somebody will tell them about Christ. That somebody is you. It's never changed. Everybody, every creature needs a preacher. Amen The spirit-filled path is a path of caution. We ought to be always on the lookout for the disguise of the enemy, for the trap that waits behind the seemingly innocent matter. There is a path of caution. Look with me here in verse number 17, Ephesians 5 and verse number 17. We see a path of consecration. Consecration Look with me in verse number seventeen. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. The spirit-filled path is living a life of consecration. Consecration means separating from a common to a sacred use. And you know what's what's become old hat to us is church? Doing church. We do church. We go to church, we go to Sunday school, we go to church, we go Sunday morning, Sunday night, we go Winston I we can do that Without living a spirit-filled life. That's a tough life to live, by the way. It's not a life of consecration. It is a life of a falsified life So he says this, consecration means separating from a common to a sacred use. It is the will of the Lord that he mentions in this verse that we live such consecrated and sanctified lives. Look with me in 1 Thessalonians and chapter number 4, please. 1 Thessalonians and chapter number 4, please. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4, we'll begin in verse number 3. For this is the will of God, even your Sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. See, it is God's will that we possess purity from sin. It is this is our sanctification or the consecration of the spirit-filled life. The spirit-filled life has to be a life that is lived circumspectly so that we can see the things that are trying to enter our life that are soon going to hinder our walk with God. We live in a world that promotes living as close to the edge of sin as possible. But God tells us to stop and then get far away from that type of danger. Everybody's pushing the envelope today. Whether it be marriage, uh whether it be the sanctity of life, all of these precious envelopes are being pushed today, and it's pushing the Christian All the way up to the line of sin. Used to, we stayed as far away from sin as we possibly could. Now, because we've been desensitized to it over the last year and a half It seems like now we live as close to it as possible. You say, well, Brother Whitfield, what would you be talking about? How many of y'all ever watch the news? No nobody in here has a TV. I get it. I get it. I'm in Lester Roloff's home. I understand that. How many of us watch the news? How many of us are better off after watching the news? Huh? Have you ever got angry watching the news? Be angry and send not type of anger or another type of anger? I I'm just asking. Don't look I'm sorry, I won't look that way anymore. Man, I thought they was good folk over on that side. Those ladies are mad If we're going to be, if we're going to be for sanctification and honor, listen, we have to stop. We have to stop living close to the line. I I'm I mean this with all my heart. I our our separation as Christians today has become as weak as well water. I I and I'm sorry, but look you'll have to hear me well on this because it it affects our culture. The the Spanish speaking culture is a family oriented culture. And and so they think it's okay to have a birthday party on Sunday. I preach against that stuff. I think you ought to be in the house of God, then have a birthday party, be back in the house of God That's just how I think we ought to do it. And I just say that because here's the deal: boundaries have to be set. You have some boundaries that over the last year, you've let those boundaries down You've let them down and you've started easing away from where you used to be. Now I said, bro, with how you how you figure that Because it's happened all across our country. We're not an exception. We're not an exception. Think about the people that you used to witness to in 2019 that you didn't witness to in 2020 and you haven't gone back to witnessing to them in 2021 Thank you. If we're going to be for sanctification and honor, we have to be against anything that hinders our testimony or pulls us from consecrated living. What's the big deal about this? The big deal is this. We stop witnessing. We stop handing out tracts. When our life doesn't match what this Bible says, neither does our testimony Neither does our I mean our witnessing. In in Spanish it's it's testificando, it's witnessing, and that is a direct testimony. You can't separate testifying and testimony. You can't separate them. But when we live pushing the envelope, when we live letting our guard down, our witnessing slows down. Eventually it stops. And that's the most dangerous position that we'll ever be in, friend. You can slack off on Bible reading, you can slack off on prayer time. But if you slack off on witnessing, it will stop you dead in your tracks. Mark her down. It's just me and the big guy here tonight. Amen. How how do we understand what what the will of the Lord is when it relates to our our consecration Well, obviously it comes to us by the Word of God. Look with me in Colossians chapter three once again. Look with me in Colossians chapter three and verse number sixteen. The Bible says this let the word of Christ do what? Dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord A preacher once said this, a walk in the spirit will of necessity be a walk in accordance with the word the spirit has inspired. No one can be filled with the Spirit of God if he is neglecting his time with God. The spirit-filled path is completely different than the carnal path. It is a path of walking circumspectly, staying away from danger. It is a path of consecration set apart from common to a sacred use. This is the spirit-filled path. Now, look with me quickly at the spirit-filled purpose. The spirit-filled purpose. This path of caution is consecration has a purpose It's not simply that we be kept from danger and free from sin. It is that we can be filled with under the control of the Spirit of God. I don't know about you, but I want to obey every impulse of the Spirit of God. I don't know if you have a defining moment in your life. I have a defining moment in my life outside of salvation when the Spirit of God showed me that I was a sinner as a 10-year-old boy and I was able to receive Christ as my Savior as a 10-year-old boy as the Spirit of God convicted my heart of my need for a Savior. There was one other defining moment in my life when 2003, in January 2003, when I was eating my oatmeal. How many of y'all ever had God speak to you while you're eating your oatmeal? Just me once again. I got it. Look, I'm eating my oatmeal preacher, and the Spirit of God says, you need to go talk to your boss. You need to go talk to your boss And I'm like, no. The oatmeal is the right temperature, the right consistency. It's getting good. And I'm like, no, the Spirit of God says you better go now. I'm like, no, I can't do it. I said, I'm telling you, you better go now. Now I know he doesn't speak to you all that way. That's the way he speaks to me. All right, because I'm a little more hard-headed than your nominal Christian. So he says, you better do it now. I'll say fine, fine, fine, fine Set my oatmeal down. I go to my boss. I say listen, I I believe I need to go to language school. I I need to go to language school, learn the language That way it'll help our company and where our manufacturing is done. The 90% of our manufacturing is done in Mexico. Makes perfect sense for me to go learn the language. And also I can give them the gospel while I'm there. He looks at me mm without a thought in his head and he says, you need to go. I'm like, whoa. Okay. He says, go to HR, go to HR. HR says, yeah, here's a form, sign this, boom, boom, boom. Give me 15 minutes. Brings out a check. Here's a check. Here Okay, fine. Call the language school, register for language school. My old mill is still sitting there. Hadn't touched it yet. Language school, register for language school, boom, gone. Three hours. Three hours. Three hours and 15 minutes, a company-wide email comes that says there'll be absolutely no traveler spending from this moment forward unless it's directly on a customer. You see, if I if I if I wasn't listening, though he had to repeat himself several times, If I wasn't listening to the Spirit of God, if I had anything in my heart, anything in my life that would have hindered me from listening to the Spirit of God, I wouldn't be standing here. I would not be here today. You say, oh Brother Whitfield, come on. Hey, church member, come on. I just believe he can direct us like that if we'll live the way he tells us to live. Does that make sense to you? See, we think the will of God is mystical It's up in the clouds somewhere and some Paw Paul somewhere it's going to reach down and turn you and it doesn't work like that. You be sensitive and obey every impulse of the Spirit of God and you find yourself in the will of God. But you've got to live that You gotta live that. COVID, no COVID. Pandemic, no pandemic. Scared, not scared. You have to live Yielded to the Spirit of God. It's a spirit-filled life, is it not? This command could not have been given to us more clearly Look at verse number 18. And be not drunk with wine. Wherein is excess, but what? Be filled with the Spirit. Now, the wackos will take this verse and say it says, not in excess. But Paul is trying to teach the church that you can be controlled by the Spirit of God to a point where you actually seem different. Do we believe that I didn't say drunk, I said different. Do we believe the Word of God or do we believe the Word of God? I believe if He says He can control me to a point where I'm different out in this world, then I best pay attention to how He wants to control me. Ay the me. One preacher said this, I'm tired of hearing sin called sickness and alcoholism a disease. It's the only disease I know I know of that we are spending hundreds of millions of dollars a year to spread. Well, what if we took that same dollar and for every dollar that's spent on alcohol printed a track? And what if Christians that would be controlled by the Spirit of God took those tracks and saw people saved? That's a pretty good spirit-filled life, is it not? Proverbs 23 obviously gives us a lengthy explanation of the dangers of drunkenness and the tragic hold alcohol has on a person. We won't go there this evening for the sake of time, but the command here against drunkenness is direct and to be taken at face value But it is also used as a comparison. Just as a drunk person is under the control of alcohol, so is a Christian to be under the control of the Holy Spirit. Even as alcohol takes control of the mind, the body, the thinking. affecting a drunk person's behavior and conversation. So the same happens to a person under the control of the Holy Spirit. This takes a determined purpose. And I don't know about you, but I live in the great state of Texas. You can't even throw a rock at Texas without having a new law or the governor getting upset We don't wear masks, we we don't worry about nothing, we control our borders, uh, we do what we want to do, you're not gonna fire nobody, you know it's an incredible life But that doesn't make it a spirit-filled life. It doesn't make it a spirit-filled life. Listen, we have to be determined. And one of the things that that we have begun to lack in modern day Christianom over the last uh eighteen months is we've lost our determination. I mean, there were Christians before the pandemic. There were Christians in 2019 that were absolutely determined to go win folks to Christ. Absolutely determined to witness at zero cost. Absolutely willing to offend someone but telling them of their need for a savior. See, there's a determined purpose, but there's also a yielded purpose. Look here verse number 18 once again. This is this is spirit field. But be filled with the Spirit. And it's a it's it's it's an amazing thought that the the word filled means to make full. It means to fill to the full point, to cause to abound, to furnish or supply liberally. You know what that tells me? I have every bit of the power that's available in heaven available in me. I have the opportunity to yield my life to an all-controlling Spirit, an all-controlling God, that he can take it and do whatever he wants to with it. But it takes a decision being made right here in the pew, right here on the altar to say, Lord, I'm willing to yield my life to you Listen, it's easy to it's easy to send and it's easy to go sometimes. But you know what's harder of all of those things is to pray Prayer takes more discipline than anything else. I don't know about y'all, but uh the body. I I don't know the the squirrels Uh the chipmunks. Every time I go to pray, it's uh I hear every sound, two counties over. Yeah, does that happen to anybody? You get tired? Anybody anybody need a nap whenever you're praying? Yeah. Why? Discipline. It's just a lack of discipline. Right? And so this the spirit-filled life, that's what it takes. It takes discipline. So just as the contrast is made of choosing to be under the influence of alcohol, it's also a choice to be filled with the Spirit of God. It's a choice. It is a position to which one must yield when a Christian fully under the control of the Holy Spirit, then he will be furnished and supplied with all that is needed to live out the work of God In their lives. The key is obeying the commandment to be filled. To be filled is to yield to the Spirit, so He may have total access to our wills. and our lives. Look with me in Romans chapter number six, please. Romans chapter number six. Romans chapter number six In verse number thirteen, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but what? Yield yourselves unto God As those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God It's a decision, and it takes discipline. God wants our lives to be completely yielded to Him. Every Christian possesses the Holy Spirit of God, but not every Christian is possessed by the Holy Spirit of God. There is a world of difference between the two positions. Far too many Christians have the Holy Spirit living within them, but they are so carnally minded that the Spirit has no control in their lives. I I remember the first time I handed out a track. I was scared to death. And our preacher, he believed in confrontational soul winning and he He taught us on Tuesday nights. He'd have soul-winning clinics and he taught us how to how to talk to people about Christ, how to open conversations, how to hand tracks out. And I remember the first time And I thought if I never do this, it's never gonna get done. So I just gotta do it. So I had to track and I was in the grocery store, and I was in line, and it was getting to be my time. And I started getting antsy and I started getting nervous and I wanted to set my groceries down And then I felt my groceries rising. And then I started feeling a little ill. And then I'm sitting there. And she probably thought I was getting ready to rob them. That's probably what she thought. Sweat just rolling. And I got up there, I put my groceries on the counter, she rang them up, I paid her, and I still had that track in my hand And I just said, read that. And I just flung it like a Chinese star. But you know what? After I left. I grew. I grew. And the next time I went in and I said, Hey, read that. The next time I went in, I said, hey, don't know if you know for sure, but this right here, I'll tell you how you can know for sure if you die today, you're going to heaven. Next time I went in, hey look, look what this is. God loves you. God loves you. Tell you right, tell you this right here, tell you how you can know for sure you go. And then that led to and led to and led to and led to And then we're knocking doors and seeing people saved and building churches. It takes a disciplined life, friend. And if we don't start now, when are we going to start? I tell young people, you got it as easy as you're ever going to have it right now. If you're not reading your Bible, you might as well start now Because it doesn't get any easier. If you're not praying regularly, you might as well start now because it doesn't get any easier. If you're not living a disciplined life, a spirit-filled life, guess what? You might as well just start now. Because it doesn't get any easier. And the more wicked this world becomes, the harder it will become on us intentionally. Intentionally. You know, we are the holdup. You do know that, right? We we may not we may not be the majority, but we have the power of the majority. We control this thing. They just don't know it yet. But you know what? It's going to take us doing our part. The Christian will never experience the power of God being demonstrated in them because they have not chosen to be y to yield, to be filled by Him. Listen to one more thought here, and we'll close. Men ought to seek with their whole hearts to be filled with the Spirit of God. Without being filled with the Spirit of God, it is utterly impossible that an individual Christian or a church can ever live or work as God desires. The will of God being fulfilled in our lives, us knowing and doing the will of God for our lives, is dependent upon us living a spirit-filled life. Being filled with the Spirit of God is not a suggestion God gave us. It isn't even an appeal. It is a command from God. Anything less than being filled with the Spirit of God is disobedience to the Word of God. When we find ourselves in a position of holding on to sin or unable to forgive someone or not experience the fruit of the Spirit, we must do what Step back, recognize that we're living in contrast to be in contrast to being filled with the Spirit. We're being filled with self instead of the Spirit. In other words, we can repent of sin, we can be emptied of self, and we can yield to the Holy Spirit, but it is God who fills us. And when we are filled, we are blessed with spiritual liberty. When we give God's spirit free reign in our lives, His power works in and through us in a mighty way. Look with me at Second Corinthians and we'll be done. Second Corinthians chapter three. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, please. And verse number 17, a very familiar passage of scripture to all of us. The Bible says, 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse number 17, now the Lord is that spirit. And and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there there is liberty. There is liberty. It's easy. He's saying it's easy. Where the Spirit of God is, it's easy. The Christian life's not easy, but where the Spirit of God is, it's easy. It's a battle. We're soldiers. We're in a war. We're gonna battle. We have to battle. But you know what? It can be easy when the Spirit of God's doing it. That's one of the things I think we've got to remember. How does this liberty, how does this spirit-filled life look to you? How does your life compare to what it is that God's asking us to do? Are you living a spirit-filled life? Are you living a life that's yielded? To the Word of God, to the Spirit of God. And I'm not talking about just being here tonight. I'm talking about every area of our life. I'm talking about from the front room to the back room I'm talking about from the workplace to the home place. I'm talking about my my neighbors as well as my family. Am I living a spirit-filled life? Let's pray. Father, you do the work that only you can do Concerning speaking to our hearts. I I pray that you take this truth and you work. And you teach us and you show us. And you do that in our lives that needs to be done. Lord, there are things in our hearts at this very moment that you've shown us that need to be changed. So, Lord, I ask you that you do that. You give us the strength to confess those things, to see those things, and then Lord, give us the strength to change those things. Lord, help us to grow. Help us to be that spirit-filled Christian that you desire for us to be. And we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen.