Luke twenty one, verse five. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. Verse number five. And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts He said, as for these things which you behold, the days will come in the which shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down They asked him, saying, Master, when shall these things be? What shall signs shall there be when these things shall come to pass? Verse 8. And he said, Take heed that you next three words say them, be not deceived. Take heed that you be not deceived For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. The time draweth near. Go ye not, therefore, after them. Be not deceived. I would say to the man That there's not one man in this room, even some young guys, as young as you are. I'd say there's not a man in this room who hasn't been deceived, one time or another. In their life. I mean, you got tricked. You got hoodwinked. You got swindled. How many of you say I know exactly when I got deceived? Can I see your hands? Don't say it was the day you said I do. But anyway, I mean uh I know when I got deceived. I know exactly when it happened I remember the day. Some of us still don't know when it happened. I'll never forget I hadn't been saved real long. I was excited. I had a really fancy sports car and uh man I wanted to get as far away from the world as I could. So I I went to EJ Corvette's and bought some clothes. I threw out all my hippie clothes and bought a nice pair of they were these cream colored pants with big old green checks on 'em. And uh I got uh just an old cream cream colored shirt, went to the Bible bookstore, I said I want a Bible They said, okay, here you go. Which type would you like? Would you like an NIV, a KJV, uh uh uh all these other Vs and that I said uh I mean a King James Bible, that's what our pastor preaches from I want a King James Bible. Okay, would you like a Schofield, New Schofield, uh Middle Schofield? I said, I mean a Bible. And I looked and I said, that's the one I want. It was a great big family edition Bible Because I was going to carry it. The pastor said, carry your Bible with you wherever you go. So I wanted to get unworldly. I look like the biggest nerd anybody'd ever seen And then I said, I'm getting rid of this fancy car. And I went out and bought a another car, used car. I said, that looks like that's a good one. It was a Volkswagen square back Brother, you couldn't have got a uglier car. I mean maybe a uh I mean an AMC pacer, amen, might have been right there. But I got rid of my fancy car, my stuff And uh and all that. And I'll never forget the salesman. Pulled out of North Point Boulevard, North Point U used auto sales, pulled off the lot. He was smiling. He was so happy. He was fired up, man. And I was so happy. So this car is so nice. And literally 91 days later. The valves blew, everything blew. I took it to the Volkswagen dealer. He said, this car's a lemon. It was all doctored up. It was definitely gonna blow. I took it, they said, sorry, you're out of warranty. We can't help you with that. You know what happened to me? I got deceived. I got lied to. My dad told me not to buy that car. By the way, uh you ought to listen to your dad. And he said, You probably shouldn't oh it's wonderful dad. You gotta see it. And he said, Go go ahead. But I mean, uh what a mess. I can tell you Deception. Deception. Do you know that if I were to ask you today, are you deceived? You would say no. Why is that? Because deceived people don't know it, or they wouldn't be deceived. And I want to speak on this subject today, just for a few moments, and I want to quote the words of the Lord Jesus: be not Deceit. Be not deceived. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Bless into every life and help us where we have little strength We pray for your great strength. We pray where we were weak, you'd be strong. Thank you for this meeting. Thank you for the pastor and his vision to have this meeting. And we ask your blessing to reside upon it. Thank you for what you'll do. May we leave here stirred and refreshed and blessed. And God, may we have our eyes open in these last days. Thank you for what you'll accomplish. We give you praise together. It's in Jesus' name we pray. All of God's men said together. Name you seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text is a great chapter in your Bible in the book of Luke, chapter 21. It is very similar to what we find as well through Matthew chapter 24. This is called the Olivet Discourse. This is the day when the Lord Jesus has now come out from cleansing the temple in the city of Jerusalem. He comes out, this is after his triumphal entry, and it's just a few days Before the fact when Christ would be put to death on the cross, where he'd be put placed into a ported tomb, and three days later Jesus would rise again. We know the account how that Jesus now comes out of the temple and the disciples begin to show him here in Luke twenty-one and also in Matthew chapter two twenty four they show him all these buildings of the temple. They said some spake of his of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, and how uh all these great things. Jesus said asked for these things which you behold, the days will come which there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. If you look at chapter twenty one in its entirety, it all begins with a poor widow woman who gives just her small amount, and Jesus sees her and compares her to others who had much, and he teaches them for several moments uh about the great subject of riches. He said, first of all, you're to look at the distribution of riches. He saw rich men casting their gifts And he saw a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth, I can tell I say unto you, this poor widow hath cast in more than they all. He is speaking about what we do with the money that God has given to us. I never look at how much people give. God is always looking not at how much we give God is looking at how much we have left over. That measures the quality of our giving. So we see that the distribution, and then he reminds them Throughout this chapter of the deceitfulness of riches. He reminds them of this great temple. At the time of the second temple, Herod was in a rebuilding process. He was overlaying the Temple with solid gold all the way around Herod's temple. If you were to come toward the city of Jerusalem and come down from below in the valleys and look up on a sunlit day They say that you could barely look at the temple because of the incredible reflection of this gold that they had overlaid the entire temple with Jesus many times tried to show them the importance not of the temple but of the God who would be in that temple, not of the gold, but of God Himself. And again he reminds them about these riches. He says to them, those things which you behold the days will come. Which there shall not be left one uh stone upon another. Some of you know the account of uh Titus who came in in seventy AD. You may not be aware of the fact that he destroyed the city of Jerusalem. The temple itself was inadvertently set on fire, and when they set the the temple on fire, it was burned to the ground. And Herod's or uh Titus's men went in and literally took all the stones apart because the gold had melted and fallen down between the cracks and they literally took all that gold and Jesus said not one stone would be left upon another. How many believe this? Though when Christ said something, it really was going to happen. It was literally true And that is exactly what took place. The deceitfulness of riches, the destructiveness, or the destruction of Riches. You know what God said about this? He said, Go to now, you rich men. Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted. Your garments are Moth Eaton. We saw a beautiful car coming up the road. We stopped uh right at uh the exit of 219 to use the facility and a man was sitting out there with a 1969 Chevelle Super Sport. Yanko factory four speed four twenty-seven big block. And uh man, I I don't know about you, brother. I started salivating, amen. I pulled in and said, Oh, brother, and uh we pulled up. I said, I'm gonna go over Talk to that guy and whenever he said, Is this a real Yanko? Are you kidding me? He said, No, it's a replica, but it really is a nice replica. It is a four twenty-seven big block engine and this and that. We talked about it Beautiful paint job. I mean it was nice. We drove away and I gave him a track and spoke to him about the Lord. We drove off and I realized That car, as beautiful as it is, is always in the process of decay. It is rusting right now, whether he knows it or not. He can put all the rust oleum he wants on there. He can put rust inhibitor. I've seen guys that keep their car in the garage, uh heated in the winter, cold in the summer, uh 72 degrees, non-stop, covered up. One friend of mine He had his garage floor so clean and so beautiful. You could eat off the floor, brother. He had a big Italian flag. uh considered himself an Italian though his sister did an ancestry dot com and found out they were from Spain. But anyway, uh And I I call him my fake Italian Oh brother, I'm Italian, I'm Italian. I said, No, Steve, you ain't Italian brother. But I mean he's got uh man, it was just uh beautiful inside And I burst his bubble one day. I said, see, this is all gonna burn up. Every bit of this is gonna burn up. This is rusting out, brother. And you understand and by the way He's a wonderful man, great giver to his church. It does work this way. When you give and give God a lot, it seems like God tends to give back and the Lord blesses our life. Is that true or not? But everything we have belongs to him. And so he makes it clear about these riches. Then they say, they ask him the question, When shall these things be? They ask the same question in Matthew twenty-four three. Tell us, Lord, when shall these things be? What shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the age? When Is the world going to finally collapse? And Jesus said this. The first thing he said to them, verse number eight Take heed that you be not deceived. What an unusual response. He said the same thing in Matthew chapter 24. Take heed. Let no man deceive you. Matthew chapter twenty-four, verse eleven. He said, Many false prophets shall arise and shall deceive Many. Matthew chapter twenty-four uh again in verse number five. He said, Many shall come in my name, saying I am Christ and shall deceive many. In fact, God said evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. We talk about the times of the end. We talk about the signs of the times, and we are in the last days, brothers. Write this down. We're in the last seconds of the last minutes. of the last days. Uh I can tell you that I believe with all of my heart, while I'm preaching, the trumpet could sound, the last trump could should could sound, and we'll be out of here. Christ could come today. How many of you believe that? And if he comes today, there'll be nothing but a pile of clothes laying right here, a little pair of shoes, wallet, keys, all that stuff My car, you can have it. You can have my cell phone, you're gonna need it. You can have the little bit of money in my wallet, you're gonna need it all. Bible will be here, notes. You can even finish the sermon, God bless you. But I'm telling you, if Jesus comes today, uh I'm out of here right now. And if you're left behind, you're in a bad way, and you're facing a very awful time called the time of Jacob's trouble. But he did not give all the signs of the times first. The first thing he said Was P not deceived? Don't let anybody lie to you. Don't let someone come in as a political candidate And say, look at me, we won't raise taxes. Isn't that what I'm supposed to say, Jill? We won't raise taxes. Not one inch, not one dollar, not one penny We won't raise taxes. We live in a generation now where it's not only uh normal, it's acceptable to lie. It is an acceptable generation that says it's alright It's okay to lie as long as it's a white lie or just a little lie or it doesn't hurt too badly. He said deception would be the watchword of the day. Now, understand the fact today. How in the world do people get deceived? In first John, God said this in First John Chapter 1 or 2 John Chapter 1. God said many deceivers are entered into the world. Who confess not that Jesus uh is come in the flesh. He said there'd be a day when deceivers would come. They would present Christ falsely They would present worship falsely. They would pretend to be a church when in reality they're no more a church than the country club up the road. They're no more a church than a rock and roll theater. Do I have an amen to that? And understand We've got a lot of people here. They might be a bunch, brother, but they're not a body. They are not a body of baptized believers in Jesus Christ. You are sitting in a local church, independent, fundamental, Bible-believing that believes the Bible is the Word of God. We are sitting today in a New Testament church. And so he made it clear, even in the last days, there'd be a falling away first. And men would uh depart from the faith according to uh 1 Timothy chapter 2 or chapter 4, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. We are living, I believe In the fulfillment of this matter of deception. Now God made it very clear. How do people become deceived? How in the world? What is the pathway? to deception. I believe the first pathway to deception, number one, is the pathway of rebellion I believe when people rebel against God, they are awakened, they are putting themselves in a place where they can be deceived. When they refuse to obey the Word of God When they have refused to obey the appointed authorities that God has placed over his life. Young men, listen to this very carefully. Listen to this verse. The ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat of it. Proverbs thirty seventeen. He made it clear When you refuse to be under authority in your life, you become blind. You become desensitized. You can't see, and without knowing it, you'll get Deceived. Say amen. You ought to be under your pastor. You ought to follow the man of God. You ought to uh learn what it means to say when that pastor preaches, that's what I'm gonna do. If he's in the Bible, I'm gonna follow it I'm going to live by it. I'm going to find out God's man and what he wants for my life. And I'm going to follow what the Bible says to me. I got saved when I was later in life. And I remember the day when I went home And I said, mom and dad, I have messed up completely. They've been saved when I was a teenager. I said, I have done disgrace to the family name I was the only one in our family who'd ever been incarcerated and had a sentence on his life. I'm the only one who'd ever been convicted as a felon, and I remember after I got saved, I want to make this right And then I went to my dad and said, Dad, how can I make it right? I want to do what you say. I can tell you my parents helped me out, brother. They helped me through some incredible things. I had a little girlfriend and Man, she was a cute girl. She was an Italian. Her parents had a big construction company out in Hunt Valley. I mean, it was on. And I liked the girl and she liked me. Her father pulled me aside and said, Lou, uh, you need to marry my daughter. And his name was Lou as well. I said, Okay, so you can run the company. I said, Well, sir, God's called me to be a preacher God has called me to preach. He said, that's okay. You can be an evangelist and you can run the company and you'll be rich. You'll be a rich evangelist. I said, man, I like this sound. Amen. And uh man, I would take the girl out on a date I had my little Volkswagen. He said, put that aside. Take my car. Man, I could take one of several cars. He had a beautiful Mercedes Benz. He had a sports car, had a Porsche, had all this. They said, let's go. Man, I was born for this stuff And I was going out one night and I said, I'll see you, Mom. Where are you going? She said, Where are you going? I said, I'm going to my girlfriends. Oh, okay. I said, what's wrong? She said, you wouldn't listen to me if I told you. I said, well, no, you wouldn't listen to me. You never I said, Mom, what's wrong? She said, I don't feel like that girl was God's will for your life. Man, did I not want to hear that? I said, okay, I'm off drugs, I'm off alcohol, I'm doing right, I'm doing all these good things I quit smoking. I'm being called to preach. I go to church. I help the pastor out. I sound like a five-year-old doing this, this, this, this, that. He would have to I I sound just like a little boy And I said, well, you know, I guess I can't do anything right. She said, I knew you wouldn't listen. Go ahead, bye. And I went out in the car and took off up the road. Volkswagen. I tried to peel wheels, man. It wouldn't even do it. Amen. And uh man, I drove up the road, and all I could think was I'm gonna obey my parents. I'm gonna listen to mom and dad. I'm gonna listen to my parents. Oh God, I'm 21 years old. I'm gonna listen to mom and dad. I'm gonna listen to mom and dad. Riches, beauty, wonderful girl. Listen to mom and dad. God's will. Listen to mom and dad. I pulled the car over. In front of Eddie's supermarket on Hartford Road, there was a payphone there. How many remember those? I didn't have a cell phone. They didn't exist. I had a dime in my pocket. This is a penny, but I had a dime How do you remember that? I put a dime in, Mom. I'm gonna do whatever you tell me She said, son, uh she said, uh I'm sorry. She was crying on the other side. She said, I'm it's okay. I knew she'd been praying for me. I said, Mom, I'll do whatever you say. If you feel that like that girl's not for me, I'm gonna break it off today. She said, you do whatever your God tells you. I drove up there The man came out, oh hey Luigi, what you have to do? I said, hey, Mr. Lou, how you doing, brother? I said, I gotta tell you something. God's really spoken to me And I'm gonna have to break off with your daughter and this and that. He said, get out of here, you blankety blanket and he man, he told me all brother. I mean in those uncertain terms how fast I need to leave. She was standing there crying at the door. I'm sorry, I said really God really did this. I know it was the Lord. Get out of there! I drove away and I said, I love you to all three of those cars. I mean drove down the road and I mean uh drove down that long driveway down to Jacksonville, Jarrettville Pike I drove out of there, went home, brother. By the time I hit the end of that driveway, I was as free as a bird. My eyes were opened. Really nothing wrong with the girl. She just wasn't for me. And now I finally found the girl God had for me is home praying for our meeting, seeking God. Asking God to bless, asking God to work, supported. Last night I said I didn't need to leave early, honey. She said, Oh, I know, you're fine. I'll see you when you get home, honey. I'm praying for you. Tell the Leathermans I said hi. I wouldn't be doing what I'm doing If I had listened to deception. And I'm saying that rebellion. When we rebel, then another pathway is this matter of reject of rejection When we reject the truth of God out of our life, when we refuse to obey the Lord. Do you know what God said to Samuel He was offering up sheep. He was doing everything. God said, You go there and you wait for Samuel to King Saul. He said, You wait for the man of God Well the man of God wasn't coming on his timetable. He wasn't there yet. And so he said, Well, go ahead and make the sacrifice. Samuel shows up and he says, Hello, I've done all the commandment of the Lord. He was deceived And Samuel said, What? What man beeth that bleeding of the sheep in my ears? What are you doing? And he disobeyed God. And you know what God said To obey is better than sacrifice. To hearken than the fat of rams, for rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft, stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. He was told by God to utterly destroy the Amalekites. Not one man, not one woman, not not one baby, not one child left. He was to utterly Destroy them. And Samuel said, Why do I hear hear these sheep? He said, I've done all the commands of God for my life. He said, No, you're deceived. You're wrong. And he ended up very, very badly. Amen? Rebellion. Rejection. And worse than that, when people get deceived is the matter of replacement. It's not just a matter of what you turn away from when you get deceived. Right. It's what you turn to. It's who you turn to and who you follow. I was talking to Brother Harding on the way in. I said, I'm shocked by people And who they follow. Who they put their trust in. Who they will I mean, you had an upstart in the community who's got a little yuppie church. Yahoo and all of that going on and you some kid from uh some college and comes out in his skinny jeans, hey everybody, I don't want to be all preachy, you know. We're just here to fellowship and worship Jesus and and comes out uh three quarters of feminine. Is everybody okay? That's the new thing. Three quarters of famine. Doesn't preach like a man, doesn't sound like a man. God said to lift up your voice like a trumpet and preach the word of God. This sounds like a little picalouth instead of a trumpet You know, we're just gonna share I mean they always have a little table here for some reason to hold this little tiny Bible. What's up with that? And and they've always got an assistant running out giving them a cup of water here. Stop. Brother Hardy had to say you do that really well, brother. All right, thank you. But you know. It's all changed. Amen? Amen. But what they reject. And then you find out there's people going there who run on a great veteran man of God. For fifteen and twenty years. And now they're over here with a yuppie or a millennial, whatever you want to call them, whatever new name they have, who wouldn't know the Bible if it hit him in the head. And so we're living in a generation of people who have replaced God. And replace what God wants for their life. God said in 1 Kings 18, we see that, how God said they have forsaken the Lord. And followed after Balaam. God said, because that when they knew not God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. But became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise. They became as fools and changed The glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and the bur birds, four-footed beasts and creeping things. I mean that's idolatry. One of these churches up in New York, I believe, was the first uh for St. John's Episcopal, I believe, they have Animal Blessing Sunday every year People bring their snakes, their iguanas, their tarantulas, they bring in their uh chimpanzees, they bring all their exotic animals and pets. Uh one lady actually brought in uh what what's the thing with little uh that stings you? Uh I can't remember what they are. Scorpion brought in her pet scorpion. I just said, put that thing on the floor. I'll bless him. Amen. I sent him right to Scorpion Heaven, wherever he's going. I mean We're living in a world that has lost their collective mind. Because the world has been deceived. They're ripe for the Antichrist. They're ripe for what is to come. Let me hurry with this. I want to give you something before we go. Did you know that there are twelve hundred registered religious organizations in America? And now there are more than 500 registered cults in the United States of America. And understand. We are being right. We are being set up. We are getting ready for the arrival of the man of sin. We're getting ready for the man who will uh come in with all deceivableness and wonders. The man is going to come in in the light of the world and tell him, I am God. He will uh sit in the temple of God and show himself that he is God. And he will literally deceive and blind the world after the rapture of the church. There are three pillars of society. Quickly. Three. There are three primary pillars of every society. There are politics, that's what governs us. And just supposed to be there to help us and manage, not control. Do I have an Amen? Not roll out a mandate and said if you get a vaccine you have to leave leave the military or be expelled from your job I walked into a Home Depot and a kid was standing there and he said, Uh oh, you are you vaccinated? I said, that's none of your business He said, I'll take that as a no. I said, You can take it any way you want. It's none of your business. Excuse me. He said, you have to be vaccinated to come in here. I said, said who? Get out of the way. And I walked in and he that was the end of the matter. And uh and I tell him, yeah, I'm I was vaccinated. I have been. I was about I was born and then I got another shot when I was two or three for the polio vaccination and I've never had polio Amen. People get vaccinated and they still get uh COVID-19. Listen, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure that out It's not a vaccine. Do I have an Amen? So we're living in a world of confusion. If you're vaccinated, that's a personal health choice. It always was and always will be. Amen to that. And God bless you if you are, and God bless you if you're not. That is your choice, what you'll do. Now, politics. The second pillar is religion. Religion makes up every society in the world. What about atheists? Well, there's a non-religion, but it's still religion. And what we believe about God and economy. So those three things are vital to make up a society. Of course, there's family, that's the number one pillar of society, and on and on. There's going to be a day. There will be a day in Revelation chapter 13 where a man whose revealed name is the Antichrist. He's called the man of sin. He's called the beast. He's called that great deceiver. He is gonna come in with lies and wonders and all types of revelations. And that man That man will do something that no man has ever done. He will do what Hitler couldn't accomplish, what Mussolini couldn't accomplish What Stalin could not do, he will do what uh some of our uh present world leaders are trying to accomplish. He's gonna come in and literally he's going to control politics He's gonna troll control the economy, he will control religion, and he will control the military He will be absolutely 100% completely in control. And Revelation chapter 13, we know the end of that chapter of the Bible. Where the Bible says that no man shall buy, uh can buy or get game except he received the mark in his right hand and in his forehead, he will cause all the world to receive a mark. the vaccine passport, some of these other chips that people are getting are all precursors to what that's going to be. It's all happening while I speak right now. If you lived in China right now You would have a social pass or you would have a social credit score telling you how you fit in with the CCP And how you set in with communist uh China society, and that'll determine how much you can have. That'll determine where your kids go to school. It will determine your usage of the public transportation. And we tried that with a vaccine passport that had in the back office the exact software that the CCP has today. That's documented. That's not a conspiracy theory. That is fact. And understand the fact. We were one just a few strokes of a pen away from that happening. And understand the fact we are living in a generation of people who are lined up for deception. The devil himself. And of course, his great goal is a one-world Global community. What's behind the One World government? What's behind One World politics? What is behind One World religion? What is behind the one-world economy and military? It's one word, it's called deception. It's the devil. It's sleight of hand. Look right here. Well, I'm doing this over here. Don't read the headlines. Because whatever's in the headlines is something to catch our attention. What's really going on is over in the back offices of uh of the White House and in in DC, of which we no longer are even allowed to go. It's not their house. It never was. It's the people's house. Amen? And but we've been duped into believing that they have a right to control our country. Now, a few things. Deception. Al Gore in two thousand six published a quote documentary, unquote, film. It was should be in quotes because there was nothing documented about it. And he began to tell the world of how much trouble we were in. And that was some 16 years ago, in 2006. His book was entitled An Incontitled An Inconvenient Truth He received the Nobel Peace Prize for it. He got uh Grammy Awards, whatever one you get for a film, he got all kinds of awards because of this inconvenient truth In his inconvenient truth, he made the following promises from 2006. In a decade, there will be no more snow on Mount Kilimanjaro. They had a record snowfall last year. The ice on the North Pole will be gone by twenty thirteen. Last time I checked, the ice is still there. That's right. He said, fish. Last summer I was reminded of this: fish shall be swimming up the streets in Miami, Florida. By 2013, my wife and I were driving through Miami. I said, man, this is great. Where's all the fish swimming by? Brother, I saw somebody with a Miami Dolphins hat. I said there's one. And then but he called it global global warming. Now they've had way too many cold snaps for that to happen. And uh man I we last year I said man this global warming is freezing me to death. If you don't believe it gets cold, you need to come to Oakland, Maryland in the winter I've been up here several times preaching for other leatherman in the wintertime. I thought, What in the world am I doing here? I'm coming back next summer, amen to that Brother, staying at that Oakwood Inn or whatever it was, and then they said it was freezing. It's cold up here. Climate change. Well they changed it now from global warming Now the that didn't work, so now we're after climate change. Climate change changes every day Tonight it's gonna get cool. Tomorrow it's gonna get warm. Climate change has been going on since God created the world. It's gonna be that way. You'll have an amen. And using these cloaks of malice to come in and bring the worst agendas the people could ever imagine. Now I was in high school and I was a bad student. But I learned one thing. It wasn't because I was stupid. I just was in the wrong crowd doing the wrong stuff. And I was not a good student. I had to go to summer school and eventually got saved and then went to college and and caught up with all of it. But I learned a really simple thing. Okay? Two simple truths. So these mankind breathes in oxygen. You ready? And gives off CO two carbon dioxide. Plants breathe in CO two And they give off what? So this idea that we're going to kill the planet, man, I say have more people. Say amen to that? Have big families. And grow stuff in the back, and we're fine And the two are working together. But we're being told, uh, man, we've got to get to population growth, we've got to curb the population, we've got to get down to one person in China. You have to have Literally permission to have more than one child. And if you have more than one, you'll have to terminate, you'll have to murder, you'll have to abort that child because you are not allowed. Listen to me carefully and listen good. There'll never be a day. when I would ever authorize the murder of a child. The murder of the unborn. But we've murdered more than sixty million in America since Roe v. Wade. Thank God that we had a reversal there. But we're not done, brother. We need to keep plowing on. And see that come to fruition. The new globalists. The new globalists, all under climate change. The World Health Organization. How many ever heard of those people? The authors of the pandemic. I said the authors. They created it. Everybody okay? The European Union The United Nations, the World Bank. There is a World Bank. It exists right now. The International Criminals Court Did you know that the International Criminals Court already has in place judges, all liberal, all supposed woke, all for the gay agenda and all that goes with it, criminal judges are waiting in the wings. for the World Criminal International Court, the World Trade Organization, the International Monetary Fund, the Bank for World Settlement, the World Court And of course, the most prominent that I've been studying for ten years is the World Economic Forum. Under the leadership of a demonized man named Klaus Schwab. They meet every year in Davos, Switzerland to set the agenda for world uh finances. They have created Every economic collapse that's been in the last ten years, America is now in their sights. America is in their target because we are in the way of the socialist one-world global dream. You say, well brother, what's that all mean? I'm depressed. I'm not getting depressed. I get blessed. I'm not saying this to scare you. I'm saying this to prepare you for the fact that Jesus is coming. Be not deceived. There's a lot more to this. I'll close because we need to move on. But they ignore several things. First of all, God himself Controls the weather. Amen. The earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof, the world, and they that dwell therein in Psalm 24:1. God controls disease. You understand? Former Governor Cuomo made this statement. He said that neither God Nor Donald Trump helped New York City. May God help him, as he murdered thousands, thousands of our senior citizens. But God controls disease. Bless the Lord, O my soul, forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth. All thy disease. Psalm one hundred three, verse two. God controls disasters, and God controls life. The Lord God formed man of the dust of the earth and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. How? To avoid deception. You're going to have to love the truth. To love the truth. Even if it's inconvenient. Not to borrow that apostate's term. Even if it is inconvenient. How many of you read something in the Bible and it was inconvenient to the way you were living? Wait a minute. This is not good. Inconvenient There's something you wanted. To love the truth of God. David said, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. To love the truth, to long for the truth. The writer said, my soul breaketh for the longing that it hath to thy judgments at all times. I don't know about you. I come to a meeting like this. I can't wait to get preached to I can't wait to hear the word of God. You say, Well, you're the speaker, I'm one of them. I get to hear Brother Harding. I can't wait to hear the preaching. Come to church. I want to hear from God. Say amen to that. Longing For the truth. And then there's to learn the truth. We need to learn it. Study to show thyself approved unto God. And finally. To live the truth. The writer John said, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. 3 John 4. You know, today we don't have to be a blinded, groping, stumbling, deceived generation We have a sure word of prophecy. We can know the will of God. We can live in the will of God. Young man, listen carefully. Study your Bibles. I don't understand the Bible, Brother Rossi. All those these dolls, lessons until there's maybe I need to get a veggie tails tape or some Charlie the grape or Joey the banana or Tommy the Tomato. I need something else. No, you need the Bible, say amen. God's word. Will change your life. He said, I can't understand it. Of course you can't. That's why I said to study. Apply yourself. Give yourself to it. Read it. Learn it. Stay in it. You know what happens after a period of time? You read about something, you come to church, and a pastor preaches that very same thing. Have a question about something. You go to Sunday school and your teacher teaches and answers that for you. And line upon line, verse upon verse, here a little, there a little, you start learning the Bible. And you walk In the truth of God. I'll close with this. I had a young man who was a friend of mine. Some you may know. He was a brilliant young preacher. He could preach I mean like a house on fire. He was one hundred percent man. He had memorized half of Tom Farrell's sermons He went to Bible college and got stirred up. He'd come back. Man, he could preach. I just, hey brother, go ahead. Young people tonight, you need gone. I mean, he'd preach and you say, how in the world? He was great He went into evangelism and he was out of the church I was pastoring and he'd go off and man we helped him get a travel trailer and he was on the road with him, his wife and child, and tearing it up. I got a call from a pastor and said, hey man, this guy preaches an hour and a half on Sunday morning. He's awful young. I told him not to. And uh I brought him in, said you need to curb yourself and you need to obey the pastor Can somebody say amen, please? Need to obey the pastor. Okay. So, and uh you need to do what's right. Okay, yes sir, yes sir. He's in one problem after another. Well, he was always needing money. And he called me, he said, Brother Rossy, I'm I'm Pastor, I'm really, really struggling right now. Can you help me out? I can take up an offering. I would take him out to eat, and he would always order the most expensive thing on the menu. I said never do that. You always need to go halfway. Never get the most expensive thing. We pull in the restaurant, I think we'd go to Red Lobster instead. I'm in the mood for that today. No, we're going here. You don't have to eat, I'm gonna get something here at the double T, say amen. And We're going to Waffle House, say amen to that. But and he was always high cotton. And I remember He came in. He said, man, I'm really struggling. I don't know why I did this. I asked the financial officer. I said, would you mind pulling his tithing record up? You say, how could you do that? He's in the ministry, brother. He's under me. I'm under I'm his pastor. I have the right to know what's going on. I don't do that to church members, but people that are in full-time service, the least thing they can do is tithe. That's right. Brother, he came in and I said, I I found out what's wrong. What's wrong what's wrong? I know what's wrong. And I pushed the tithing record. I said, You're a thief. He said, what? I said, you're a thief. You're robbing God every single week. Oh, I have my tithing envelopes out in the car. I said, oh, great. I'll walk out with you. Let's get them. We walked out to the car. He said, Oh, there's the apartment. I said, okay, you asked me to take you to lunch. We'll drive over. There's a red lobster over there, your favorite place. And uh we'll get the tithing, right? We'll get your tithes. He said he had them all in envelopes for the year. And he hung as that, he said, I'm I'm lying to you. I haven't tied. He said, I haven't been able to afford it. That's the biggest lie the devil ever made of. I said, son, I learned when I was a young man I couldn't afford not to tithe. God is our source. And I said, every time you stand in a pulpit as a robber and a liar You're being deceived. And man, he got very offended. We worked through it. He said, Oh I'll get it right. He did for a little bit, and then he changed churches. And then the pastor of that church called me and said, Hey I got a I hate to ask you about this brother, but I said I know what you're going to say. He said, he doesn't tithe. Another pastor and another one. It happened four or five times. I heard a few weeks ago that he's turned from the faith. He's a Calvinist now. I couldn't believe it. And I saw a few days ago, this week, a pastor friend sent me a picture, said, can you believe this? There he is. He's sitting there with his son, 21 years of age. He said, It's my son's 21st birthday. It was last Saturday And he said, nothing likes having a good good cold brew and a good cigar, and they're sitting in a bar with his twenty-one year old son And still out preaching, still calling himself a preacher and evangelist. You know what happened to him? He got deceived. He rebelled. He resisted God. He refused. To be under God's leadership and under the Word of God. And all he had to do was get it right. All he ever had to do was to open his eyes and get it right. Be Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer