I'm going to read the last part of verse number 27. There's a little phrase at the end of verse 27. I'm going to read that. Then I'd like for us to jump down to verse 31. And I would like for us to read together verse number 31. So have your Bibles ready there. We'll read verse 31 together in unison. Verse 27. Notice the last part. Jesus speaking to Thomas, and he makes this statement. And be not faithless, but believing. Be not faithless, but believing. Then come down to verse 31. Let's read it all together in unison. Ready? Here we go. All together. But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name. I want to speak this morning on be not faithless. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to use his word to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven We're grateful for this very special day that we have set aside to remember and to declare in a special way the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, we've known a long time that you are alive. When we read it in the scriptures, and then when we encountered you through faith in you, trusting you as our personal Savior. And I pray now this morning, dear Lord, that your presence would be here in an evident way. You promise that uh when we go and Teach uh all nations and baptize them, teach them to deserve all things, that you would be with us. And so we're asking your presence to be here. Lord, I present my body anew to you now this hour. I yield my will to yours, and I ask with all my heart. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you speak through me to each of our hearts and lives. I pray our minds would be open, our hearts would be open to your word Those of us that know you as Savior have assurance of salvation, eternal life, pray you'd help us to grow in our faith. Lord, perhaps some that do not have that assurance cannot honestly say they know for sure Their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. I pray that today would be a day of decision and that they would trust you as their own personal Savior. So please help us. Speak to us and challenge us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to offer you three gifts this morning. You can choose any one. You can only have one. You can choose any one of these three gifts. The first gift I'm offering you, hypothetically, is uh a two million dollar mansion on the lake uh along the lake up here at the lake. One gift. Gift free for you. Alright, that's one. Keep that in mind. The second gift I'm offering you is a brand new Lamborghini. Alright, so a $2 million house on the lake or a brand new Lamborghini Visitor says they give that kind of stuff out. I'll come to this church all the time. Two million dollar house in the lake, brand new Lamborghini, or five million dollars in cash. Two million dollar house, Lamborghini, five million dollars in cash, or a parachute Now those four gifts, what would you choose? What would you choose? Somebody says, I I said this to my wife, she goes, I think the cash should be work pretty good. Five million dollars in cash. You can pick only one, but you have to choose one. What would you choose? Let me give you a little bit more information. You're on an airplane, 10,000 feet, all the engines have blown out, it's gone down. Which gift would you choose? The parachute. When we find ourselves, and by the way, that little thing isn't original with me. I came across that reading this week, but I thought it illustrates a very important truth When we find ourselves in dire situations, when we find ourselves in a life and death circumstance, our priorities change pretty drastically, don't they? Don't they? The Bible says in Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 27, listen to this verse very carefully. It says, and this is God speaking, this is God speaking in his word. He said, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this, the judgment, the judgment The Bible teaches us very clearly that every one of us have an appointment that we cannot cancel, we cannot escape, we cannot alter. And that is an appointment with death. I do not like going to the dentist. Every time I can, I change the appointment. Anybody here? Get up that morning and say, I really don't want to do this. Can I change this appointment? God says we have an appointment that we cannot change. We cannot cancel. We cannot escape. It's an appointment with death. And after death, the Bible tells us there's judgment. There's judgment. One thing, again, the Bible teaches very clearly all through Scripture: God is a judge. And every single person that ever has lived, ever will live, will someday, in one judgment or another, stand before that judge. And we'll have to answer to the God of all creation, the God that gave us life, the God that gave us everything we have, the God that loves us dearly, and we'll have to make judgment. There is one of two places every person, again the Bible's very clear on this, there's one of two places every person ends up after death. It's either heaven. Or it's hell, ultimately the lake of fire. There's no other options, nowhere in-betweens. The Pope is wrong when he says there is no hell. He's wrong. Jesus Christ very clearly taught us. Jesus Christ very clearly warns us there's a very real place called hell. A literal place called hell. He references people going there. In Luke chapter 16, he kind of opens up a little window to hell and shows us a rich man that ended up in hell, and he just gives us a glimpse of what it's like To be in that place. The Pope is wrong when he makes that statement. After death, the judgment. Heaven or hell. Heaven or hell. Um There is only one way to heaven. Earlier in the book of John, chapter 14, Jesus made this statement. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. But by me. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a single person from hell. If you've come here inspecting this church to help you escape, if you're coming here to this church to save you from hell, we cannot do it. That baptistry water is important as baptism is for a believer. Baptism cannot wash away sins, cannot save from hell. There's only one way a person can find forgiveness of sins. There's only one way a person can find assurance from God that we have eternal life and we escape hell and go to heaven. That is through the person, the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I don't know about you, but that's pretty clear in my mind. It's pretty clear in my mind. Listen to Acts chapter number 4 and verse 12. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Jesus Christ is the only one that can save a person from eternity in hell. He's the only one that can forgive their sins. And give them assurance of eternal life in heaven. Jesus Christ died on the cross for you and for me to pay the punishment for our sin. I'm convinced in studying the scriptures that on that cross Jesus Christ suffered the literal hell that a lost person experiences all eternity in heaven. On that cross, he suffered that literal hell. Not as a sinner, he was sinless, he was without sin, he was holy, he was pure, he was the Son of God. Yet he willingly and voluntarily gave himself because he loves you and I. He says, I will pay that punishment for them. I will take that wrath of God, that judgment of God for Dennis Leatherman's sin. I will take responsibility for Dennis Leatherman's sin. And I will bear the judgment for his sin for him. And he did that on the cross for me and for you and for all mankind. He's buried three days, three nights. He rose again. The most provable fact in all of history, I'm convinced, the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's alive today. And so we go back to our four gifts. Two million dollar house, a Lamborghini, uh five million dollars in cash, or a parachute. Only a fool on a plane that's gone down would not choose the parachute. Only hope of living, only hope of escape. And as sinners, you and I, as sinners facing an appointed day of death, a time and a place set up by God And then we go into before God in judgment. We go out into eternity. Heaven or hell? Can I say this? Only a fool. Would reject the only way of salvation, the Lord Jesus Christ. The only hope of forgiveness. The only hope of eternal life, a home in heaven. Only a fool would reject that Only a fool. We're celebrating the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. I had Mark read this extended passage of scripture here. And this experience here is when uh the disciples met together on a Sunday night. If you notice there in verse 19, it says, then the same day at evening Being the first day of the week. That's Sunday. So it's a Sunday night, and they're all assembling together. Can you bear with me a little bit? Can I suggest to you it's the first Sunday night church service The assembles got together on Sunday night. By the way, Sunday night church service is one of my favorite services. If you're not in the habit of coming out Sunday nights, I love it. We have a good time. And uh so the disciples assembled here together, and one of the disciples stayed home from church. I guess there was the final four maybe or something, and he stayed home from church. He didn't go to church and he did whatever he did. Guess who showed up that Sunday night when Thomas wasn't there? Jesus showed up, the resurrected Christ. And so the disciples are coming and uh telling him about Christ showing up. And uh notice in verse number 25 It says, the other disciples said unto him, We have seen the Lord, they're speaking to Thomas. But he, Thomas, said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side. I will not believe. I want to give you a few thoughts about the resurrection. Then I want to look at verse 31 just quickly. I want us to consider, first of all, the surprise of the resurrection. The surprise of the resurrection. Not one of the disciples expected Jesus to rise from the grave. Not one of them. Every single one of them were surprised when they found out that Jesus rose from the dead. Now, they should not have been surprised. He had told them over and over, I will rise again, I will rise again. In fact, you could even go back into the Old Testament passages and find where God clearly teaches that the coming Messiah, the Savior, would rise again. But not one of the disciples expected it. Every single one of them were shocked and amazed when they saw the Lord Jesus Christ. All of them were surprised by that. Oh the Mary and uh when they showed up at the grave and uh the angels there, where have you taken our Lord The second thing I notice about, I want us to consider about the resurrection, not just the surprise of it, but the skeptics of the resurrection. It's interesting if you study it carefully, not one of the disciples believed it when they first heard about it Mary shows up there and the ro stones rolled away and the great uh uh the tomb is empty. There's an angel sitting there, they didn't recognize the angel, and she didn't show up, it's interesting, she didn't show up and say this, I knew it I knew he was coming back from the grave. He said he would. This is exactly what I anticipated. She didn't say that. She goes, where have you taken the body? And even when she did see the Lord Jesus, she didn't recognize him. She didn't believe it until he called her name. All the disciples were skeptics. None of them believed about it. All of them needed proof. When she comes back and she tells the disciples, Peter and John didn't say, she comes back and says, The Lord is risen. We saw him. Peter and John, they didn't say, we knew it. We knew he'd do that. He told us he would. Not one of them said that. What'd they do? They had to run out there and see for themselves. Ah, there's no way. They go running out there and they're looking at this and they're trying to figure out what in the world. We get on Thomas. We give Thomas a hard time. In fact, what do we call him? We call him doubting Thomas. Because he was so skeptical. But I'm suggesting to you he was no different than all the other disciples. Every one of them were just as skeptical as Thomas was, except he just expressed it more clearly. Peter and John, basically they didn't say it, but they didn't believe it until they saw the empty tomb. Mary didn't believe it until she saw the Savior and he called her name. Thomas didn't believe it until he saw the Savior and saw the wounds. So they were skeptics. Thomas was not alone. Now the third thing I want us to notice here is the salvation of the resurrection. The salvation of the resurrection. Dead saviors can't save people. Dead saviors can't forgive sin. Only living saviors. Salvation, the teaching and preaching on salvation over the years has developed into two extremes One extreme is this. I can be saved from hell, and I can gain eternal life if I'm good enough. If I do enough good things, if I live a good enough life, if I'm sincere, if I'm honest, if I have integrity If I'm successful in the important areas of life, then I will be acceptable to God, and God will accept me into heaven, and I can have eternal life. This is called works salvation. I've mentioned this before, but how many people recognize the name Mohammed Ali? He was actually a great boxer, kind of unique. He was a flamboyant man we know about Muhammad Ali. He was Muslim. And one time, a reporter, they were talking different things, and Muhammad Awe in the interview referenced his fate. And the reporter asked him, he says, you mentioned your faith. He says, what does your faith mean to you? And he kind of talked about, you know, in eternity after death, what does your faith mean to you? Muhammad always said this, this is what my faith means to me. When I die, I will stand before God. And when I stand before God, I will He will take all the good things I've done and how I've helped people and uh the charities I've invested in and my honesty and my integrity And all that, and he will put that on one side of a scale. He'll take all the sins I've committed, all the things I've done wrong, he put it on the other side of the scale. And whichever one outweighs the other will determine where I go to eternity. Muhammad Ali was wrong. That is called works salvation. Attending church is very important. The church is God's idea. God ordained the church. God established the church. It is the body of Christ. The church is vitally important, but the church cannot save a person from sin in hell. The church cannot impart eternal life Say, well, I'll be a good church member. I'm going to put big offerings in. I'm going to get baptized. I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that. And I'm going to say the rosary. And I'm going to go through this ritual. I'm telling you, those good works will not save. So one extreme that's being taught is that you have to be good enough to get to heaven, or it's taught this way, you have to be good enough to stay saved once you trust Christ. That is all works, works, works. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9 says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. So that extreme is unscriptural. We are not saved by our works. There's another extreme out there, and it basically says this Because Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, everybody goes to heaven. Everybody has eternal life. Everybody will ultimately be saved. Sometimes they refer to it as universalism Eventually everybody's going to get saved. Everybody ends up having. God loves everybody. I had a fellow I was preaching up in Connecticut a couple weeks ago and There was a fellow there, we were making some visits, a guy invited us in. We spent about an hour there with him going over the gospel, and he says, I have a question for you. And maybe I referenced this recently, but he said, I have a question for you He said, if God is just, why doesn't he let everybody go to heaven? If God is just, why would he send anybody to hell? And I told him, I said, you've just answered your own question. God is just. And the justice of God demands that wrongdoing be dealt with. Amen? We just had these horrific shootings taking place. And I'm telling you, this nonsense is tearing our nation apart. And we have these horrific shootings, and I don't believe even the most liberal-minded person, no one would say, well, if we're going to be a just judicial system, it's going to be just we should just let this young man go. If we're just, we're not going to punish him. There's no consequences. He will just go and be free. That is the exact opposite of justice. That would be a travesty of justice. And our God is a holy God, and He is a just God. And when we break God's law and we violate His holiness and we sin against His very name A just God says that must be dealt with. There is consequence to that. And so when folks say, well, just God will just let everybody into heaven, that's not correct either. That's unscriptural. The Bible says, as I just referenced, we are sinners. We've broken God's law. We've sinned against God. I wonder how many of us, now don't respond to this please, but I wonder how many of us in here have taken God's name in vain. Once? Twice? Fifty times? It is shocking to me, and I'm as much a sinner as anybody else, but it's shocking to me to be in a family environment. And hear God's name used so lightly and so blasphemously, and to think that a holy God that clearly says, Thou shalt Not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain? To think that God would just say, alright, well that's fine, don't worry about it. That is not a just God. That is not a holy God. My Bible says that God has clearly commanded us that we are not to bear false witness, we are not to lie. How many of us in here have ever told a lie? How many of us in here have ever told five? Ten? A hundred? Thousand in our lifetime, thousands of times we have sinned against a holy God that says, I am the truth. And yet every time we lie. We are violating that character of God. So God is a holy God, He is a just God. All the works in the world cannot make up for the sins I've committed. And God is just. He cannot and will not just say, all right, forget it, it's fine, don't worry about it. But this is what God has done to solve the dilemma. They're sinners, they're guilty, they're under the judgment of God, they've broken the law, a just God says that must be dealt with. So God, the judge, Jesus the judge, comes down. And takes that judgment upon himself. Dennis Leatherman broke the law. Dennis Leatherman violated my commands. My my my uh requirements to be acceptable to his Creator. He's broken those, so I will come down. I will take responsibility for what Dennis Leatherman has done I will bear the judgment for him in his place. I will bury be buried. I'll rise again. Now, does that mean everybody's going to heaven? No, God says I offer that. Opportunity, that forgiveness is a gift. I paid the whole price for you. Your sin debts are paid. Your sin has been judged. It's all taken care of. And I offer that to you as a gift package. And you can accept what I've done for you to be your own forgiveness, or you can go ahead and try and work your way there. You can have some fantasy idea that God will just, whatever, he's not going to deal with that. But the Bible way of salvation is by I recognize myself as a sinner. I believe that Jesus paid for my sins for me and my place as my substitute. He is buried. He rose again. He's at the reign of the Father. And I say, God, I believe you did that for me. I want to receive by faith that you did that for me. I accept that gift in your forgiveness. By faith in Jesus Christ. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? So salvation is in Jesus Christ, a risen Savior, the only hope of mankind. Our church folk, you guys heard me tell this a thousand times. But I'll never forget. Almost 40 years ago I knelt by a bed up in outside Philadelphia, a sinner. I knew I was a sinner. I knew I'd made such a mess. I called out to God, Jesus, I need you to be my Savior. I don't know the words exactly, but I called out, Lord, I'm trusting you, you died for me, so I could have eternal life. Please, I accept you as my personal Savior. I'm here to testify. Nearly 40 years later, Jesus did exactly what he promised he would do when I called on him as my Savior. All around this auditorium, folks could stand and testify. Jesus saved me when I accepted as my Savior. He forgave me, He gave me a new life. I have assurance that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. That's the message of Easter. That's the resurrection. We have a Savior, a living Savior, our only hope. And through faith in him, accepting him, turning to him from our sins, trusting him, he'll forgive us and give us eternal life. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Look at verse, look what he says in verse 31. What a powerful verse. But these things are written. All this record of Thomas doubting and then seeing Christ and believing. All this record of the life and works of the Lord Jesus Christ, in fact, this whole Bible was written that ye might believe. And that believing, you might have that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing, you might have life, eternal life. Through his name. Do you notice the purpose of the scriptures? So that we believe. So that we believe. All this information. The Bible is a book of information. It's giving me information about life. It's giving me information about the God that created this world. And I always feel like I need to throw this out. Evolution is nonsense. It is absolutely ridiculous. And the God that created this world, the Bible's given me information about him, who he is, what his name is, what he's like, what he expects from us. How he responds to mankind. The Bible's giving me information about myself. I'm not just a physical being. I'm a spiritual being. I am a soul. There is a spiritual world all around us. We can't see it or feel it, might not hear it, but we are in a spiritual world, not just a physical world. There are angels and devils The Bible gives me information about life beyond the grave, eternal heavens, eternal hell and lake of fire. The Bible gives me information about the future, new world. A millennium, a return of Christ. It's given you all this information. He says, I wrote all this. God says I gave you all this, so you would believe What is true about life and God and eternity and right and wrong? He's given us this information. So the purpose of the scriptures It's to give me information about Jesus, that Jesus is the Christ. He's the Savior. And I need a Savior. Now the word believe there is an interesting word. It means more than how we use it kind of flippantly The word believe there means to rely in, to be so fully convinced I trust it. To be convinced, yes, I know it's true. I don't just know in my head, but I know it's true, but I'm relying and I'm depending on it. So the purpose of the scriptures is that we would believe that Jesus is the Christ. Notice the person of the scriptures. It's Jesus. This book is about Jesus Christ from beginning to end From Genesis all the way to Revelation, it's a Savior. Jesus is the Savior. Jesus is the Savior. We have a lot of preachers like to call it the scarlet thread through scriptures. That scarlet thread is simply referring to this. There is a theme through every book of the Bible, and that is this. There is a Savior. The Old Testament is coming. New Testament came There is a Savior who is going to shed his blood to pay for all of mankind's sin. It's a starlet thread. It is all about the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I suggest to you there's another thread that runs through Scripture? I call it the golden thread. And that golden thread is also about the Lord Jesus Christ. Scarlet thread, he shed blood, dying for our sins as our substitute. The golden thread is this. He's coming back again someday. He's coming back again someday. Jesus is coming back again someday. Genesis to Revelation. He's coming back again someday. So the purpose of the book is to uh that we would believe that Jesus is the Savior. I am a sinner, I need him. The person of the book is Jesus. From beginning to end. And then the promise of the scriptures is this, that you might have life through his name I am with this. If you have your Bibles, turn with me, if you would, to 1 John. Back towards later in the Bible. 1 John, not the Gospel of John. You get back before Revelation. You have 1 John and 1 John comes right before 2 John. If that helps you. I want it so bad to say something else along with that, but I won't. Oh, I I owe an apology to him. Sherry, right? Is it Sherry? I I was teasing her before I said missionaries take over and she felt bad. The thing about this, remember when Brother Edwards was here, he says, a New York deli, if they don't insult you or make fun of you, it means they don't like you. It's a lot like our church. So if we're not teasing you or say something about you, it means we don't like you. So we like you. And so I forget what I was talking about now. What? First Yeah, I was going to say something else, but I don't remember. I'm at the point now when the bird's flying over, you've got to shoot it while it's there, or you're never going to get it, you know 1 John chapter 5 and verse 11. Boy, if if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible or highlighting, this would be a great passage. Verse 11, 1 John 5. And this is the record. This is the Bible, the record. Goes back to John. These things have I written unto you. This is the record. That God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is where? In his Son. Not in His church, not in the baptistry, not in works. It's in his Son, Jesus Christ. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. He's talking about eternal life. These things, look at this. These things have I written unto you. Again, it goes back to John 20, 31. These things have I written unto you. These are written. That ye believe on the name of the Son of God. Look at this next statement. That ye may know. That ye have eternal life, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. The promise of the Bible is this: that you and I Can be fully forgiven of our sins. Fully forgiven by God. And we can know for sure That because those sins are forgiven, I have eternal life. I have a home in heaven for all eternity. And the wonderful thing is not only that, but God changes my life here and now. I like here now. I was visiting with a young lady yesterday, and it's a sad story. I talked to her a little bit and I said, I said, you know and she was telling me your problems. And they're very real and they're very, very serious. Very serious. And I said, and I called her name and I said, you really need the Lord in your life. Said, you can't deal with this yourself. You need the Lord in your life. She began to weep and she said, I know I do. I know I do. I said, have you ever accepted Jesus as a personal Savior? She goes, no, I am not. I said, why not? She began to weep and she goes, I don't believe he could forgive me for what I've done. She told me. I said, let me show you some verses. I showed her 1 John. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I showed her where it says the blood of Jesus Christ his son cleanses us from all sin. I said, did you know that Moses was a murderer? I said, do you know that David was an adulterer? They found forgiveness. Forgiveness. Through trusting the living Savior, Jesus Christ. I said, do you believe now that God can and will forgive you? He goes, I I believe he would. I said, let's ask Him to do that. She bowed her head with me and call on the Lord to be our Savior. Trust Him. To forgive all her sin and give her a new life. Terrain about a fellow Jacob. I don't know anything about it, Mother What I'm going to tell you. He was born and raised in Singapore. And they said the interesting thing about Jacob was that from a young child, his goal, his drive in life is he wanted to be rich. And he wanted to have that Lamborghini. And he wanted to have that two million dollar mansion. And he wanted to have that money that that uh uh millions in cash. And through his teenage years into his 20s, that was his drive to be rich and to be successful. And he was. Except that he did it illegally. And he got heavily involved in drug smuggling and the drug trade and then the the cartels and the in the Pacific there and Asia countries and Big time. And finally he was caught and arrested and convicted and sentenced to jail for a long time. Jacob was a heavy smoker. And in the jail they would not allow them to smoke. He couldn't smoke and so he's struggling with that. And he bought off one of the guards and they smuggled some tobacco in. This is a true story. It's documented as far as I can tell They smuggled some tobacco in, but he had no rolling papers. The Gideons had distributed Bibles throughout the jail. So Jacob, in his ignorance and his spiritual blindness, would tear pages out of the Gideon Bibles and he would roll his cigarettes. With the papers, pages of the Bible. He would smoke his tobacco. They said that he said that one day he had fallen asleep. He was laying there smoking, he had fallen asleep. And the cigarette had kind of just kind of burned out. He woke up and he looked at the paper that was left of the cigarette and he unrolled it, and there was this statement from that Gideon Bible. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? He got curious. And he asked for another Bible, and he looked it up, and some guys helped him they found that passage. And he read about what Jesus Christ, how Jesus Christ had transformed the life of the Apostle Paul. And that Paul had an experience with a living Savior. And Paul's life was changed. His soul was saved. And Jacob bowed his knee and trusted Jesus Christ as his personal Savior. When he eventually got out of jail, he would go and give his testimony around. God transformed his life. He started Bible studies in the jail there in Singapore. Led many, many to the Lord. When he got out, he would give his testimony and he would always say this. I never thought I would come to know the living Savior. Through a burned-out old cigarette. Cigarette paper. I'm here to tell you the Bible is true. And it is powerful. And just a little phrase can completely transform a life. And this morning we've assembled in the name of Jesus Christ. Because we are absolutely convinced the Bible is true and he is a living Savior. We've experienced him. We've trusted him. We've seen what he's done in our lives, and we believe what he's going to do in the future And if you're here this morning and you say, preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I know I'm a sinner. I know I am. I've lied. I've taken God's name in vain. Maybe I've committed adultery. I've dishonored my parents. I've stolen whatever. See, I'm a sinner, I know I am Like that fella in the plane that desperately needs an air, uh a parachute, not a million dollars. I desperately need a savior. I'm here to tell you there is a Savior, He's a living Savior. And you can call on Him and receive that gift of eternal life freely this morning by faith. By trusting him, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, forgiven, saved from hell and judgment, have eternal life. You believe Jesus died for your sins. You acknowledge that you're a sinner. You turn from those sins to Christ, trusting him in him alone, and receive by faith what he's promised you. God will forgive you and save you. He will forgive you. He will save you. He has promised that. For those of us that know him, he looks to us to live for him He looks to us to be a witness, to share the message of the resurrection far and wide as they did in the Bible. A biblical, a Bible church is a missions church, is a soul-winning church, taking the message out, taking the message out. That's our job, those of us that know us. Let's bow our heads, close our eyes. Father, I thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for his presence in our midst when we assemble. I pray you'd speak to hearts now, and I pray that important decisions would be made. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. Maybe you're here this morning and you say, Preacher, I really don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'd like to think I would, but I don't know. Or maybe you say, I know I'm not. I know I've sinned against God. I've broken his law. I know I'm guilty. And you would like to be forgiven. You would like to know that you have eternal life. Our Savior is ready and waiting. Hear you call on him. And that moment he will forgive, cleanse, and give you a new life, eternal life So with our heads bound and eyes closed, right there at your pew, I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. We don't do this always, just occasionally But I'm going to offer a simple little prayer that you could from your heart to God, between you and God, calling the Lord and entrusting Him as your own Savior Now just repeating these words in your mind, just saying the words over, is meaningless. Just repeating something is meaningless. But in your heart, you say, I really want Jesus to be my personal Savior. I can help you call on him and make that decision. Here it is, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, between you and the Lord. This is the prayer I invite you to pray with me. Here it is. Ready? Between you and the Lord in your heart. Dear Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I believe you died for my sins. Was buried and rose again This morning, I'm turning from my sins, calling on you, trusting you to be my heart and life and be my personal Savior For Jesus' sake. In his name. Amen. Now with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder, is there any this morning say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you? I meant that with all my heart I prayed that prayer. Would you slip your hand up? Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you, and I meant it with all my heart. How about any dog? God bless you. God bless you. How about any others? Preacher, I prayed that prayer. I meant it with all my heart. Any others? Any others? How many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I trust in Christ. That's settled from the Bible, I know. But you say, preacher, there's areas of my life where I'm not living for the Lord like I ought. God's Holy Spirit is dealing with me. There's some decisions I need to make, and there's some actions I need to take to grow in my faith and be stronger. Maybe it's baptism. Maybe it's church attendance or membership. Maybe it's daily Bible reading. I don't know. Maybe it's some issue that needs to be dealt with. But God will help us and He'll direct us if we'll just trust Him. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know I'm saved, but I know there's areas in my life that need attention. How about an uplifted hand? God bless you. All across here Old cross, always spirits dealing with heart. On this Easter morning, how about let's just say, Lord, I'm going to yield myself to you. I'm going to present my body. I'm going to dedicate my life. I want to respond to this. I invite you and encourage you to find a place in this old-fashioned altar. On this day of resurrection, let's do business with God. Maybe there's someone that's unsaved. You're burdened for it. Good time to come pray for them. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the