Uh if you got your Bibles this morning in Matthew chapter fourteen, I'm going to read verses twenty-two through twenty uh through thirty-three. And I want to preach on this subject this morning, as we see here in this passage of Scripture, the title of this message is Be Not Afraid, or Don't Be Afraid. Don't be afraid. Here in Matthew chapter 14, it's a familiar passage of Scripture. This all takes place right after the Lord Jesus Christ had just fed uh 5,000 men plus women and children, and he did that with uh uh loaves of bread and fish. And he didn't have much of either one But we know that God is the God of miracles, and he uh uh he did that, and we see in verse twenty-one, and they that had eaten were about five thousand men. beside women and children. And so we see that miracle that Jesus Christ did. And in verse 22, we'll pick up the story here. It says, and straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him onto the other side while he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away he went up in the mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come he was there alone. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and they cried out for fear But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer. It is I, and this is where I want to focus today, it says, Be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and beginning to sink. He cried, saying, Lord save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? And when they were come into the ship the wind ceased. Then they which were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth Thou art the Son of God. Let's power for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, Lord, we love you today. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to be in your house. Thank you for the freedom that we have to be here. We don't have to worship you in secret. We can worship you openly. Help us to be found faithful, doing what you'd have us to do. Be with the preacher this morning. I just ask that you reach down and touch him, raise him up, Lord, give him the strength and wisdom that he needs. Work your will and your way in his life. in his church. Just ask that you'd be honored and glorified with everything that's said and done today. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. We've talked a little bit about this already. This is right after Jesus had fed the 5,000, and then he departed, he sent the disciples away, sent the crowds away, and he departed up to the mountain to spend some time in prayer. And uh he sent the disciples, he says, okay, you guys go across the lake and I'll meet you on the other side. And uh So he went up into the mountain to pray, and uh as they were going across the lake, I've never been to Israel to be able to tour this. I would like to someday Uh my father-in-law, who's in heaven now, uh, he wanted to take uh all his kids over there and take them on a trip to the Holy Land But he passed away before uh he could fulfill that uh that desire of his heart. Now he gets to walk and talk with Jesus by Doesn't have to go to the doesn't have to spend any money. But uh he was never a preacher, he was never a pastor or anything like that He was a deacon in a church, but he was a faithful man of God, and I've never met anybody who loved Jesus more than my father-in-law. And I'm thankful for him and the example uh and the privilege it was to for to be able to call him dad Uh he was a logger for for fifty-four years and he died doing what he loved to do, cutting down trees. And died in the woods and uh he cut down a tree and all they can figure is he was walking back to a skitter And uh knowing him, he was probably singing a song, uh, and a tree came down and hit him in the back of the head, and he went into glory And uh uh I've just seen God work through that and uh in my mother in law's life I give my mother in law a hard time. I've always got a joke for her But if she was sitting here I'd tell you one, but she's not, so I'll spare you from that. But uh I would just just seeing how God's worked in her life and in our family since he passed away Uh I know he's in heaven. I'm looking forward to seeing him someday. I get an idea when I get to heaven, whether it's by the rapture or in death, when I get to heaven, he's going to be standing there at the gate and he's going to look at me and say, Come on in I've been waiting for you. Come see a man that died on the cross for our sins, able to worship here at his feet for the last number of years because that's what he loved to do. He he l he loved God. And if you showed up on his on his woodlanding as he was working in the woods, he would literally shut his equipment down And he would look at you if I enter if I took your preacher to him and said, Hey, this is Pastor Leatherman, this is my father-in-law, uh Gil Martin was his name, and uh introduced him, he'd look at your preacher and he'd say, Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior? You know why? Because preachers need to be saved too. And uh he wasn't ashamed to ask people if they knew for sure uh if they were going to heaven when they died. And uh uh but uh uh Jesus here he he's walking across the lake and of course we know the disciples are in a storm And if you've ever anybody here ever gone out, I grew up in Maine, and I grew up relatively close to the ocean, so there'd be times that we'd go out fishing in the ocean There was one time we were out there about fifteen, sixteen miles out, and as we went out the ocean was nice and calm. But throughout the day, we were in like a twenty-six-foot boat, which it sounds like a big boat, right? But you get out in the middle of the ocean, it really isn't that big when you look at the ocean. And it only takes a few minutes for that boat to disappear, and you're gone forever. And uh we were out there, we were tuna fishing, it was the last day of the tuna season and we'd uh done a job for a guy and he's like, let's go out and he took us out and you could just see on the horizon Well, later that afternoon the winds kicked up on the before we headed in and the waves were between six and eight feet. And it doesn't sound like very high, but when you're in a boat that's only uh twenty-six feet long And your waves are a third of that. It's a little rough rough ride in. Now I didn't get sick or anything, but I was a little nervous, I'll tell you that Now the disciples were in a boat out in the middle of the Sea of Galilee, and this storm came up. And it's even worse when it's nighttime. I've been out on the ocean fishing, and we've left the dock and got out to the ocean and a fog bank sets in and you can't see anything, you'd know it around here as a driving up the interstate or driving up a road in a whiteout You can't see anything. It's a dangerous situation, right? Same thing out on the water. A fog bank rolls in. You can't see that boat that's coming towards you. Uh it can be dangerous and I'm sure the disciples at night, they didn't they didn't have I'm sure they didn't have much for lights on that boat, uh lanterns or whatever they used back in that day And they were out there at night and they were fighting against the wind and the rain and the storm and they were trying to get to to land. And these were pe these were guys that the They they they they were familiar with these with these conditions. It wasn't something that caught them unawares. They they they I'm sure they saw that storm coming up And they knew how to deal with it because many of them were fishermen and had spent their life on that sea. And uh but uh it says that uh there in uh verse twenty-five in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them walking on the sea, and when verse 26, when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and they cried out for fear They weren't necessarily scared of the storm. But they were scared when somebody came walking across the water to them. Now, you go back to the Old Testament and talk to Abraham and Sarah, and the angel of the Lord coming to Abraham and Sarah. and looking at Abraham when he's a hundred years old and Sarah when she's 90 years old and saying, You're going to have a kid. What did Sarah do? She laughed. Now we know why the Lord called his name Isaac. Now we get after Sarah for doing that. Anyone here, 90? Anybody here, 80? Uh we got a couple back here, both of them, I'm assuming your husband and wife, right? Because I met you before church Okay. Uh what would you do if somebody showed up and said, hey, you're gonna have a kid? I'll tell you right now, I'm fifty I'm only fifty three years old. I don't want another one. I understand what my father said When he when he when he told everybody he says he says, I wouldn't give you a nickel for another kid, but I wouldn't take a million bucks for the ones I got And uh uh we became empty nesters here in the last couple of years and uh people people have asked us how how are you coping with that? I'm loving it My insurance bill went down. My food bill went down. Hey, I can go to the restaurant that I want to go to, and I only got to pay for two now. But here the disciples, they're in the midst of this storm, and they see somebody walking across the water at them. I'm right there with them. I'm looking at that saying, that ain't natural. That ain't natural. Now, they had just come and let me share this with you. From reading the passage, I kind of look at it like, okay, he was far enough away that they didn't recognize him. Close enough that they could see him. Now, you're talking in the middle of a storm And they're out in that storm in a little boat. And they see the Lord Jesus Christ, who they didn't know, and they cried out in fear. Who is that? Who are you? What do you want? What's going on? Because they many of them had spent their life on the water. They've never seen that before. And they cried out, and then we see in verse 27, but straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. It is I, be not afraid. And then we see in verse 28, and of all the disciples to answer them, who answered him? Peter, the one that always had something to say, the one that always put his foot in his mouth. But Peter answered him. And we're going to talk for just a few minutes. I got three things this morning I want to share with you from this passage not to be afraid of. Not to be afraid of. And as we look at this passage, uh Peter was not afraid. And we're going to look at that. Now, we get after Peter because after he walked on the water, what did he do? He took his eyes off the Lord Jesus Christ and he sunk. And he cried out, Lord, save me. But we're going to look at three things this morning. Don't be afraid. The first thing I want you to see is there in verse 28. And Peter answered him and said, Lord. Peter answered him and said, Lord, Jesus Christ spoke to him. He says, Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid. And Peter of all people spoke up, the one that denied the Lord Jesus Christ later on, one of the disciples who had just seen him uh break bread and break fish and give it to the multitude. Peter looked at him and said, Lord, the first thing that we can't be afraid of is we can't be afraid of talking to God. We can't be afraid of talking to God. Just uh about two weeks ago. Uh My son, uh, when he moved to Glen Burney, Maryland, because he was raised most of his life up in Maine and then down in Florida Just moved to Glen Burney last year after he got married and became an assistant pastor. You know what's close to Glen Burney? Baltimore. Balm, Maryland. Uh Baltimore, Maryland doesn't have a very good reputation. Nothing against the rest of Maryland. Uh I'm sure you're just like my mother-in-law in New York State She can't stand New York City because it makes all the laws for her up in the Adirondacks. And uh Baltimore makes a lot of the laws for the state of Maryland. But uh when he moved up there he signed up for a cellular phone plan and got two brand new iPhones. And I don't know what number they are, 1450, they're always changing. But uh he got two brand new iPhones Well he was paying a little bit more money than what he wanted to and his father-in-law had to upgrade their plan and so he ended up switching to their plan and then through the switching they paid his phones off and he got newer phones Well, they're sitting there with these two iPhones that they had just gotten last summer, and he's like, We're not using them anymore, let's sell 'em. He says we can sell them for $600 apiece. Hey, sounds good. So they put them on Facebook Marketplace. They sold one right off. Well Then he got a call on the other one and he's corresponding with a guy through Facebook Messenger and says Can you meet me, such and such an address, down in Baltimore someplace, and I'll buy your phone, I'll even give you an extra hundred bucks for you to bring it down here So he said, okay. Now this is a young man that uh when he was in Florida, he worked at Landmark, he was our athletic director there. And he worked in the school, taught some classes. But he also went through a program with Sheriff Grady Judd called the Sentinel Program, where he was a specialized deputy that was deputized by Sheriff Judd to be almost like he wasn't a full-blown school resource officer, but by going through this program, it was a four-week program, and they put him through a lot of the same training that the sheriff's deputies go to Uh it was a four-week program and he he actually spent uh a lot of time uh in that four weeks. They went through at least a thousand rounds a week. between four and five thousand rounds and he we he's well versed in and he's a very accurate uh uh with his pistol And he passed the program, did all that, so he was allowed to carry concealed at our school down there in Florida. Well since he's moved to uh Glen Burney, uh he's gotten his what do they call it, wear and carry here in Maryland and so he's allowed to carry his his weapon there and the head of security for at the church there at Granite. is uh ex-Secret Service and he does all the training and things like that. So he takes his phone and he goes down to meet up with this guy He gets out of the car, he shows the guy the phone, the guy's sitting there looking at it, and about that time the guy's buddy walks up, and he pulls out a gun and he puts it in my son's face. And they steal the phone And I didn't know any of this. He calls me off about 8. 30 that night after he got home, and he says, I just did something really stupid. And I could hear it in his voice. And I'm saying, in my heart, my heart starting to drop a little bit. It's like, okay, what did you do? And he shared that story with me. You know, in my own heart, part of me wanted, and he told me, he says, I was kind of scared to call you because I didn't know how you would react. Because a part of me wants to look at him and say, How could you be so stupid going to Baltimore? And even people even friends of his in the church are looking at him like, how could you be just so stupid as to go to Baltimore? He learned a really important life lesson, and it could have cost him dearly. But God protected him. And in my own heart, I'm sitting there thinking, I got scared, even though it was all over and done with him, you know, dads are supposed to be big, strong, and tough, right? We can handle everything But I couldn't protect my son from that. And the disciples were in the boat. They were scared to death seeing this guy come walking across the water. And Peter, of all people Answered him and said, Lord, if it be you. He starts talking to the Lord Jesus Christ. We call that prayer. Right? Talking to God is us praying. And you know, we can we we'll turn to some verses in just a minute, but we've got a heavenly father in heaven. that wants to talk to us. You know my two boys they moved away. We've always been a close family. Uh when they when they started whatever you want to call it, some people call it courting, some people call it dating Um when they started uh uh we have a courting pass down at landmark that when a guy and a girl gets interested in each other, they fill out a courting pass, which means we call the father or the the the parents of the of the guy, we call the parents of the girl, to let the parents know that, hey, your son or your daughter, these two are interested in each other, and we want you to know that these two are interested in each other. And if you tell us yes, we will allow them to court. We will allow them to court, date, whatever you want to call it. We always kinda called it dating, dating with a purpose. Um our family was very involved in it with uh my kid, my boys and their girlfriends. And we had family meetings, um, talking about 'em. Is this is this a girl that you want to spend the rest of your life with? Does she get along with your sister? Does she get along with your brother? Does she get along with her future mother-in-law? That's important. Um does she get along with her future dad-in-law? That's important. Uh can she cook? These are all questions that were asked ahead of time. And if a parent and I've had parents right back in Great Big No And we tell them, you can do a can and hang out until your parents say you can. Why? Because the parents need to be involved. God gave those kids to me, not to Landmark Baptist College. And so if in a situation where the kids didn't have a parent, we would contact the pastor. And if the pastor said no, not right now, we would make them hold off on that Why? Because we want the best for him. As a dad, I want communication with my kids. I want to be able, I love, as much as I hate the telephone, I love having a cell phone that I can carry on my belt because my kids can get a hold of me at any time I've had my kids call me at 11-12 o'clock at night. When I answer at that time of night, my first question is, are you okay? Because nobody should be calling at 11-12 o'clock at night. Okay? But our Heavenly Father is the same way. He wants communication with you and I. And we see Peter here He's not afraid to talk to God. He's not afraid to talk to the Lord Jesus Christ. Turn over to the book of James, chapter 4. James, chapter 4. James chapter four, uh actually James chapter five, I'm sorry. James chapter five It says in James 5, verse 13, Is any among you afflicted? What's it say? Let him pray. Is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray. uh over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of the faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Don't be afraid to call And talk to God. James 4. 13 right here says it's time to pray. You're in the middle of a storm, it's time to pray. That's what Peter was doing. He said, Lord, if it be you, what's he say? Bid me come to you. And we'll talk about that in just a minute. Don't be afraid. to talk to God. Today in our churches in America, the average Christian prays for less than four minutes a day. Less than four minutes a day. I remember about four years ago, uh Brother Doug, who's our radio station manager, asked me, he's like, hey, why don't you come on the air with me? Now, I'm not an outgoing person. I'm about wide open right now. Okay, because I'm a maniac. I'm very I'm like, you want me to come on the radio with you And he's very high strung. And it's a good morning show. And he starts out the show. Uh A lot louder than what I'm speaking right now. And he'll say, good morning, Central Florida and all the world all around the world. Welcome to Gospel 90. 3 FM. Good morning show, my name is Brother Doug, and then I come in, my name's Brother Danny. It's a Dougie and Danny show. We even have a coffee cup with our picture on it. And uh but uh He's not afraid, Doug's not afraid to talk to anybody. He'll put himself out and me, I'm laid back, I just kind of sit there. He asked me to do it one day, and I said, I ain't doing that. I said, that's your job I'll chime in. We feed off each other. It's a fun show and uh we have a good time and our goal is to just make people laugh, put a smile on their face. Whether it's through a joke, sometimes it's just praying for somebody. But at 720 every morning, we have a it's supposed to be a three-minute prayer time. And I'm sitting there the first time I'm on there, he's like, okay, we're gonna have a prayer time here. It's gonna be three minutes long. We're gonna play some music. He says, you just pray. And I mean, I'm live on air. I think I prayed about 40 seconds. Because my mind went blank. And I'm like, if I'm gonna do this every day, I've got to make a list. Well then I make my list. I got it up to 45 seconds. Because I went right through my list as fast as I could go. But you know the average Christian only prays for four minutes a day Four minutes a day. That's what we spend in prayer with God. How would your relationship, those of you that are married, how would your relationship be with your spouse? If you only talk to her four minutes a day. But yet here we have the God of the universe, the one that made us And more importantly than that, the one that sent his only begotten son here to this earth to die for us, and we only talk to him four minutes a day. Don't be afraid to talk to God. Turn over to the book of Levin, chapter eleven. He says in verse 9, Luke 11, verse 9, and I say unto you, ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. If a son, here we go back to the father-son relationship. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he asked a fish, will he give him a Will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him We have a heavenly father in heaven. I remember when my kids when my kids were younger, uh they would at the the boys, because the boys were younger than my daughter, and My that they'd have my daughter, because my daughter, she's my only daughter, she's got me wrapped around her little finger and she knows it. Okay? My daughter could ask me just about anything and she would she would get it Within reason. I'm not gonna buy her a new car and I'm not gonna buy her a new phone. But uh uh they would send her, hey, go ask Dad if we can go out for Chinese tonight Go ask Dad if we can get some ice cream or go out for ice cream. You know why? Because I have a harder time telling her no. And the boys figured that out at a young age. And your boys have that figured out too. But as a dad, man, when my son called me that night after that whole Baltimore thing with the phone Part of me wanted to rip into him and say, How could you be so foolish? And he took his wife with him, and she was there in the car. And I'm sitting there thinking, how could you be so foolish? But I could hear it in his voice, it really shook him up. And I'm like, are you okay? Did you file a police report? No, I was just interested in getting out of there. Okay, now you've got to go back there and you need to go to the precinct and file a police report. And he did that But as a dad, I'm sitting there thinking, man, I want to go to Baltimore now, put an ad on Facebook for this new phone, and I had a friend of mine from Maine and I mean he's full blown redneck, okay? I was telling him about it. He's like, let's go let's meet in Baltimore, he says, I'll get on a plane, I'll meet you there. He says Let's put an ad in Facebook. We'll sell a phone and then we'll make them disappear. Part of me inside was angry. And I told my wife, I said, I could care less about the phone, I could care less about the six hundred dollars because I'm a dad, I want a piece of the guy that stuck a gun in my son's face Why? Because I'm a dad, because I'm a father. But the relationship that we have with God the Father. Is the same type of relationship that we ought to have. Same relationship that we have with our Son is the same type of relationship that we should have with our Heavenly Father. But the problem is we don't take the time to talk to them. We're too afraid. I was up in New Hampshire, my brother's a pastor in New Hampshire. And I was up there and they've got a guy in the he's got a man in his church that works with uh Rock of Ages uh prison ministry. And he's out of North Georgia and he he's a big guy And he came up to me and our our pastor, our pastor, Pastor Barry Parsons, was up there and Brother Matthew Frank is a prison missionary, and he said, Do you think your preacher would Give me a meeting, come down to the church and present the prison ministry there. And I said, I'm sure he would. He's like, can you ask him? And I'm like, no, you ask him. You're the missionary. Why do you want me to ask? Oh, he just intimidates me And I told my pastor that and he started laughing. He's like, what about me is intimidating? I said, You're you And our pastor really is very approachable, but I took Brother Frank over and Matthew Frank were good friends. I took him over and I told my pastor, I threw Matthew under the bus I said, uh Pastor, I said, Matthew Frank's too scared of you to come over and ask for a meeting, so he'd like to know if he could have a meeting at mission conference or at some point in time come down to the church and present the prison ministry. Yeah, just give me a call We'll set it up. We don't have to have that relationship with God, but a lot of times we do. Because we think God's sitting up there on his throne And if we ask him, he'll get angry with us. No, he says right here, how much more in verse thirteen, if ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children How much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? To them that ask him. Don't be afraid to talk to God. It's the most powerful weapon that we have. But it's one that we seldom use until we get into a problem. Don't be afraid to talk to God. Number two, back there in Matthew chapter 14 Don't be afraid to talk to God specifically. Specifically. In other words Ask God what you want. I remember when I was back in Bible college, and we see that here in verse 28, Peter answered him and said, Lord, he wasn't afraid to talk to God. He says, If it be thou Bid me come unto thee on the water. Now, Peter could have looked at the Lord Jesus Christ and he could have he could have said anything, right? Lord, if it's you, I already see you walking on the water. He could have asked him at this point in time, Lord, if it's you, calm the storm. He said, he could have looked at him and said, Lord, if it's you, raise both hands. And you know what the Lord Jesus Christ would have done? Raise both hands. But what does he say to him? He says, Lord, if it be you, bid me come unto thee. He asked something specific. I remember in when I was in Bible college, uh, I can't remember who made them whether it's hostess or whatever. But they were about this big or the package was about this big. But inside there was an apple pie or a cherry pie, you remember those? It was almost like a crinkly wrapping paper on it and they had 'em in vending machines. If they're still inventing machines today, they probably still taste the same even after sitting there for 15 years. Okay? So I'm in Bible college and I I look at this uh candy machine that you put money in and probably most of you kids have never even seen one of those. But uh you put money in and you press E13 or whatever And if it worked right the thing would twist and it'd push that apple pie or whatever, the Twinkie or whatever, and it would drop down and you'd grab it. Well I'm sitting there looking at that and I'm like, I don't want to eat that apple pie. But Lord, I really would like to have a good piece of apple pie. But I don't want that one. That afternoon, there was a man in Bible college that was from Maine, and of course I was there from Maine and we knew each other, but he was a married off-campus student. He came into class that day and he handed me this package. He says, my wife made apple pie last night. He said, She sent over a whole pie to you. I just wanted a peace. And that's what I asked God for. Now you can sit there and you can say, that's just a coincidence But God knew what I wanted long before. He met the need long before I even asked for it. Why? Because I asked specifically God wants us to get that specific with him. One of the things we do at Landmark every Wednesday is we take our college out soul winning. And we meet at the church at 345, have a little devotional. At four o'clock we load up in a bus. There's probably uh close to forty of us, thirty to forty of us, and we go out and we go door knocking for an hour and a half Then we go back to the church, we feed them a meal, and then uh our church has a little Bible institute in addition to the college on Wednesday night for church people And while they're doing that, college students are practicing for their college choir and because they sing every Wednesday night and So we go out. Our church revolves around soul women. Our church revolves around the bus ministry. We've got uh ten bus routes. We just started up our tenth one here just a couple weeks ago. It's run by the Spanish church as they go out. Our Spanish church has just exploded here in the last couple of years. We had 1520 and now we're running over 100. And uh uh we're lucky to start a uh uh Haitian church that speaks Creole. Uh we've got a guy we're working on as visa right now to be able to come and start that for us. We've just got a lot going on. But We go out door knocking and we love to do it. We d I mean we spend a week uh going someplace else and doing that for another church. We We take another week during our school year and go door knocking before our anniversary Sunday. We take the whole week off from classes. The kids love it because they're not in classes. They don't have any papers due. They just go door knocking all morning long. And uh so we do that on Wednesday afternoon. Well we got out there, this was just three or four weeks ago, we got out there and we pull up to the first stop and you could look up to the east or to the west and you could see see some clouds and I'm sure you've seen it around here as the clouds come towards you you can see the rain coming out of them And it was headed race great forest. So there was a guy in the van with me and he's like, in fact it was Brother Doug from the radio station. He was sitting in the front seat and he was getting ready to go out and Uh I'm driving the van, dropping people off, picking them up, moving them, and he's like, I got my umbrella. He says, just in case it rains. I said, Well, I said I'm praying that it won't And we'd been praying, we took just a couple seconds there and just prayed right there, hey Lord, hold this rain off until 530. Because that's when we were done. As I'm driving around picking people up and dropping them off and moving them to different streets, I'm watching that storm as coming closer and closer, and then all of a sudden it disappeared. Now you can say, well that's just weather. No, that's the hand of God. Because my God controls the weather. We picked everybody up and we were headed back to the church. And on the way back to the church it started raining. Before we even got back to the church. And it did it didn't show like it was gonna be raining. But we prayed specifically, you know My daughter asked me for something. If she said, I want a strawberry shake, you think I'm gonna go out and buy her a chocolate shake? No, that's not what she asked for. God wants that same relationship with you and I. Don't be afraid to talk to God. Don't be afraid to talk to God specifically. And then lastly. Don't be afraid to do something great for God. Don't be afraid to do something great for God. What did Peter do when he looked at the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Lord Jesus Christ said, and he looked at Jesus Christ and he said, If it be thou, bid me to come to you, what did Jesus say to him? Come. What did Peter do? He got out of the boat and he went. And what did Peter do? He walked on the water. Now, we can fast forward to the part in the story where he took his eyes off the Lord and he started to sink. But before that happened, you know what Peter did? He walked on the water. Anybody here ever walked on the water? Uh anybody here ever had a baby at 90 years old? I've never walked on the water. To me I look at that and I'm like, what an awesome experience. Because he wasn't afraid to talk to God. He wasn't afraid to look at God and say, Hey, if it be you, bid me to come to you. Lord Jesus Christ says, come. God wants us to do great things for him. But we need to ask God specifically. What are you asking God for today? We were out on Solwyn and Marathon this week. And we were going around knocking on doors. We had a young man in our group named Xavier. He's a student at our college. Uh he's a freshman. And uh He went out, he was on a team with a young man named Edwin, and he got the opportunity to witness to this guy. And Xavier's kind of Half a foot in the boat, half a foot out of the boat. You know what I'm talking about? But he got out there this week and he's like, last year I went on Soulwood and Marathon, he says I couldn't wait to get back This year he says I'm out there and he says, you guys are telling us load off it's time to go home and I'm thinking we just got here, but it's been four hours And he said, I had an opportunity to witness to this man. And he says I led him through the plan of salvation and asked him if he wanted to trust Christ as his Savior. And he said the man looked at me and he says, I would love to, but I just can't take that gamble And I I'm sitting there looking at it saying the same thing that you're saying. It's not a gamble, it's a sure bet. To use his vernacular. You trust Christ as your Savior, you will never end up in hell. And Xavier looked at that young man and he said Right now you have to make a choice. Are you choosing the Lord Jesus Christ or are you choosing hell? And that man looked at Xavier and he says, I'm choosing hell. Because I can't take that gamble. You stop and think about that. If that man ends up never trust Christ as his Savior and ends up in hell for eternity. I believe he's going to be hearing that for the rest of eternity. I chose hell. What are you asking God for today? I'm going to ask you to bow your head and close your eyes if you're here today and you've never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. I talked about the father-son relationship. If you've never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior You don't have that father-son relationship. You don't have that relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ that you can just go to him and talk to him. You know, if one of these young men today asked me something and my son asked me the same thing, who am I going to give it to? I'm going to give it to my son. Because he's my son. Do you have that relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ that you can go to Him and talk to Him at any time? The Lord Jesus Christ, God the Father, send His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. down to this earth to die on the cross to pay the penalty for our sin. That was the message that Xavier gave to that man. And that man looked at Xavier and said I choose hell. You're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. I don't know you, you don't know me. But if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior and you say, Brother Chamberlain, I want that relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ that I can go to him and talk to him anytime. You need to trust the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior Simply where you're at, you can pray a prayer in your heart to God. You don't have to say it out loud. You can simply say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner I know that I'm on my way to hell, but I accept the free gift of eternal life. I repent of my sins. I confess my sins before you. I trust in the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. The blood that he shed on the cross for me is enough to save me and take me to heaven. Because of what the Lord Jesus Christ did for me, I want you as my Savior. If you're here today and you've never done that, but you just did that, would you just simply raise your hand where you're at? Just let me know. Nobody's looking around. Just let me know that, hey, I just trust you Christ as my Savior. Or maybe you got other questions. In just a few minutes, in just a couple minutes, we'll have an invitation song and you can come. You can talk to me and say, hey, I want to trust Christ as my Savior. I'll be glad to take the Word of God and sit down with you and show you from the Word of God how you can know for sure you're going to heaven. Christian What are you asking God for? What's your prayer life like? Are you asking God for things specific to you I've done that. And you know what? God's answered them. I can share story after story where God has answered prayer in my heart and my life. And He's answered He's answered questions that I've had. specifically because I've asked him s specifically. Or are you even talking to God? There's an altar down here. Come down, talk to God as the piano starts playing.