Twenty one Luke chapter number twenty one. Say this. Um I as uh The youth pastors are fairly replaceable. There are always people looking for jobs. There's always youth pastors looking for jobs. I know that's because I was one not so long ago. Um but good church members are not replaceable. And this goes for so many of you, but uh just to pick on Mark, who because he's not here, I don't know what this church would do without Mark. And that go like I said, that goes for a lot of you, but there's so many different key parts to this church. You just can't you can't just like it's not a business. You can't just hire someone to fit it. People come here because God leads them here. And I and I just think that we're a very lucky church to have uh we have some very, very gracious and uh uh hardworking, willing church members. I just uh I just think we're very blessed in uh that so but uh Luke chapter number twenty one and uh we're gonna start in verse number six As for these things which he behold, the days will come in which there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. And they asked him, saying, Master, but when when shall these things be? And what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass? And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. And the time draweth near. Go ye therefore after them. But when when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified, for these things must first come to pass But the end is not by and by. Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places, and famines and pestilence And fearful signs and great signs shall there be from heaven. Um it's um Um lock around. So um I uh I wanna uh I I I tend to uh I I tend to be a movie buff, I always have been. Just ki I just watch different movies and such and one of the genres of movies out there is disaster movies. And if you don't know what a disaster movie, um let me explain Um, I don't know when it started, but I'm going to make something up. Um one of the mo first real big uh one of the first, I guess, uh nationwide disaster movies of all time was The Blob. Um it came out a long time ago. Um like and if you remember it coming out, it didn't come out that long ago. But um anyways, uh it came out a real long time ago. It's a blob very famous. I believe Steve McQueen was offered like two thousand dollars to take the lead role or five percent stake in the movie. Uh a movie's profit. And he took the five thousand dollars and lost out in millions. And uh that's just an interesting fact for those of you who don't know it. Uh but another type, uh we we look back to old radio programs, War of the Worlds. If you've heard of the movie, well it was actually a radio program in the twenties before it was a movie And uh by the way, the ending to that is all the aliens are killed by germs, which is kind of a blame ending. Um Because germs should never be an enemy. It's a really weird thing. Oh, but it's uh so we you know, we've had we've had the blob like monsters, uh we've had uh we've had uh aliens beetling. And then became natural disasters. That was a big one. We've had several there's several movies that are about natural disasters, whether it be uh you know, global warming or or global cooling or uh earthquakes or tornadoes or all these movies just about disasters, this disaster and that disaster. and uh and and and sharks and tordados and stuff like that and there's just there's all these different disaster movies about the end of the world And I'll tell you how to spot a good disaster movie, not a good one, but just a one, is where everything in the world is happening and um and this woman has been through um I don't know a shipwreck and an earthquake and a tornado and a flood and a shark attack. And her mascara. Still perfect. Um that's it that's how you can tell the difference between real life and uh and movies, by the way. If you didn't know. But um I know this. I grew up with sisters and like I I don't even know how it happened but but they'd all come down looking like these goth rock stars. Like they like like every so often they'd be like walk out into the rain and then walk back inside or they'd walk into a steamy room and the mascara would be all down that la face. Like this and and you know, I'd say good And nice thing, but I'd make fun of them. And um but that's how I was. But disasters are one of these things where we always talk about the end of the world, and if you watch these movies or listen to these programs or whatnot The disaster always ends up with people being like, And that's where it was. It was just screaming and we're all gonna die and terrifying. And the fact is, is none of those really picture what the end of the world is going to look like. I mean even in um even the Christian end of the world movies are usually about the uh the tribulation and the rapture and even those um while while are more I guess more accurate I mean those kinda have nothing to do with us because we're gone. But that doesn't mean things aren't going to get bad before it happens. In fact, the Bible says things are going to get really bad. Um See the end of the world has always been this fear. The uh what is the mining calendar was like, hey man, two thousand and twelve is gonna you're all gonna be dead and then it came and passed and we were like Oh yeah, I just ran out of like pencils or something. I don't know what happened. But uh anyway, th what we don't we just I mean, we've always thought about this end of the world. Um I think uh I don't know if it's Hindus But there's one religion and I can't remember who who believes that the world is just on a turtle's back. And it might just fall off one day. And we'd all die. Which is good thinking that turtles walk slow. Um but uh so we just I The end of the world is just kind of this thing. But the Bible talks about the end of the world, and Jesus talks about the end of the world. Now prophecy is something that gets preached on time and time again. And we won't be here too long tonight, at least hopefully not until the end of the world. But um But uh but then when you get to heaven you could be like, God, I was in church for the end of the world. That's gotta count for something. And uh but uh Anyways, but prophecies have been preached about time and time again. Uh I don't know about um I have my teenagers up here tonight. Very proud of them. Um ugly bunch, don't look at them. But um that's not true, most somewhat. Anyways, um But these these teenagers who like I said, I like my teenagers, they're great. Did not get the prophecy preaching, most likely, that I did when I was growing up. Prophecy preaching pretty much dropped off like ten years ago. I'm not saying it doesn't exist. In fact I have a revival, a a prophecy conference uh uh up in Pittsburgh uh area somewhere. I have uh had that coming up and I I could go to that But they they used to be everywhere. Every church was about prophecy, about the end of the world. And that's not a bad thing. It's a good thing. And in fact, any bit of the Bible you can preach is a good thing. The only thing that I and I don't have a problem with them, but the only thing that you did notice about those is they were very descriptive. Unless, uh, and this not didn't go for every prophecy conference, but they're very descriptive about what was going to happen or what could have happened, unless this is what you should be doing about it. No, that like I said, that's not for every conference, absolutely not. But um but this end of the world that Jesus describes He talks about a lot of things. He talks about several settings. First of all, is the uh the temple is torn down. Now It's not just the temple. When I look at this, I I don't just think of the temple. Uh when it talks about it this temple is destroyed, it's religion. Because if a religion if if the Jewish religion was alive and well and was booming per se, then the temple couldn't or wouldn't get destroyed. But let's think about today's uh about about today, shall we? Religion is very is very much dying. And not the dead type of religion, but Christianity is dying. It is slowing down. It is being torn down Um we look at uh we look at uh in our court system and again pray for our country uh with uh Justice uh Scalia dying, that's a uh a major uh major hit against us and of course uh many of you know that but uh he was on our side and uh and him passing could have a serious effect on us. I mean all the important decisions that that have been won uh by the conservatives and by the Christians were won five four. And he was number five. And that's if they won. Uh but uh but beyond that. But look I mean I would the uh the Ten Commandments, again we talk about the Ten Commandments have been taken out of schools, they've been taken out of courthouses. Um you have to bake m uh you have to bake uh cakes for uh gay weddings, even if it goes against your religious uh beliefs. Religion is being torn down brick by brick. As uh as Jesus says, uh as for these which Which ye behold, the days will come in which there shall not be one be left one stone upon another, and that shall not be thrown down. Let me keep going and it talks about and they say, Well w when what's gonna happen? Tell us when this is going to be and he says, All right. Let me tell you about uh let me tell you about it. Take heed that there not be dis that ye not be deceived, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and the time draweth near, go ye not therefore after them. False religions will take over. Not over, but there will be many of them. Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism. Uh Buddhism, uh uh really atheism and agnosticism, they're rampant. They really are And when he says many and by the way, if you say, well they're not necessarily false Christs, um if you weren't here this summer, let me just uh do a little quote from Brigham Young. Um and Brigham Young, by the way, was the the second real president or uh I guess high priest of Mormonism. He said that you don't have to call in Jesus' name. In fact, you have to call in Jesus' name to get saved, but you also have to call in Jesus' name and Joseph Smith. If that's not equalizing yourself with Christ, I don't know what is. There are fifteen million Mormons. And when they're and when a Mormon is of is of age you have to, you know, to be in good standing with the church, you have to go on your mission for two years. I know I had several I have I had several Mormon friends. One of them spent a bunch of time in uh in some little island country and I think it was like it was like Fiji or something. It was like awesome. It was like wow Mormonism. You get to go to Fiji. But no, but it was cool. And then the other one but then he got real sick and almost died and had to go home. And then the other one uh lived in, I think, Venezuela for two years And then we think about, well maybe not Christ, but or maybe they don't call themselves Christ, but what about humanism? Humanism has crept into more places in our society than anything else, in any other religion. Humanism has crept into churches. All across America. In fact, I would venture to say that almost anything wrong with a church is usually born out of humanism. By the way, what was wrong with the first humans was humanism. Thinking that they wanted to be above God. They wanted to be their own gods. And when you try to take the place of God, you try to take the place of Christ by either saying, I have no sin, or I need no one to die for my sin. Or I'm good enough. But then we go to verse 9, it says it talks about a time of war. We have never been closer to nations than we are today. We can get anywhere in the world in a matter of uh in a matter of a couple hours. We get there I mean our the our weapons technologies are just getting more and more advanced. And you know what? Our uh our feelings towards other countries, our uh our conflicts are getting more and more complicated We're starting hey this isn't just America, but this is the rest of the world. We're starting wars so we can get people on our side so we can win without fighting wars, but but the problem is that always end in war The problem is the the the landscape looks a lot like World War One did. And and and I'm not saying it will happen. But there's of course a possibility that we could break into another world war sometime uh sometime definitely within uh within our lifetime And w and we're and we're just in a volatile volatile state. Disasters and they listen, the world's always had disasters, look at Pompeii, but disasters they kind of seem to be picking up, and if they're not picking up, we know more about them. We know when they pick up more. Which kind of means the same thing. Persecutions in verse twelve, it says, but before all these They shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before the kings and rulers for my name's sake. By the way, this has been happening since Christ's time. Persecutions did not stop pretty much ever. A little bit in the seventeen hundreds we could say they stopped, but that's not in the rest of the world. You see, here's the thing. Yes, uh the Catholic Church has has brainwashed everyone into thinking that Christianity was the main religion um after about 400 A. D. , but that's not true. Catholicism was. But they killed true Christians for a thousand years after that. Or sorry, eleven hundred years after that. And then we got Martin Luther, who, by the way, still persecuted Baptists. And then we get and then we get to now where yes, at least Christians aren't killing Christians that we really know of But Muslims certainly are. But our own government again is persecuting Christianity as a whole But it is treated as a sin, as a as a mark against you to call yourself a Christian or to say God's name. It's called a meaningless platitude by the press to pray And betrayal. Verse 16 says, And they shall be betrayed by both parents and brethren and kinsfolk and friends, and some of you shall they cause to be put to death. It's a time of betrayal. The end of the world is. And we look around, and again, I'm not saying the world's gonna end tomorrow. Listen, I I'm I'm a firm believer that the world could end tomorrow and it could end A thousand years from now, I actu like I just believe that God can do what he wants and I'm not going to tell him what to do. Um, and and it might get way worse before Christ comes back, or he could come back before the end of the sermon. And listen, I mean you can hope for that, but You know. But uh but it's a time of betrayal but then you'll never know my last point because I'll get it to heaven, I won't tell you. And uh but then it but it was a time of b it's gonna be a time of betrayal And I'm not gonna bring up any specifics because I'm not gonna do that, but how many people, how many church leaders, how many how many people that that maybe they're not our stripe, or even maybe if they are our stripe, they make a decision and become very public about something and it's completely opposed to our point of view. And it's completely opposed to Christianity. And they s make a statement and you say, wait a second, that's not right And then it ends up coming back on us even worse. So I gave you this really depressing setting. But I skipped over a few things. You see because I start talking about disaster movies, not because I want anyone to go out and watch really any movies, I don't care. Um especially disaster movies because they're awful. But start talking about disaster movies because everyone's running around screaming, everyone's panicking, everyone is angry Everyone is hiding in a corner. Everyone is doing this or that or this or that, and they're all freaking out But as a Christian, facing the end of the world, Christ has this command. And this is in verse nine of Luke twenty-one. But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified. For these things must first come to pass, but the end is not by and by. Be not terrified. You see, we could panic. You see, this is where we get caught up a lot doing this is actually lack of faith. What we do what we do when we uh when we hear about um When we hear about things such as uh such as the Ten Commandments coming down uh coming down out of courthouses, when we hear about things such as uh Um the uh the the wedding cake fiasco. When we hear about these things, our initial reaction, by the way, is to panic. It is to panic, it is a fear, it is it is to get angry, which it's it's right that we get angry in the godly sense But but to fear and to panic and act like it's the end of the world and nothing's going to be alright. The fact is if it's the end of the world, everything's alright If it's the end of the world, it like if it is, if this is really the end, if we really are going to fall into persecution, it is not for us to cower, it is us for to stand up and be like, all right, well this is it Because these things must first come to pass. Which means that for us to get from here to the other side, for us to get from here to heaven, for us to get from here to uh to that glorious new heaven and new earth, to that glorious new Jerusalem, for us to get from here to there We must first go through this time period. And we are not to be terrified. Because fear is the wrong reaction. What does fear do? What freezes us. Um if uh if you look at science, um You have uh two responses to uh to instant fear, which is either flight or fright, right? Yeah. And they said there could be a one called fight. But I don't I'm gonna use that one because that's not an old study. That's in a new study. And uh and it doesn't include my sermon. So uh but fear usually does one of two things. If you if a bear is about to attack you, you're you're like ah And I don't know why you do that. Because he's not trying to source Rex. Um so you're like, no, I don't do it. Although I I guess you could like I act like a tree. I don't know. But anyways you're like uh and you get freaked and you f and you freeze Or the other reaction, of course, is to run away. Either way, if the bear's hungry and he thinks you look tasty, you're dead. So, um, but uh because you're not gonna outrun a bear. So Fight or flight, so so sometimes fear freezes you and makes you just not do anything. You see Fear sometimes, fear persecution, persecution. And by the way, if you don't feel this, I will just say that sometimes I do. Because I have friends that are not Christians. And so sometimes it's very tempting not to act like a Baptisty Baptist, like everything revolves around God, which it does. It's tempting to. It's not right. But it is tempting. So when you're talking with someone and uh and you usually you usually say, you know, I'll pray for you, or you wanna you're you want to share a blessing with someone, you're like, okay, they wouldn't appreciate this, and it'll just make me look like a weirdo, so I'm not gonna do it That's freezing. That's fear. That's saying, I'm not gonna do it because I'm afraid that I'll get looked at weird. And if teenagers don't go through it, which I know they do, and adults don't go through it, then maybe it's just me. But the fact is Fear freezes us. It also makes us run. Have you ever seen someone that that you you wanted to give a track to but then you like kinda forgot. You're like God told you to give it give a track to this person like and you know it. And this is gonna happen in track month, in w in a month. You're gonna you're just gonna know God told you to do it. And you go up to them and you're like, you know, if I kinda go over here for a second you're like, oh no, I lost them. That's running away. It's cowardice. That's what fear does. Listen, cowardice is not fear. Cowardice is giving in to fear. And when he says, be not terrified, he's saying, listen, don't freeze up, don't run away. Fear makes us make the wrong decisions. Um you can see this a lot in finance. Um in finance And like uh when you look at like global economics and such, people feel like, oh no, uh the market's gonna crash and they dump all their assets Because they're afraid the market's gonna crash. And then even if the does the market does crash, the smart ones who kinda held on to their assets usually come out okay The people who just dumped everything because they were afraid of what might happen next. And when you let fear control you and not your intelligence, it's dangerous. Um Krista has a story and I'm gonna tell it because it's her story and I wasn't there. But um about how her friend uh accidentally went off onto some gravel on a road, like one tire went off the gravel. And then tell me if I'm wrong, but she jerked it to er she she uh she drove off and she tried to just jerk it away And it starts spinning because instead of driving back slowly on, controlled the fact is fear makes us spin out of control. Fear makes us make bad decisions. And fear lies to us. Have you guys ever been in the dark? Is anyone afraid of the dark? Alright, fine. Don't be afraid. Wait, yes. Okay. Listen. Whether maybe you're not afraid of the dark, but I'll tell you what, I'm afraid you're afraid of what's in the dark. Sometimes. Sometimes you're sitting there at night and by the way, it doesn't have to be like demons and ghosts you're afraid of. It's like, whoa, did I hear that? Is someone in my house? How many of us, and and I'll take a raise of hands here, how many of us have actually gotten up more than four times in the middle of a night? Because we thought there was someone in our house. I have. Four times. Like I got out of bed and I'm like, alright, I looked around. Alright, must have been something creaking. But yet ten minutes later I'm like, I heard it again. So either the dude was like hiding or it's just creaking again. But yet I get up again. And then it happens again and I should stay in bed because it wasn't because it just is happening again. But I don't. And I get up again. And that's that's what we do. Fear lies does. It tells us things that just aren't true. Psalm 217 271 says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? The reason I brought up Psalm twenty seven one is the Lord is my light and my salvation. You see, I'm talking about that darkness a little bit and how we're afraid of it. Because we don't know what's out there. God gave us These passages? And he gave the people these passages to the people who would live in the end times because he wants you to know listen, I know what's going on. Here's a light. I'm shining what's gonna happen. This is so you know. This is so you don't think that I've forgotten about you. This is so you don't think that I'm not around. I'm letting these things happen. Because had he not given these passages, we would think, oh, God's dead and everything's stupid And we're all and we're all gonna die. That's what we think. Brad says, no, no, this is gonna happen. This is gonna happen. Um it's like it's like you're in a haunted house. And someone tells you where everything is, it's gonna jump out and scare you. Once when someone tells you where everyone who's about to jump out and scare you is, not that scary. And that's why God gave us the Bible. Um look at 1 John 4. 18. There is no fear in love. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love We uh let me jump down to verse thirteen. Um and actually we'll start in verse number ten. Then he said to them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places, and famines And pestilence and fearful sights and great signs. By the way, I didn't get to this, but pestilences, um, you know, that's you know, diseases and such. You know there are diseases that just like pop up and we're like, aren't shouldn't we be past some of these diseases? You ever felt that way? We are so advanced in our medicine and yet certain diseases just just beat us up. Every year and kill so many people, and we're like, wait, how have we not solved that yet? Because God made them. Anyways, but we'll keep going. And fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven, but before all these ye shall they shall lay up their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, into the prisons, and being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake, and it shall turn you to you for a testimony. And it shall turn you or turn to you for a testimony. Listen There's a reason we're not to be terrified. This is the commandment is don't don't be terrified. Be not terrified. Because after you've been persecuted And after you've suffered everything for Christ's sake, and after you've made it through that, and you haven't given up, you haven't ran away, you haven't frozen, you haven't made the wrong decisions, you haven't turned your back on God. After all that, the world will turn to you, it says, for a testimony. Because it's easy to be a Christian in a Christian nation like America. I'm going to give you a very, very honest opinion. I would rather listen, and this is nothing against any of you It's really I mean I I honestly it's about any pastor any any pastor, any preacher, any Christian in America, for the most part, I would rather listen if I could speak if I had if there was an interpreter to a Syrian Christian, or an Iraqi, or an Irani Christian, or a Christian that lives under persecution every day. I would rather listen to their testimony. Than anyone in America's. Not because I don't appreciate anyone in America's, but that's a proven Christianity. That's a Christianity that that actually survived Some some stuff. That's the Christianity that could actually really have an effect on me because I know that they're real. I know that their Christianity is actually real. It's not just convenient. It's not going to church three times a week, which is great, but it's not that. It's actually suffering for the cause of Christ. So I'd rather listen to that. And by the way, the rest of the world feels the same way The Bible tells us that it shall turn to you for a testimony. The world will be watching you. The world will be watching Christianity. And yes, many of us will probably turn away, and many of us will run away, and many of us will be fearful, but Those that are left, those that those that have stuck around even through all the persecution, the world will look at and say, Why are you doing this? And they will actually listen. Verse fourteen says, Settle therefore in your hearts. Not to meditate before what ye shall answer. I love this verse. Let me just tell you what it means in plain person speak. Don't plan what you're going to say. When the world comes to you and you've suffered, don't prepare a speech. Be in prayer. Meditate on God, but don't prepare a speech. Because in verse 15 it says, For I will give you a mouth and wisdom. which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist Those that are persecuted. Those that go through this. And by the way, this does not have to talk about the end of the world. Listen, anyone who goes through persecution and comes out of it a better person, not a worse person, a stronger, more bold Christian, not a fearful Christian. When they come out of it, people who persecuted them actually do listen to what they have to say Listen, when that time comes, the Spirit, and again, listen, I'm not I'm not a I'm not Pentecostal, but this is a proper use of the word. They will be these people that it's talking about, these these persecuted people, these brave persecuted people, will be filled with the Spirit Because they'll be meditating on God, they'll say, God, just tell me. And God will help them speak. God will give them the word to say. And they will be able to say something that can change even their adversaries' hearts. Listen, God, when God fills us with the Spirit, listen, we're not terrified, and we make it through the persecution, which we should in our daily lives, not just at the end of the world. Because other Christians have. Then through all that, God will fill us with the Spirit. And if we're surrendered with Him, He'll let us speak. And look in Acts 30, or don't turn there, but Acts 4, 31. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together. I wouldn't necessarily I'm not necessarily sure we'll have earthquakes with prayer, but you know. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. And then they went out and preached, and they were bold, and they knew what to say. And God just God im impressed upon them what they needed to say. And then just spoke it Listen, I'm not getting all weird and Pentecostal here. I'm saying when you're filled with the Spirit, when you're when you're when you're when you went through persecution, when you went through it with boldness and bravery, you'll be able to have a testimony that means things to people. God will lay a special blessing on you. You'll be able to speak, and people will say, Wait a second, I know what this guy's been through. Wait a second, this is real. I want to hear this. And you don't have to prepare it, God will just give it to you. And then in verse 18, oh in verse 17, sorry. And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not a hair of your head perish. In your patience, possess ye your souls. The end of the world is not the end of us We will outlive the end of the world. Listen, the reason we're not fear The reason we're not to be terrified. Listen, whatever goes on in this world, the reason we're not allowed to be terrified is because even if the world does end, we don't We keep living. So what is there to fear? John 11, 25 and 26 says, And Jesus said in her, I am the resurrection. And life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? You shall never die now saying, wait a second. People die all the time. Christians die all the time. The Bible, by the way. Whenever it can, does not refer to that as death. And you read the New Testament, when someone got when a Christian dies in the Bible, it will usually say sleeps. It would usually say he sleeps. And do you know why? What's the difference between death and sleep? You don't wake up. Or you're going to wake you you're gonna wake up if you go to sleep. Dead people don't wake up. Sleeping people? The difference between them? They wake up. Because if you asleep forever, you're dead. But if you're planning on waking up, you're asleep. If you're gonna wake up, you're asleep. And that's why the Bible calls it sleep, is because you're gonna wake up and you're gonna have this and you're gonna be resurrected when Christ when uh Jesus comes. And you're gonna be resurrected and And that's why it says, but there shall not a hair of your head perish. Because you're going to perish. Not a hair on your head will perish Pastor's hair perished. But that's completely different but I listen, I'm not gonna say that that the Bible says bald people aren't saved, but I don't know what that's all about. So but uh but I'm just joking. I'm gonna go bald and I know it. It's awful Anyways, but uh I just like my hair. But anyways, um we'll get let's keep going. That's but not even a hair of your y you won't even not a hair on your head will perish. When you come back, all of your hair comes back. I don't know if that's what it means. But when you come back, you come back to life. Like no no you're not a little bit dead. You're not maybe a little maybe you're like uh you know uh no my pinky doesn't work. No that's not how it works. When you come back, you will be as alive as you are now and in my opinion, if I read this, uh if I read the Bible correctly, you will be more alive. When you come back than you are now. So what's the point of this whole thing? Whole point is be not terrified. Listen, the end of the world might happen tomorrow. Listen, this this entire church might fall into a sinkhole. That'd be awful. I'm glad I don't live in Florida where sinkholes actually exist. But um but then I'm really not glad I don't live in Florida because it's very sunny there right now. Uh but but Listen, the the earthquakes might happen. We might be swallowed up by the earth. Or or the entire thing might be shaken down. Maybe there will be a thousand terrorist attacks tomorrow. Maybe, maybe all of our r uh all of our religious rights will be taken away in the next year. Even if that happens, fear is not the answer. Be not terrified. We are not to fear the end of the world. We're not to fear the end. We're not to fear this prophecy. We are to be excited by it, comforted by it. I end with this. 2 Peter 3, verses 10 through 12. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. In which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth all and the earth also, and the works that shall be sorry, that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye be in holiness, in holy conversation, and godliness? The world is going to end. And then verse 12, looking for and hastening to the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens shall be on fire and be dissolved, and the element shall melt with fervent heat. God's going to destroy this place. And we should not look at it like, oh no, God's going to destroy it. Peter says, looking for and hasting unto. Looking for it like like it's like it's that date on your calendar and you don't know which day it is. But you're anticipating it. It's like a package is going to arrive. You ever order something online? It's not the type of ordering where you immediately regret it and then you're like, how am I going to turn this back? I don't even know how to return things like this. But the type of thing where you're like, I'm so excited for this. I it's gonna get here and I'm and I'm it's like made socks. You're like I'm gonna wear these socks and they're gonna be extremely comfortable. They might even be magic socks. It's probably not by the way, but it might be. Um And like the or their light up socks, that'd be really cool. And you're so excited for it. But it has but it's from China, so it's like thirty day shipping. So you're like, alright. Is it here? And you wake up the first day is it here? No, it's not here. You wake up the second day, is it here? And maybe every day isn't consumed with, are they here? Or is God coming back? But if you order a package like that and you're actually excited about it, I guarantee one maybe two days doesn't go by without you being like without you getting the mail and being like Nope, no package. That's how we should be with Christ. We don't have to be obsessed with God coming back and obsessed with connecting all the dots. We don't have to be obsessed with it. But the more things that happen, our attitude shouldn't be, oh no, we're all gonna die. It should be, oh, God's coming back. Maybe, maybe it's today. And and maybe maybe looking for 'em. Let's pray. Dear Lord, just uh God, thank you for this day, God. Just uh Lord, I pray that we be just uh be not uh We don't be terrified, God. That we uh that we stand strong in the uh in in the last days, Lord, and just uh God when you come back, Lord, I pray that uh I pray that you come back in uh your time, Lord, and when you're ready and your will be done with that, Lord. And if we be here, God, I pray that each person in this room, Lord, would uh would be uh caught up with you in heaven, God. In Jesus your name. Amen. Alright. Um next I have oops