A man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said unto the sick of the palsy, look at this, son, be of good cheer Thy sins be forgiven thee. I want to speak this morning on be of good cheer. Be of good cheer. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word now. We thank you for a good song service, Lord. This music this morning has touched my heart. And Lord, it's humbled me. And uh Lord, we want to honor you. We want to worship you with our lives And God, uh, I pray now, as um I trust our hearts have been prepared for the preaching of the Word of God, that you would speak to us Lord, I agree with Paul when he said, in me, that is, in my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. And God, I readily acknowledge before you and publicly That I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual, eternal value. And so with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to you and I present my body to you as a tool for you to use, for you to speak through me. Fill me with your Spirit, I pray. Challenge us and help us to see this matter of the forgiveness of sins and the impact. that that has on our attitude and our outlook in life. So please bless now. Have your way, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Matthew, of course, is penned by the disciple Matthew, God being the author, but God used Matthew to record the book of Matthew. And um its immediate audience, I think this is important to understand, the immediate audience for the book of Matthew when it was first given was for the Jews. And the purpose was to point the Jews to Jesus Christ as their Messiah, as their promised key. The book of Matthew is not necessarily given in chronological order. If you'll compare Matthew with the other Gospels, sometimes things are out of chronology. in the book of Matthew. And that was by design. The purpose was not necessarily to give a chronological record of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, but rather, as I said to emphasize the fact that he was indeed the Messiah that God had promised to the Jews for hundreds and hundreds of years, thousands of years. And he was pointing out his power and the prophecies that were filled. In fact, more than any other gospel, the Gospel of Matthew records fulfilled prophecies uh of the Lord Jesus Christ more than any of the other gospels. And so the Matthew, under the inspiration of God, is laying the case for the Jews That Jesus Christ was exactly who uh was the Messiah and was exactly who God promised the Messiah would be. The chapter that we're looking at, chapter 9, if you read the chapter before this, we are given a series of miracles that Jesus did. And again, the purpose of this was to emphasize and to point out to the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah. He was the coming king. In Matthew chapter 8, if you would come back there and notice verse 1 through 5, we have Jesus heals a leper, and he heals them simply by touching him. And then in Matthew chapter 8, if you look at verse 5, it says, Jesus entered a Copernaum, and there came to him a centurion beseeching him, saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy. There it is again. uh what what we read in our text. Um sick of the palsy, grievously tormented, and the Lord Jesus Christ comes and heals this servant, sick of the palsy, but he heals them not by touching them this time, but simply by speaking a word. Now stop and think with me for a moment, the power that resides in the Lord Jesus Christ When he can just speak a word and a sick person is made whole. What an amazing thing that is. Then we come down to verse number 14 and 15. We have Peter's mother-in-law who is sick of a fever, and the Lord heals her Now let me stop there and make a statement, and uh uh uh I'm you know I'm not trying to be disrespectful to a person of the Catholic Church, but the Catholic Church is wrong when they say that Peter was not married. Who in the world would have a mother-in-law and not be married? Why would you do that? I cannot fathom why in the world uh somebody would possibly do that And so, uh, but nevertheless, the Lord Jesus Christ heals Peter's mother-in-law. So we have these series of miracles taking place. Uh verse 16 and 17, he casts out devils, he's healing sick people. Uh verse 23 to 27, he calms a storm and uh absolutely amazes the disciples. I tell you, I don't know how many times in my mind's eye I've tried to visualize That event where the storm is going on, and Jesus just speaks to the weather, just speaks to the elements, and they obey him What an amazing thing. Um wouldn't that be wonderful? Winter, go away. And um But nevertheless, the Lord calms the storm. Then verse 28 through 34, he casts out devils again out of this poor fella. So Matthew is making the case, again, under the inspiration of God, that Jesus is the Messiah. He is exactly the man that God had promised Israel. For years and years and years, a Savior would come, a Messiah would come. The king of Israel would come, and the Jews missed it completely, and they had their preconceived ideas of who the Messiah would be, and they had their preconceived ideas of how this would all play out. And they were wrong. And the one that came to them to be their Savior they rejected. He came unto his own. And his own what? Received them not. They received them not. And so he is exercising power and authority over physical sickness. We see in chapter 8, he exercises power and authority over spiritual darkness. He exercises power and authority over the forces of nature. And yet they do not see it, and they do not understand it. And now we come to our text. And here we find Jesus not just Exercising power over sickness and out over spiritual darkness and over the forces of nature. But here we see him exercising an authority that is unique to God. And that is the forgiveness of sins. And I want to remind you: only God can forgive sin. Only God can forgive sin. In verse number two, as we read here a moment ago, he makes this statement: Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins be forgiven thee. I don't know how you feel about it, but to me, those are some of the most gracious words ever spoken. To hear God He's just displayed his power. He's just displayed his authority over the devil, over the elements of the world, over sickness. And now he says to this fella, as God, he says to him, thy sins be forgiven. I think those are some of the most wonderful words ever spoken. Now, to somebody who has never been under the conviction of sin, how many people know what I'm talking about when I use the term conviction of sin? Anybody know what I'm talking about? How many folks know from experience What I mean, to be convicted of sin. Now, if a person, perhaps if a person has never been under the conviction of sin, never saw their sin, saw themselves as a sinner, never saw themselves as a never saw sin as it really is the sinfulness of it. Maybe to hear God say thy sins be forgiven might not have a lot of meaning. But to somebody who understands and experienced the Holy Spirit of God showing us in our heart and mind how sinful we really are. And to hear God say, those sins are forgiven. Are forgiven. Are forgiven. I can't help but think, and many of you could do the same thing in your own life, but I can't help but think to the night, back the night I knelt by my bed. And called out to God. And I can't tell you the exact words I said, but I can tell you the cry of my heart was, God, be merciful to me. God, forgive me. And to understand from Scripture and have the witness of the Holy Spirit that when I called out to God for salvation, when I cried out to God for mercy, God forgave my sins. And what a burden was lifted, and what a change in the life took place. How many people know what I'm talking about? How many people know what I'm talking about? Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins are forgiven thee. I want us first of all to notice the condition of this man. This young man. Verse number two it says, and again he said, Behold they, and these are other folks, these four other fellows, it's recorded in other gospels. But they brought to Jesus a man sick of the palsy lying on a bed Now we see the condition of this fellow here. He had palsy. Now that might not be a term real familiar to a lot of us, but the word itself means to relax, to be relaxed or loosened. And when applied to a physical condition, it has the idea that the muscles in the body, whether it's the majority of the body or certain parts of the body But those muscles have no strength. They are unable to function. They are loosened. They are completely relaxed In other words, if a person had palsy in their arm, that arm would be useless. It was just loose and relaxed. You couldn't You had no control over it. You couldn't lift it up in uh uh independently, you couldn't function, you couldn't move it, it would just hang there, and you would have somebody else would have to move it It is a form of paralysis. It is a physical defect, and whether this man had total paralysis positive throughout his whole body, or whether it was Maybe his legs are partial, we don't know, we're not told. But he had palsy and he was unable to function Now, some have suggested that the palsy was perhaps all of his limbs and perhaps even his speech. We don't find this poor man speaking anywhere We see others operating on his behalf, so it's a very real possibility that he could not speak. Whatever the case was, he was helpless. This poor man was helpless. He could not function himself. He could not function without somebody else helping him, transporting him, caring for him. He could not bring himself to Christ. Somebody else had to bring him to Christ. Somebody else had heard about this Messiah. They had heard about this man who claimed to be the Son of God, claimed to be the Savior of the world, and they had heard of him, no doubt, performing miracles. Perhaps they had heard of this previous palsy. That had been healed. And they took this poor man and they carried him and brought him to Jesus Christ because he could not get himself there. I was studying this, I could not help but stop and thank God for people, some people who care enough about others to bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ. To go and find folks that for whatever reason are unable or perhaps unaware of what Jesus Christ can do for them, and they are willing to get them Pick them up, work together, and bring them to Jesus Christ. Again, I couldn't help but think of the Sunday school bus ministry. Where we have people go out into Terra Alta and Oakland and Deer Park and Kitts Miller and all the regions around here and run these buses and pick up and bring in boys and girls, teenagers, and even in cases moms and dads, parents, grandparents, and bring them in so they can hear about the Lord Jesus Christ And so this poor man was helpless. He could not bring himself to the Lord Jesus Christ. He needed someone else. And again, thank God for those who cared enough to bring him to Christ. Perhaps this fellow, I got studying this, and I can't say this dogmatically, but I'll just throw it out there. I think there's a possibility that this fellow may have been a child And the reason I say that, if you would have looked at verse number two, the Lord Jesus Christ, in addressing this young man, says, son. Be of good cheer. And every reference of this, every account of this event in the Gospels, Jesus uses that same term. Son. Son. I got looking up that word son and how it's used in our Bible, and 77 times that very word son there is also translated child, referring to a small child And so I thought, well, that's an interesting concept. This is a small child, perhaps, and they're bringing him to the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh that's uh you know that kind of gives a different take on it. This is the event where they tore up a hole in the roof. Remember possibly Peter's house is where they're at, and they let them down through. I thought a small child, I can see that happening. But then as I studied this, it kind of threw a wrench in my theory when the Bible refers to him earlier in verse number two, they said they brought him a man sick of the palsy. So I thought, well surely that word man means a little tiny man, a little small young man. And it doesn't. It means a man is how it's used. So it's like, rats, I like that theory. You know, the hole wouldn't be that big, I'd drop them down. But I did come to this. I I I think the Lord uses that term son on purpose. The Lord's not mistaken. So I compromise and I come to this conclusion. Perhaps a young man. Perhaps a young man. Maybe it's a teenager. Maybe somebody that's not full adulthood, but could be referred to as a man. Yet the Lord Jesus Christ, when he sees him, he addresses him as a child. Again, I'm grateful for ministries that bring young people to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm grateful for a church that cares enough to invest time in fair bit of money into bringing teenagers and young people into the house of God and get them under the Word of God and try and point them to the Lord Jesus Christ and help them see how much God loves them and the plan that God has for their life and what this world and sin will do to them and what Christ can do for them. And I thought about our big youth rally this Saturday as we'll be bringing teenagers in from all around the region. And Brother Bowman and Brother Lou Rossi are going to preach the gospel to him and have a lot of fun in the lives that can be changed, in the redirection of lives. As we've done this over the years. So whether it's a full-grown man or maybe a young man, whatever the case, this guy was helpless. And somebody needed to bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Another thing I noticed about this fellow, and again, we kind of surmise this a little bit, but I believe this poor guy was loved. I think the four men, as we read the other accounts in Mark and Luke, four men brought him. I believe those men cared deeply. For this man with palsy. They loved him. Why would they make such effort? Why would they no doubt alter their schedule and invest so much time and effort and when they get to the house, the place is packed. They can't even get into the Lord Jesus Christ. And sometimes love will produce creativity. Trying to express ways. How can I how many of you fellas when you were dating your wife, you came up with some creative ways to express your love to her? I was thinking uh I have a good friend of mine, Randy Miller. He pastors in Illinois. We were best buddies through college. And Randy was strange in some ways. He was just he was born and raised in Cornfield County, Illinois. I mean he is he is he is he's a hitch. I don't know how else to say it. He just hits. And when he told Mildred, who became his wife when he first told her he loved her, this is how he told her he loved her, he says, Mildred, he's real backward, Mildred, she And and she's uh Asian. Yes, Printy. I like you more than I like my dog. What Now the thing is, I know Randy, he was being sincere. He was trying to tell her how much he loved her. And sh it took a little bit, but she figured it out So one day we're walking back from class and we had something we was down a hallway uh down a uh sidewalk there and the school was right in town. It didn't have its own isolated campus, so we're right in town, and we're walking down and Mildred's going down there and Randy falls. He he's up in the tree. Nobody's following. Just walking out. All of a sudden he jumps out of the tree right in front of her and says, Mildred, I love you. Scared her to death. So my point I'm trying to make is this. Sometimes love will prompt people to try and be creative. an expression of it. And I believe these four guys loved this young man. And they wanted him well. And they cared enough about him and loved him enough to know that if they could just get him to Jesus, everything would be okay. And that love and that compassion, that concern prompt them to be creative. And one of them comes up with the idea, I know what we can do. We'll tear the roof off the house. And will drop him down into the Lord Jesus Christ. People around him cared enough to invest time and effort into his well-being. You know what this old world means? This old sinful world we live in. Crowling. Carolda, Oakland, Air Park, Accident, Grantsville, Friendsville. You know what these towns need? You know what? We don't need more protests. We don't need rioting. We don't need fussing and fighting and arguing. You know, we need just need some Christians who care enough to go into these little towns and get people and bring them to Jesus. There's not one thing wrong with our country that Jesus Christ couldn't make right. There's not one thing wrong with any home in our county, in our surrounding area, that Jesus Christ can't heal and make right. And there's nothing wrong in your life or my life that Jesus Christ can't change, that Jesus Christ can't correct. These guys cared enough about this man if we can just get him to Jesus. And this whole world needs somebody who cares enough about others. If we can just get them to Jesus, if we can just get them to Jesus Christ. I believe the Lord pays close attention to those who make it possible for others to come to Christ others to come to Christ. This week we had a great meeting with the conference. But I'll tell you what blessed my heart. As much as I enjoyed that conference, as much as God used that in my life, I'll tell you what blessed my heart this week. We had just about every day this week Somebody from our church was out in neighborhoods knocking on doors, visiting, and pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I tell you, that is about as biblical Christianity as you can get. Getting out, reaching others, and bring them to Christ. Had folks saved Wednesday, we had folks saved Tuesday, we had visits made all through the week, and that is exactly what's taking place here Caring enough about a poor young man that desperately needs Christ, and putting the time and effort in to get him to the Lord Jesus. So I look at the condition of this young man I'm calling him. He is helpless. He's got palsy. He can't function. Possibly, maybe completely paralyzed, even to the point he may not even be able to speak. He's possibly a young man. He's obviously loved dearly But I notice another condition about this fella. He's a sinner. He's a sinner. You say, how can you say that about somebody who's paralyzed that has to be carried about? Well, I'm not the one saying it. Look again at verse number two with me. He said, The Lord Jesus at the end of the verse he says, Son, be of good cheer, thy what? Sins. Be forgiven me. Jesus addressed the fact that this fella was a sinner, was a sinner. Jesus was addressing a condition about this man that perhaps the others may not have first seen. But the fact is the condition that was worse than palsy Was he a sinner? He was a sinner. Now the question comes up in studying this. We ask ourselves, I wonder, since the Lord says, Sons, thy sins be forgiven thee. Was his palsy, was his physical condition the result of some personal sin in his heart and life? Is that why the Lord addressed that initially? Is that why the Lord brought that out? I'll say some sicknesses are the result of personal sin. Sometimes somebody has physical malady, has physical difficulties, has physical um uh sickness because of decisions they made and that sickness, that condition, is a result of those physical conditions. 1 Corinthians chapter number 11, and for sake of time we won't turn there, and we reference this fairly often whenever we take part in Lord's Supper. But Paul, the Apostle Paul, and the inspiration of God addressing the church at Corinth is dealing with the ordinance of Lord's Supper. And the church at Corinth had such a distorted, I'm going to use the word perverted view of what the Lord's Supper was about. They were getting drunk. It was like a huge gluttonous banquet. And Paul has to address that, and he makes a very sobering statement He says, because you are approaching this ordinance of God in such a disrespectful, in such a, in his term, unworthy fashion That some in the church are sick. Their physical illness was a result of disrespect. For the things of God. Their physical illness was a result of their disobedience to the clear will of God. And he made this statement, and he says, yay, and some are asleep. Now listen, I've been in services where people fell asleep. And I'm always glad if I'm preaching that I can have a part in their refreshment. And the restrengthening of their body. It's wonder what a what a wonderful ministry to have. But all humor aside, that's not what Paul was talking about. When he referenced some were asleep, some had actually died Someone actually died. And the Bible's pretty clear, it is possible, it is possible for a person to sin to the point But they actually lose their life, not just sick. I have often thought this. I wonder how many folks would still be alive today if they could just learn to say no. To some sinful activity. No, I will not put that liquor to my lips. But because they failed to say no to the sin of liquor, I said the sin of liquor They lost their life. They lost their life. How many have died of various diseases because of promiscuity? An unwillingness, an inability for whatever reason, to discipline ourselves and keep our hearts and minds and bodies pure And in so doing, indulging in sin and disobedience to God, we bring sickness upon ourselves, and we bring uh illness upon ourselves, and even sometimes death Because of disobedience to God. Galatians chapter number 6, verse number 7 and 8 make a strong statement. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. So was this young fellow, was his palsy the result of the personal sins in his life? That does happen, and that is the case, and that has happened throughout history, and will continue, no doubt, until the end of uh uh time as we know it, end of this world But not all sickness is a result of personal sin. Sometimes sickness is a result of someone else's sin. Sometimes the person that is sick has this illness or this physical malady or whatever may not be anything they did personally, it may be the result of someone else. How many people have lost limbs because a drunk driver went through a stop sign or traffic light and destroyed their body? Good godly Christians. I thought of King David and the little child conceived in adultery with Bathsheba. Because of David's blant sin and attempt to cover it up and as a lies before God, a little child is born terrible illness and lives a short time and dies. Does anybody here remember or recognize the name Bob Kelly, old-time preacher? He went to be with the Lord about 10 years ago. Bob Kelly used to be down in Tennessee. He's over in North Carolina. One of my favorite preachers. He was a graduate of Tennessee Temple. He used to always preach Thanksgiving service every year. Bob Kelly said he was preaching a revival meeting in Texas back many, many years ago. And he said he was staying in the home of members of the church that that the where he was preaching a revival. He was staying in one of their guest rooms. They said every morning they'd come down and they'd have breakfast together, and one of the first mornings he came down, and sitting at the table was a young child. And he said you could see immediately the child had some very, very serious physical problems. He said the child was somewhat deformed and very, very limited, very, very handicapped. And he says they were all kind and the Christian home and they would enjoy the meal. And a little bit later the father in the home pulled Brother Kelly aside. And I'm telling us as best I can the way he related it And the father said, Brother Kelly, I want to explain my young child's condition to you. He said, okay. He said, as a young man I got away from God. I lived in sin. And I indulged all the sinful desires of my flesh, and I had no restraint. He said I contracted a condition in my own body. He said I got things right with the Lord and met a good, godly Christian woman, and we married and we had a child, but Because of my sin. As a young man, my child is born with this physical handicap, these physical Condition. And he says, preacher, every morning I come down and I sit at the breakfast table and I look at the results of my sin in its face. He said, Brother Kelly, when you go out and preach, you warn people of the devastation of sin. You warn people, you warn the young people and the adults that disobeying God is not worth the price that comes with it. Some sins, some sicknesses and illnesses and maladies are the result of decisions I make. Sometimes it's a result of condition uh decisions other people have made and we suffer the consequences. Sometimes sickness is simply God allowing it to happen so that he can get glory. So that he can get glory. Jesus and the disciples came across the blind man, and the disciples in their reasoning thought this guy must have sinned, or at least his parents sinned, he was born blind. And they asked the Lord. They'd said, Lord, who sinned that this man was born blind? Was it him or was it his parents? The Lord Jesus Christ said it wasn't him and it wasn't his parents. But rather that God can be glorified. That God can be glorified. So I said all that to say this, I don't know what the cause of this young man's palsy was. My own feeling is, and I can't document this or support it, but my own feeling is that it wasn't necessarily a result of any personal sin on his part or maybe even on his parents' part. It may have just been the plan of God for this young man to experience this so that he could give glory to God in his sickness. Paul said, When I am weak, then am I strong. Paul said, I will glory in my infirmities so that Christ can get the glory for what he does through me. So we don't know why this young man, as I'm calling him, was necessarily uh in and uh had this condition of palsy whether it was a personal sin or someone else's sin or simply God allowed it but we know not all illness is a result of personal sin Now I want to throw this word of caution out, and I do this just about every time I touch on this subject. We need to be very, very careful. Just because someone's sick, don't immediately assume they must have sinned. That is foolish and that is self-righteousness. One, you and I are not in the position to make that judgment God is the one that does that. The reason I say that, early on in my ministry, I did have a situation where someone was very sick, and I had a leader in the church come to me and says, I'll tell you why they're sick. I said, Really? is yeah there's sin in their life is hidden sin in their life and God dealing with them. I said, you don't know that. And even if you did, it's none of your business. That's between them and God. So we have to be very, very careful about assigning guilt when something bad or negative happens or comes to somebody's life. So, whatever the case was, whether it was personal sin that produced the palsy, we don't know this, but we do know this. That young man was a sinner. Whether he had palsy or not, he was a sinner. And I'm telling you, the healthiest person on planet Earth is a sinner. And the sickest person on planet earth is a sinner. Because the Bible is very clear, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We are born with a sinful nature. And so the Lord addresses this man, and I look at him and say, all right, what's the condition of this fellow? He's helpless, he has palsy. Uh perhaps he's a younger person and I'm surmising that. He uh is uh he's loved dearly by at least four people who care enough about him to make uh Go to extreme lengths to get him to the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's a sinner, and he's a sinner. And every one of us, under the sound of my voice, are sinners. We've broken God's law. Health and wealth is no indicator of spiritual condition. Well, I I'm physical I sometimes and uh God has blessed me and uh with fairly decent health all these years But we have to be careful. Don't ever get in the idea, well, I'm healthy, I'm in good shape, therefore I must be better than others. Just never ever think that way. Amen? That's pretty much a given So, Paul's me or not disguise a sinner, and the Lord addresses that. That leads me to my second point, is this. I notice the concern of the Lord. The concern of the Lord. And we've been talking all around this, but I just want to nail it down here. It says, son, be of good cheer, thy what? Sins be forgiven thee. I think it's interesting to note what the Lord did not say here. He did not say, Son, be of good cheer. Thy palsy has been healed. He doesn't say that. That comes later on. He doesn't say, son, be of good cheer. All thy bills are going to be paid. Some of you are saying, boy, I'd be of good cheer if all my bills were paid. He doesn't say, son, be of good cheer. You're going to have no more hardships in your life. Son, be of good cheer, going to make you the most popular person in Capernaum. And say any of that. The Lord's concern was not first and foremost his physical condition. The Lord's concern, first and foremost, was not his financial condition. It was not his popularity or the lifestyle that could be produced. The Lord's first and foremost concern was that his sins be forgiven him The greatest danger facing mankind is not cancer The greatest danger facing mankind is not some sickness. It's not some paralysis The greatest danger facing mankind is unforgiveness of sin. Satan's greatest friend. Is unforgiven sin. Unforgiven sin, the greatest need of mankind. The greatest need of mankind is forgiveness of sins. Forgiveness of sins. If this young man, now think about this. Suppose That they got him the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ looks them in the eyes. I just this is the way I picture my mind. The Lord looking down into the eyes of the young man and saying, Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins are forgiven. And they'd have taken him back home with palsy. That young man would have every reason in the world to be of good cheer. You would have every reason and eternity to say, thank God they brought me to the Lord Jesus Christ. I found forgiveness of sins. Be of good cheer. David put it this way, again, under the inspiration of God in Psalms 32, he said, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. Whose sin is covered. Now that phrase there, whose sin is covered, has this idea. Whose sin is no longer a factor in his relationship with God. It's been covered. It's no longer a factor, no longer plays, no longer is a factor in my relationship with God. I'm telling you, to know that God has forgiven me of my sins is the greatest thing in the world. The greatest thing in the world. Sons, be of good cheer. Thy sins are forgiven. What does it mean to be forgiven of sin? Well, first of all, it means that God's wrath is removed. Jesus says, he that believeth. Take your Bible if you would. Let's turn there. Go with me, if you would, to John chapter 3. There's two verses here. Of course, John 3. 16 is fantastic and the golden verse of the Bible. But if you would, notice with me verse number 18. John chapter 3 and verse number 18, I have these verses highlighted, underlined, underscored, starred, bracketed in my Bible, because they are so significant. John chapter 3 and verse 18, he that believeth on him is what? Not condemned. Look at this But he that believeth not, he that is still in his sins, he that has not found forgiveness of sins is what? Condemned already Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son, a person who has not found forgiveness of God for their sins is condemned already. Condemned by God. Come over to verse number 36, same chapter, and notice again what the Lord Jesus says. He said, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life But he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the what? Wrath of God abideth on him. I tell you what, it is far better to have palsy and be forgiven, have the judgment and condemnation and wrath of God removed from me than it is to have my disease removed. Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins be forgiven thee. It means eternal life is given. It means there is now a home in heaven. This man's greatest danger was not the sickness of palsy, was not dying of palsy. His greatest danger was dying in his sins. Think about it. Every person that Jesus healed, and he healed hundreds, perhaps thousands of people, but every person Jesus healed eventually got sick and died again. At some point, their body failed. At some point, the wages of sin, physically at least. Took their toll and they died. So it had this young man been healed of his palsy but never found forgiveness of sin, he would have eventually died. He would have died in his sins, separated from God for all eternity in hell. And so the Lord's greatest concern was his forgiveness of sins. Now I got thinking about that. What was it that prompted the four men to bring him to Jesus Christ? What was it about this young man that prompted them to bring him to Jesus Christ. What do you think? It was his illness. It was his palsy. Now, I'm just speculating here, but I wonder if this young man would have been healthy and strong and vibrant physically He may have never come to Christ. He may have never found forgiveness of his sins. Can I suggest to you that this young man's palsy may have been the greatest thing that ever happened to him? And that it opened his eyes and those around him his need to Christ, and getting into Christ, he found forgiveness? Listen to me. I am convinced God is working in every single life. God is working in lives, doing everything he can to get us to see how desperately we need the Lord Jesus Christ. My dad was down here for the week, and I just want to thank the church for your love for my dad. You have no idea the impact that this church has on my daddy's life. He loves it here. He loves you all so much. But as you know, I come from a broken home. We were early years of my life, we were in a fairly liberal church, fairly wealthy, upper middle class, I would say. We always had nice cars. From as long as I can remember, we had swimming pools and in-ground and nice home we lived in and took nice vacations. And we were content And we were somewhat successful. And we were lost. Unsaved. In my early teen years, trouble came. Home broke, marriage failed And in that, and I'm trying to be a little personal, so please bear with me, but in that failure, in that breakdown, my daddy sought the Lord. And in seeking the Lord's help, he found Christ as his Savior. And as a result of that, his boy got saved. And his daughters professed faith in Christ. And even though the marriage never came back together to his testimony, his wife came to know Christ as Savior. And Dad and I have often talked as hurtful as that is, and even to this day, it still hurts But we've often said, we wonder if that had not happened, if we'd have just gone on through our lives, content and happy, and lost religious people. If we hadn't died, maybe died in our sins and gone to hell, is it God's will for marriages to fail? No. But God can sure use the breakdown in life and sickness and hurt and failure to make us see how much we need the Lord Jesus Christ. This young man's palsy may have been the best thing that ever happened to him in in in having this disease. He was brought to Christ. And being brought to Christ, he found forgiveness of sins. And today, as I stand before you, that young man is in the presence of God in heaven today. The perfect body, the glorified body. I thought of some of you remember Nina McRobie, a charter member, her husband Jim, and some of you all remember Jim. When I first came here, Dinah said, would you go visit, and I've told this story many times. Some of y'all could tell it. Dinah said, Pastor, I was a new pastor. Pastor Leatherman, would you go visit my husband? I said, sure, Dinah, I'll be glad to Okay, she told me where we live. I said, I'm gonna go over. She goes, oh by the way, he hates preachers. I said, wonderful. This will be great. And he's probably going to cuss you out and he won't talk to you and won't invite you in. But would you go visit him? Sure, I can't wait. And so I did. And she was right. And it played out exactly the way she said. So I would visit him off and on and one day she came, it was sometime later, she came and said, Pastor, I need you to pray for Jim Found psoriasis of the liver. They're looking at a liver transplant. He's real bad off. Would you go visit him? I said, sure, and I'd visit him, and he was a little more open now. We talked and prayed, and he didn't trust Christ there. He went to one hospital and they were putting a stint in the vein that goes to your liver, I believe, and he was waiting on a Transplant, the cancer was in the liver, and in putting the stint in, they had invertently punctured his liver. Which let the cancer out, as I understand it, and disqualified him for a transplant. So now there's nothing they can do. Jim's going to die. Jim trusted Christ as Savior as a result of that. And I'm telling you, the old boy got it. God saved him. That old cus. Turn him around. He'd say, Preacher, I want you to come down all the time. I'd go down there every week. Bring him the cassette back then. Remember cassette tapes back then? And uh he listened to them. And he says, man, I says, I can't hardly hear you. That sound system's terrible. So he bought us a wireless system, one first one. He bought it so that way I can hear what you're preaching. And he wanted me down there so bad. And not long before he passed away, and I was able to do his funeral, Jim said this to me, he said, Pastor Leatherman, this sickness. It's the best thing that's ever happened to me. Because this brought me to Christ. This brought me to Christ Isn't that something? You know what that tells me? That tells me that what this verse here is telling us is so vitally true. But the most important thing in life is knowing for sure that my sins are forgiven. And that regardless of my physical condition, regardless of my financial condition, Regardless of what my family home is like, regardless of any of that, the most important thing in life is knowing for sure that God has forgiven me of all my sin. Now when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that God has forgiven you all your sin. I'm telling you, that's the most important thing in your life right now. is to come to know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that can stand and say with Paul that God has forgiven us and we know him if we believe and persuaded he's able to keep that which we've committed to him, that we know that we have eternal life. We need to do like those four guys that he care enough about others and bring them to Christ. Bring them to Christ. Bring them to Christ. I don't have time. I wanted to look at the reaction from the crowd. And there were two reactions. One is there was critics. Immediately the Pharisees says, oh this guy, who can he he who this is blasphemy, he's blasphemy. And I tell you this, I found this. When a person gets saved, when a person comes and finds forgiveness of sins, they trust Jesus Christ their personal Savior. Inevitably, there'll be some people who will find fault. There'll be some people who will not appreciate what Christ does in the life of a person who trusts him as their Savior. And they will criticize and they'll find fault and they'll question and they'll they'll they'll tear down and they'll they'll uh ridicule I found that true in my life when I got saved. Many of you could say the same thing. Dr. Lee Robertson said critics are a dime a dozen. Anybody can sit back and find fault. Anybody can sit back and point out mistakes or whatever. But don't ever allow anybody to keep you from coming to Christ. There is nobody in the world worth going to hell for. You say, if I get saved, my family won't appreciate it. If I get saved, my friends won't won't like me. If I get saved, then uh I may lose a position at work. I'm here to tell you There is nothing on this earth that is worth dying and going to hell for. I got saved. I had A family member came to me, I mean, just within the first two weeks after I got saved, and I started telling people I trusted Christ I told one of the family members, I said, hey, they said, what in the world's going on with you, Leatherman? Bible? Seriously? Church? I said, I accepted Christ as Savior. God saved me. I'm a Christian now. I mean to tell you, they laid into me Who do you think you are? You think you're better than me? You calling me some kind of sinner? You're a Christian. Look at you. And I mean they took they found everything I had ever done wrong in my life and magnified it. Listen, not everybody's going to appreciate when a person gets saved. Sometimes family members turn. We're talking about that in Sunday school Sometimes friends. By the way, when I got saved, I lost every single friend I had at that point. Every single one of them. But you know what I found out? They weren't much of friends. That's not much of a friend So some people criticized when this old boy found forgiveness and got healed, this young man, I should say. But there were others who were amazed and they rejoiced and they brought glory to God. And I'm here to tell you, you come and trust Christ as Savior, you come and get things right with God, you come and yield your life to Christ. Whatever decision you make for the Lord Jesus Christ There is a very large element of people in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church will rejoice with you and be happy for you and try and encourage you and give glory to God Because God's people are always happy when somebody gets saved. When somebody gets things right. And so, where are you this morning? Do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven? You're on your way to heaven. If not, that's the most pressing issue in your life right now. To make sure, Brother Ed was telling us they went, him and Charlie witnessed to a lady this week, 80-some years old, unsaved. Unsed. She says, Oh, I'm not ready to talk about that right now. You pray for this dear lady. They're going to go back and visit her again. I got the two hound dogs. They're ready to get after her. Why? Because that's the most important issue in her life. Amen or not? Young people. You're not saved. You better sell. You say, oh, I got a long time to live. You don't know that. Those not thyself, but tomorrow thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You're a fool, you put off salvation when you know you need to be saved. Those of us that know Christ, how about let's get like those four guys? Let's start getting people, bringing them in, bringing them in. How about we make our cars little halfing beds? And fill them up. Put people in. Bring them in here. And if this fills up and we have to come through the roof, I'm overriding the deacons and trustees. We'll build a hole in the roof and we'll bring them in. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for this event here in Scripture where this young fella Found forgiveness of sins. Lord, you ultimately healed them. We praise the Lord for that. Lord, our concern is today and here and now. And Lord, I pray for any this morning that would be under the sound of my voice that do not know for sure that you have forgiven them of their sin and saved their soul. I pray that today would be the day of salvation. And Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, help us give ourselves to reaching others, bringing them to Christ, bringing them to Christ With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say this morning, preacher, I know I'm saved? I know God is through the blood of Christ has forgiven me all my sin. I know God settled that for his glory. He's done it. But you say, Preacher I want to be used of God to bring others to Christ. In one form or another. One way or another. I want my testimony. I want God to give me that burden, that concern. to reach others and bring them to Christ. Is there any like that this morning? With upraised hand, preacher, that's my heart desire to be used of God to bring others to Christ. God bless you. If every Christian and every church and every church across our land would commit ourselves to that, this would be a different country. I know that. Many, many people could be brought to Christ. I wonder if there's some say this morning, preacher, I know I'm saved and I am concerned for others, but my testimony as a Christian is not what it ought to be. I'm not living for God like I know I should. And there are some things in my life that really need attention. And God's maybe been dealing with your heart. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. As a Christian, I have some areas in my life that need attention. Any like that this morning, preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around. That's so important. And let's trust the Lord. Let's obey Him and make those things right. Let's not let sin creep into our lives as believers with its devastating effects So some this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I'm concerned about that. I know I'm a sinner. There's no doubt about it. I know God loves me. I believe he died for my sins and rose again, but I need this matter settled, knowing that God has forgiven me. Of all my sin. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to die in my sins. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God has forgiven me. Any at all? By the uplifted hand. Any at all? I believe many of us know someone individually, personally. They're on our heart right now. They need Christ. One of the best things we can do is pray for them. Pray. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.