Matthew chapter 5. It's the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus Christ is my favorite preacher. I love to hear Jesus preach. And uh you can't go wrong when you listen to Jesus. You can be as critical as you want to be, but when Jesus is preaching, it's just right. And Matthew chapter five is recording uh the first part of Jesus' longest recorded sermon, the Sermon on the Mount. And I I love studying the Sermon on the Mount. I love to read it. I love to study it. I love to study how Jesus presented that sermon. I love to I I really do. I love to see how Jesus does this. And he preaches a pretty strong message And uh he doesn't hold back any what he's preaching. By the way, you go to Matthew, I think it's 22. Matthew 22, he's talking to the Pharisees. And he says, you scribes, you Pharisees, comma, you Hypocrites. I'm telling you, he didn't hold back. In some places in America, that's fighting terms And Jesus stood in front of these religious elite of his day and he said, Y'all are a bunch of hypocrites. Now, if I came into your church tonight and I said to you, y'all are a bunch of hypocrites Some of y'all would throw something at me and get out and walk out. I understand. But Jesus didn't hold back. He knew really what was going on. He can see past the facade To see the heart. Can I tell you, we as Christians, we have programmed ourselves, and I'm not saying this is wrong necessarily, but we've programmed ourselves to make sure everything looks right in our life. What our heart could be as wicked as can be. We can come to church, we can dress right, we can act right, we can sing right, we can carry the right Bible, we can do all the right things, and make everything just look so well, so good. And yet inside, have a hard time. You know what I'm talking about? Some of you are looking at me like, you're talking about me tonight? Well, the truth is, I don't know who I'm talking about. I'm talking about me tonight Because I've been raised for the most part in churches just like this. And if we're not careful, we get real good at doing what we know we're supposed to do. We get real good at playing the role of being a Christian when down deep inside That's what Jesus is getting at in Matthew chapter 5. I want you to see this. Matthew chapter number 5. Look if you would please midway through his he I think he's gotten through his introduction, and he's gotten through point number one Point number one may be the Beatitudes. And uh he goes through that point. There'd be a number of subpoints there. But but then he gets into maybe point number two or maybe point number three Now I'd say point three. And he gets to point number three in verse number 21. And Jesus says, Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not kill. We would say a hearty amen. By the way, Jesus is quoting the book of Exodus, chapter 22. He's quoting the Ten Commandments. Jesus says that he's These people who know the Bible, he said, you've heard it said and you've practiced it and you've heard the word preached. Thou shalt not kill it. I can just imagine everyone in the crowd says, Amen Then he says, Thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill shall be danger of the judgment. Verse 22, but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Ah And whosoever shall say unto his brother, Rakha, that shall be in danger of the council. But whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of a hell fire. Therefore, If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee, Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way, with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison Verily I say to thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the utmut farthing Boy, this is a tough passage of Scripture. If we take the context of what Jesus is saying, Jesus is really looking at some religious people and he's saying, hey, it's not just what you've heard. Jesus came to deliver really a new gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ, he came to to share with people that the gospel of grace, the gospel of mercy, that salvation is through Jesus Not by the following of a bunch of laws, which the religious elite of Jesus' day were professional, they were professional lawkeepers. They knew how to dress, they knew how to walk, they knew how to act, they knew how to do everything. Matter of fact, do you remember those religious elite came to Jesus and they said, Jesus! Said, your disciples they eat with unwashing hands. And by the way, didn't the disciples eat with unwashing hands? I suppose so, because people were watching them and they didn't. They didn't go wash their hands, you go and sat down and eat. You say, what in the world does that mean to us? Well, if you go back and study the Old Testament. It was a ceremonial law that you had to wash, cleanse your hands even before you ate. That was a ceremonial law. By the way, Matt has saved us a lot of COVID issues if we had done that too. I don't know, but that's a whole other message. They hear these These disciples got criticized because they didn't wash hands. Why were they being criticized? Because the religious elite said, here's what the law says, and you're not abiding by the law. Can I tell you? My wife and I had the privilege of going to the Holy Land back in uh 2018, November of 2018, and we had a great time. We were on the airplane on the way over there. It's about an eight, eight and a half hour flight And we were on the airplane on the way over and and uh we got on the plane and it was a little it was a little weird for us. Uh really probably more weird for my wife than I. I'd been on long trips Much longer than that, many times. But we got on this plane and and there were a lot of people who didn't dress like you and I dress. And they acted a lot different than you and I act And I remember we got on the plane and we sat in this big old plane and and uh we were sitting side by side and and next to us on the right there was the these guys that were sitting there and they had a a book open in front of them And they were chanting in a different language. And they were rocking back and forth as they were chanting in a different language. And what they were doing is they were quoting Old Testament scripture And they're quoting it over. My wife leaned over and she said, Is this safe? Are they gonna hurt us? That's the wrong group of people, honey, wrong group of people. And uh and and then about middle of the night. On this flight. At a certain time, all those men, they had the the hats and they had the the black curly hair coming down outside of it. They were all dressed in gray and black and at the same time it's almost like a buzzer went off. And all those men stood up in the plane. And they all walked to the back of the plane. My wife's like, Ah, we're gonna die. They're taking over the plane. And I said, No, that's that's not what's happened I said, these are Orthodox Jewish people. It's probably prayer time. Then I said, I'm going to go find out They were back there in the back of the plane by the by the bathroom. So I thought, I'll just go to the bathroom. I walked back there, got back, and here's this this whole there's probably twenty-five, thirty men Standing in this huddle and they're all facing the same direction. They're all doing this and they're all chanting prayers. And I'm telling you, it it was weird. I'd never experienced anything like it in my life. I went in the bathroom. I said, Oh dear Lord, please Help them not do anything dumb. And then I'm thinking, maybe, maybe something. Can I tell you? They were worshiping. They were practicing what we would say Old Testament ceremonial law They would be the kind of people who they obeyed mom and dad. They'd be the kind of people that they would they would not forsake the Sabbath day. They were in church like they're supposed to be They they would be people who who who their their children would obey mom and dad. I mean they would take the the the commandments of the Bible and say We will live by this. Many of those people memorized, literally memorized the the books of the law. I'd have a hard time with that, to be totally honest with you. It's all the television ages this past week. I'd have a hard time memorizing Genesis. Could you uh imagine memorizing the whole book of Genesis? But they would they memorize the book of Leviticus Wow! That's tough Sweden right there. That's hard. And here these people would do that kind of stuff. And they would obey the law. And here Jesus stands in front of those people. Who lived by the letter of the law, and he said, You've heard it of old time. Thou shalt not kill. And they're like, Amen. That's right. And he said, I say unto you. You look under your brother, look at your brother with anger, hate, or malice in your heart towards them. Jesus says you've committed murder in your heart already. Ouch! He says the Bible says thou shalt not commit adultery. But if you look at a woman to lust after her, talking to the men there, you look at a woman to lust after her, you've committed adultery already in your heart. You're guilty. That's what Jesus is saying to him. You can live by the letter of the law. You can perform on the outside all you want. But Jesus is looking at these people and he's saying, what really matters is what's right here. Ouch! Man, that hurts! Because I'm guilty. Oh, he goes a little step further. Listen to what he says here. He says, therefore, verse 23, and my text is really going to be verse 23 and a few following. Verse 23. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, thou And there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Who I wrote down some simple principles for this passage. I wrote down one, the place. The place. What place is he talking about here in this passage? He's talking about an altar You say, well, Brother Kurt, the altar in the Old Testament would be different than the altar that we go to in the New Testament. You're absolutely right. The altar in the Old Testament was a place of animal sacrifice Where the people would come into the altar and they would bring a sacrifice, a a lamb of the first year without blemish for a sin offering. There were five different uh sacrifice systems that they went through Different kind of sacrifices. But that but praise God, Jesus came and he did away with that old. I'm thankful we didn't come to church today. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We didn't come in and yep some of you carried in a uh a a little lamb, a you lamb. All right, we're at church. We're going to sacrifice. Aren't you glad you didn't have to stand here with a knife and split the throat of a lamb? There'd be kids crying. I'd probably cry. I'd eat it, but I'd cry when you killed it. Truth is, I'm thankful we don't have that sacrificial system because Jesus came and he offered himself as that sacrificial lamb. Once and for all, the book of Hebrews says, to pay for all of man's sin, to pay the sin that so it was finished on the cross of Calvary. But here Jesus stands in front of him and says When you go to the altar, what's he talking about? He's talking about a place of sacrifice, a place of surrender. In in the New Testament, that altar is different than it was in the Old Testament. The Old Testament also altar was a place of animal sacrifice. In the New Testament, the altar is a place of of self-will sacrifice. You see, this altar is not just some, well, y'all are old school there at Mount Leighton. You know, that's why I don't want to go to that church. You want people to go forward and kneel. No, that altar is a place of sacrifice still for us That altar is a place where I'll I'll frequent often and I'll lay a burden at the altar. I'll lay a sin at the altar. I'll make some things right at the altar. Hey, the altar is a picture. It's a New Testament picture, that Old Testament picture. where we did sacrifice to our holy God. Hey, can I challenge you? Don't be a stranger to the altar. Don't be a stranger. Hey, can I tell you one of the greatest things you can do to help uh teach your children is dad, mom, use the altar. Hey grandma and grandpa, use the altar. Don't be saying, well, physically I can't. Then can I encourage you? If physically you can't come and kneel, then come and sit. Well, you know, it's kind of humbling to go forward. People, what will people think? I this we say this down in Tennessee all the time. A good old Southern term. We say, who gives a rip? Who cares what anyone else thinks? I'm not here to please you. I hope you're not here to please me. I hope you're not here to please your pastor. We have one person we are to please, and that's Jesus Christ, the very Son of God. So I see number one in this passage of scripture: a place, an altar, and Jesus talks about the altar to these people. He says When you go to the altar, Jesus is implying that we ought to frequent the altar. Number two, number one, I see the place. Number two, I see the person. Get this, I want you to see this. This really intrigues me. We're going to get into some meat here in a second. Number two, the person. Look at verse number 23. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, I put down number two, the person is number two, your brother. Your brother. The Bible doesn't here mention that it's a blood relationship. It's not when it says brother, he's not referring to a a brother and sister literal blood relationship He's talking about when you go to the altar and you're at the altar and you remember that you have aught against thy brother. Okay, brother, if we take the term brother, we literally refer to someone else who's a believer in Christ You come to the altar, and at the altar you remember, wait a second. I've offended my brother. Hold on. I just messed up with what I said. It says, it says, uh verse 23, therefore thy bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. Your brother's upset with you. You didn't even do wrong. Your brother has ought against you. For some reason, they're upset with you. I see number one the place. I see number two the brother. No either way, that's that leads me to I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God We're family together. Some of you say, well, you're hollering too much. I'm sorry. I I'm I'm I'm really not mad. Yesterday at the youth rally, a young girl came up to me and and uh and and or she was talking in front of her youth pastor and In front of her pastor, Brother Hartman, and she said, Oh, I remember him. I just preached at their church about six months ago. He's the guy that yells all the time. He's angry. And I looked at her and I smiled real big and I said, Oh, I'm not angry at all. And then I said, have you ever seen a coach on the sideline? A coach on the sideline, his team's best up, that coach is on the sideline and says, Give the game, come on, do it, do it. Is that coach mad at him? Well, sometimes I suppose the coach could be mad at him I looked at her and said, I'm not mad at all. I'm passionate. I believe what I'm saying. And I'm going to herald it. I'm going to proclaim it. I'm going to preach it. I want people to understand Jesus is real about this. I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. And we're a family together. And we all don't look alike. And praise God for that. Aren't you glad there's not two Kirk Copelands in this world? Amen. Pastor agrees. Amen. My mom would say the world couldn't handle two Kurt Copelands. Someone would kill you. My wife says this. She says, if you were my brother when we were kids, I would have killed you. I'm the youngest. I know how to push buttons. I'm a professional button pusher. I am. I can tease, I can have a good time. I can do things to annoy. I am a professional. My my brother Kelly, the one with the girl's name My brother Kelly, he used to say he'd say something to me when we were little. He'd just say something. I'd say he'd say, You better stop. I'd look back at him and say, You better stop. He said, I'm gonna knock your head off. I'm gonna knock your head off. I promise you better stop. I promise you better stop. And before before it's all done, I'll be laid on the ground crying. I'm that guy. But you know what? We're family! We're a family. We don't look alike. We don't act alike. We don't talk alike. We don't maybe you can sing, I can't. Maybe you can play in Israel. I can't Maybe you can tell good jokes. I can't. I'm just telling you, we're different, but we're family. We're family. Number one, the place, number two, the person, number three, the problem. This is probably my favorite part. The problem. Verse 23. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift. Does it say what the ought is? Is there any mention in this passage? By the way, you study before it and after, I'm gonna help you. There is no mention. Is there any mention of any sin that takes place between these two people? None. Jesus looks at the people and he says, hey, you go to the altar, you're trying to get things right with God, you're trying to leave an offering, a place of sacrifice, and you get there and you remember. Things are not right. I thank God that He doesn't say what the offense was Because if he said the offense was someone mistreated his his child, then some of us would justify where we're at and say, oh well the You know, that isn't the fault that we have. I a as an evangelist traveling doing a lot of revivals, you know what I've I've come to the point where I don't I don't name a whole lot of sin. I'm against sin. Let me just say it straight and plain But I don't stand in a service. I don't say, well, you better stop doing this, you better stop doing that. Because what I found is if I don't hit someone's particular sin, they walk out like, ah, well, I guess I'm okay The Holy Spirit of God works in our heart. You know what sins in your life. And hearing this passage of scripture Jesus doesn't name the sin. He said, hey, you're going to the altar. You're walking through the motions of Christianity. You kneel and you pray. You bring your gift to the altar. And while you're there, you remember. There's that person. Gets on my nerves. By the way, we all have them. And some of y'all looking at me like that pious look again, like, no, no, no. We all have those people. You see them coming and you're like, uh, you fake talking on your phone Oh, Pastor, hey! I'm sorry, just seconds, Pastor. Hey, so good to talk to you. By the way, you say, Brother Kurt, does everyone have people like that? Yes. Yes, pastor. No, I'm not gonna ask you. I'm not gonna ask you. I'll confess I was a youth pastor. There were some teenagers I I've expressed it to teenagers this week. There were some teenagers that that that there was one or two in particular that if I saw them coming, I was like, oh, please, Lord, come back now, please Cause they just wear me out. They were annoying. They they were rude There were something you just saw in there and you're like, ah. And some of some of us here, honestly, some of us, you may pass through the halls of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church And you may see someone coming to you like, Mmm That person. Mmm. By the way, don't point. Chances you might even be married to him. I'm not sure. But we may have some of those people who just oh Jesus says when you come to the altar, the place And you remember that, brother, the person has aught against you, the problem. We're good at, well, I'm going to go to the altar and I'm going to pray for that person. God, would you convict that person? I was walking through the hallway of church this morning, and I looked at her, and she looked right in my eyes, and I said, good morning to her. I really went out of my way to be kind to her. And she saw me and our eyes caught, and I said good morning, and she went and walked right on by. And so you come to the altar, God forgive. By the way, that kind of stuff happens quite a bit, doesn't it? You ever heard that old song? The excuses song? She didn't even shake my hand. Or he didn't even shake my hand. You know the song? There's good Bible doctrine in that song. Can I tell you sometimes we'll get an idea about how someone thinks about us just from a look that they give But if you stop to consider that maybe something real bad is going on in their life, When you passed them in the hall this morning and you said good morning and they you you thought they sucked their nose up, maybe they're fighting back the tears. They looked up to heaven and maybe in their heart they're whispering a prayer, God would you help me to make it through the day? Do you ever stop to think that maybe they're feeling sick, or maybe, maybe there's something else going on in their life, and it's not about you at all But yet sometimes we'll walk home and we'll on the way home, or we'll on the drive home, we'll we'll look at her husband and say, Well, I said hello to her today. She didn't even say hello, but I just I just don't know what I've done to her. Maybe you didn't do anything. Maybe something bad's going on in her life. You go to work, and that guy at work who says he's a believer may not live like it like he should, but he says he's a believer. And he and he jumps your case someday and he's on your and you start getting mad and angry and we we we want to we want to spiritualize things. We want to come to the altar and we want to say, oh dear God, would you just get a hold of their wicked, wicked heart? God fix them. Hold on. I see number one, the place, number two, the person, number three, the pat the the number one, the place, number two, the person, number three, the problem, number four, the The pawns P-A-U-S-E, not P-A-W-S. The pause, the stop. Look what Jesus says. Jesus says in verse 24: Leave there thy gift before the altar. Go thy way and first be reconciled to thy brother. Then come again and offer thy gift. You know what Jesus just said? Jesus said, if you're coming here, God brings something to your mind that's not right, Jesus says, get up. Go be reconciled. And that's tough. That's tough. Because it's easy for us to come and say, Lord, would you help that person? I don't really care for that person. God, would you change that person? You know what God wants to change? God wants to change my heart. And God said to these people, This is Jesus preaching. This isn't me preaching. So please don't be upset with me. I'm preaching to me tonight. Jesus looks at Kirk Copeland. He says, Kurt Copeland, don't be so quick to go to the altar when you know you need to make something right with someone else. You know why our churches don't have the power they should have? Because many of us in our heart were bearing some unforgiveness or some bitterness or some angst towards someone else. I was in a church one time not too long ago. A man came to me and said, Yeah, I ain't talked to that family member in six years. And he kind of said it like he was proud of it And I thought in my heart, how sad. How sad. Yeah, but Brother Kurt, that person did me wrong. I understand. We've all been done dirty, haven't we? Someone's talked about you, someone's made fun of you, someone's attacked your family, someone took your promotion, someone stole your retirement account. I don't know what it is A business dealing went sour. It's none of my business what it is. We've all been done dirty. You know what Jesus says? Go to your brother and be reconciled. Wow. Wow. I c I can start making the excuses in my own life right now. But wait a second, they don't deserve it. You're right. Yeah, but wait a second, Brother Kirk. They're the ones in the wrong. I get it. I get it. But in this passage of Scripture, Jesus doesn't talk about who's in the wrong. Jesus simply says, go be reconciled. That doesn't mean you're going to be best friends. That doesn't mean you're going to sit together on the front row of church the next Sunday. That's not what it means. But Jesus is very clear in this passage of Scripture He said, the Bible says, do not kill. That if we live our life with anger or misdealings with someone else, we are just as guilty as the Old Testament law of killing. Jesus says don't go to the altar and just sit there and act like everything's alright. We're professionals at this. Jesus says you do everything As much as is possible within you, as much as life within you, live peaceably with all men, the Bible says I I'll I my personality is is the cup is half full. That's my personality. That's why God made me And actually the cup can be almost empty, and I'll still say it's full. I'm okay with that. I really am. I'm okay. Someone say, are you tired? No, not at all. I'm lying, I guess. I I guess maybe that's the other way of saying it. I'm very positive with things. As far as I know, as far as I know, Brother Leatherman, I don't I don't have any any anger towards someone. As far as I know, my brothers maybe. From abuse as child, but we're best friends now. So I mean it's that's under the blood. That was BC, that was before Christ. I don't know that I have an enemy Now there may be some people who call me their enemy, but I don't know that I have an enemy Say, well, Brother Kurt, that means you have no backbone. No, no, no. That means this. That means I don't want to stand before God someday and have some bitterness harbored in my heart towards someone else for something they may deserve. I don't want to hold that in my heart. You know what that bitterness or unforgiveness in your heart is? That is you drinking poison. And hoping it hurts someone else. Yeah, but you don't understand. No, no, no. I don't. I guess I don't. The Bible says this. I'll finish with this. I'm done. I should have stopped already. I have one more point. I'm not going to get to it. The Bible says this in Ephesians 4. 32. This has become one of my favorite verses. I didn't like it as a kid growing up because my parents who didn't even attend church, they made me learn this verse as a little kid. And our brother me and my brothers, we had to quote this verse together. Maybe you know the verse too. Matter of fact, if you know the verse, let's quote it out loud together. I I know you're thinking, wait a second, wait a second, Ephesians. I'll help you out. It starts with uh and be ye kind. My wife is the Bible, she helps she helps me. She wrote the message, so she's she's giving me the points And be ye kind. You know the verse? Okay, Ephesians 4. 32. Can we say it together? All together. Here we go. And be ye kind, one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another. What a verse. Isn't that an amazing verse? Do you hear what God said? God said in that verse, be kind one to another. That means I've got to be kind to you. I've got to quit hitting you so hard. Forgive me. I've got to quit hitting you so hard. I'm commanded to be kind to him. And then it goes one step further. He's commanded when I hit him, he's commanded to forgive me. Isn't that awesome? I love that. I've got to be kind, but I've got to forgive. How many of you noticed that I didn't finish the verse? Pastor kept quoting. I was like, shh, shh, don't go any further. Do you know how the verse ends? The Bible says this, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. This hurts. This is hard. This pill is a tough one to swallow. God said I'm supposed to treat that brother. Who's offended me, or I've offended him? I'm supposed to treat him just like Jesus treats me. How God treats me for Jesus Christ's sake. That's tough. I didn't deserve God's forgiveness, but God gave it to me Here in this passage of Scripture, Jesus preaching the message says, you go to the altar, but you have a problem with someone else, go be reconciled. Get it taken care of. And then what's it taken care of? Come back to the altar. Because God's like, that's my child. Can I ask you tonight? Who's done you dirty? Who's hurt you? Ah! That picture comes to your mind. By the way, if you have siblings, I understand. Those are justified there. Otherwise, I'm just kidding, it's not justified. Those people that God brought to your mind tonight? That person you haven't spoken to for years, whether it's their fault or your fault. God says, go be reconciled. Let's make it right. Maybe someone that used to sit in the pews, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And if this church is like any other church I've ever been in, there have been people who sat here who are no longer here. And they left mad. And maybe when they left they said things about you? They attacked you? You know what Jesus says? Be reconciled. Stop holding the grudge. That may not change them, but it changes our heart. And I want to stand before God with a clean heart, not holding angst towards anyone. Tonight, can I challenge you? By the way, this is not natural. This is completely supernatural. Tonight, maybe God's brought someone to your mind. I'd say number one, pray fervently for God to help you. Are you going to them saying, Hey, uh I heard a an okay message the other night And God spoke to my heart, and I'm going to come to you, and I just want you to know I'm sorry that I've been upset with you, but you've been an idiot to me, and that's why I've been upset with you. Can I tell you that's not that's not making it right? You're just pouring gasoline on the fire. When Jesus says go and be reconciled, you know what Jesus is saying? The same way Jesus came to this earth, willingly stretched out his arms, and willingly gave up his own rights. For our benefit. Jesus says the same way he did it, we're supposed to do it. But we reconcile. Why don't you look at that family member you haven't talked to in years? Just say, hey, life's too short. I want you to know I love you. Let's just move on. They may look at you and say, No. That's okay. You keep showing them love. I've made it a point in my life. If someone is upset with me, I'll I'll I'm gonna write him a letter. Not a letter saying, Well, you my first message I preached, I'll I said I'm gonna finish the other one, I'll finish with this. First message I preached. Right after my ordination. I stood at the pulpit of our church and I preached what I thought was a fantastic, it was one of those messages you finish for the night and you're like, yes, that was good. Not that I've ever said that since, because this man helped me with that. And I I I preached as I I was 21, 22 years old, just preached my first message as a staff member at the church. Brother Wallace was our pastor. I thought, man, I just nailed that. Finished preaching, came down off the platform and and there's a a a group of people there, they're shaking my hands and great. I'm like, yeah, my head's swelling, you know. I'm like, yeah, I can do this. This is one this is all I am so good. And I remember the crowd started dispersing just a little bit and I looked out and there was a is a a well known evangelist Uh not probably not one you've ever had here, but a well-known evangelist sitting in the third row back in the center our center aisles of our church. There was no there was no center aisle. Our our pews went about as far as these pews did with no center aisle. I mean if you got stuck in the middle there's a fire in the in the church and you were in the middle, you're dying. You're not getting out. You were stuck in the middle And uh and that that man was he had slid into that middle area there and he had sat in the back the whole service. He came forward and he sat in that third row back and I finished talking to people and he saw me, he he looked at me and said, Brother Copeland, come here Ah, this well-known evangelist is going to pat me on the back. This is going to be good. Maybe he wants me to sign his Bible. And I walked back there, I sat on the second row, he was on the, I turned around, had my arm on the row, and he looked at me and he said this. He said, Brother Copeland That has to be the worst message I have ever heard in my life. I was like, ha ha, that's a good one, yeah. I thought, that's pretty good, yeah. He said, no, I'm serious. That was the worst message I've ever heard in my life. And I remember thinking, what? You're kidding. There's no and he went on to dissect my message and tell me how horrible it was. We sat there for probably fifteen minutes. And when I got up from sat sitting there talking to him I'm like crying thinking, I quit, I'm not going to be a preacher anymore. I'm the world's worst. I went from, yeah, I can do this to no I called Brother Wallace. Told him I need to talk to him first thing in the morning to turn him my resignation. Went into his office that next morning, Thursday morning, or Monday morning, excuse me. Got in his office and said, Brother Wallace, I said, I I'm a loser. I'm terrible. I'm sorry. Here's what I did. And Brother Wallace, leaning back in his chair, that same chuckle, waving his hands like this He said, Oh, Brother Copeland, it doesn't matter. He said, it's all just schooling. You're just learning on the job. And he said, what did he complain about the message for? And he said, ah, that guy was probably sleeping. He didn't even hear your message. He said, that was a fantastic message. And he encouraged me. And I walked out of his office thinking, that's great. You know what I did? I went to my office and I got out a piece of paper. Got my pen out and I started writing. Dear Dr. Said, thank you. For caring enough about me that you would help me to become a better preacher. I don't know if that was his intent. Matter of fact, I kind of think it wasn't his intent. I don't know. He blasted me pretty hard. But can I tell you what it's done for me, Brother Leatherman? When I stand up to preach now, I'll make sure that I'm being true to what God says. That was 30 years ago. I stand before you today and I look at a passage of scripture and my mind goes back to that evangelist blasting me. And he may have meant it for ill, but God used it for good in my life. Yeah, you got the hurt. Someone's done you wrong. But you can be better because of it. Maybe tonight you need to write a letter. And tell that person who hurts you, just want to let you know I love you. I thank God for you. God has used you to help me in my life more than you'll ever know. Don't bring up the hurt. Let them know how God's growing you. And be reconciled. Tough passage of scripture tonight. I'm not going forward because someone's gonna think I got something wrong with someone else. Well that I'm going to the altar tonight. You don't have to. This message is for me. And if God spoken to you tonight, why don't you find a spot and name that person? Jesus Christ. Would you do it? Lord, I thank you for your word. This is tough. Lord, I read Matthew chapter 5 and I get to this portion of Scripture. I I almost want to speed read through it and act like I act like I don't need it. Truth is, God, I I struggle Satan will get on my shoulder and he'll whisper in my ear and he'll bring up into my mind some things from the past, some hurts. Some disagreements, some arguments, some fusses, and maybe some people who truly hurt me or hurt my family. And I want to get even. My human flesh wants to fight. I want to give them a peace of my mind. God, your word teaches me I can't do that. That's not my job. My job as your child is to be reconciled. The whole theme of the Bible is reconciliation. You sent your son to reconcile us unto yourself. And God, you ask us to be reconciled to those around us that maybe we don't see eye to eye with. I'm not talking about compromise. I'm not talking about having no backbone or standards or convictions. I'm talking about living peaceably with all men. God, would you help us to love our brothers, sisters in Christ? Lord, tonight, those people that you brought to our mind, help us to lay them at the altar tonight and go and be reconciled. And then come again and offer our gift to you. Thank you for your love. Bless this invitation time. With every head bowed and every eye closed, let's all stand to our feet as the piano begins to play. Hey, if no one else comes forward