And then we'll come back to our text here. But just let me read this real quickly. Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubabel, saying Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. And God is telling Zerubable here, and we'll see who this is here in a little bit. But he's telling them, listen, I've given you a responsibility. You have a job to do. You have a responsibility before the Lord. And he says, this responsibility, you're not going to be able to carry it out in your own power. You're not going to be able to carry out in your own ability, your own strength, but you will be able to carry it out in the power of the Spirit of the Lord. And God has given to every believer. Let me just ask this. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Every one of us should know Jesus Christ as Savior. We've come to that point in our life where we've accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We've been born again into the family of God. Every one of us has the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us. And we can do what we need to do, not in our own power, not in our own ability, but in the power of the Holy Spirit. Now, if you would come back to Haggai here. Our text for this morning is verse number four. And um I was reading this in my devotions about a week ago And I hit verse 4, and God really spoke to my heart. It just encouraged me. And notice there, verse 4, it says, Yet now be strong, O Zerubable, saith the Lord. And be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest. And be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the Lord, and work. For I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts. He makes a statement in that little verse there three times. Did anybody pick up that two-word statement? Three times he says it. What is it? Be strong. Be strong. Be strong. He says to Zerubbable, the political leader, you need to be strong. Would you agree with me? We need strong spiritual leaders in our government. He says to the rebel, he's a political leader, be strong, be strong in the Lord. Then he says to Joshua, who is the priest, the high priest at that time, this isn't the Joshua back that followed Moses, another fellow And he says to him, Be strong. Would you agree? Our Christian leaders need to be strong in the Lord. They need to be strong in the Lord. Then he says to the people Just the folks out there working, just your everyday folks. He says to them, be strong, be strong. Would you agree with me? Our homes need strong, godly people. Strong spiritual, spiritually strong fathers, spiritually strong mothers. Our community needs strong, spiritually strong people And so, my title, my message, I just given this title, Be Strong. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven Lord, it's sure been good to be in your house with your people, and what a blessing it is to fellowship with folks, some most we haven't seen since their last service. But it sure is good to be together again and sing and laugh a little bit and fellowship. We thank you for the special music. The ladies were a blessing. The choir was a blessing. And I pray now as we have our Bibles open before us, and Lord, we believe with all our heart this book is your word to us. And I ask that you would speak to us. And these truths that we're going to present here in a few moments from your word, that you would apply them to each of our individual lives as you know we have need And Lord, I don't know all the needs, and I couldn't meet them in and of myself if I did. So Lord, I yield myself to you and present my body anew for this message. And I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak your word through me and apply to our lives. And God help us to be receptive. Help us to be open to what you have to say to us. Help us to trust you and obey you. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. For many, many years, God had been warning Israel that if they didn't turn from their idolatry, and if they didn't turn from their sin and rebellion against their God That God was going to have to intervene and deal with them. They were going to pay a heavy price. Our God is a holy God. Our God is a just God. But our God is also a loving God and a very patient God. He wants his people to do right He tells us, in fact, he tells us in his word that we are to be holy, even as he is holy. Now we can't be as holy as God is holy, but we can be as holy as we can be And God tells us to live holy lives, to be pure, be honest, to be good, do right, do right. Israel refused to do right as a nation. And God sent them a prophet, He sent them preachers, prophet after prophet after prophet, and He would warn them: it's time to get right with God. It's time to humble yourself and turn from the sin that's destroying you and ruining your homes and ruining your nation and ruining your communities. It's time to turn from that Israel was eaten up with idolatry of all things. These were God's people, bowing down to and worshiping little man-made idols. That's an abomination to the true and living God. And God warned them and warned them and warned them. You gotta get right. You gotta get right. There's gonna be a price to pay if you don't get right. God sent them prophets, Joshua, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, many others And Israel would turn on the prophets. We talked about this a little bit in Sunday school. But you'll find this old sinful world It cannot refute the message of God because the message of God is true. And so what this world will do, because they cannot refute the message of God, they turn on the messenger of God. That's what Israel did to Jeremiah, threw him in prison. Some of them were killed, sawn asunder. Some of them were banished, falsely accused, and slandered, and Israel rejected God's call to repentance. Finally, the patience of God ran out. God said, that's enough. That's enough. And God moved on a king by the name of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and stirred them up, and they came east. And they invaded Israel. And they destroyed her temple. They tore down the walls and they destroyed Jerusalem. And they took a very large percentage of the population of Israel and they brought them back to Babylon. as captives. Um what they would do, their their tactic was, their method was, is they would bring the educated uh the elite, the leaders of a nation, they would bring them back to their country, particularly the young people and that were in this highly educated group, and they would reprogram them to be loyal and faithful to Babylon. And they left the poor folk and different folk back there to keep uh things going. And that's how they would infiltrate and overthrow this country. And so it uh the uh the uh the the country they're attacking. And so Nebuchadnezzar destroys the walls, he dispillages the temple, he tears it down, destroys it. They take these people back to Jer uh to Babylon. Uh anybody here familiar with the name Daniel? Daniel was one of these young men, him and his uh Shadrach, Meshach, and Benego, that's their Babylonian names. They are taken captive during this time. They're brought back to Babylon. And they go through an indoctrination process there in Daniel chapter 1. And so that this is what's happening in Israel. They're captive in Israel for 70 years. Jeremiah had told them, listen, you refuse to repent, you refuse to make things right. You're going to be taken away captive for 70 years. And he says, you might as well, while you're there in Babylon, you might as well build houses. You might as well plant your gardens. You might as well do business there because you're going to be there for a long time. Of course, Israel rejected that and threw him in prison, nearly killed him. Well, they were there for a long time. And they built houses and they planted their gardens And after several decades, they kind of settled in as captives in a foreign nation. Well, at about 70 years, another nation invaded Babylon. The Persians, the Medes and Persians. And a fellow by the name of Cyrus, who was king of the Persians, they conquered Babylon and he set up and he changed their immigration policies. We hear a lot about immigration nowadays. Well, he changed their policy, and he allowed any of the Jews that wanted to could go back to Jerusalem And they could settle in there and rebuild their city and get things back and going. He's releasing them from their captivity. And God had told them after 70 years they would come back. And so God moves on Cyrus's heart and he signs a decree. In fact, he if you study it carefully, we don't have time I'm spending more time on this than we really have time for, but he actually signs a decree that if they need any money or anything, the government will support the rebuilding the temple and all of that. I'm always leery when the government offers me money. Amen, or not? There's usually strings attached. Nevertheless, they come back. And they're back in the land, and they begin rebuilding the temple. Now they do pretty good for about 13 years. And they're working away, and I mean this temple's magnificent, and now it's just in rubles And they're working that thing for about 13 years and they get discouraged. And there's so much rubble, and they're looking at this temple as they're rebuilding it. We're going to see this here in a little bit. And in verse 3 before our text, they get remembering some of the older folks there remembered what Solomon's temple was before it was torn apart, what the old temple was. And how beautiful that thing was, and how magnificent, or neat, and the tapestry and the gold. And now they're looking at what they're building. And they're basically saying this, of course I'm putting this in my own words, they're saying something to this effect, this ain't nothing like the way it used to be. This temple isn't anything like what the original one was. And the young people were happy. They were excited. We're getting the temple. And the old people, while they're singing and rejoicing, the older folks are weeping. They're saying, Yeah, but it's not like it used to be. During this whole time frame, there are six books of the Bible that are penned during this period of time as Israel is coming back from captivity. They're coming back to Jerusalem. They're rebuilding the temple. Eventually, they'll rebuild the wall. And they'll settle in again There's six books in the Bible, all in the Old Testament, that are penned during this period of time: Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Are all penned during this transition back to Jerusalem. And they are in what we call in the Bible, just a little Bible trivia here, this is what they are in uh uh category uh uh they are uh catalogued in what we call the historical books of the Old Testament. And so you have Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther are all taken place. Of course Nehemiah is rebuilding the wall. Ezra is the temple. Teaching the people the law again And then you have these three books here. You have Hagai, Hagai, Zephyriah, and Malachi. And you have these three books. These are prophetic books. These are all penned. All this takes place about 500 years before the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have our text here is Hagei. You notice in verse number one of chapter one. Second year of Darius the king, this he followed Cyrus. In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the Lord unto Hagai the prophet Unto Zerubbabel the son of Shateel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedek, the high priest. So this message of God comes to Haggai. Now my question is: what do we know about Haggai? I would venture to say a lot of Christians, a lot of church folk, are unfamiliar with the book of Haggai. We know Psalms, right? You know, Gospel of John, Genesis. We have these books that we kind of gravitate to, but I'm telling you, Haggai is a tremendous book in the Old Testament. It's considered, we call it a, it's titled a minor prophet. Not minor because it's insignificant or unimportant, just minor because it's very brief. It's a shorter book. I would recommend, let me just throw this out there, I would recommend that every Christian at some point in your Christian life, you ought to read through the whole Bible. In fact, you ought to do it as often as you can. And get familiar with some of these more what we might call obscure books of the Old Testament because they are rich in biblical truth. The Bible says in Timothy, we're told that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable For doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction, the righteousness, so that we can be thoroughly furnished unto all good work, so we can serve God effectively. So what do we know about this fellow, Hagai? Well, we don't know very much about him. He's only mentioned eleven times in the Bible, and let's see, seven of those eleven times is in the book after his name. So we're not told a whole lot about we don't know who his father is. A lot of times when the Bible mentions someone, they'll say he's the son of so-and-so Doesn't say that about Haggai. We don't know what who his father is, who his family line is. We're not told what tribe he's from. We don't know if he's from Judah, Reuben, Benjamin, Dan. We don't know what tribe of Israel he's from. Many times in the Bible, when it mentions someone, it will say of the tribe of Israel. Whatever. We're not told any of that about Haggai. We don't know nothing about him. However, we do know what his name means. For whatever it's worth, the name Haggai, it's a Hebrew name, it means festival. Festive or festival. You say, why in the world would his parents name him Festival? Uh well I don't know the answer why, but we guess most likely he was born on one of the Jewish festivals of that day. You know, somebody's born on Christmas, maybe they name them Christmas. Anyone here know anybody named Christmas? Oh, you do? How about that? There's an old preacher, Christmas Evans And uh he was born on Christmas, his parents named him Christmas. So we guess Haggai was born on one of these Jewish festival days, and his parents named him Festival. Haggai We do believe, let me give you a little background, and I'll get to my point here in a little bit. I'll get to the point here, I promise you, by 1130, we'll get there for sure. We do believe and understand he was probably a very old man. Now, as I age, being very old, gets older and older all the time. But if you look with me, if you would, at verse number 3, there's uh something implied here in Haggai chapter 2, verse 3. There's something implied here that tells us he may have been a pretty old man. Verse 3, it says, Who is left among you? Now this is Haggai speaking, he's preaching a message here actually. Who is left among you that saw this house, this temple they're rebuilding, in her first glory? He's asking a question. How many people here? He's preaching. How many people here saw this house in its first glory? He wants to see it. And then he says, and how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? He's saying this. Some of us saw the first temple. Man, it was something. And we're rebuilding this new temple, and man, compared to the first temple It comes up short. It comes up short. Now we take from those statements there, and I don't believe we're reading too much into it. We take to believe that it's very possible that Haggai actually saw with his own eyes the first temple before the captivity, before they were taken into captivity. Now, how many years were they in captivity? 70 years. If this is referring to Hegai seeing that first temple, he would have been old enough, apparently, to have remembered it and to make an assessment as to how glorious this place really is. A three or four year old, five-year-old child wouldn't be able to assess how glorious, make a comparison between the first and second. So he was you know, maybe into his adult years when he witnessed that first temple. Seventy years have gone by And now he's back. And God moves on Haggai, and God calls him to be a prophet, and he preaches a series of sermons here in the book of Haggai, and in them he references that First temple. I believe Haggai may have been an old man. Hey, God can use elderly people. I've had people say, preacher, I'm old, I can't do nothing for God. I don't believe that for one minute As long as that heart's beating, as long as those lungs are pumping air, I can do something for God. Maybe pray? Make a phone call? Whatever it may be. So Haggai is most likely an elderly man. We know little else about him. We do know he's called of God to preach to Israel. And here is his message to Israel. Actually, he has four messages in here, and they're basically saying this. He is getting Israel, he's trying to provoke Israel to finish what they started. You started building this, you've been at it for 13 years. And you've gotten discouraged. And he's preaching, he says, get back at it. You get back up and you get going again. You get back to the job. You get back to the work. This is God's work. This is God's temple. Don't you walk away from it. Don't you give up on this? Don't you quit on this. You get back to it. That's his message. And this old prophet is standing before the people of Israel in Jerusalem, and he's preaching his heart out to them. I put down four characteristics of Hagi's preaching. Just again, this is still by way of introduction. But I think the kind of preacher Haggai was is the kind of preacher we need in America today. First of all, he was passionate in his preaching. Haggai If you study this book, you're going to find that Haggai believed with all his heart that that temple was worthy of their investment of time and effort and rebuild that thing. He was stirred about this And God knows our country and our churches need some preachers who believe with all their heart that that old book is the Word of God, and we live in a world that desperately needs the gospel, and we need to give ourselves All to getting others to Christ. Passion of Haggai. By the way, passionate preaching is not just loud yelling. Now I'm not against loud and yelling. I d I know I hardly ever do it, but um but you can just get up and holler and make a show and not believe a word you're saying. But we need Christians, we need preachers, we need churches that believe with all their heart exactly what God has said. Amen or not. Unbelief on every hand. Apostasy, turning away from the Word of God and the things of God and the truth of the gospel. Turning away on every hand, we need some folks that were to stand up like Haggai and passionately call people back to the Lord. So he was passionate in his preaching. He was simple in his preaching. I think it's very clear. Look at chapter 1 and verse 4. I like uh he makes this statement here He says, uh now they were building the temple and they quit and got distracted, and they started building their own houses, and they forsook the house of God. Look what he says. Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses? With ceilings, your houses all roofed, your houses are all fixed up nice. And this house lie waste? The house of God is in a mess, it's all dirty, it's fallen down, the roof is caved in, it's pillaged, and you got your houses all fixed up nice and You don't take care of God's house? Would you agree with me? That's pretty clear teaching. That's pretty clear teaching. And the older I get, the more important this becomes. I want a doctor that tells me how it is. I want him to explain to me in ways that I can understand what my condition is. Do you ever have the doctor? He's listening to you. It's all quiet. He goes, uh oh. We mean uh oh. Oh nothing. I don't want that kind of doctor, amen or not. I want to say, Doc, you said uh-oh, tell me what exactly, and I want to understand what it is. Well, you got an ingrown toenail and You know, I want to I want to be clear. Anybody with a doctor and he says all this stuff walks out and they say, What's wrong with you? He says, I have no idea what he said I don't want that kind of doctor. I don't want that kind of preacher. I don't preach that say I want to know exactly how to be saved. I want that preacher to tell me exactly and clear how I can say. I want that preacher to tell me from the Bible, exactly clear, what I got to do to be right with God. How to get through this trial. How to deal with this disappointment. How to serve in this capacity. We need passionate preaching. We need simple preaching. That's what Hagi was. We need straightforward preaching. In other words, telling us what it is. Again, we were talking about John the Baptist in Sunday school. And what we need in our day and age is we need people to preach what is right is right and what is wrong is wrong. And what is true is true, and what is false is false. And we need straightforward preaching. No beating around the bush anymore. That doesn't get us anywhere. We need it straight up. Amen or not? So Haggai was passionate. He was simple. People understood exactly what he was saying. He was straightforward. He said what was right, whether it was popular or not. And I put this down, he was effective. He was effective. The people responded to his message that God had given him. And unlike many of the previous prophets before the captivity, Haggai preaches and says, get back to the work. Don't you let this thing slack. You stay at it. You stay at it. Lo and behold, the Spirit of God moved upon the people of God, and they got back to it. And they finished building the temple. God used him. His preaching was effective I'm a preacher. For 35 years, that's all I've done. I don't know how to hammer a nail, hardly. I know how to mow grass. I know how to catch a fish, but other than preaching, there's very few things I'm regarding. That's what I've given my life to And I want my life to count. I want my preaching to have an effect on people and save souls and change lives. And help homes and reach young people. And I know every single Sunday school teacher here feels the same way I want my lessons and my teaching to have an effect on people. I want it to impact people's lives in a positive way, in a spiritual way. I know every one of our bus workers feels the same way. Come on, right or wrong? Haggai was effective in his preaching. It made a difference. That was because, as I read in Zechariah, it was the Spirit of God upon him And the Holy Spirit, I will believe, will use any Christian who is passionate about the gospel, who is clear about in presenting the gospel. Who is straightforward, just tells people, hey, we're sinners, whether it's popular or not. And God will use them to change the lives. I think the world of Haggai. I have enjoyed this study of this man The little bit we know about him, how God used him to get the job done and to stir God's people to be active in what God had instructed them to do. He preaches four sermons in the book of Haggai. The first sermon, I believe, is from verse 3 to verse 15 in chapter 1, and we won't look at it. But he basically preaches on misplaced priorities. Their home and their possessions became more important to them than the spiritual things and the things of God. physical well being, their material possessions were a higher priority than their spiritual well being And if we're not careful, that can happen in our homes. We get more worried about having a big house than we are about having a spiritually healthy family. And he confronts them about that. Then his second sermon, I believe, is in chapter 2, verse 1 through 9, and there he's giving them encouragement. We saw the temple as the past. It might never be as good as the first one was, but hey, let's get about this. Let's get this thing built. God's called us. God has commissioned us to build this temple. And he encouraged them to be about the Lord's work. And then his third sermon is in verse 10 through 19 of chapter 2, and I think he's telling them to say, hey, let's do right. Do right. Do right. Let's get back to living for God like we once did. And then verse 20 through 23, he finishes up with another sermon. That message is God is in control. Everything looks a mess, you're discouraged. Say, oh, the good old days, good old days, oh, never be like it used to be. Well, maybe not, but I'm here to tell you God is still in control. You get all worked up about politics, get all worked up about Washington, D. C. , get all worked up about what's going on. I'm here to tell you, lift your eyes a little bit higher than Washington and get them up on the Lord because God is still in control. That's what he's telling the nation the people of Israel. So he has these four sermons. But what caught my attention, as I mentioned, was verse number four in chapter two. Wright smacked dab in the middle of his second message. And he says, Be strong, O Zerubabel. Be strong, O Joshua. Be strong, all ye people. Be strong, be strong, be strong. The people were discouraged The people were defeated. Their heart was cast down. And Hagi gets up and he says, Listen, you be strong. Get up. Get up. You know, two points. Number one, God is aware of our discouragement God is aware of our discouragement. What does it mean to be discouraged? These people were discouraged. They've been working 13 years. And it just seemed like they weren't getting anywhere. It's never going to be like it used to be. And they got discouraged. What does it mean to be discouraged? Depressed, sometimes that will be a term. Discouraged simply means this, to have a loss of courage. I just don't have any reason. I just have no reason to get up and go out there. A loss of courage. The new temple was nothing like the old temple, those good old days. And I just got discouraged and we lost any and all motivation. To go and do what we know we should do, and I just I'm just not up to it. I'm just discouraged. I don't see any hope here. I don't see any prospects of good coming out of this. Why b why even bother? Discouraged. Now don't answer this, but I venture to say many, if not most, most if not many of us, or many if not most of us, have been discouraged at some point in our life. Amen or not? Crowd this size, I'm probably talking to somebody that's a little bit discouraged. Maybe talking to somebody that's very discouraged. And he thinks, you know, I just don't see it's where I just don't know that anybody even cares. I just don't know that anybody even knows what's going on in my heart and life. I I'm all alone, I'm just discouraged. I'm here to tell you, God in heaven knows when we're discouraged. He sees it, he knows it. Fear and discouragement. You say, we're going to go to church, get some good news. I'm here to tell you, fear and discouragement are part of Christian life. Oh, praise the Lord, preacher. Thanks for that. Well, the fact of the matter is, it is. Fear, discouragement, stuff we have to deal with. Is our issues we face. It always has been that way since the fall of man. Abraham faced discouragement. God called Abraham, his wife, to go out of Ur the Khadiz into a land that they'd never been before. He called them to go to a place he didn't know where it was And he left his home and family, his possessions packed up, and went somewhere, and he didn't even know where they're going. Can you imagine Abraham coming to Sarah and saying, uh, Sarah, we're moving Oh, I've been tired of this place. Praise the Lord. Where are we moving to? I don't know. What do you mean you don't know? We're just going east. How far? I don't know. We're just going to go until God tells us to stop. Would you agree? That's an act of faith right there. And he did exactly what God called him to. And God told him, take him to the land of Canaan. Oh, it's going to be wonderful. And I'll take care of you there, and everything you need will be there. And he shows up in the land of Canaan, and you know the very first thing he faced when he got there? Famine. There's no rain, there's no crops, there's no nothing. I mean famine. It's like, wait a minute, God, this isn't what I pictured when you said it's going to be great He got discouraged. He went down to Egypt. Boy, he messed up down there. You know, if he just waited on God a little bit, just trusted the Lord, that thing would have turned around. But he got discouraged. Abraham got discouraged. Moses got discouraged. Man, he saw God do these tremendous miracles there in Egypt and part the Red Sea and they're marching out there in victory and man they're loaded with all the spoils of Egypt and they're going to the promised land And the people said, nope, we ain't going in, it's too dangerous. Moses got discouraged Moses got down. I'm telling you, if someone of the caliber of Moses gets discouraged, don't be surprised when you and I get discouraged. Abraham dealt with discouragement. Moses dealt with discouragement. The nation of Israel dealt with discouragement. When they're out in the wilderness and things got difficult. Joshua got discouraged when he saw the promised land. He's going to have to leave the nation of Israel. And God said to him repeatedly, Be strong and of good courage. Be strong and of good courage. Be strong and of good courage. Over and over and over, God told him that. You know why he said that? Because Joshua was discouraged with the responsibilities on his shoulders. Abraham, Moses, Israel, Joshua, David got discouraged when his family and his possessions were taken in Ziglag and The Bible says he wept until he had no more power to weep. And he was at the end of himself. David got discouraged. Elijah, when Jezebel threatened him, and he went running from Jezebel. I tell uh Dr. Lee Robertson, you say he you want no dummy to run from a woman like that. I read a little thing this week, some advice for young men before they get married. They said, marry a short girl and put your guns up high Elijah got discouraged. John the Baptist in prison for preaching the truth got discouraged. So, what I'm trying to say is this: no one else may know about what's going on in your heart and life. No one else may know what your thought processes are. Nobody else may know how low your spirit gets at night or when you're alone. But I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven that knows, and He cares deeply. And if we'll trust him, and if we'll do what he says, God will help us through that discouragement, and we can get back to doing what God's called us to do. We can get back to living that life that God has called us to live. Israel was discouraged, and Haggai says, God knows where you're at. He understands how you're thinking. He knows what's going on in your heart and life. Now, listen! Here's what you got to do. Get back up. Get that temple built. Get back living your lives for the Lord. So number one, God knows our discouragement. Number two, God answers our discouragement. He's aware of our discouragement. Number two, he answers our discouragement. Let me give you a few suggestions I see here that help us with discouragement. You might want to jot these down. I see number one, renew your commitment. When you get discouraged, just renew your commitment to the Lord. And I get that from verse number four where it says, Now be ye strong. Be strong. Be strong. I got looking up that word as I always do. That word strong. I like to look up words. I'll see what they mean, where they come from, how they're used. That word strong there means to be firm. It has this idea to be resolute. How many people know what I mean by resolute? I'm resolved To do and be what I'm supposed to be. Be strong, be firm, be resolute. As the idea someplace it's translated, to withstand. Having done all, to stand. Uh it uh here's my I took that and I give it my own definition that helps me understand. It means to dig your heels in Anybody know what that means? See, I'm not, man, they're trying to pull me. I'm just digging my heels in. I ain't moving. God told these discouraged Jews, you be strong, you recommit, you plant your heels in the ground, and don't you move. You can recommit yourself to what God has called you to do. It has this idea, don't you quit. Don't you quit. You're discouraged? All right, I understand that. Even the best of my men have gotten discouraged, but don't you quit You get up and you keep on going. You're discouraged, you press on through that discouragement It wasn't talking about physical strength here. They had all the materials they needed. They had the physical strength. It was their emotional, it was their morals, their moral strength, their spiritual strength. They're just giving up. And he says, Don't you give up. No matter how difficult, you press on. Acts chapter number two. Let me just I'll find it and read it real quick. I got it marked in my Bible. Acts chapter number 20, I should say And verse number 23, listen to what the Apostle Paul said. You talk about getting discouraged. Paul fought discouragement. And he makes this statement in chapter 20, verse 23, he says He says, the Holy Ghost witnesseth that in every city bonds and afflictions abide me. Because I know everywhere I go on these missionary journeys, when I get there, they're going to beat me. I'm going to preach the gospel, they're going to throw me in prison, they're going to put me in bonds. Every sin I go to, I know that's what's going to happen to me. Would you agree with me? That could get discouraging. But listen what he says in the next statement. But none of these things move me, neither count I lot my life dear unto myself, so that I may finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. You know what he says? I'm going to be strong. I'm going to dig my heels in. I'm not quitting. I'm not giving up. I'm staying after this thing. My challenge to our bus workers is, don't you quit, you keep getting after it. Sunday school teachers, don't you quit, you keep on teaching. Say, well, I just got a couple kids. Dump the whole load on those couple kids. Let's keep gas. Soul winners say, oh, I go out and I shit I talk to people, I give out gospel tracts, I witness and nobody gets saved You keep at it. Family Independent Baptist Church, keep preaching that old book. It may not be the most popular people around, but I tell you, I'm more concerned about being right with God than I am with being popular in the world. Paul said, I'm not quitting. He said, Paul, Haggai, I told those Jews you be strong. You dig your heels in. In Acts chapter 21, listen to what Paul says in verse number 13. He says this. Paul answered, What mean ye to break to weep and to break my heart? For I'm ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. You know what he's saying? He says, I'm going to be strong. I'm not quitting. I'm not giving up. Those who make a difference for Christ are those who refuse to quit. That o that that famous theologian, Babe Ruth He said, You can't beat the person who won't give up. That's a lot of truth in that. And just won't give up. They just won't quit. They just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. Proverbs 24:16 says: A just man falleth seven times and what? Riseth up again. Gets up again. Gets up again. Gets up again. Haggy eyes telling these Jews, don't you quit, you be strong. Successful, mature, uh successful victorious Christians just keep pressing on. They may stumble, but they don't quit. They might make mistakes, but they don't quit. They might get discouraged, but they don't quit. They just stay at him I thought about Ed Wilt. We've been talking a lot about Ed Wilt, our 60th anniversary of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. 1962, Ed Wilt showed up here in Oakland, starting the first Baptist Church of Oakland. You remember Brother um Ed Wilt told me this personally before he passed away, but then Brother Williams told us from the pulpit here a few weeks ago How that after Ed Bilt had been here a few weeks, a couple guys from the church showed up. In fact, all the men from the church at that point, I think there was three of them. And they said, Brother Wilt, we'll help you pack up. He said, pack up. I just unpacked. What are you talking about? We're good. I'm okay They said, no, no, no, we don't mean unpack. We mean pack up, load you up, get you out of here. You're going. Shh, go. We're done with you. They made the statement. You ain't never going to start a Baptist church in Oakland Here we are 60 years later. And Ed Wilt told me, we were driving around, he was showing me places where he lived and different events back when he was here in the 60s. And he told me, he says, I would not quit. God called me here, I would not quit. How many people are glad Ed Wilton quit? A GIA says, be strong. You dig your heels in, you're discouraged. We understand that, and God understands, and He's compassionate on that, but that's no reason to quit. Then he says, redirect your focus. Look there at verse 4. He says, Be strong and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the Lord, and work. You get your eyes back on what God's called you to do. You get busy. Invest effort. I think the worst thing to do when you're discouraged is sit around feeling sorry for yourself. How many people here ever got discouraged and you just sat down and you felt sorry for yourself and when you were done you felt better than when you did before? It doesn't happen that way. I get more discouraged Oh, I'm terrible. Oh, I blew it so bad. I'm such an idiot. I'm never gonna and I walk out of there say, oh, praise the Lord, I feel great now I've never seen it work that way. You know what the best thing to do when you and I get discouraged? This is what he's saying. The best thing for you and I do when we get discouraged, get our eyes off ourselves and get our eyes on doing something for God and others. I tell ya, these people aren't gonna like me for this. I don't care. I tell you, my hat's off to Steve Matthews. You know where he's at this morning? He's up in accident preaching. Little church up there. He's got foot problems. He's got health problems. Anybody see him run around that little cart? With this foot. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I told him I'd put a motor on that thing. But you know what? Steve's in his place. He doesn't sit around moping because he's got some problems with his foot. He says, I'm I'm out there, I want to do it. I'm going to get some more people mad at me. They're here. My hat's off to Sandy Schofield. Come on now. I know she doesn't like this. I don't care. You think she couldn't find reasons to sit home, not go to church? But she's here, isn't she? And brother, you better make a path when she's coming in or she runs you over. Amen or not? Don't sit around sucking my thumb, whoa is me. Everybody hates me. Oh nobody loves me. Everybody hates me. I'm gonna go eat worms. Fat ones, skinny ones, short ones, long ones. Suck out their guts. I forget the rest of it, but anyway Haggie, I say, get up! Get to work. I think of Ed Davis. Dialysis. Man, it takes his toll. But I'm telling you, last Thursday night, he and Charlie were here out visiting people, telling people about Jesus Christ. I know he's mad at me, but I don't care. He's mad at me even when I don't do this, so I don't care. Best thing to do, you say, oh, I just feel too I'm so discouraged. Alright. God understands it. Alright. But why don't you go home make some muffins or cookies and go here to the nursing home? Go room to room and do something for others. I tell you, that'll bring you out of discouragement quicker than sucking your thumb wheel Get out and do something. Invest in others. Call some. You say, well, I'm not physically able. Give someone a call. Email missionaries. He says, What? You be strong, you recommit, dig your heels in, and then do something. Don't just sit around. And number three, remember God's presence. Look at verse 4. The very last statement: For I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts. I am with you. Our God is all-powerful. Our God is unchanging. Our God is faithful. There's nothing impossible with God. And he says, I'm with you, even when you're discouraged, even when you're at the bottom of the barrel, I'm with you. We have a divine presence as a believer in Jesus Christ. You have, I have a divine presence. We have a divine tenant that lives within us and it's Almighty God in the person of the Holy Spirit. He's with us. And he's able. He'll strengthen us. He says, You have no might, you have no power, but you have the Spirit of God. And He'll be your power for you. Remember the presence of God. I like Deuteronomy 31. 6. We memorize this. I think it was last year as a church. Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God, He it is that doth go with thee. God is with us. God is with us. You say, Preacher, I feel like the whole world's against me. Yeah, but God's for you. And I'd rather have God for me than the whole world for me. When I first got saved, of course, I was saved out of all the drugs and everything. It was so horrific. And I say this with all my heart, I mean I'm so ashamed of how I lived my life before Christ. I'm so grateful. That he in mercy forgave me and saved me and gave me a new life. And when I first got saved, I had the most horrific, demonic, satanic dreams. Those weeks right after I was born again, man, I'd wake up just in a sweat, scared to death. And I talked to my dad, who was a good, strong Christian. I said, Dad, I'm having these demonic dreams. And he said, I'll tell you what to do. He said, you memorize verses. Number one, you memorize verses and songs about the blood of Jesus. He says, Satan can't stand against the blood of Jesus. So I learned songs like, What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh, precious is the flow! I memorized verses, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission. And I would quote those verses. And he said, something else, always remember that you have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within you. And greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You're saved, you've got that salvation settled. I'm here to tell you, you have the presence of God in your life. And with God, God and me makes a majority. And God can help me, and God will help me. If I just trust Him. If I just trust Him. Then number four, I see he tells them to remove your fears down at the end of verse number five. So my spirit remaineth among you, fear ye not. Remove those fears. Say, preacher, I get scared. Afraid. That's normal. God's people were fearful. David Dealt with fear. I like what he said in Psalm 56 and verse 3. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. We get down and we get discouraged and we get fearful what's going on and we think oh it's hopeless. You just push those fears aside and say, I'm not going to act on them. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust God. One of my favorite military men, I have certain military men from history that I I appreciate. And he wasn't a save man. In fact he wasn't a godly man. I hate to say it, but he wasn't, but he was a phenomenal mil military leader, George Patton. One time they interviewed him, I've used this illustration many times before, but one time uh an author was interviewing him for he's writing a an article in his biography, an article about his life And the man interviewed him says, We know that you are fearless in battle. George Patton stopped him and he says, No, that is not true. Don't you write that. That is not true. He says, I am scared to death every time I go into battle. To the point my hands are wet with sweat. My palms are wet with sweat. I'm fearful. George Patton. He says, but I do not take counsel of my fears. In other words, I'm scared, but I do not let my fears control me I'm not submitting to my fear. I'm going to do what I know needs to be done. I'm going to do what I know is right. Scared to death. But I'm putting away that fear. I'm not going to respond to it. I'm not going to submit to it. And I'm going to do what needs to be done in spite of fear Do you know these people we call heroes that rescue people? And they say, Oh, they were fearless. I guarantee you, they were scared as anybody else, but they did not take counsel of their fears, and they did what needs to be done You and I as Christians, we live in a fearful world. My Bible says in the last days, evil men and seducers are going to wax worse and worse. It's going to be perilous times. That's scary stuff. But we must not let fear control us. We must submit to God and put away those fears. Discouraged? Yeah, it happens. It's true. We all deal with it. Have since God's greatest men, back in the beginning of Bible times. But we don't have to let discouragement defeat us if we'll trust God and follow what He told these people here in Israel. Came across this poem. Actually, I read it this morning in my devotions, in a little devotion book I hat read, Streams in the Desert. It says this, all every year hath its winter And every year hath its rain. But a day is always coming when the birds come north again. You follow what's being said? Oh, winter comes, rain, it's ugly. But someday those birds will come back north again. Right, Wilbur? When new leaves shall swell in the forest, and grass springs green on the plain, the alders' veins turn crimson, and the birds come north again. Oh, every heart hath its sorrow, and every heart hath its pain. But there's a day always coming when the birds will come north again. Tis the sweetest thing to remember if courage be on the wane. Discouragement. Tis the sweetest thing to remember if courage be on the wane. When the cold, dark days are over, why The birds will come north again. You know what he's saying? He's saying, you be strong. You trust God. You recommit. But someday God will bring you up out of it. It may be nighttime, but eventually that sun will come up again. Those birds will fly north again. Father, I ask you to help us. When discouraged, help us not to quit. Help us to look up and trust you and let you enable us to get through that storm, get through that valley. Be able to serve you again. Stay at it. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but You know, sometimes discouragement is a very real issue for me. Is there any like that? Preacher, yes, sometimes. Sure. If we were honest, every one of us would raise our hand. My hand's raised. I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I just need to get back in it. I just need to dig my heels in. I've just been laying around sucking my thumb, maybe, so to speak. But you'd say, preacher, God stirred my heart to get back up. Just stay at this, not let this discouragement derail me and get me out. Any like that, preacher, I just want to recommit. I'm re-signing up. And just staying at it. God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, you know, I just need to get my eyes back on what God's called me to do. I just need to get my eyes back on the responsibility we have. Somebody else that has a need, something I can do for others. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get invest my life in helping others and serving the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you, there's many opportunities all around the church here to serve the Lord. Maybe there was some who would say, preacher, you know, I just got to remember God's with me. Sometimes that devil convinces me I'm all alone. I know I'm not. I have the Lord. Maybe some would say, preacher, pray for me. I need to remember God's presence And then last of all, maybe there's some just need to don't let those fears control you anymore. I'm just they're there, uh they're there, I can't do nothing about it, but when I'm afraid I'm going to trust the Lord. I'm not going to let the fears control me. I'm going to let the Lord lead me. Now, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you've never trusted Christ as Savior, that is where you need to begin. You need to trust Christ. You need to get that settled. Is there anyone here to say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get my salvation settled. I don't want to play games with my soul. Father, I pray you'd bless now the imitation, have your way in Jesus' name, Amen