Luke chapter 17. I want to be I want us to begin reading in verse number fifteen. I'd like for us to read together in unison. So you got your Bibles there? Those online, get your Bibles out, read along with us And I want to read down through verse number 17. Verse 15 down through verse 17. Do you got it there? Ready? All together with me. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan. And Jesus, answering, said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? I underscore in my Bible, verse 16, giving him thanks. Giving him thanks. Ten healed. Ten healed, nine walk on, one comes back and give thanks. Now, I got a couple titles for my message this morning. One is Be the One Be the one that gives uh has gratitude. Be the one. But I got thinking of it yesterday I was uh last evening I was going over it, I got thinking I kind of have a different title I like for it, Be Like Bob I I named this one that came back, I named him Bob. And so be like Bob. Come back and give thanks. How many people like that title better than the first one? Yeah. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now or studying your word. I do ask that you would help me and help all of us be like this one leper that is healed and then comes back and expresses his gratitude to the Lord in a very sincere and genuine, earnest way. And I pray that you would teach us to be grateful, not just in November, but every month of the year. So fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Pray that you would speak through us. God, here's my request that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, every one of us as members, would be grateful Christians, would be thankful. uh in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. For three and a half years, uh let me see, I've got to get my mic on here. Hold on. Excuse me. For three and a half years, the Lord has been um uh has these disciples. He handpicked twelve disciples. To train them and teach them for three and a half years. So leading up to the Lord's crucifixion, he has these twelve guys And um in various ways he is trying to teach them. Now he handpicked these twelve disciples. There was many other disciples. If you read through the Gospels, you'll find it'll mention multitudes of disciples. So these were people, these multitudes were people who trusted Jesus as their Messiah. They recognized his claim to be the Christ, to be the Savior. They believed his claim, and uh they trusted him, but more than that, as a disciple, they made a conscious decision to dedicate their lives to Christ. They've taken up their cross, they're denying themselves, they're following him, and uh they are following the Lord. So it's more than just a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. A disciple is someone who is committed to living for him, committed to follow his instructions. and us love him with their whole heart. And so Jesus had multitude of disciples, but these twelve were ones that he had hand picked them, and these twelve, of course, one of them was the devil, Judas. We Lord knew that. He had reasons for that. But these twelve, eleven, and later on Paul's added to it. But um Paul God was Jesus was preparing them because he was going to use them in some profound ways. First of all, many of these disciples, these twelve disciples, were going to be used of God to record uh major portions of the New Testament. They were going to be the penment that God would use to give his inspired word through. So he's preparing them. He's got three and a half years to teach them and train them. But also these twelve disciples were going to be used of the Lord to establish the New Testament church Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church today is a result of these men's commitment to Christ, their obedience to his instructions as apostles And uh they very much laid the groundwork and were used of God to establish the New Testament church. And so the Lord picks these guys. Uh and for 24-7, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, literally, he is discipling these men for three and a half years, and he is working at Transforming them. Now I mentioned this, I think, in a message last week or the week before, that um what the Lord was trying to do is, and the Bible term is convert them What he was doing was he was transforming them, changing them into vessels that he could use. And the way he changed them, the way he transformed them was to change the way they think. If you remember, I had mentioned again, I think it was last week I had mentioned about having the mind of Christ Uh Philippians says that we are to have the mind of Christ. What the Lord is doing here, he's trying to instill into these men to have the mind of Christ, to see things the way Jesus sees things. to value things the way Jesus values things, to have the attitude about people, to see people and to see the world, to see sin, to see God The way Jesus did, to have a clear, heavenly, divine perspective on things. Because they had to have that if they were going to be used of God. And of course they're coming from, these guys were uh some of them, Bible term, were ignorant and unlearned men. Uh they were just oh they could work with their hands and all that and You know, some of them didn't have a lot of education and those that did were pretty corrupt before they came to Christ. Matthew was a tax collector and they were known for their corruption and And so he's taking these men who are in very rough form, very uh temporal minded, very self-centered in a lot of ways. And for three and a half years, the Lord Jesus is transforming them, changing them, changing their whole perspective. Romans chapter 12 Verse 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies the living sacrifice, wholly acceptable, Lord, which is your research of service. And he says this, and he says, Be not conform to this world, but be ye what? Transformed how? By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove that uh that which is good and acceptable, perfect will of God. That's what the Lord is doing with these disciples He's renewing their mind. He's transforming them, changing the way they see things, the way they understand things, the way they value things. He was changing them into what they needed to be from an immature, temporal-sided, self-centered uh individual, which is what we all are naturally And then transform them into people that have a divine perspective and have divine values and have God's view of things. And that's not an easy task Three and a half years, twenty-four-seven. He's working at this, he's working at this, working at this. Now the question is: how did the Lord transform their thinking? How did he get them to give stop uh to get off of being self-centered to being Christ-centered? How did he get them from being temporal-minded to being eternal-minded? Uh how did he do that? Well, he had various ways. Of course, some of it was uh what we do here was teaching and preaching. Uh there's a lot of teaching and preaching by the Lord Jesus Christ through the gospel. classic, probably the most popular and the the lengthiest teaching um of the Lord is uh the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7. And man, what a profound message that was And Jesus is speaking there, we point this out every time we touch on, he's speaking to disciples. And he's saying to them in the Sermon on the Mount, You claim to be my disciple, well, this is the way you should think These are the values you should have. This is how you should treat react when people mistreat you. This is how you should interact with others. And he goes through just about every aspect of life and he says, this is how disciples respond. What's he doing? He's transforming them. He's changing the way they think, the way they view things. In fact, in that one sermon, he says numerous times, you have heard it said, but I say unto you He's changing their thinking. He's transforming their minds. So one of the ways the Lord transformed his disciples, changed their perspective, was through preaching and teaching. But he had other ways. He would tell parables. And man, some of the Lord's parables were so simple, but yet so profound. As he would travel around from city to city and village to village, he would observe a farmer out in the field, or he would uh uh he'd see something taking place and he would use that as a parable, as an illustration, a teaching to change the way they uh the uh disciples saw things, the way they're valued. So he used teaching, he used preaching, he would use parables, he would set an example. Often you see the Lord Jesus Christ, he would interact with sinners. He would interact with publicans and people who were outcasts of society, people who the Jews and particularly the Pharisees would look down on them. And uh Jesus would go and interact with them, and he would contrast man's treatment of people with God's treatment of people. And he's changing the way that look, they're observing his actions Several times Jesus would interact with a lady that was what we would call woman of the night, maybe. And they would say, Do you know what kind of woman she is? And the Lord would say, well, and I'm putting my own words here. Obviously, he would say, Well, you know, she's a sinner. And God loves sinners, and he would treat her with respect and grace and kindness. And over and over and over, through our Lord Jesus' actions, through his behavior, through his interaction with others The disciples are watching and they're learning and their thinking is changing. Their perspective on things is changing. They're catching Christ's vision. They're catching the mind of Christ. And then another way the Lord changed, uh transformed his disciples was through his miracles Uh he would uh uh uh he would display, in his miracles, he would display truths about his power. How many people agree with me? When Jesus was out on that boat in the storm, remember that? They're storm, Jesus sleeping. The disciples are convinced they're going to die. I mean, they're genuinely scared to death. They wake Jesus up. Don't you care? We're going to perish. And Jesus gets up and he kind of is irritated, I think, a little bit, and uh he looks at the wind. Peace, be still! It just stops. And then he turns and he rebukes the disciples. He says, Why were you fearful? Have faith. How many people agree with me? That'd have a pretty profound effect on your attitude towards Jesus. See something like that. In fact, Peter said, What kind of man is this that even the wind and seas obey him? I tell you what, after that one single miracle, those disciples never looked at Jesus the same. They learned something about him. Their mind was changed about who and what this man called Jesus they were committed to, who and what he was. And so Jesus would perform these miracles. And all of it, I'm convinced the miracles were designed to be a blessing to people and help the sick, no doubt, absolutely. But I think primarily It was to get these disciples to understand who he was and what he could do and what this was all about to transform their thinking, to change their thinking. Miracle after miracle after miracle after miracle, it's affecting the disciples. It's changing the way they think Um the way they saw man, people that uh would uh uh that were outcasts of society, Jesus would go and touch them and interact with them and heal them And make him will. He would raise the dead. How many people agree with me? I bet that affected their thinking about Jesus. He speaks a word, and Lazarus comes out of the grave Whoa. I guarantee you, all these disciples, all these miracles are used of God to change, transform, to mold the thinking, the perspective of the disciples. And by the time we get to the book of Acts, uh the resurrection being the most profound event that changed their thinking. By the time you get to the book of Acts, when the church is going to be established and the gospel is going out in power, these guys are on board. These guys are lined up and they are being used of God in tremendous ways. So for three and a half years, 24-7, the Lord is working on these disciples. He's molding them. He's changing them and he's developing them. Now I said all that To say this, to get to this miracle here that we see the Lord do with these ten lepers, I believe that two things these disciples had to learn. And what they needed to learn, you and I need to learn. Two things. Number one, they needed to learn that they could trust God. In any circumstance, in any situation, they had to learn to trust God. I'm telling you, if you and I are going to be blessed of God, if you and I are going to be used of God, if we're going to see God. Work in our lives and take care of us and use us and bless us, we have got to learn to trust Him My verse for this year, and I didn't choose it. God put this on my heart and mind. I wasn't looking for it. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6: Trust in the Lord with all thine heart And lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. What a truth. And if we could just get a hold of that one thought, God, you said it. This is your instructions. I'm going to trust you And follow you. God will bless us and God will lead us. So one thing the disciples need to learn was to trust the Lord, to have faith in God. But I'm going to add a second one. I get it from this miracle, this passage we just read. They needed to learn to be grateful. They needed to learn to be grateful. Listen, there may be a lot of other aspects of the Christian life that you and I struggle with, but if we can get those two down, trust God, and be grateful. God can bless us and God can use us. This matter of gratitude is incredibly important. I got studying a little bit and I found that in the book in the Bible, the word thanks In one form or another, thanks, thanksgiving, gratitude. In one form or another, the word thanks is used 140 times Throughout Scripture, all through Scripture, thanks, gratitude, thankfulness, thankfulness, thankfulness. Listen You can't read this book, pay attention, reading this book, and not come to the conclusion that God wants us to be grateful. God wants his people to be thankful and to be grateful for his blessings and his goodness to us. And so 140 times throughout Scripture. The word thanks in one form or another is used. I got looking. Who are the people in the Bible that are grateful? Well, I found just about everybody that was used of God in any extent expressed gratitude in one way or another. Abraham expressed gratitude. I even found out that Jonah in the belly of the whale was expressing thanks and gratitude to the Lord. And Jonah, I think it's chapter 2. Oh man, what a place to be grateful for. I was telling in the Sunday school lesson we have. We have an online Sunday school lesson at 10 we're doing right now. And uh I was telling this morning in my devotions, the Lord really spoke to my heart about something I had not been doing. And God convicted me about that. And this that was this. And you might think I'm nuts, but I know the Lord was speaking to my heart. And that was this, to be grateful for this virus and the trials we're going through now. I'm not glad for the virus, but the Lord has convicted me instead of climbing, griping, and complaining and whining and going on He's allowed this into our lives. He's allowed us to have to go through this for some reason and just learn to be grateful. I tell you, when you and I can get to the point where we can be grateful even for the trials and the delays and the disappointments. Even in the midst of those to be grateful, I tell you, we're on a way, on our way to grow spiritually. In everything, the Bible says, give thanks. In everything. And so, uh this uh Joe uh Jonah's in the belly of the whale, and he's expressing gratitude to the Lord. for giving him mercy and allow and uh uh sending him through this uh difficult chastisement to get him back to where he needs to be And so, all through the Bible. And then I got thinking, who is the most grateful person in all the Bible? Anybody have an idea? Who would be the most who's the person in the Bible that expressed gratitude more than anybody else? You know what I found out? King David. All through Psalms, over and over and over. He's praising the Lord. He's grateful to the Lord. He's thanking the Lord. According to the Bible, according to the number of times it's recorded, David's recorded thanking God more than anyone else. You know who I think of, according to my calculations, the second is uh Paul, the Apostle Paul. He's just like he's looking for something to thank God for. He's in a prison. He's been beaten, bloodied in stocks with rats and nasty, a flipping prison. And at midnight of all times, you know what I you know what, how many people here ever wake up at midnight and uh you're worrying and you're stressed and you're thinking, anybody here ever do that? You wake up in the middle of night and it's like, uh Not Paul. He wakes up in the middle of night. He's in bonds. He's been beaten bloody. You know what he's doing? He's praising the Lord and singing, God is so good. I mean, he's just having a thankful spell. Brother, we get to that point, we're growing spiritually. We've got some spiritual maturity there. So David was very, very grateful. Paul was very, very grateful. And another uh and another one, uh, the Lord Jesus Christ. You read through the gospels, he gave thanks, he gave thanks. He break the bread, he gave thanks, he gave thanks. Now, Jesus giving thanks, he's God. But yet he was grateful. How many people here are excited to know that our God is a grateful God? Isn't that something? Do you ever think of God that way? Being grateful? And uh so gratitude, having faith in God and having gratitude. In our passage here in Luke chapter 17, we have a powerful, powerful illustration of uh of uh uh uh two things in particular now before I get to that This miracle here, these ten lepers who Jesus heals miraculously, this is one of the last miracles that the Lord does before his crucifixion. He is on his way to Jerusalem. He is on his way down there. He's going to have the triumphal entry when they uh sing Hosanon throw the palm leaves out. He's going to have his triumphal entry He's going to be betrayed by Judas in just a few days. Uh he's going to be taken in before Pilate in the court and the high priest. He's going to be unjustly condemned. You talk about, we're talking about corruption in our courts and in our government, brother, that was corrupt what they did to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's going to be have his beard plucked from him. He's going to be scourged with a cat and nine-tails. He's about to be in a few days. He's going to be nailed to a cross. He is going to suffer the judgment of every sin Committed by every person of all of history. He's going to suffer hell on that cross. He's going to be buried. He's going to rise again in just a few days. And this is one of his last miracles that he does. This is most likely, as far as the record, scriptural record is concerned, these are the last lepers ever healed by the Lord Jesus directly. He's on his way to Jerusalem. He's about to be crucified. And he teaches us two things about gratitude here. Number one, he teaches us the importance of gratitude. And we're going to see that here in a minute Gratitude is highly valued of God. Highly valued of God. It's extremely important to our spiritual growth To be grateful, to be grateful. But I learned this from this event here, this miracle, I learned this. I learned the scarcity of gratitude. The minority of people express gratitude as God intends for us to. So let's look at our text here. Let's look at our passage real quickly. I want us to notice, first of all, the condition of these men when the Lord when they approached the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 12 with me. Verse 11, it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem. Alright, he's heading down, so he's going to end up on the cross here in just a few days. And verse 12, and he entered into a certain village. As he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were what? Lepers. And notice this, which stood afar off. Now, I don't know. I'm not a doctor, and I'm not an expert on disease and infections and all of that. But uh studying the Bible all these many years and doing a little study, uh I know a little I've learned a little bit about leprosy. You know what I found out? Leprosy is bad. I mean, people knew that Let me put it this way, leprosy is really bad. In fact, leprosy was one of the most dreaded diseases. In all of the history of mankind. It was a horrific disease. Now, again, as I said, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a uh uh a leproologist, I don't know. uh expert on leprosy, but I did a little research and I found out that leprosy actually is a disease of the nerves. It affects the nervous system, and one of the first things, and I believe I'm correct on this, if my research was correct, one of the first things leprosy does is it kills the nerve endings in your body so that you do not feel pain. And that is where the problem comes in, in that there'll be some injury take place, leprosy will affect the nerves, and then some injury will take place, but there's no pain. I don't know it, I don't see it And it gets infected. And it gets worse. And they will s and according to my studies, leprosy will actually your body can actually be dying and parts of your body breaking off. uh through gangrene and different things and not even know it. There's one or one illustration they were given where lepers would sometimes uh their hands would become infected And fingers would literally break off. They'd wake up in the morning, there'd be fingers missing, and they didn't even know it. There was no pain there, and it just rot away. So one of the other areas is in the nose, and the nose would collapse and rot and decay away. And it was really a lifelong sentence of decay and uh and death to the person. It was highly contagious. And leprosy, as I said, was one of the most feared diseases in all of history. It was a disease of the nervous system And the body becomes disfigured, the body becomes deteriorated, you could break a bone and not know it. Infection, as I said, would set in. And because of this disease, now notice there in verse, what is it, verse 12, it says they stood afar off at the end of verse 12. Why would they stand afar off because it was so contagious? There was no cure. There was no treatment for this. The only thing they could do Now what you're going to be familiar with this word. A year ago, I wasn't that familiar with this word. Now I am. They would quarantine them. They would isolate them because it was so deadly, because it was so contagious, they would isolate them. Now, what did that mean for a leper? Now think with me a little bit. Cody comes down, finds out he's got leprosy. Oh no. Very first thing they did was banish him out of society. Their freedom was denied. A leopard couldn't just go wherever they want. Now we know a little bit of that, but not to the extent that these dear fellows were. They could not go anywhere. They were isolated. They were bound. They were banished to a leper colony. And their freedom was completely taken away. And the life that they knew before leprosy was completely gone. They were never going to live that life again. They were banished. Their freedom was denied. I put this down. Their families were destroyed. Never again would a child that came down with leprosy, never again would they be able to be held by their mother. Never again would they sleep in the home with mommy and daddy and brother and sister. Never again would they know the embrace or the affections of a family member, a husband or a wife comes down with leprosy, never to be held by their spouse again. Never to be in in in in immediate presence of their spouse. Oh, they would have to stand off a long way. Sweetheart, I love you. Rotting away, dying. The condition of these men is horrific. Their freedom is denied, their families are destroyed, their future is doomed. They're gonna die. And they're gonna die a slow, hopeless, horrific death. Body parts falling on. Now, the Bible, in the Bible, God often uses leprosy as an illustration of sin In fact, did you notice there when the Lord sent these ten off to go see the priest? The Bible used an interesting word in referring to their healing of leprosy. It doesn't say They were healed of their leprosy. What does it say? They were what? Cleansed of their leprosy Now that is a term that God uses, I believe, on purpose to tie in physical leprosy with sin. Over and over and over through Scripture, leprosy is a picture or a symbol or an illustration Of sin. In other words, the Bible teaches us that what leprosy does to the body, sin does to the soul. It destroys us. Our freedom is gone. Jesus said that uh He said that uh whosoever you obey, you are a servant to If I allow sin in my life, I allow sin to uh uh uh be a part of my life, it become it's it takes over. I become a servant of that sin, Romans chapter six tells us That sin becomes a slave master. Just like that leprosy takes over and takes their freedom away. It destroys the family. You know what destroys families? Sin. Righteousness and love and compassion and truth and holiness doesn't destroy families, sin does. It destroys homes, it denies our freedom, it dooms the future. Any person who dies in their sins, unforgiven, is separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. So the condition of these men as lepers was a tragic condition, and it is an illustration, it's an example of what sin does to mankind. And the tragic effects of sin. So these fellows were in bad shape. This was not good. I want us to notice, first of all, the condition of these ten men, then I want us to notice the cry of these ten men. Look with me if you would at verse thirteen. And they lifted up their voices and said. Now they're lifting up their voices. In other words, they're not just saying Uh, excuse me, Jesus? No, no, no. They're lifting their voices up. I got studying that, and it means this. Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. They're crying out at the top of their lungs. Jesus making his way to Jerusalem. He's focused. on uh on a what awaits him down there, the crucifixion, the wrath of Almighty God for all the sins of the world. He's going to take on himself. And as he makes his way, he goes through this certain village, and standing afar off, way off, these guys are crying, ten of them, Jesus, have mercy on us. And they catch his attention. But I noticed the cry of these fellows. And I got thinking about it. This is a cry of faith. These guys are expressing a tremendous amount of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice, first of all, by faith they approach the Lord. Obviously, they had to have believed that Jesus could do something for them. Obviously, they believed that in this man, Jesus, there was some hope of cleansing of leprosy Nobody else had any hope for him. There wasn't a doctor on the planet at this time that could have done a thing to cleanse these guys, to heal these guys of leprosy. There wasn't a medicine they could take There wasn't a procedure there we go through. There wasn't a surgery that could be performed. There wasn't a doctor that had an answer to their problem. But they heard about Jesus Christ. And no doubt at this point in time they had heard of miracles he did and people he healed and uh people being raised from the dead. And they believed this man could help us. Jesus. It's a cry of faith. They had faith in their approach to the Lord Jesus Christ. He could help them. I'm here to tell you this morning, I don't know what your situation is, I don't know what your sin may be, I don't know what your need may be, but I'm here to tell you Jesus can help you He have faith in him and we can trust him and we can come to him. Maybe there's somebody listening online that's in sin and you know you're in sin. I remember uh 1979. I was such a sinner and I was bound in sin. I was dying in my sin. I knew it. And I tried, and I tried so many different things to get free of the sin I was addicted to I read my Bible of the Lord Jesus Christ that He could forgive me and He could give me a new life. May 7, 1979. I did exactly what these lepers did, and I cried out to Jesus: help me! And he saved my soul and changed my life. This is a cry of faith. These guys believed that Jesus could help them. I notice also it is by faith they acknowledged his mercy. They approached him by faith. And notice what they said here. They, Jesus, master, have what? But talk to me now. What did they say? Have mercy on me. What an interesting word. Why would they say, have mercy on us? Why didn't they say, Lord, uh uh Lord, we deserve this? Lord, this ain't right. We didn't do anything wrong. No, no, no. They knew that anything God would do for them was the mercy of God. By faith, by faith. Uh they had mercy. Uh they knew they were undeserving. They knew they were sinners. I remember the night I knelt by my bed and called out the Lord Jesus Christ by faith, I knew I didn't deserve his forgiveness. I knew I deserved to die and I knew I was under his wrath. I just, God, Jesus, please help me. Have mercy on me And so by faith they approached the Lord. By faith they uh uh acknowledged his mercy and their need of mercy. And then by faith they acted on his word. Come down to verse 14. Now, this is interesting. Previously, in time, several weeks or some months before, the Lord had healed a leper. And in the previous instance, when the Lord healed the leper, the Bible says he touched the leper and made him well. Now You don't go around touching lepers. All right? How many people understand that? You don't go around touching lepers. But when you're God You can touch that lever and you can say, I will be thou cleansed. And his body, his skin is made like baby's skin. And his health is restored. In previous time the Lord touched the leper and healed him But notice what he does here. He doesn't touch him. Was he afraid? No. He wasn't afraid. Look what he says there in verse number fourteen. And when he saw them, he said unto them, he's not touching them. In fact, he doesn't even go over to where they are. Remember, they're standing afar off. He just turns and responds, and he speaks back to them, and he says, This go, show yourselves to the priests. That's all he says. Now, I don't know about you, but they could have responded a little bit the way Naaman did in the Old Testament. Remember Naaman? And Elijah told him to wash in the river Jordan seven times? How did Naaman respond? I can go back to my country and wash the rivers are cleaner there. Why I came all this way? Tell me wash in a river. And he kind of got his hackles up a little bit. Finally, his servants spoke some common sense into him. He did it and he was healed. These guys didn't do that. They could have responded that way. They could have said, What? You tell them, go see the priest. Why? We'll be we can't we'll be kicked out. You touch the other leper. What? We're not good enough to be touched. They didn't do any of that. What'd they do? What's it say? What'd they do They went their way. They did exactly what Jesus told them to do, without question, without hesitation, without doubt. He says, He told us to do that, we're going to do it. And as they went, the Bible says, they were cleansed. I'm telling you, that was an act of faith They did exactly they believed they approached Jesus, believing he could help them. They acknowledged that they needed his mercy, they were undeserving, and when he said something that really didn't make a lot of sense at the time They did exactly what he said. I'm telling you, you and I could use the faith of these ten men To have that mentality, to have that approach, to have that faith in Christ to do exactly what these ten did. These men displayed tremendous Strong faith in Christ. Highly commendable. In fact, exercising faith in Christ is highly commended by the Lord Jesus Christ You go through the Gospels and you find people that Jesus commends, and it is always people that exercise faith. He would say statements like this about a dear lady No other greater faith is found in all of Israel than this dear lady right here. This is a great faith. Jesus marveled at their faith. I tell you what, you want God's praise, you want God's attention. Trust him. Have faith in him. And God honors faith. God honors faith. And all through here they were healed, highly praised their faith in God. But notice the contrasting reactions. We had the condition of the men, terrific, lepers. We have the cry of these men, absolutely strong faith. But once they're cleansed, once they're made well, they respond in two different ways. Look with me if you would at verse 15. Verse 15, and what's the next word? one of them. When he saw that he was healed, turned back And with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. Oh, and by the way, he was a Samaritan, hated of Jews, hated. Contrasting reactions. Nine of them walked on. Now think with me a little bit. Do you think that these nine that walked on, do you think they were glad that they were cleansed? Sure they were. Good heavens. Let me ask you this. Do you think they were grateful that they were cleansed? Yeah. How could you not be grateful? They had to have been grateful. But the problem wasn't that they weren't glad that Jesus cleansed them. I don't believe. I don't believe the problem was that they weren't grateful that he would cleanse them. You know what the problem was? They didn't express it. They didn't express it. Oh I can see them getting home, uh coming running home. They go to the priests, they do their ceremonies and The Lord's following the law there as given in Leviticus is why he told them to go to the priest. And so they're cleansed. They go to the priests. They do their little sacrifices, get get the clear all get the thumbs up from the priest. Hey, you're good. Tests come back negative. You guys are clean. And they are running home. Can you imagine the reunion? The wife comes looks out. Oh that looks like Robert coming down. Look at oh honey, honey, oh Jesus made me well I can come home the kids get anybody see that in your mind, see that taking place Sure they were glad. Man, they're sure they were, oh, I'm so grateful that Jesus has healed me, and they're telling their wife. Kids and they oh we uh I one of uh I I imagine some of these one of the things they want to do right away is go to Walmart. Oh, I can go to Walmart again, you know, go to the market. And uh they're out wanting to do this stuff they couldn't do before. Yeah, they were glad. There's no doubt about it. I think they were grateful. The problem was They didn't express their gratitude to the Lord Jesus Christ. Nine of them go on, but one of them returns to give thanks. I named him Bob. Be like Bob. Be the one that comes back and says, thank you, Lord. Be the one that glorifies God for what God has done in your life. Be the one. One out of ten. That's not good odds. Now I'm not a gambling man. I never was. Before I got saved, uh they opened up Atlantic City. This shows you how old I am. But um when I was about 18 years old they built the big casinos there in Atlantic City. So I was a lost stupid idiot. And um a bunch of my buddies, we're going to Atlantic City and we're gonna gamble and we're gonna make millions of dollars So I saved up two hundred dollars. You know, an eighteen-year-old kid in night in nineteen seventy-eight with two hundred bucks, that's a bunch of money back then, at least in my wallet it was We went down there, the gambling, we went down to um this really isn't part of my message, but I just thought about it. But uh we went down to uh Atlantic City Casinos. We walked in there, everything's all fancy, I got my 200 bucks And um I don't remember what all we did, but I do remember this. In less than ten minutes my money was gone. I mean, I didn't make a dime. I went in there, gambled it all the way in ten minutes, walked out, and the other guys are like, man, I'm broke already. So we turned around and drove an hour and a half back home. And I learned a great lesson for that. I learned not to gamble even before I was saved. I thought that's the stupidest thing in the world. But I'm not a gambling man, that's what I'm trying to say. And you got odds 9 to 1 That somebody's going to be grateful, that's not good odds. You follow what I'm trying to say? If you're going to bet uh on uh uh I'll bet you eight of the ten will come back and give thanks. Nope, you'd lose money. One out of ten isn't very good. It's not good odds. Now I got thinking about that. Why is that? Why would only one express gratitude? Why would the majority just walk on and not come back and say thank you? Why is that? Why is gratitude such a scarce commodity? Grateful, grateful. Well, I got looking at this a little bit, and I've come up with some reasons, maybe why these guys weren't grateful And uh some some uh reasons that uh uh that this one, Bob, I'm calling him That was willing to do to express his gratitude. I put this down, I look at this verse 15 in particular. Gratitude is inconvenient It's inconvenient to stop and come back and express thanks. As I said a moment ago Yeah and and this is normal. You and I would be the same way. I would be very, very anxious to get back to my family. How many people agree that would be the case? And living in a leper colony, separated. Man, I'd be very anxious to get back to my family. I'd be anxious to get back into normal living. I'd be anxious to get back and wear clean clothes You study lepers, it would their bodies with sores would break out and and there would be bodily stinky bodily fluids and they'd wipe themselves with rags and they'd wear all these clothes that uh people would throw out to them that just in compassion. Man, I don't know about you, but I get cleansed. I want to get back to my family. I want to get a get a shower, clean up, and put some nice, clean, nice clothes on again Uh they want to get back and eat some decent food and be in a nice, warm, comfortable house. And just stop and turn around and postpone all of that. To come and say thank you, that would be inconvenient. But one of these nine, one of these nine said, wait a minute, being grateful is more important. than me getting my way right away. Being grateful was more important than instant gratification. And he was willing to inconvenience himself And come back and express gratitude. I put this down. Another reason maybe they didn't come back is gratitude is contrary to the majority. Yeah, I don't know if you've noticed this, but the world we live in is not a very grateful world. People are not out in the streets rioting and protesting so that they can express their gratitude for the freedoms and the prosperity we have. in America. That's not what they're thinking. We do not live in a world for the most part that is very grateful For what God has given to us. Study Romans chapter 1 and the root fall of mankind, the root of all of man's corruption, even to the point of total perversion begins with neither were they grateful. I would imagine that these nine are walking off the ten. He says to the ten, go show yourself to the priest. Alright. And they start walking off. And as they go, hey, whoa! Ah And I'm wondering that one, as he sees what happens, stops, and the other nine keep work walking on And he looks back and there is Jesus making his way to Jerusalem. And he thinks, man, look what he did. And he turns and goes back. Jesus, Jesus! Falls at his feet, glorifying God loudly, giving, thank you, thank you, thank you I would imagine these other nine making their way. There had to have been at least a few of them, maybe all of them, looked back and saw what that guy was doing. And I wonder if in the hearts and minds of at least a few of those nine, two or three maybe, thought, boy, I ought to do that. Man, I ought to, that's what he's. Man, I want to see my family And just went along with the majority. You know, when we're mixed up in the majority, that has a powerful impact on our behavior. Everyone, what does the kids say when they want to do something? Everyone else is doing it. I don't know about you. When we our boys say something like that, I say, well, we're not everyone else. Let's not be everyone else. Let's be the thankful one. It's inconvenient. The crowd, the majority isn't expressing gratitude, and that affects us. Gratitude requires humility. Notice he falls on his face. He fell down on his face at his feet. That is humility. That is recognizing. I believe he's recognizing the deity of Jesus Christ. He is worshiping Jesus. He's humbling himself. Lord, you've been so good to me. Gratitude requires humility. You know what our biggest problem is? Is pride. Pride. Gratitude compels death to self. Again, they they had to postpone what they wanted to do, see their family and friends and get cleaned up and all that. They would have to postpone that to come back and express gratitude. They would have to die to sell. And by the way, this is a Samaritan. Jews hated Samaritans. For a Samaritan to come and bow at the feet of a Jew was like the biggest insult ever. Was the most humiliating thing for a Jew, for a Samaritan To acknowledge a Jew and humble himself. You know what that Samaritan leper that was cleansed? You know what he's doing? He's dying to self. This isn't about me anymore. This is all about Jesus. Dying to self, dying to self. Proud people. I found that proud people are ungrateful people. You and I get proud, and we lose our sense of gratitude Proud people have a sense of entitlement. I am owed this. I deserve this. I don't deserve to be a leper. I'll tell you what we deserve as sinners. We all deserve to be dying. We all deserve to be burning in hell right now is what we deserve. And any grace that God shows us, any minute I'm spending not in hell, I'm getting a whole lot more than I deserve And I ought to be grateful. I ought to be grateful. Somebody's tuned in, watching online, or maybe even here, and you've never trusted Christ as Savior, or you've never been born again, you're still in your sins I'm telling you ought to thank God. He's given you another opportunity to find forgiveness of sins, an opportunity to have eternal life. Those of us that know the Lord, we need to put our stinking pride aside and say, God's been good to me. I don't deserve it. Pride, gratitude compels us to die to self. And I put this down. Gratitude is a characteristic of maturity. You get a little selfish child and they never say thank you, never say thank you. I like to tell the story a little boy was at a party and and uh went up to the lady, was cutting the cake and putting cakes out and he went up there and she uh she gave him a little plate, she put a piece of cake on his plate and he said, Thank you, ma'am. And she goes, Well what a fine boy, boy, you're very sharp, polite boy. He says If you give me another one, I'll say it again. Maturity. Immature people are ungrateful people. But sure a gratitude is a characteristic of mature. I'm afraid, I hate to say this, but overall I think the majority of mankind are pretty immature. Anybody ever, anybody here, I'm I'm getting where I don't even do it anymore, but uh anybody here ever watch the news and you watch and you think these are a bunch of babies? It's like children are running the show And we got so immature, so immature. Gratitude is characteristic of maturity. And ingratitude Is characteristic of immaturity. I I wrote this down on my notes as I was studying. This this question came to my mind. Have we lost the ability to be grateful? Have we lost that ability? I'm talking about us as Christians to be grateful. I wonder if we would if we would if we would survey our conversations. What percentage of our conversation is griping and complaining and criticizing? And moaning and finding fault. And what percentage of our conversation is expressing gratitude and thanks and praise and glorifying the Lord Have we lost our ability to be grateful? My cousin put a statement on the computer the other morning and it stuck in my mind She said this, beware of what is happening around you, but don't be distracted by what is happening around you. And I think there's a lot going on. There's no doubt in our world. But let's not lose our ability to be grateful. Don't let us distract us away from the goodness of our God and the greatness of our salvation and the glory of what God has for us. Have we lost our ability to be grateful? My last thought is this very quickly: the concern of the Savior. Now look what he says here in verse 17. And Jesus answering said, now one comes back. And he doesn't address that one until he makes a statement first. Notice what he says in 17. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God, save this stranger, the Samaritan, one that's hated by Jews He comes back expressing gratitude. I don't know about you, but I'd like to be that one. I'd like to be the one the Lord is addressing there, not denying that they had great faith and I think they were saved. Only one came back to be grateful. And he said to him, verse 19, Arise, go thy way, get up, go on, go see your family, go on. Your faith has made thee whole. Your faith that made you whole. Go on. Go on. Our Lord desires us to be grateful. Say, what's God's will for me? One is be grateful. Tell him how thankful you are. He longs for our gratitude. Our Lord expects Of gratitude. But we could preach a whole sermon on what this one benefited. He experienced a greater blessing than the others. He exalted the giver over the gift. And expressed his love for the Savior. I asked this question: have we lost our ability to be grateful? I read years ago in 1860, off the shores of Lake Michigan, a passenger steamer, the engine went out on it and it wrecked up against the rocks. and was sinking. And other people on the shore watched what was happening and they were standing there watching it was cold winter, uh winter day. And a fellow by the name of Edward Spencer saw what was happening and saw the ship was in danger and people were going to drown. And the record, the news reports, say he threw off his coat And dove into the heavy icy waves. And he swam out to the ship and uh Got a passenger that was drowning in the water, brought them back on shore, got them safely on shore, turned around, dove in again, went out and got another one and brought them back 16 times. He swam out there and brought him back. Sixteen people. By the time he got the sixteenth, he was so exhausted. Hypothermia had set in so bad he couldn't even stand. They had to drag him back out of the water. He's going to go back at again. You'll drown. You can't do it. The news reports say he never recovered. From the toll that took on him swimming out there. And in his obituary, he died sometime later as a result of that And in his obituary, they put this, in the notice of his death, they pointed out that of the six seventeen he rescued seventeen people, of the seventeen he rescued Not one ever came back to him and thanked him for saving their life. They put that in his obituary. Not one. I don't know about you, but if I was one of that 17 and I read that, I'd be awfully ashamed. I'd be awfully ashamed. I wonder how grateful we are. Every day God pours out his blessings on us. Every day God is so good to us. How many times are we like the nine? We just go and do our stuff. We just go and do our enjoy ourselves. Enjoy the blessings. And never come back and give thanks to the blesser. Let's make a decision this Sunday morning. Let's decide. I'm going to be grateful. I'm going to be grateful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this one. Help us, Lord, to be the grateful one. Lord, we can't answer for other churches, we can't answer for other Christians. Lord, we do have to answer for ourselves. And I ask that you would help us to deliberately, on purpose, die to self And give you gratitude. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many this morning would say, well long with me, you would say, Preacher, I want to be like Bob. I want to be like this one and just take the time and effort and die to self and learn to be grateful. What do you like that by the uplifted hand? Surely, who in the world wouldn't want to? And maybe God's dealt with our heart and God's did some things. And maybe we just have to make a decision. Lord, I'm going to deliberately on purpose Not just be grateful, but express my gratitude to my Lord and to people around. And God will help us. If you've never been saved, you could come this morning and say thank you, Lord, for the opportunity To have my sins forgiven and know for sure I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And you could trust Christ as Savior. Father in heaven, bless our imitation now. I ask in Jesus' name.