Large in your Bible, jot down uh some of the points I'm going to give you to see, and I think they'd be very, very helpful. First Corinthians chapter fifteen and verse number fifty-eight. 1 Corinthians 15 verse 58. Familiar verse for a lot of us. I have it underscored in my Bible. I have it highlighted in red. I have uh the verse number circled and I have the whole verse bracketed. So every time I read it, I feel like I need to highlight it in some other way. just to uh because of its significance. First Corinthians 15, look at verse number 58 with me. Notice what it says. Therefore, my beloved brethren Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. How many folks are familiar with that verse? That's not a new verse for you. We're familiar with that. What a great verse. If you're going to summarize this verse into a small brief statement, how would you do it? That one verse there, you're going to summarize it. Somebody says, summarize that verse into one brief statement. How would you do that? Was it? Your labor is not in vain? Alright, unmovable? Keep on truck. Keep on trucking? That would be a good title for a sermon. I put in the margin of my Bible, this is what I put, don't quit. Don't quit. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Keep going forward. Keep pressing on. Don't quit. And so I want to share tonight some thoughts on how to be steadfast and unmovable, or how not to quit, how to keep my frame of mind. In such that I do not quit. I just stay after this. Stay after this. Stay after this thing. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless us tonight. We've got a big week ahead of us And uh pray that maybe you take some of these passages, these thoughts, and establish a frame of mind that uh we are determined to press on and give everything we have and not quit and not turn back. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray, as I present myself to you and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name, amen Whoever told you the Christian life was easy was lying to you. The Christian life is not an easy life. It's not a bed of roses. And if you decide, if if uh once you get saved, as these evangelists gave testimony, and you decide, you know, I'm not just going to be a uh uh uh a couch potato Christian I'm going to get up and I'm going to live for God. I'm going to get involved in the ministry. I'm going to get involved in the church. I'm going to be active. I'm going to ser Serve God, I want to make a difference in this world for the gospel. If you get Yeah, if you make that decision, I'm telling you, the opposition just steps up and the challenges are there and the trials are there. I want to remind you, Satan is adamantly opposed against to what we are doing this coming week. He is adamantly opposed to this church. He is adamantly opposed to you and I living for God and having any kind of impact in this world for the gospel. So uh the Christian life is not easy. It's not a bed of roses. It is absolute joy. There's Joy in serving Jesus. There's great peace. And I love it. And uh it's the joy of my life to serve God, and many of you no doubt feel the same way. However, it has its challenges All through the Bible, the Lord makes these types of statements to us. Be strong in the Lord. Be strong in the Lord. Be not afraid. Be of good courage. Be strong in the Lord. Be a good soldier. He makes this statement in Ephesians, stand fast in the Lord. And then of course our text, be ye steadfast, unmovable. It's like God's continually reminding us, listen. There's opposition, there's challenges, there's trials, there's valleys we go through. But don't you quit and you keep on pressing and you stay steadfast and you be unmovable and you press on There's two words in our text here really stirred my heart. Be ye steadfast. And I got looking that up how that's used and definitions of it. And it has this idea to be established. It was used in one place, it's used outside of scripture. It was used to descrap to describe a statue that could not be moved. It was in place. How many people are familiar with the Rock of Gibraltar? Anybody familiar? That thing is a is a is a emblem Of steadfastness. That thing is there. It is unmovable. Unshakable is the idea behind steadfast. Then the word unmovable. It's a very similar word to the word steadfast, except it's stronger. As the word it comes from, it means to be firm and fixed in place, to be stable. As I said, it's very similar to the word steadfast, but it's a stronger word to something that absolutely cannot be moved. Can you think of anybody in your life that God has brought through your life and uh they just stay the same? They're just always in place. They're always uh the same. They're faithful to Lord, just staying in place. Anybody know anyone like that? I'm thinking of folks that in my life That no matter what, Brother Charles Homesher was one of those. I was able to know him for about 25, 30 years intimately. And I'm telling you, the guy stayed the same in unbelievable trials he went through and heartaches Uh I was with him one time. He was driving the bus. We had the evangelists. We were living in Boulder. And uh actually I think we had moved here and I had gone back. And there were several issues going on and and his and his wife was very, very ill. She ultimately died of diabetes. And she was very, very ill, and he didn't have any help and uh he was just overwhelmed. He'd been doing it for years And um this is a little personal, but uh he called me up beside him. He's driving the bus. Evangelists were back there. It was late at night. We were coming from a meeting somewhere, and the bus loaded these evangelists, and he called me up beside him, and he's driving and he began weeping And he said, I think this is the last year for Bible time. He says, I just can't do it anymore. It's too much. Ma's sick. I don't have help. There's nobody here. And I said, Brother Holmes, you can't do that. We got you got to keep this thing going. God's God's hand is on this. And I said, God will provide, God will work this thing through. And uh the first time I ever saw that, and next morning we got uh back in there for training, I got the evangelists up and helping them out And he was right back on top again. He hit a valley, he hit a little little uh uh trial there, a little disparagement, but he stayed in place and kept on going, and here we are today, Bible times going strong And that's something. So I think of Brother Homester when I think of st uh steadfast, unmovable, even in difficult times, staying out of it. So let me give you, I'm trying to rush through this introduction here I want to give you a list of ways that you and I can remain steadfast and unmovable. We can protect ourselves from quitting. How many folks know someone that quit on the Lord? Anybody here know anybody like that? Quit on the church, quit on their their ministry. And uh we don't want to be that way. Amen? I don't want to quit. I don't want to be a quitter. And so let me give you some thoughts here. Number one, I encourage you to jot these down. Number one, write this down So be steadfast, to be unmovable, number one, stay focused on Christ rather than on people. Stay focused on Christ rather than on people. When I start looking at other people, I'm going to be disappointed. When I start to get my eyes on other folks, even other Christians, I'm going to get discouraged. I'm going to get disappointed. People will fail us. And get discouraged and we give up. I like Isaiah 26, 3. That will keep him in perfect peace. That'll keep them stable, unmovable, steadfast. It's going to keep them in perfect peace, whose eyes are what? On thee. That we'll keep them in perfect peace whose eyes are on thee. We keep our eyes on Christ. We keep our eyes on Christ. Don't pe not on people If we're looking for people to help us stay true and stay in place and stay unmovable and steadfast, we're looking at people, they're going to fail us. But we keep our eyes on Christ. I like Hebrews 12, too. We use it for a motto here at our church. Looking unto Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith. We don't look to the world. We don't look to other people. People will fail us. I thought about the Lord Jesus Christ and the twelve disciples. Man, what a mess he had in those twelve guys We talked about it this morning, fustering with each other, doubting everything, afraid of this, doubting that, deciding who's the greatest. I'm greater than you, no, I'm greater than you. And then you got Judas in the mix there. Tell me, from a human perspective, if Jesus would have looked at those twelve disciples and he would have been dependent on them looking at them, uh he'd have quit day one, probably Will you and I'd be lost. But the Bible says he he he said, I always do those things that please the Lord. His eyes were on God. And so we focus on Christ rather than on people. Too many people quit the ministry because of the people that they're ministering to. Too many people quit the church because of people. I was out knocking on doors uh it's about two weeks ago and I was out by the lake on the other side of the lake up 495 just Going door to door across the road there and uh knocked on the door, a guy came out. We got talking. I told him who it was. He goes, Oh, I'm saved. We got talking a little bit. I said, Where do you go to church? He said, I haven't been to church in years. I said, Well, we'd love to have you come visit us. He goes, I'm done with church. I said, what do you mean? He says, oh, people full of hypocrites. And he took about 20 minutes. I didn't have, didn't give me room to say a word. Took about 20 minutes, just told me all the things that everybody in the church does wrong. Funny thing is, he caught himself at towards the end he says, uh he was talking about other people in the church, talking about how bad people in the church are. And he caught himself, he says, I guess I'm doing exactly what I'm criticizing them for. I said, Well, I wasn't gonna point that out, but uh I said to him, I said, I I'm sure I'm sure people failed you. I said, but I I'm sure Bonte, Lord Jesus Christ never failed you. And he goes, Well, that's true. Well that's true. You know his problem is you know why he's out of church? Not because Jesus failed him, but because people did. He was looking at people, looking at people. I have a fellow, he's not in a ministry anymore, a preacher friend. I made friends with him years ago when I first moved here. He's over in Virginia. And um we got to know each other. And every time we got together, it was like the most discouraging thing in the world. You know, it's like, oh, I leave there and thinking I want to quit too And um just nobody in the church treated him right. Nobody did this, nobody did that, and all the people in this. And all he could see, all he could focus on was people. And so it's not surprising he's out of the ministry. He quit. And so keep our focus on Christ rather than on people. Number two, jot this one down. Stay focused on Christ rather than our problems. Rather than our problems. How many people since you've been saved you had to deal with some problems in life? They didn't go away when we got saved, did they? Sometimes they get bigger. And if we keep looking at our situation, if we keep looking at our circumstances, we're going to throw our arms up in despair and say, oh, this is overwhelming. But we've got to get our eyes off of the problems and on to the Lord Jesus Christ. I like Psalms 25, 15. I reference this occasionally in sermons. It goes like this: mine eyes are ever toward the Lord. For he shall pluck my feet out of the net. I don't know exactly what the circumstances were, but this poor fellow had got his feet in the net And he was trapped. He was restricted. He was uh caught up in this net. He couldn't get out. Here's what You and I, or some of us, would would have a tendency to do, if we feet were in a net, where would our focus probably be? On that net. And we're all worried about the net, and we're all worried about the situation, the problems, and the circumstances we face. He says, no, no, no. I'm not looking at the net. My eyes are on you, Lord. I'm eyes are on you, Lord. And I'm telling you, sometimes in the Christian life, problems can be overwhelming. The net can grab a hold of us, and we think we'd never get out of this situation. And I'm suggesting to you, get your eyes off the problem and get it on Christ. Get it on the Lord. My eyes are on the Lord. And um uh that's where That's where a lot of people fail. That's where a lot of people struggle with that. Job struggled with this, Dindi. Now my heart goes out to Job. God forbid that I would be critical of Job. Good night. His net was overwhelming. True or not. And so I don't blame Job at all. I can't stand in judgment of Job at all in him struggling with this net he's in. But I tell you, it just about brought him down. And he started questioning things. He started questioning God. And you read through the book of Jobs, and some of his statements towards the Lord are pretty strong. And he is struggling with this. He is in the net. But at the end, God comes through. Job gets his focus back on the Lord, and he makes this statement. I have heard, and I'm not sure I'm quoting this exactly right, but he says something to this effect. I have heard of thee with the hearing of the ears, but now my eyes have seen And what is he saying? He says, I've got my eyes off of my problem, and I got it back on you, Lord, and I'm seeing what you can do. I'm seeing how you can see me see this thing through. And thankfully Job didn't quit, and God came down and blessed him in a great way. Peter, we've been preaching on this the last two Sunday mornings. Peter got in this situation, didn't he? He steps out very godaciously, steps out on faith. It was a little shaky faith. Lord, if that be you, let me walk on water. And lo and behold, the Lord says, come on. He steps out, he starts walking the water, but what does the Bible say? We pointed this out. It's an interesting statement. When he saw the wind And the waves. How do you see wind? Whatever the case, he got his eyes off the Lord Jesus Christ. And the moment he did that, he started to sink. He looked at the net And I'm telling you, when you and I start looking at our problems, and that's all we can see, and that's all we focus on, is how terrible things are and how overwhelming this situation is. And it's very, very tempting. It's very difficult not to do that We get in that but we get in that case we're in good we're on pretty shaky ground. We may end up quitting. Quitting on the Lord, quitting on church, quitting on our ministry, quitting on serving God The times when I look at my problems, that's when I want to quit. And so I've got to get my eyes off my problems, oh Lord. Number three, write this one down. I must take personal responsibility. I must take personal responsibility for our actions. How many people are familiar with King Saul? King Saul. You know one of King Saul's problems? He had several, but one of his problems was this. He never took personal responsibility. You read through there, he's always blaming someone else for his failures. What's the Samuel says, what's the bleeding of this sheep? I thought you were supposed to slaughter them all and go. Oh, the people. The people. It wasn't my Jonathan. Later on, there's something, he blames Jonathan. And Saul continually blamed others rather than taking personal responsibility. And guess what? He ends up committing suicide. You talk about the ultimate quit. Ultimate quitting. He completely failed and he quit And gave up. So Saul could refuse to take personal responsibilities. It was always someone else's situation. You know what? If I'm always blaming someone else Rather than taking personal responsibility, I never really solved the problem, do I? The problem wasn't with the people, Saul. The problem wasn't with Jonathan. The problem was where It was with Saul. And until he took personal responsibility for his own actions, his own attitude, it was never going to get fixed. And he only ends up quitting. However, David, on the other hand, was David perfect? No. David made some horrendous mistakes But the difference between David and Saul was David took personal responsibility. Read Psalm 51 sometime. You talk about taking personal responsibility for his own actions. Psalm 51 is the greatest record of somebody saying, Hey, this is my fault. I have sinned against you. I have transgressed against you. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned. And David took full responsibility for his actions. As horrendous as they were, and the consequences, as horrendous where they were, David said, I accept responsibility. It was my sinful nature, it was my simple decision. And God forgave him. And you find out that Saul, King David, ends his life strong. And writing phenomenal psalms inspired of God. And his son Solomon, the kingdom goes on stronger when David left it. And so if I want to avoid quitting, if I want to be steadfast, unmovable throughout my life for the Lord I've got to learn to take personal responsibility. When I mess up, own up to it. I think that's one reason marriages fail. Constantly the other person's fault. The other person's fault. The other person's fault. I thought of this we were talking uh with someone the other day and I said, you know, I don't think the answer is more counseling. I think it needs more crucifixion. And not of the spouse. But dying to self. Dying to self. Dying to self. I need to take responsibility for my actions. That's the reason ministries fail. I mentioned the preacher. It was always the church. Everything, something wrong. It was always the church. The church wasn't this. The church wasn't that. The church wasn Yes and he quit quit I wonder if maybe that preacher wouldn't have said, you know, I think uh I have a I bear a little bit of responsibility here as pastor. Some of this is my role. I need to examine my attitude and what I'm doing, and maybe he'd still be in the ministry. I don't know. But taking personal responsibility. Number four, write this one down, real quick, number four. This one's pretty obvious. I should always pray. If I want to be steadfast and movable, I need to saturate my life in prayer. I need to begin my day, begin my service, end my day, and just saturate my life with prayer. I like what the Lord Jesus said, Luke chapter 18, verse 1 Men ought always to pray and to faint not. You find quitting goes hand in hand with prayerlessness. You find longevity and steadfastness and unmovability, you find that goes with earnest prayer, consistent prayer Those two go hand in hand. I believe the key to longevity, the key to not quitting, the key to pressing on and being victorious is prayer. Prayer, prayer, prayer. Put things in God's hands and just stick it out. Put it in God's hands and just stick it out. One thing I learned early on, I guess the Lord Turk taught me or I picked it up somewhere, but when I came here as pastor, you know, I was overwhelmed. One of the fellas that was here You know, there was just different issues and we had a lot of work to do, a lot of growing to do. And he says, he goes, Pastor Leatherman, this is I'm here like a week. He said, uh Pastor Leatherman, I know you've got a plan to get this thing up and running again. I s I said, praise the Lord. Actually we were driving the um U-Haul down the Cumberland and back. And uh he said that and I said, Well, praise the Lord. I didn't say, Oh yeah, I got a plan because I had no plan. I thought to myself, plan? I don't know what I'm doing But I learned something. I started this years ago on Saturday night, and I try to do it every Saturday night. I can't say I get it 100%, but I try to do the majority of the time. I'll come over here Saturday night, turn the turn the air on turn the air conditioning on to 32 below zero and um and uh do all that. But I always take some time. And I try to pray right down front of you. I'll pray around. I try to pray down front here. And I try to do this, Lord, this is not my church. This is your church. This is not the body of Leatherman. This is the body of Christ. And it's yours, Lord. And I think that's so important in every area of our Christian life. Lord, my life is not mine. It's yours. And I pray to you, and I look to you, and I'm lifting it up to you in prayer, and I'm putting it in your hands. I believe that is a key to longevity When I start taking things in my end, I start leaning on my own understanding, I start doing things the way I think it'll be, and I push prayer aside, I push the Lord out, it's not long until things start falling apart and people quit. Number five, put this one down. This might sound a little strange. Let me try and explain it. Number five, accept imperfection. Accept imperfection. Sometimes people, if it is not perfect, then they walk away from it. If it is not flawless, if there's fine any flaw whatsoever, then it's not that we call them perfectionists. Now, if your perfectionist means you want to do your very best, you want to do it perfect all the time, God bless you. That's not a bad attitude. I want to do my very best. But the truth of the matter is we live in an imperfect world. And we deal with imperfect people, and we can't always make everything uh perfect. And if we got the mentality, if it's not perfect, then I walk away from it, I quit, I'm going to be a quitter the rest of my life. And I think this is a I told the men in prayer in prayer breakfast, I said, I think this might be a little danger in some of our schools. And they had this idea, and it's not wrong, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying. It's not necessarily wrong, but they have this idea, unless it is total first class, everything I do, upfront, first class, elegant Then we're not going to do it for Christ. It's going to be the best or nothing. That doesn't work on a mission field where you got a mud hut. And you have a mimeograph machine or something, and I think we ought to do the very best we can for the Lord and leave it in God's hands. And if we're looking for perfection in an imperfect world, we're not going to find it. I think this comes back to the idea of keeping our eyes on Christ. That's the only perfect one there is. And so we have to be very, very careful. Well, that that flag's wrinkled. I quit. I'm not going to work under a wrinkled flag. You know, you know, that's silly, but that's what I'm trying to say. And so we have to sometimes accept the fact that we can't have the best of everything. We take what we have. We work with all our heart. The ministry is working with imperfect people. Some of you Bible time teachers, uh how many of you found out the kids in your class are not perfect? Well these kids if they ain't this and I ain't teaching, well bless your heart, you ain't gonna never teach. I got news for you, those kids, their teacher ain't perfect either And so we have the ministry is working with imperfect people. The word ministry is working in an imperfect church I like the this little story. I haven't told it here. You've heard me say it before, but uh uh I like it. It's uh it's humorous and it illustrates I think what I'm saying. But on Kathy and our tenth anniversary, we went to the Poconos And to um a honeymoon place up there on the Poconos. Our first honeymoon kind of fell apart when we f uh uh uh when we first got married. It was fine. But uh it didn't pan out the way we wanted. So I said on our 10-year anniversary, I'm going to take you to we're going to have a real honeymoon. So we went to the Poconos to one of the honeymoon lodges up there. Ooh la la I tell you what, that was something else. And uh they had a big uh area as a restaurant seat, probably a couple thousand, and the place was packed every night it was it was almost filled, and e everybody had assigned seats Did you ever been to one of these places? Everybody had assigned seats. They have a little name on there, Mr. Leatherman, Mrs. Leatherman. And ooh, wow. And so it was all elegant and fancy food. The waiters come over there after the first day they knew what kind of coffee you drank and what you wanted. They would have it there for you when you showed up. And uh I mean it was it was amazing. And so we would dress up in the evening mail. I mean I dressed up, decked out, and the whole wall in the restaurant, the whole wall was a mirror And um we I'd come walking in and guess what the first thing I would look at? I'm telling you, I look good all the way across the room. Looked pretty good. But the problem was we sat right beside the mirror. And the closer I got to the mirror, it was more it was like, mm By the time I got over there, I thought, I don't look as good as I did over there. And that's kind of how churches are, and that's kind of how people are. People say, Oh, I've heard of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That place is something else. And so they come up and guess what? They find out the preacher's got hair in his ears growing out his ears, you know? And uh he has a pimple sometimes on his neck, and it isn't everything, and you know we find out it's not perfect. And so we have to accept the fact that we live in an imperfect world and we have an imperfect church. If you find the perfect church, what? Don't join it. You'll ruin it. Number six, put this down, remain positive. Remain positive Quitters, generally quitters never see the good that God is doing in any given situation. It may look overwhelmingly dark, it may look like everything is terrible, but I've got to remain positive. Quitters only see the dark clouds. Quitters only see the faults and failures. That's all they see. Let me suggest this to you. Now I'm not saying, I'm not talking about a Joel Olsteen, oh just think good, everything's fine. Not talking about don't worry, be happy. But I am saying this. A Christian has every reason in the world to be optimistic. Amen or not? We have every reason in the world to be optimistic. We have a God in heaven that is all-powerful and is in absolute control. He never fails. He never allows anything into our lives that cannot work out for good if we will but trust him, love him, and do what he says. Now why in the world, why in the world would I not be optimistic in that situation? Say, oh, but I might die. Uh then we go to heaven. You heard the story about the guy stuck a gun in John O'Rice's stomach and said, I'm gonna blow your brains out. And John Arce made a classic example. He says, You can't scare me with heaven. You talk about optimism. Quitters are like, oh, this is terrible. There's nothing good. Nothing's ever good ever, anytime, anyway. And then completely miss what God is doing. So be up be pa remain positive. A child of God has every reason to be optimistic. I got thinking about Mark. Remember Mark went with Paul and Barnabas on the first missionary journey? In the very first place they got to, things uh there was a demon-possessed gal there and different things, but the girl got saved and some people got saved. And the Bible says that Mark went back. No longer went with them. Now I don't know. I'm speculating. We're not told the specifics. But I'm wondering if Mark didn't get there and all he saw was these bad people and these pagan and all that and he completely failed to see what God was doing. And he turned around and went back. Because he failed to remain positive and he completely missed what God was doing. So remain positive. Let me give you the other two here, a couple here real quick. Number seven, be patient. Be patient. The old boxer might have won had he stuck it out for one more bout, as the poem goes. Just be patient. God may be turning this thing around tomorrow. So don't quit today. That prayer may be answered this week. Don't stop praying today. Be patient. Learn to wait on God. Learn to align my timing with God's timing. Let him work that out. Number eight, put this down. Put off bitterness. Put off bitterness. Bitter people tend to quit. Bitterness and unforgiveness. Somebody said this. This isn't original me. I read this years ago. Bitterness is battery acid on the soul. Unforgiveness is battery acid on the soul. And that's true. So put off this bitterness. It'll drag you down. You'll end up quitting every time. Number nine, jot this down. Don't play with your spiritual life. Don't play with your spiritual life. And by that I mean this. Don't be frivolous. In spiritual warfare. We need to take our Bible study. We need to take our prayer. We need to take our witnessing. We need to take our separation from the world. We need to take that very, very seriously. And we start playing with sin. And we start playing in the spiritual warfare we're in, we're going to get eat alive. We're going to end up quitting. You know who I thought of? Samson. Samson was called of God to defeat the Philistines. He was supernaturally empowered by God to defeat the Philistines. And you know what he find him doing over and over? He's flirting with the Philistine girls. He's playing riddles with the people he's supposed to be conquering. And was he ends up dying blind and defeated in a Philistine Auditorium. What a tragedy. You know what Samson's problem was? He played. He played with sin. He played with God's calling on his life. He played in the spiritual warfare. It's just a game. It's just a joke to him. And he was destroyed. We've got to take it seriously. Don't play. We need to take our walk with God very very seriously. And the last one I put down is this partner with God's people You know where I find outside of the Lord and my walk with God, do you know where I find my greatest encouragement and my greatest inspiration is this body of Christ right here. Sometimes, and I know you might not believe this, but sometimes I come to church and stuff's going on and I'm just as discouraged as can be. I don't want to say anything And I'll come in and I'll tell you I get around people and I get around some of y'all and we laugh and we joke and we talk about the Lord and we sing praises together and we look in the Word of God together and we pray together I tell you what, I come out, I feel like I'm on top of the world. God turns that thing around. Sometimes you come in before you say, I'm just going to quit. I'm just going to give up. You go to church, get around God's people. And you come out saying, no, I'm not going to quit. God's good. God's in control. The Lord put it this way, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together, as the manner of some is. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. God has designed the local church. God has designed the church in such a way that it helps us grow. It edifies us. It builds us up. And we need one another. We need one another. I found loaners have a tendency, a lot of time loaners are quitters. They get off away, they'll get out there by themselves, isolate themselves. And the next thing you know, they're out. They're out of the ministry. They're out of the service of the Lord. People who are steadfast have other people, have relationships with other strong Christians. They invest their lives in other people and they allow other people to help them, mentor them. I thought of Doc Don Williams. I love that man. 40-some years on the on the old gospel trail, doing chalk drawings all over the country. Forty some years. How many people believe at some point in that forty years Doc Williams probably had opportunity to quit? Sure. Think anybody ever spoke unkindly to him? I think I have a few times. Sure they have. Think anybody ever disappointed him? Sure. But I'll tell you one thing to old Doc Williams, every year he's exactly the same. His message is right on. And he hasn't quit on God. Eighty, what, three this year? Eighty-four? Eighty-four he'll be this year. And um Brother Leatherman, is that is that cabin available? Is my ha is my house available? No. It's a little grouchier, but he's still faithful. Now I'm teasing. I don't want to quit, do you? We're going too far to quit now. So let's pray and ask the Lord to bless us. This week we're going to serve the Lord in Bible time. Let's just make it full bore, all out, 100%, no quitting, steadfast, unmovable, abounding. And going forward. Father, pray you bless us tonight, Lord, and help us in this matter to stay focused and stay at this thing. Help me. And all of us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, God stir my heart tonight? One way or another. And some of this, God stir my heart. I'm going to be steadfast. Anybody like that? Sure. Now we're going in this week. We need prayer. We do this, I like every Sunday night, but especially as we go into Bible time. Maybe a lot of us could find a place this old altar. And just pray God's power, God's blessings, God's spirit upon this place for the next five days, and the next five years, and the next 50 years But pray that God meets us. Maybe there's someone. I don't know. I believe God directed me to preach this. Maybe there's someone you've been thinking about quitting on something, some aspect of your Christian life, maybe ministry. And maybe God had this for you. Why don't you find a place at this altar tonight and do business with God? Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation. And uh