Chapter eleven and verse number thirty. A lot of us have this verse memorized, there's no doubt. The Bible says the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life And he that winneth souls is what? Wise. He that winneth souls is wise. So let's pray. I don't really have a title, just soul winning tips. uh bearing fruit, something like that. And uh just a kind of a shotgun effect on things we ought to always do when we're soul winning. A few things we always Uh we ought to always do when we're soul winning. All right, let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I pray you challenge us, Lord, as we're looking forward to this coming year and Get out of this weather and be able to get out a little more. I pray that your our hearts would be stirred. Lord, as pastor, I'd like to see more folks involved in sharing the gospel with others. So send a sobering revival to our hearts and our church. Lord, up, we'd like to see a lot of people come to know Christ here in our area in the coming months. And so prepare us, teach us, and help us, we pray. Lord, I yield myself to you, present my body anew, and ask once again tonight that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me and be our teacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So various ways you can take this verse. He that winneth souls is wise. One way you could take it is this: that to go soul winning is a wise thing to do, right? That's a wise thing. Go soul winning. You're investing in eternity. You're sharing your faith with others. We're obeying God's instructions. And so there's a lot of things about just going out and encountering people with the gospel, sharing the message of Christ with them. There's a lot of aspects of that that are very, very wise to be involved with. That's not my approach tonight. I want to look at it this way, a little different angle maybe, but he that winneth souls, kind of like this idea, he that wineth souls needs to be wise. He that winneth souls is wise. In other words, the person that's actually winning someone to Christ has to win to be wise in their approach and how they do that. Would you agree with me knocking on someone's door or uh going to visit a friend or um going in the hospital and there's somebody's unsaved, you're gonna go you you You decided I want to engage someone, I want to uh confront someone, so to speak, with the gospel. Would you agree with me my first words out of my wet mouth If the first words out of my mouth were, if you don't get saved, you're gonna go to hell and burn forever, probably is not the wisest approach. How many people would agree with me. Probably not going to get real far. And so as I'm looking at this verse, I'm looking at it from this angle. He that actually wins the soul to Christ Is wise. Is wise in how they go about it. Has to exercise some wisdom in approaching that person and engaging that person Now, before we go on with this and say anything more about it, it needs to be very, very clear in all of our minds. It is God that saves the soul. It is the Holy Spirit that works, and that person's heart that is doing the saving. You and I are simply the tool in God's hands. We are God's co-workers. We are the instrument that God is using to communicate the message of Christ to that person and urging them to come to Christ. God could have, if he chose to, he could have Chosen the angels to share that gospel, but he did not. He could have chosen animals. We know that he can make animals talk. He did with Balaam. He gave uh the donkey the ability to talk, he could have chose animals to share the gospel, but he didn't. He has given to you and I not just the responsibility but the awesome privilege Of sharing with other people the message of Christ and being a part of them being born into God's family, having a role in them receiving eternal life. And I don't know about you, but that is an exciting thought that I could even have a part in another person coming to Christ. My wife, um, sometime was it Jennifer's last baby, Kathy was able to have a part in the delivery. And uh she came home just excited because that was so awesome. I had a part in the delivery of the little baby. Personally, that doesn't throw me on a Somebody else do that. But um uh when our boys were born the doctor said, You wanna come on back and watch? And it was like, Yeah. It was like, huh? Me? I said, I got a pretty bad cold. They said that's fine, it won't be a problem So, but anyway, uh but uh what an awesome thing uh to have a part in the birth of a child. But here you and I have a part or have a role in God's Leaving that soul and bringing unto Christ. What an amazing thing that is. What a tremendous privilege. We're scared to death, you know, and the flesh recoils at that. When you stop and think about it, it is really an amazing thing. So, as I share some of these thoughts, it's important to keep in mind. Wait a minute, God didn't have to use me. God didn't have to choose me to have a part in this. This is a tremendous privilege But there are some things that we can do and some approaches we can have and some areas we can be wise about so that we're more effective. in bringing uh that person to Christ. So let me give a few of these. I'll jot them down. I don't think it'll be long. I never think they're going to be long, but um Uh uh I'll try not to. I just got four or five and so uh that I jotted down here. Number one, some things we should always do when witnessing the people And they're they really don't they aren't in any chronological order, they really don't make sense as far as a group. They're just kind of random thoughts. Number one Always, always ask this question. At some point, when you're engaging a person with the gospel, ask them this question. Do you know for sure That when you die, your sins are forgiven, and you go to heaven and not to hell. I believe you ought to always ask that question At some point in the conversation, now in our training, we have a little process you can use to lead up to that question in a sensible, polite, civil way, you can get to that question. But I really believe When I'm talking to someone, uh especially Cole, just trying to bro uh uh broach the subject, is that the right word? Uh whenever I Sounds good. Uh whenever I want to approach that subject and I want to bring it up, I believe you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven and you go to heaven and not to hell. You say Well, why is it that important? Here's what I'm trying to get at. Don't ask them this. Don't ask them this. Are you a Christian? Don't ask that. Anybody want to offer a suggestion? Why? I believe that's not a good question to ask. Yeah, part of a club. Everybody's a Christian. The definition of a Christian is could be anything In people's minds. When I first started uh witnessing, you know, through the church in an organized way up in Pennsylvania before I went off to Bible college, um, I was out by myself actually one night and And um I knocked on the door, the lady came to it. I really had no training. I was just trying my best. I didn't know what to say, I had no no plan, no process. just talking to people give it out tracks. And I asked I knocked on the door and I asked the lady. She was a little irritated that I knocked on her door. But um I gave her track and I asked this question I said, are you a Christian? And she very disgustingly said, yes, of course. And I thought that kind of threw me. And I say, oh, well, when did you become a Christian? She goes, Well, I was born in America. What do you think? You know. And so I learned a lesson. You ask somebody their question. Ask somebody if they're a Christian, they could that could be anything. You ask a Mormon if they're a Christian. They're gonna say, yeah, oh yeah, I'm a Christian. Jehovah's Witness, yeah, I'm a Christian. Um some people's mind a Christian is anybody that's not a heathen. You know, if you're not a heathen, well then you're You're a Christian. If you're American, you're a Christian, a part of a Christian nation. So don't ask that question. You're going to end up having to explain more than's necessary if you ask the question. So he that wins souls is wise. One wise thing to do If not, ask them, are you a Christian? Let me give you something else not to ask them. Now this was our initial statement. Always ask this question. Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven You're going to heaven and not to hell. And always ask that question or something very, very close to that. Don't ask, are you Christian? Here's another question not to ask. Don't ask them, are you saved? Are you saved? Anyone want to offer a reason why that's not a good question to ask? Exactly. Or they might say something like this, Oh yeah, I have and I've had this happen to me a number of times. They'll say something like this, Yes. Uh when did you get saved? Um I was in this terrible wreck. And uh I was almost killed. I was on my deathbed. The ambulance showed up and boy I was saved. They mean they're saved from dying. They're not talking about being saved from the judgment of their sin. And so if you ask the question, are you saved? Um there's all kinds of definitions for that. Down south, when we were in Chattanooga, we did aggressive soul would all the time. I found out something about Chattanooga. Everybody in Chattanooga is safe. Everybody. Are you safe? Oh yeah, sure, yes. Everybody. Fall short Big, small, uh, skinny, um the other. And uh everybody stayed down there. So then we follow then I learned I'd followed up with this question, what do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Nobody can know that. They're saved, but they don't know for sure they're going to heaven. And so don't ask a person, are you saved? There's too many definitions for that. Some people believe they got saved when they got baptized. Right? Some people even got saved when they uh uh joined the church. Any number of things. And so don't ask the question, are you saved? Don't ask the question uh are you a Christian? I recommend you not ask this question. Don't ask the question, have you been born again? And any ideas why would well that's a good question. That's a good Bible phrase. Why would you not ask that question? Yeah, they don't know what that means. Uh businesses use the term board again. To illustrate, try and sell their product, say, oh, you use this, you'll be born again. In other words, you have a whole new look, you have a whole new life, everything will be wonderful Uh there's so many distortions of what that phrase means to be born again. You ask them they don't they if they know what you mean, uh they have a different definition And by the way, a Catholic, a good Catholic that knows their doctrine, when they were baptized as an infant, that was when they were born again. Again, Catholic doctrine teaches you pour water on that little baby by a priest, that baby is born again. And of course that's unscriptural and and that's not uh what we're talking about. So uh always ask, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell. Don't ask them if they're Christian, don't ask them if they're saved, don't ask them if they're born again. I recommend this that you don't ask them if they've ever trusted Christ. Have you ever trusted Christ as your Savior? That's getting a little better, but I I shy away from that for the same reason as the others. It could have various meanings to people in different ways. A lot of times, if you ask that question, you'll get this. Oh, yeah, I have my whole life Oh yeah, I I trust Christ all the time. Now you're and I would be thinking, is there a point in time when you came where you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? And um uh and And you got saved on the way to him. That's what we need. They have all kinds of ideas to that. And so be real careful about asking that. Um have you trusted Christ? Or even this question. I shy away from this question. Have you ever received Jesus? Jesus Christ as your Savior. Again, it could be different ways people have for that, and you end up having to explain things you really don't need to. Again, a Catholic doctrine, if a person knows their Catholic teaching. They are receiving Jesus Christ every time they do what? Take Mass. Take Eucharist is the term they use. And so they're receiving Christ every Saturday or Sunday whenever they go to Mass Oh yeah, I'm receiving Christ. I've received Christ many times. And so a lot of the terms and the phrases that you and I would be very familiar with, and we know exactly what We mean by that, uh, when witnessing the people, we have to be very careful. Because he that witnesses souls is what? He's wise. And I want to use my words very carefully. I want to be very wise when I approach this. Oh that I don't cloud the waters up. I can get to the point and be very clear and concise in sharing the gospel with them. And so um uh and I found this to be true, and I learned this in my preaching You have to use terms that your audience can identify with. Right? I can preach to our church folk and use terms, and our church folk know exactly what I mean by terms They're familiar with the Bible. You understand Bible terms. If I preach those same terms and I preach to another crowd, use those same terms. They don't understand what I'm talking about, and they can actually mis what you're saying. And so when witnessing it's the same thing. I want to be sure and use terms. So when I ask the question, now think about this. Do you know for sure That when you die, your sins are all forgiven, and that you go to heaven and not to hell. I don't know how a person could misconstrue what you're getting at. That's the bottom line in what we're getting to. People knowing for sure. And that's what we mean by we use the term saved. Sins are all forgiven. Go to heaven, not to hell. Uh receiving Christ by that I find that's how I know that I'm going to heaven. So my recommendation and my practice over the years has been To uh uh be very careful to ask this question. Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell And I think that lays it out very clearly. Regardless of what the circumstance may be, regardless of what scenario you find yourself in, that is the question I believe that uh uh cuts to the chase. Now, number two, here's one. This is a little more practical and they're like I said, they're just pretty much unrelated here. But uh when uh being a good soul winner and seeing people say I want to use that phrase all the time when it's appropriate. Number two, I need to always carry gospel tracts with me I ought to always carry gospel tracts with me. Would you agree with me? You can witness to people without a gospel tract? Sure. Absolutely. You can witness to people without a Bible. I don't have a Bible. I can't tell them how to be saved. I left my Bible in the car or work or whatever. I don't have a Bible here. You can still witness people. How many Bibles, how many Bibles did the woman at the well have when she went back into the the city and want a bunch of people to Christ. None. How many gospel tracts did she have? None. What did she do? She just went in that city and told them what Christ did for her And so we can witness without these tools, and in fact, even if we how about this? Even went from the crisis and not even go through any soul-winning training class How about that? Why? If I have a tool available to me And if I have something that can enhance or enable me to share the gospel more and make me a better witness, I would be wise to use that tool because he that winneth souls is wise. And so I'm going to be very wise in how I approach the question. I'm going to be wise in carrying gospel tracts. Now, how does carrying gospel tracts, I want class participation here, how does carrying gospel tracts help me be a better witness, help me win souls? Right. I can leave a track with them and they can read at some other point. If I come across a drunk, if I'm out visiting or whatever, I come across across a guy that's drunk, generally I won't take the time to go through the the gospel with them. Sometimes if I really feel like I should or prompt the Lord, I will. And by the way, the conviction of the Holy Spirit can sober a person up pretty quick. A guy can be drunk as a scump. If the Holy Spirit of God convicts him, that that that sobers him up pretty quick. So I'm not saying don't ever witness to drunk, but generally, you know They're gonna be argumentative, they're gonna talk about everything in the world, they're gonna end up crying on your shoulder, and then they'll be mad at you and threaten to kill you. But what I have found, if I come across a drunk, I want to get a trap into his hand or his pocket or his possession one way or another because Sooner or later he's going to sober up. You know what I found out? After a person's drunk, when they sober up, it's a pretty low time. They're not in the mountaintop. They're not enjoying the pleasures of sin when they come up Off that drunk. They're pretty bummed. And that is an ideal time. They reach in their pockets and say, what in the world? Where did I get this thing? And who knows what God could do. So having a gospel track with me may help me actually win someone to Christ that I can't necessarily engage them at the point for whatever reason, drunk or uh situation where I can't talk. Uh so that helps that. Anyone else? Any other how else would a gospel I mean you can give that track to somebody and and maybe they'll just uh maybe they won't take it. it still it it stressens you as far as being able to do it. And if the person does say a question, you can talk to them sometime leave someone So almost like a conversation starter. Exactly. Yeah. Now you can give that to them and let me touch on this a little bit, and you can give that to them and use that as a door to open. I'll let you leave something with you. Let me leave that And use that as a bridge. Jerry usually most gospel tracts are the written word. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I ideally we want a track that has the word of God, and uh that opens it up there. Good. A lot of the tracks, especially if you get them off the rack here at the church, have the church's name, address, and phone number And so that if someone is really convicted to the point where they need help, they have someplace to go. Yeah. Yes. Excellent. A track can do uh what you and I could not do in a very brief time. It can linger with them, it can give them more information than maybe I would write at the counter. You know, I'm checking out and leave it with a mind say, Oh yeah, here's our address, here's our phone number, here's our website, track can do all of that. So excellent. Yeah, it seems to me that that's our Technology becomes less and less personal. So I'll attract a more personal person giving a gift to them. It'll open up doors in a lot of ways. Well and the other thing is you want to know What that track says yourself before you give it to them. It's a good idea to look at it. Then that will jog your memory when you hand it. You you never read it. Depends on when you do it tall. The subjects that they come around come up against may attract, may reflect the little clear. So they they're a valuable thing. Another way to attract the telephone we did this, I learned this in Indianapolis, we take our teenagers out so with them Every Saturday morning. We had a pretty good group of teams going out from the city. We taught them what basically the same class we teach here. But uh one of the kids came up and says, I got I wanted to teams came running over to me. He said, I've got some guys here. I was talking to you. They want to be saved. I don't know what to say to them. And so I said, you got a track? He said, yeah. I said, just read the track to them. He goes, oh Oh great idea. He went turning back. And he just read it to them. They all held it and he stood there and he read it and they followed in their track. And if I remember correctly, I think a couple of the kids kids made a profession of faith. So it's a great tool if you get stuck and say, uh I don't know what to say. Just read the tract to them. And um uh that's another way. Yeah, an invitation and a bridge to open it and start the conversation and um it's tremendous that way. Let me tell you tell you another aspect that helps me to be so Just having the tracks in my pocket keeps me soul conscious. I know they're there, I hit them before I go out, I take some tracks, and it helps me kind of keep my mind, hey I got these tracks Now along the tracks, I say this all the time, and it really has helped me tremendously, is I try to set a goal. I set a goal years ago to give out a minimum of five gospel tracts a day. So I try to keep that in my mind as I'm going throughout the day. I want to give out five gospel tracts a day. Sometimes I get it. Some days I get two months worth in one day. But um I try to keep that before me. And another thing when I go into Walmart or a different place, I don't do it all the time. Track month I'm a little more conscious of it, but a lot of times I'll just get a few tracks out of my pocket and hold it in my hand while I'm walking around there. And I got it there. It's keeping me my mindful and uh it's a whole lot easier when it's in my hand just to give it to somebody than if I have to reach in my pocket. It's a whole lot easier to reach in my pocket and give it to them than if it's out in the car. Here's a funny story, I shouldn't have told this, but um we had the soul-winning revival all week long. Saturday night the church there where Lewis is wanted to take me out to dinner, so we went to our favorite Hong Kong restaurant in Pakistani, uh, New Zealand. It's the one we went to last year, but um, it's our favorite one. And so we got in there, and um also Lewis said, we just think we had Seven days of track revival. Guess what we didn't have? Oh no, we want to be tracked! And uh so we went running out in the car and grabbed a handful and came in. That was embarrassing. But um but I wasn't the only I wasn't the only one, so um But uh it's a whole lot easier if it's in my pocket than it's in the car. And it's easier if it's in the car than if it's at home. You know, wait a minute, I'll be back. Ready. It may not mean anything, but it's planting the seed and later on things Exactly. That track may do nothing more than put that thought in their mind about my salvation. That may be all it is. Yes. It might help you. Yeah, or they'll throw it away or they'll put it on the dresser and somebody else comes and reads it. And um if uh uh uh he that winners soul is wise, and a wise soul winner I believe uses gospel traction We don't need them to lead people to Christ, but uh uh they're a very, very effective tool. Alright, number one, we said always ask this question you know for sure when you die your sins forgiven and throwing away to heaven not to help. I'll answer his other questions. Number two, we said um always carry gospel tracts if I'm going to be a wise and be a soul without her. Let me put this one down. And this one I I preached one night last week Maybe it was Saturday. I think it was Saturday afternoon. I preached the message. I hadn't preached it for Soul Winning before. The word grew later on my heart. And I'm convinced that this is one of the most neglected areas of Soul Winning. Uh number what is it three? Number three. Always, always, always pray. Pray You study the Bible very carefully. The harvest is great. The labors are few. The solution is Pray ye therefore the Lord of the hearts. You study the book of Acts, they preach the gospel. They cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. But just as much, if not more, it records them praying. Praying, praying, praying. Perhaps one of the most neglected area of our soul women is failing to saturate our efforts in prayer. We spend a lot of time training. We'll have a big eight-week class and spend half hour or whatever a week and trained what to say, what not to say, when to say it, how to say it, how to approach, how to say it, how to do all this stuff. But I'm telling you all of that is vain because God's not in it The lady God is through prayer. And so we need to saturate ourselves in prayer. Um turn with me, I have some verses, and see that? You all stretch this out so long. That's right. It's your fault. Uh John fifteen. And I just noticed this today as I was reading. And uh really struck me. I never I don't know that I ever really looked at it from this perspective before. Two things I believe I ought to pray for while you're turning to John 15. I ought to pray number one for souls to be saved Want to pray. I appreciate one time we were Thursday night, we were heading out, and had Tom pray, and I remember this was a number of years ago. But he prayed this. I always pray, Lord help me to be prepared, fill me with your spirit, give me boldness. I pray these things But I'll pray this. Lord, prepare the hearts of the people who are going to send it and have them ready and have them working in their circumstances. I thought, you know, I need to praise That also. And so pray for souls to be saved, that God would lead us and direct us to where the people are and that their hearts be open. But also pray like they did in the book of Acts, pray for boldness on my part. They pray, what is it, Acts? Lord, uh grant unto thy servants that with all boldness when they speak the word of God as we ought to. And so pray for ourselves. But look at John 15 and look at verse 1. I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth, that it may bring forth what More fruit. So God wants fruit. God wants us to win others to Christ. Fruit here would be other Christians. Now are ye clean through the word which I have spoken unto you? Abide in me and I in you As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself. You and I can't win souls in and out of our own efforts Except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide in me. Look at this. I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do what? Nothing. Look at verse 6. If a man abide not in me, he's cared forth to the branch and is withered, and men gather him up and cast him in the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you Now what's the whole purpose of abiding in Christ? We just write it. So that we what? Bear fruit. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. There's prayer. Now, what am I asking here? The purpose of abiding in Christ is to bear fruit. If ye abide in me, ask what ye will, it shall be done to you. Obviously, I'm asking for what? Fruit. I'm asking God to help me bear fruit. That's the whole context. Herein is my father glorified. That you bear much fruit, so shall you be my disciples. Look at verse 60. It's really clear here. You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit and that your fruit should remain. Look at this. And then he tacked this on. That whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. Now what we do is we take that last verse. And we say, Oh, whatsoever I asked the Father in Jesus' name, he'll give it to me. So if I ask for a new four-wheeler in Jesus' name, God will give it to me. If I ask for a new dress in Jesus' name, God will give it to me. That's not what he's talking about. What's the context? Bearing the fruit! The whole point of that promise of asking in Jesus' name isn't so that we get more stuff. It's so that we bear more what? Fruit. A more effective soul winner. And see more people come to Christ. And so prayer is such a vital part of my witness. I should always pray Always ask, you know for sure, that when you die, your sins for you, and your only way to heaven not. No. Always take gospel tracts with you. Always pray. Always pray. Um, by the way Now this isn't 100% true 100% of the time, but I quit asking for opportunities. Lord, give me an opportunity to witness today. Why would I not ask God for opportunities? They're everywhere. I'm grounding in opportunities. So I quit asking God for opportunities to be a witness, and I started asking God, give me the boldness to take advantage of the opportunities I have around to witness. So I want to always pray that God will help me be wise, and uh because he that winneth souls is what? Wise. Uh number four, this is the last one. You all drugged this out too long, I've got to quit. Now this one I like this one. Always participate in the soul-winning functions of the church You mean everybody? Sure. Louis Howe has about three, two, one thing, he's got about twelve people come out real regular. Out of that twelve people that come out real regular About nine of them go to every soul when he many has. That's a pretty good percentage. You know? What percent by what eighty percent? Something like that, 85%. That's not too bad. So why would you say, preacher, uh he that wins souls is wise. If I'm actually going to win souls, I'm going to be wise about this. How does participating in the church's soul winning functions How is that being wise? Now, I soul winning ought to be our lifestyle. I reject the teaching of lifestyle evangelism where you don't witness, you just live it. That's unscriptural That doesn't work. But I do believe our whole lifestyle ought to incorporate witnessing. We ought to witness on the job when we're shopping, ought to share the gospel everywhere. It ought to be part of our lifestyle. So I believe that's true. But God ordained the church. And if I understand the Great Commission and other portions of Scripture correctly, the primary per function, responsibility of the church is to give. And so that tells me that the church's responsibility sharing the gospel If the church has soul-winning functions, that's a vital part of the the church, and as a member of that church, I need to get him up. Now let me give you some benefits why I think that that's a wise thing to do. One, it helps me schedule my time. Alright, we're going to begin on the, I think it's the 13th of March. Is that a 17th of March? The first Thursday after we turn our clock. There it is. Seventeenth. Seventeenth is a Thursday. Well, before we split the church, I'll just say this. Thursday after we turn the clock. I don't even remember what I'm talking about. We're gonna kick off our Thursday night visitation. And we're gonna meet and for a few moments and pity up. go out and make some visits. You know how that helps me? That helps me schedule my time. I'm all busy, I've got all this stuff going on, but I can take an hour that evening and make sure I get out and I to engage some people with the gospel. It is a great help in making sure I am a part of what God's created me to do. Um I still practice this. I did a whole lot more when I first came because we were really uh earnest and I was pretty much one of few doing it, but uh I would go just about every day from about four o'clock till six, just about every day, I'd go out when people are getting home from work and everything And they're getting ready for supper, I called more people home. And I just scheduled that every day. But as the church grew and other responsibilities, my schedule got busier and busier and busier. And so I need that time to schedule. I try to Saturdays also. But it helps us schedule our witnessing into the week by being a part of the church's regular soul-winning functions. Here's another benefit to that, I believe. It it encourages others. Other people are going to go out businessing. You know, it's kind of encouraging. Uh you know, maybe I'm there and a couple others and we're like, Praise the Lord, we're going to go out, and then someone else shows up and saying, Oh, praise the Lord, so and so. And then someone else oh man. And then you're stirred up and you know it just brings encouragement that others are involved in this and others share this burden, and every others are going to get involved in that I believe the church, as I said, is God's uh institution for winning souls. And I put this one down, I gotta quit. Uh how many of you are familiar with the term synergy? I've used it Synergy is amazing. Truth. Physics, I guess it's I don't know what it falls under. But this is what synergy is And you've heard it before. What would it be? Formula. Um if you have one horse, you've heard many of you have heard this before, but if you have one horse and that horse can pull, let's just say, a thousand pounds And then you have another horse, and that horse can pull a thousand pounds. You figure if you tied those horses together, it would be able to pull what? 2,000 pounds. That makes sense. 1,000, 1000, put them together, pull two thousand. But you know what synergy proves? You put those two horses together, you call you may pull five thousand The two working together can do more than each one separately added together. That's amazing truth. And that is true. True in witnessing. I go out myself, I may see some effects, but there's something about getting people together, maybe two by two or whatever, and it just multiplies that. It gives bolder, it gives us more It gives us uh makes us um greater boldness and there's just something about it. How many people find it easier uh to do right when somebody else is doing right also? What if you're going to go downtown uh at the farmers market in the fall when it's crowded and gonna go and stand in the middle of the market and start singing to To God be the glory. Just by yourself. How many people that would be a little awkward? Yeah. What if there was four four hundred of us going to go down there and say how many people would Wouldn't that wouldn't be so bad. Oh yeah, that'd be easy. That's the same concept of witnessing. When we get others together and we're doing this, we see it in trach mode And go on a go out on the uh uh road trips. Man, we'll do stuff we would never do by ourselves. Yeah. It gives you more confidence, gives you boldness, and uh you feed on each other, and so I believe I put this down. He the winner souls is wise. In my mind, uh always get involved with the church has some soul winning threat, Great Commission Day, Thursday night soul winning, whatever. Get involved in that. And um I I think you get More bang for your buck, so to speak, if I do it that way. Alright, I hope these were helpful. Always ask that question. Always pray. Always carry gospel traction. Always get involved in the soul-winning activities of church. Father in heaven, I pray you help us in this matter, Lord. And um that uh we could uh see people say, Lord, my prayer is that maybe this coming here, some folks have never led someone to try. This year would be a purse for that. Or maybe uh any other goals. Can you use enough to uh bring others to Christ this year, to bring artists to your glory. I may have got my clothes. Now you would say praise your