For things that were not that is fun. And then I would like your speaking. So from my bellow, said never shall I run drive. So my comfortable, I live in a floor, coming quest the thirsting of my soul. Grandma take me to my ball, no home. So my God, will the love and make me whole There are millions in this world who are craving love winter everything before. But none can answer the wondrous treasure that I find in Jesus Christ my Lord. So my words the thing that's working you leave that will have away. My bless the Lord will come and save you, give you need to live in humbly prayer. Yeah, why come out of gold? Come and wish the children of my soul dwell. Feel me till I want no home more. Sill my trust, fill it up and make me old. Sell my cuts, children, and make me Excellent ladies, thank you so much. You want to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter thirteen I was a little bit hesitant to come back to the message again the third time. We started last Sunday morning. But um I felt that uh this was the right thing to do, what the Lord would have me to do, so uh I hope it'll be a help to us. Hebrews chapter 13. I'm gonna read verses 10 and down through verse 15 And again, verse 13 will be our text verse. Notice verse 10 of Hebrews chapter 13. We have an altar whereof they have no right to eat, which serve the tabernacle. For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priests for sin are burned without the can. Wherefore Christ also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. Let us go therefore unto him without the camp bearing his reproach, for here we have no continuing city But we seek one to come. I notice the last phrase of verse 13. Again, we picked this up last week. We started it. Bearing his reproach. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Now, Father, we look into your word. I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you. And God, I ask that you would speak through me. Challenge us, I pray, Lord, challenge me to be stronger in my commitment to you, to be more firm in our resolve to be everything you intend for us to be. Lord, as one of the young people testified, I ask, God, that you'd use your word not to help us resist being conformed to the image of this world and being influenced by the spirit of the age. Again, help our church to stay true to you in every aspect, in every way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, we mentioned last Sunday we took a fair bit of time uh trying to refute the idea that Christianity is some type of uh easy, fun, carnival type religion Rather, the Bible describes Christianity as dying to self. Now we're not talking about salvation, we're talking about living the Christian life The Bible speaks of things like dying to self, being obedient unto death, going down the straight and narrow way, suffering persecution, being hated by the world. Not being conformed to the world, but separating from the world's influences speaks of spiritual warfare As we study our Bibles, particularly the New Testament, but the Old Testament's true also, you find no easy Christianity. This idea of a self-satisfying contemporary Christianity is so foreign to Scripture Nowhere in the Bible, and I get all kinds of brochures through the mail and advertising meetings and just everything in the world you can imagine comes through the mailbox here I see nowhere in the Bible a rock concert type Christianity. I read the book of Acts, I see nowhere where you have that type of atmosphere. That type of focus or mentality in the scriptures. Rather, you find cross bearing, striving against sin, separation from the world. And that's where we said our text comes in. We're speaking uh the Bible here speaks about going outside the camp. If you remember we pointed out last Sunday morning that If we want to have biblical Christianity, if we're going to have biblical Christianity, we have to go outside the camp. We have to go outside of what the world's mentality is, of what your mainstream religion would be We need to take a stand for Christ. Abraham was called to come out from his people, come out from the city that was influencing him. Israel was called out of Egypt. And God calls the church out of the world. And we find that. Now, how do we do that? If you remember, we said, one, we make an open profession. We don't hide the fact that we're Christian. If you're saved, say so. And so we want to be very open, not blowing our own horn, but on the other hand, like Paul said in Romans chapter 1, not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Jesus said, if anybody be ashamed of me and my word in this generation, he says, I'll be ashamed of you when I stand before the Father. And so we need to come out and out for Christ. We said, number two, we should shun ungodly partners. We're not to isolate ourselves, but we are to refuse to be influenced by the world. We said we need to put away unholy pleasures. We said we are to disregard the world's policies. We need to come outside the camp. Then last Sunday night we pointed it's not enough just to get away from the world It's not enough just to separate myself from the world's values and the world's influences and the world's wickedness and ungodliness. I need to separate myself from that, but I need to go outside the camp unto him. And we put it this way, point number two is if for Bible Christianity we must follow our Savior. And we saw that in verse 13. Into Him. Christianity is Christ. And we need to separate from the world to Christ. And we tried to illustrate that and point that out. We said, number one, under that we said, I must be in fellowship with Christ. I'm to be loyal to the truth and I'm to bear witness to the gospel. Let me reiterate that last statement. It is impossible to be in fellowship with Christ. I'm convinced It is impossible to be a follower of Jesus Christ and not bear witness to the gospel in one way or another Jesus put it this way, and I came across this verse since last Sunday. That's how these sermons grow. I keep reading more. But um I came across this verse. And Jesus said, He said I will follow me, and I will make you what? Fishers of men. What does he mean by being a fisher of men? What's that talking about? Winning souls, influencing people, bringing people to Christ. So he says, if you follow me, he doesn't say follow me and you should be a fisher of men He says, Follow me, and I will make you a fisher of men. If I'm following Christ, then I'm going to be a fisherman. I'm going to be seeking to win people to Christ and draw them into the faith So if I'm not a fisher of men, the implication would be what? He says, follow me and I will make you fishers of man. If I'm not a fisher of man, that means I'm what? I'm not following him. And so, uh, if we're going to be separated from the world to Christ, one of the things very important, we're going to be involved in proclaiming the gospel, influencing others, bringing them to Christ, one way or another. And now we get to point number three, and this is where I want to pick up. If we're going to have Bible Christianity, and I think we established last week that at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we want Bible Christianity Well, four or five of us do. Let's try that again. Alright, this is class participation. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we want Bible Christianity. Yeah, I feel a whole lot better about that. We don't want the type of Christianity the world comes up with, right? That's not what we we're not interested in that We're interested in the Christianity that's given to us in God's Word. So if we want Bible Christianity, separate outside the camp To Christ. Number three, I put this down. We have to have Bible Christianity, we must bear the reproach of Christ. Look again with me at verse 13. Let us go, therefore Unto him without the camp, but there's something else, bearing his reproach. There is a reproach That comes with being a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I'm going to treat this a little more like Sunday school class. What do you think we mean by reproach? There's bearing Christ's reproach. What would that be talking about? Somebody talk to me now. What do you think? His shame. All right, they're mocking him, his his uh shame. What else? anybody have any ideas? Humility? How about this? His rejection His reproach. The Bible says Jesus said, The reproaches of them that reproach thee fell on me In other words, Jesus takes rejection and the reproach of the world. And if we're going to be Bible Christians, if we're going to be, let me put it this way, if we're going to be good Christians We must withdraw ourselves from the world, the influence and the wickedness, the ungodliness of the world. We separate ourselves to Christ. And then we bear his reproach. There is a stigma that comes with complete dedication to Christ. This world will reproach, have a reproach for that one who is completely sold out to Jesus Christ. Let me give you some scripture. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11. Now I'm not suggesting we go out there and be arrogant and be idiots and make people hate us I've said this many times over the years. The folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the kindest, friendliest people in Garrett County. We ought to be as nice as could be. We ought to be so nice, it makes people sick. Well, maybe not that nice. But um you follow what I'm saying? But brother, you bear that cross. You get that banner of Jesus Christ and take your stand under that banner. This world's I'm gonna astigmatize you. Look at Hebrews chapter eleven and verse twenty-four. By faith, Moses When he was come to years, now we all know the story of Moses, little ark in the river and raising up. When he was come to years, now how old would he be He's becoming a young man. He's grown 20 years old would be a good biblical uh age. So he's late teens, early twenties in that range there. When he was come to years, look what it says. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Now you take your average Christian young person and they say, hey, how would uh I didn't read that right. You refuse to be called the son of Phariseo, yes it is. How would you uh uh your average Christian teenager, now I'd like to think ours are exception, but in the world Your average Christian teenager think it would be great to be the son of Pharaoh. Man, you could have everything. You'd have your own private jet, you know, if you put in an art society. You could go anywhere, you could do anything, you would have everything the world had to offer. Do you agree with me? You're Pharaoh's, the son of Pharaoh's daughter. You had everything the world had to offer. Look at Moses. He goes, no, I'm not doing that. Read on. Choosing rather to suffer what? Affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Now look at verse 26 Esteeming, now that word esteeming there means valuing or considering of great value. Esteeming the reproach of Christ Greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. Wow! You talk about selling out. He came to the point and he realized this. If I'm going to be everything God wants me to be. If I'm going to be the man that God intends for me to be, I cannot engage and enjoy the pleasures, the wicked, sinful treasures and pleasures of this world I have got to come out for Christ. It'll mean suffering. It'll mean the reproach of the people of Egypt. They will turn against me. They'll mock me. They'll reject me But that to me is greater riches than every pleasure the world has to offer. Brother, you don't find that type of Christianity in many churches today. Churches today, now, you Christians today, man, we're wanting everything the world has. We want God in the world too. The Bible presents no Christianity like that. There's a stigma for being sold out to Christ. Turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 26. Acts chapter 26. And these are just a couple examples. You can spend hours going through the Bible. Here you have the Apostle Paul. Was the Apostle Paul a dummy? Yes or no? No, I wouldn't describe Apostle Paul as a dummy. I wouldn't call him an idiot. Or some stupid moron. Apostle Paul was a very intelligent man. He had been trained in some of the best uh institutions in the United States of America in uh in uh the middle in his time frame. Uh that's what happens if you think of three things at once. But um uh uh he was highly educated He is a very intelligent man. He was very sharp. But look in Acts chapter twenty six and verse number twenty one The Bible says, for these causes the Jews, he's given his testimony before a court of law. For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple and went about to kill me. Having therefore obtained help from God, I continue unto this day witnessing to both small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses said should come. In other words, he stuck to God's word. That Christ should suffer and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead and should show light unto people and to the Gentiles. And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice: listen to this: Paul, thou art beside thyself, thy much learning doth make thee mad. What was Festus doing? He was mocking them. He said, Paul, you're nuts. You're talking about God and Jesus and the Bible Going around telling everybody they gotta get saved, they gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. Turn to Christ, he's risen from the dead. He says, Paul, you are insane. You are lost your mind. You're an idiot. You're you're nuts. Look what Paul says, verse 25. But he said, I'm not mad, thou most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. You never find Paul raised up in the world saying, Hey, we're gonna Paul's in town, let's get the bands together and let's have a concert, and he can speak to everybody. It never happened. The world got mad at him. Those who rejected Christ turned on him, and the authorities mocked him. There was a reproach upon Paul because of his commitment to Jesus Christ. And we need to expect that. If we're going to be Bible Christians, there's going to be a stigma on us. This world is not going to appreciate our love for the Lord. This world is not going to appreciate our commitment to Christ. This world's not going to appreciate when we stand up and say, hey, you know that's wrong. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to involve myself in that. I'm not going to laugh at that filthy joke I'm not going to that party. I'm not going to that concert. No, I'm not doing that. Brother. You take a stand for it. You say, I'm a child of God. Jesus Christ is my Savior. He suffered hell for me. He gave me new life, a home in heaven. I want my life to please the Lord. Brother, see how the world responds. Man, that kid's nuts. That preacher's crazy. There's a reproach upon God's loyal disciples, even within Christianity. I got saved nineteen age nineteen and uh next year I went down to a Bible college uh very uh near there and I appreciate I got good doctrines on in some of their standards even as a young Christian rubbed me the wrong way and I had a problem with. And um then uh through a series of events I ended up going down to uh uh Tennessee uh in the Tennessee Temple at the time was a good strong school And uh I thought, wow, I I'm just I'm green at this. I'm a new Christian. Year and a half in the Lord, maybe, uh maybe I don't think I was two years old in the Lord. And uh I'm going down there. I'm going to this big Bible university Baptist school and everybody's going to love God and everybody's going to be soul winners and everybody's going to uh you know, to want to be separate from the world and and everybody's gonna want to live for God. Brother, I got in my f I had f seven roommates and the and um half of them were weren't that way. Let me put it that way. Had a rude awakening. That even among Christians There's going to be somewhat of a reproach on those that determine to live for God. I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis. And we had a pretty good-sized youth group. It was about 40, 45, we averaged. And man, some of the kids were would get on fire for God and sell out, dedicate their life to the Lord. I'm going to do right. I'm not going to get caught up in the world and all that stuff. I'm going to live for God. I'm going to have a testimony. You know who gave him the hardest time? It was other Christians in the youth group. Mocking them. Isolating them. She's nuts. And all they're trying to do is what God says. I found that in the church I found out in Christian homes, a person will get them fired for God. Family members claim to be saved, will give them a hard time. There's a reproach associated with being a loyal disciple of Jesus Christ. Often condemned by professing Christians as much as unbelievers. People say We're narrow. Now let me just go through a little list here. I'm not going to take time to elaborate on this, but let me just say some things where we take a little reproach for. But we believe with all our heart that they're right, and we have reasons We believe these things. One, well our devotion to the King James Bible brings the reproach on us. You'd be surprised. Now, not so much anymore. It's pretty clear where we're at, and we understand why When I first came, not within the church so much, but out, boy, people give a hard time. You know there's some folks won't come through the I had a guy tell me he won't come through those back doors because we use only the King James Bible Now, why would you be that way? Because of our rejection of contemporary Christianity. The bare reproach for that. Our aggressive soul winning. Now again, I want to be very careful because uh you know I don't want to speak out of turn in any way, but I think some, I think some of our conflict with the local uh authorities and things we want to do is a outgrowth of us knocking on their doors several times a year, trying to share the gospel with them Now, please don't misunderstand. We train our soul winners. We work very hard. And you that have been through the training, you'll support me on this. You will support me on this Uh we work very hard at being very cordial, emphasizing the fact we're not trying to pull people out of churches, out of their church. We're simply trying to share the gospel with folks and tell people how to be saved. Am I right or wrong? You know what? That becomes a reproach. People take offense at that. Um, are called to biblical separation. I mentioned before, uh, I don't anymore, but when uh a first came, the first several, probably seven, eight years, I get invitations here in the local area to speak at different ecumenical events They had a big meeting out at the college a number of years ago for it's like a promise keepers type thing. And we our our wild game dinner was booming and uh boy they knew about that and they said we'd like for you to come out and speak to the men Boy, what an opportunity. I'll be honest with you, I would have loved to do that. I thoughts came to my mind on the phone when he's telling me about it, what I could preach on. I said, well tell me about the organization. Every religious stripe in the county was going to be on the platform. Unbelievers, people that believed in work salvation, Catholic, Lutheran, everything. My first thought was this. My first attempt was, you know, I'll just say we have a conflict here, it won't work. I thought, you know, I like this guy, I know him, and he'd been to a number of our meetings and come and I said, you know, I think he'll understand. I'll try and explain to him why I can't do this And I started giving him verses and trying to explain, and the more I explained, the madder he got. And I said, listen, I didn't mean to upset you, but I just can't do this There's a reproach. We preach and believe the Bible teaches we're supposed to come out from unbelievers. We're not supposed to associate with false doctrine. We're to identify it, mark it, warn people about it. You get accused of being narrow-minded, out of touch, and behind the times. I told you about the guy called one time, want to know why you guys just use the King James? I said, I said, well, I said, do you really want to know? And we went around and around finally. I gave him a few reasons and he said this. And I've said this often. He said, uh, wow. He says, I thought you were just hard-headed and rednecks. Uh and I said, well, that's we are hard-headed and rednecks, but uh that's not why we use the King James Bible So we he says you he said this, you actually have reasons. Said yeah. Accused of being narrow-minded, out of touch, behind the times. If being loyal to Christ and his instructions in his words is narrow-minded, out of touch, and behind the times, then I guess that's what we are. I thought there'd be amens there, wouldn't they? Christ was accused of being a troublemaker. He was accused of being a Sabbath breaker, a blasphemer. They called him devil-possessed. Because he didn't fit in with the camp. There's a reproach upon him. Why should we expect any better treatment than our master had. Take your Bible if you would. I hope you guys are okay with this. I hope you're with me. Turn to Mark, Matthew chapter 10 Now again, I'm not saying we go out and try and be troublemakers. That's not it at all. We're separated under Christ. And that brings a reproach. Matthew chapter 10, look with me at verse 24. I'm just going to read on down through here. You follow along. Matthew chapter 10, verse 24. The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. Is it enough for the disciple that he be as his master and the servant as his lord? Look at this. If they call the master of the house Beelzebub, How much more shall they call them of his household? Fear them not, therefore, for there's nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known. What I tell you in darkness, that speak in the light And what you hear in the ears, that preach upon the housetops. And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing, and one of them is shall not fall to the ground without the father? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not, therefore, ye are more value than many sparrows. Look at this Whosoever therefore shall confess me before man, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven He says up there earlier in that passage, listen, if they mocked the master, if they ridiculed and reproached the master, why does the disciple think anything less? Why should we expect anything different? Why should we try and appease and appeal and enjoy the pleasures of a world that rejected our master? Rather, we ought to bear his reproach, take our stand with Christ. I've often preached that not one person defended the Lord Jesus Christ when he went to the cross Every one of his disciples, rather than bearing the reproach of the world, either fled or, in Peter's case, denied him. Barnabas betrayed him They were more concerned about what the world thought about him than standing up for their Savior who was dying for them. But I correct there was one man. There's one man that stood up for the Lord Out of the thousands, no doubt, that were gathered. The Bible speaks of tens of thousands believing in him and following him. One man defended the Lord Jesus Christ when he was on the cross. You know who that was? An old rotten stinking thief nailed to beside him. This man has done nothing amiss. We deserve our judgment Remember me. Tell you what, I'd rather be with that, I'd rather stand with that thief at the judgment seat of Christ than those who fled. Huh? He's done nothing amiss. I'll take my stand. I'm nailed across. I'll defend him. I believe in him. There's a reproach that is associated with being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, last of all, and I am with this. What's our motive? Why in the world? Should I forsake the world? Why in the world should I forsake the pleasures of the world? Come out, be mocked and ridiculed by this world, and commit myself to the Lord Jesus Christ, bear all this reproach. Why should I even do that? The Bible gives us several reasons, if you would come back to Hebrews there very quickly. I'm going to wind this down here. Verse 13. Let us go, therefore, unto him without the camp. I underlined that word, therefore. In other words, there's a reason we should be doing this And as we look down through, if you come back to verse 12, look at this. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people With his own blood suffered without the camp. Therefore, we ought to go out to camp with him. You know what the idea I get from that is When I'm separated under Christ, I'm separated from the world, I'm bearing his reproach because of my commitment to Jesus Christ. That is going to do good for others Good for others. I believe the greatest hindrance to the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ is worldly, fleshly, selfish, disobedient Christians. This world is not interested in a Christianity that offers that the same thing the world has. Amen? Why should we? It's not advancing the gospel Distorting the Word of God, disobeying the Spirit of God, living like the world, and then thinking I'm somehow going to influence the world and do this world any good with the gospel is a dream. It's not going to happen. It was Christ's obedience to God even unto death that made salvation possible I like John 12, verse 24, and we won't take time to turn there. There's a number of other verses. But it says it says this: if a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. I'm not quoting that right. Let me read it to you. Alright? Except here we go. I got it. Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it doth, it bringeth forth much fruit. In other words, the whole idea is I've got to die to myself. I've got to die to my flesh, the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, the pride of life. I crucify all of that. I take my stand with Christ, and then when I do that, then it bears fruit. Then I influence others. I mentioned Ron Comfort here the other last week, I think, in a message, and this may be the quote I quoted before, but he said this. He said, our strength is in our separation. We separate from the world to Christ, we bear his reproach, and God gives us his power. Souls are saved, lives are changed. For the good of others, even the good of others. Our obedience to the Word of God brings salvation to the lost world. For the gain of reward. Salvation is not a reward. It's a gift. Amen? Now bear with me. I'm trying to land this thing. Salvation is not a reward, it's a gift. But God rewards true dedication. He'll save me for free. Listen, you can trust Christ, have your sins forgiven, die and go to heaven, and not live for God one day. It's not how you live your life that saves your soul. Am I right or wrong? Do you know how many rewards you get? And we're going to be there a whole lot longer than we're going to be here. So we ought to live for there and not for here. And what a fool to sacrifice all our rewards there for a few seasons of sin and a little pleasure here Isn't that a terrible thing? Oh, to take a stand for Christ simply because God's going to reward us. You say that's not a very good motive. Hey! You give me a son that wants to live and please his daddy because he wants to hear his daddy say, good job, son, is that a bad motive? No. That's a good motive to hear my daddy say, son, I'm proud of you. You did a good job. That ought to be the motive for a Christian to hear my Savior say, Dennis, well done. You've been a faithful servant. Well done Boy, what tragic, how tragic would it be like in Corinthians, where it says some are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and the fires of God's judgment, and it's going to be wood, hay, and stubble. Man, we were out there partying and rocking and rolling and dancing and carrying on and we were uh you know doing our thing and just living it up and I was a Christian, but man, I sure enjoyed, I lived my life to the fullest down here. And then we stand before Jesus Christ and burns up. And for all eternity, we have nothing to show for our Christian life. For all eternity, we have nothing to show to Jesus Christ for our Christian life down here I'm telling you. Say, well, I don't want to I don't want people to make fun of me. I don't want to be laughed at or ridiculed. Alright, go along with the world. Enjoy all this world has to offer. And then stand before Christ and see how good that feels. See how wonderful it will be, how great this world was when that happens. Come on. There's fulfillment. There's satisfaction here. I tell you, the greatest joy is knowing that God is using me. I'll never forget the first person I won to Christ, Mr. Hogue, down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I came out of there. There's nothing this world has to offer like the joy and rejoicing in the heart of a person that leads someone to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, there's nothing in this world like it. And then last, the glory of God. Well, I wish I had more time. 1 Peter 4 talks about suffering, the reproach of Christ, for the glory of God. For the glory of God. I really have a hard time believing that the unsaved people of this world are really impressed with Christians who are trying to imitate the world. I really don't think they're very impressed by that. I really have a hard time seeing the unbelieving Christ rejecting. Bible-rejecting people of this world look at a Christian who's imitating them and want to enjoy everything they have to offer, and then look at them and say, boy, that's somebody I really respect I don't see that at all. You get a Christian who takes a stand for Christ and says, I believe that book with all my heart. Jesus is my Savior. I love him with all my heart. I don't want to do anything that displeases my Savior. I'll take a stand, mock me, make fun of me, do whatever you want. I'm not forsaking my Christ. I'm not, I'm going to be a Bible Christian. I tell you what, the world may not like it, they may mock it, but down inside their hearts they respect it. Because it's for real. Am I right or wrong? Guys are very quiet tonight. Let me read you a little bit of church history. Two women were tied to stakes by the seaside because of their faith in Christ. The apostate church that was trying them tied them up as the uh tied them to the stake as the tide came in, they had the older woman out farther than the younger girl. And they demanded that they deny Christ. And if they deny Christ, they will slice the ropes and they can go free. The older woman was out, so the tide coming in, she was the first one to face it. They kept pressuring her, pressing her, pressing her. Tied to the stake. She says, I'll not deny Christ, I'll not deny Christ, I'll not deny Christ. And the tide waters came up over her head and she drowned. The younger girl was tied up, was staked uh by the sea a little closer up the shore. She saw all of this taking place They pressured her and pressured her to deny Christ, even just to deny portions of the Bible. They would quote a verse and they'd say, just say that's not true. She says, I'll not deny even the slightest jot or tittle of God's word. People said, what a fool. You don't have to forsake Christ, just deny portions of the scriptures. Listen what she said. Listen what the what the history book said. She would not do it, and therefore the gurgling waters came up to her chin, and at last rolled over one who had faithfully borne witness to every portion of truth, even to that which may seem trifling to us nowadays, but to her seem to be worth dying for. Nowadays, so many would say we will not die for the whole Bible, though in other ages saints died for the dot of an I and the cross of a T We turn tail and are frightened because someone has said a hard thing to us for defending the truth, which concerns Jesus and has the salvation of man wrapped in it. I say we cannot fight for the great and they would fight for the little God restore to us, dear friends, more grace, more piety, more love for souls, more care for the kingdom of Christ. a sterner prizing of the truth, a determination solemnly avowed before the Lord of hosts, that come what may, we will earnestly contend for the faith once delivered to the saints We will stand upon the rock of ages confident that God will defend the right and the right in the end shall come off. Isn't that good? She won't even deny a portion of scriptures, and yet so many of us are so scared of what somebody else might say about us. What are we going to do? What are we going to do? When the last days come upon us and persecution breaks out again. What are we going to do? Are we going to turntail and run? Are we going to bow to the gods of this world? Or are we going to say, no, we're not going to compromise even the slightest? I'm gonna do right. Do right. This is what started for months. It's been bothering me. I've been reading in the Bible and reading church history, and I find men and women of God who were so sold out for Christ. That nothing of the world mattered whatsoever, even their own life. Then I look at Christianity today, and it is a self It's all from me, all mine. And Christ is just tacked on. And that's not Bible Christianity. Bible Christianity is Christ is all in all. I hope you caught the burden of my heart in this message. We've got to be real We've got to stand strong. I wish I could tell you in the coming days it's going to get easier and easier to be a Christian. I can't tell you that. History has proven that wrong, and Scripture declares that not to be so. Our faith is going to be tried. I'm not trying to be apocalyptic here or anything like that, but I'm just simply saying, Father in heaven, help us. Help me, Lord. Help us to live up to the standard that's been given in your word. Lord, we fall so short of it. You saved us from sin and hell. You bore the reproach of the world for us. God help us never be ashamed of you. Help us to be Bible Christian in every sense of the word. And Lord, as we come to the Lord's table, I pray your Holy Spirit would search our hearts That we'd be out and out for Christ, that we'd drive the world from us, that your Holy Spirit would so convict us, that we'd be clear-cut Christians on the workplace, at home, in the school, in the community. Clear cut Christians in every detail. Help us we pray. Our heads about eyes are closed