Back in your Bible is the book of Hebrews and chapter number thirteen. Appreciate so much. A lot of work's going on around the church here this week. Uh Brother Ronnie and Carol Brandt re completely redid the children's church room downstairs and uh it is something else. If you get a chance, you wanna slip your head slip down there and stick your head in and uh check out the children's church room. Not now, after the sermon. But uh then also uh Mark uh helped cut down a old dead dying tree and cut it up. Charlie hauled it off and then put a new roof on our little shed out there. uh noticed the new roof pulling in there. About a third. And um when you go out check it out, did some painting and uh appreciate so much all that everybody did and it was hard work standing there watching them the whole time doing all that. But uh we appreciate folks that work around there. A fella, an old farmer, was leaning over the fence and uh his wife was beside him at the edge of the pig pen and looking at the the pigs there wallowing in the mud and whatnot. The old woman said, uh kind of looked up in the sky and she said, uh, she goes, you know, sweetheart, next week marks our golden wedding anniversary. She goes, tell you what, Homer, let's have a party. Let's kill a pig. The farmer scratched his head and said, Good grief, Ethel. I don't see why the pig should take the blame for something happened fifty years ago Looks like after fifty years you learn not to say things. Hebrews chapter 13, and um I want to read verse 12 through 14. The Bible says, Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, Suffered without the gate or outside the gate. Let us go forth, therefore, unto him without the camp. Bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come. That phrase in verse 13 caught my attention. Bearing His Reproach. I'm entitled to the message. I actually have a couple titles for it. Initial one was Bearing Jesus Reproach. Another title I thought was from the same phrase as Going Outside the Camp with Jesus. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, uh Lord, it's been a blessing to be in your house thus far. The singing, the fellowship is It's been a joy to the heart, and Lord, uh your goodness to us. We rejoice in all of that. Now Lord, we come to you with our Bibles open. Lord, I trust your spirit will open our hearts and minds to what your word says That you would apply to our lives the truths given here in this portion of Scripture. God, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. I ask with all my heart, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that I would simply be a conduit. that you would speak through me, taking your word, applying it to our lives as you know we have need. Please have your way. Bless the young people downstairs in children's church. Fill the teachers and the speakers with your Holy Spirit. Impact the children's hearts, we pray, with the gospel. And we ask, Lord, that you'd be glorified in the next moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Going outside the camp with the Lord Jesus Christ, bearing his reproach. I'm afraid that we have developed Particularly here in the United States of America, a version of Christianity that requires little or no obedience to the Word of God. In other words, you can have men or women who completely disregard the principles and clear commands of Scripture and yet hold themselves up as great Christians. They can completely disregard the clear instructions of God's word and yet are held up by many people as great Christian leaders. We see a lot of this on television, the TV preachers. But it's outside the limitations of television, and it has gotten in any. We have developed in America a Christianity that is enamored by the world's styles. It is enamored by the world's fashions, the world's values, and the world's pleasures A Christianity that sets its sails to the societies and fads and fashions of the world In fact, there's a movement within Christianity that suggests the way to establish a church and grow a church is to go out of the community. Take a survey of your community and find out what the people in the community would like to have in a church. The things they do not like in a church Things that they would prefer not to be part of a church service. Take that survey, whatever the majority say, re-establish your church, redo your whole church program and establish it by what the community says they would like. That is simply letting society determine what our church is We have a Christianity that is more concerned about being accepted by the world than it is about being accredited by God. And that is where our text comes in. Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, outside of the world's values. Operating outside of the world's fashions and values and principles and philosophies, bearing Christ's reproach. This passage is a stern warning against a Christianity of ease. This passage is a very stern warning against a Christianity that is enamored with worldly fame and compromise and comfort. In fact, as we study our Bible, we find that that type of Christianity is no Christianity at all. It's unheard of in church history where men and women of God would take their values. Would take their lifestyle and pattern it after the world rather than the Word of God. You don't find it in the great men and women who gave their lives. For this book and the teachings of this book, burned at the stake, drowned, beheaded, is unheard of in church history, and it's unheard of in the pages of the Bible. A worldly, pleasure, self-centered Christianity. Instead, we study our Bibles, we find the Bible, Christianity speaks of denying oneself. The Bible speaks of being obedient to God unto death, dying rather than disobeying God. Bible Christianity speaks of the straight and narrow way. The Bible Christianity speaks of persecution. All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. The Bible speaks, Bible Christianity speaks of the world hating Christians and spiritual warfare. There is no, and when we look into the Bible, we find there is no easy Christianity. There is no self-satisfying Christianity. Can I say this? There is no contemporary Christianity. in the Bible. But rather, there is cross-bearing. Jesus said, if you want to be my disciple, now please understand he's not talking about salvation. Jesus said, if you want to be my disciple, you must deny yourself. Take up your cross daily. And follow me. What is he saying when he says follow me? He's saying you need to bear my reproach. Bear my reproach. In the Bible, we find Christianity is made up of crossbearing. It's made up of striving against sin. In fact, a previous chapter in our text, uh chapter 12, uh God speaks of them not striving against sin unto blood. In other words, God expects biblical Christians not to engage in sin, not to enjoy and indulge in sin But Bible Christians, God expects to oppose sin even to the point where it requires blood. Bible Christianity deals with crossbearing, striving against sin, and separation from the world. Let us go without the camp, bearing his reproach. Now the book of Hebrews is a fascinating book. Shortly after I got saved, for whatever reason, I got enamored with the book of Hebrews. I began reading it and studying it. And the book of Hebrews, if you fully want to appreciate the book of Hebrews, you really need to have somewhat of an understanding of the book of Leviticus. The book of Hebrews is in many ways a New Testament commentary on the Levitical priesthood If you've ever made the decision that you're going to read your Bible through, say I want to read the Bible cover to cover. By the way, I think that's a great decision to make. And I recommend taking, you can, there's a number of different Bible reading schedules where you can read your Bible through in a year. Start in January, read a portion each day. It's blocked out. In fact, we put it in our bulletin each week. How to read your Bible through in a year. We highly recommend that. So if you've ever endeavored to do that, set out, I'm going to read my Bible through, and you got to the book of Leviticus. And suddenly you have sheep and oxen and goats being slaughtered on every hand. You've got priests wearing unusual clothing, doing strange things, and you read through it and you say, what in the world are they talking about? Well, the book of Hebrews, as I said, is very much a New Testament commentary on the book of Leviticus. In other words, the New Testament book of Hebrews is explaining how the Levitical priesthood and the sacrifices, how they are fulfilled in Christ And his crucifixion on the cross is sacrifice on the cross. And we come to this portion of Scripture, and he says, Christ was crucified outside the camp, outside the city, outside of society. Just like one of the sacrifices in the book of uh Leviticus is they would take uh offering and the sacrifice the bodies outside the camp. And there's much application for us. Now I really wanted to preach this whole message this morning, but I figured folks would want to be out before 3. 30 in the afternoon. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring the first portion of the scripture, this pat this message, and then this evening we'll finish it up. Now I don't mean we're going to be preaching from this morning until this evening. But we'll come back tonight. And all God's people said, Amen. Praise the Lord for that. I want us to consider first of all, and by the way, I believe this is a very important message. God has been working on my heart, I guess I could say, or maybe I should say this, it's been heavy on my heart For the last month or so, about the cost of being a disciple of Jesus Christ. We brought a message a couple weeks ago along these lines. And just about how I'm afraid. And by the way, this is one of the characteristics of the last days Where our Christianity has simply become a religion of ease, pleasure, worldliness And it is getting farther and farther and farther from what biblical Christianity is. Now, if we're going to be Christians, then let's be biblical Christians. Alright? If we're going to live for God, then let's do it the way the Bible says. So I want us to f notice first of all the first point, which is all we're going to get to this morning. Don't get too excited. There's 74 sub-points under that. But I want us to notice, first of all, to have Bible Christianity, we must go outside the camp. Let me explain what I mean. We must go outside the camp. I know we've read it a couple times. I want to read again, verse 12. Wherefore Jesus also That he might sanctify the people with his own blood suffered without the camp. Doesn't mean, it means outside of the perimeter of the camp Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. Nowhere in Scripture are believers told to be a part of this world's system. Nowhere. Keep your Bible here and turn with me, if you will, just a few pages towards the back of your Bible to the book of 1 John. You have Hebrews, and you have James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, then you have 1 John. First John and then chapter two. First John Chapter Two And you won't hear a whole lot of preaching and pulpits across the country on this passage of Scripture, but it is Scripture nonetheless. 1 John 2, and notice with me verse number 15. 1 John 2. 15. Look what the Bible says. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, The lust of the eyes and the pride of life, look at this, is not of the Father But is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. There is a very stark contrast given here. The world's values versus God's values. The world's principles versus God's principles. And this world and our God are completely at odds. As far as principles and values are concerned. Nowhere in the Bible, nowhere in the Bible are Bible believers, our believers, Christians, told to be a part of this world system. Nowhere are we in by God to live by the world's values. But rather we're called to come out, go outside the camp. of the world's values. Go outside this world's principles. Operate outside this world's priorities. We are to a Bible Christian, a Bible Christian is to be outside the mainstream. Amen? Do you watch news at all or politics and all that? They'll talk about this person is out of the mainstream. This person is outside of the mainstream. Listen, God expects his people to operate outside the mainstream of this world's values. In fact, the very word church The name church means called out ones. People that God saves from sin in hell, and they are called out of this world's system, called out of this world's values. called out to be separate from this world's principles. There's illustrations all through scripture of this. Don't have to go far into the Bible, and there you find Abraham. Abraham was a very wealthy man. He lived in a home, was raised and lived in a home of idolatrous worship and heathenism. Somehow, we don't know the details, Abraham heard of the true and living God, Jehovah. Some point, somehow, we're not told, he had put his faith and trust in the true God and had repented and forsaken the idolatrous heathen worship that he grew up in. And God called Abraham and He says, I want you to separate yourself from your family and from your city and from your people and your friends and your associations. I want you to leave all of that. That heathenism and that worldliness and that idolatry. I want you to come out to a city and a place I've prepared for you. Called out to leave the world and its idolatry. I say again, nowhere in the Bible are Christians told that we are to be a part of this world system. Be a part of this world's values. We know the story of Israel. When they were in Egypt, slaves in Egypt. You know Joseph went down there in the through the process and and uh uh various events and became number two to Pharaoh and the famine, seven years of plenty, seven years of famine, and uh grew and uh the rest of his family comes down there and they grow and multiply and years go by and uh the the leadership forgets. Joseph and the nation of Israel, the people of Israel are multiplying uh profusely, and finally they begin to oppress them because there's becoming more Israelites than there are Egyptians. They're afraid they'll overthrow them. So they begin to oppress them and And drive him into slavery. And God sends Moses. And the interesting thing is, God does not instruct Moses, To lead the Israelites to infiltrate the Egyptian system and try and reform the Egyptians. Doesn't tell him to do that, does he? He says, You let my people go. You come out three days' journey. You get out of that system. You get out. And when it's all said and done, God leads his people out of Egypt. To operate separate from the world. Egypt, of course, is a picture of the world Throughout the Old Testament, God's people, the Israelites, are forbidden to intermarry with the heathens around them. Amen. God's people are forbidden to allow their daughters to marry the sons of the unbelieving sons, the heathen sons. Of the nations around them. They are not to allow that to happen. The Israelites were not to allow their sons to marry the daughters of the heathen nations around them And by the way, that principle applies to the New Testament church. Young people, or old people as far as that goes, are not to marry unbelievers. Come on now, I feel lonely up here. We're not to marry unbelievers. This message uh develops. We're going to touch on some more of that. But we're to be separate, we're not to yoke ourselves up, whether it's a young man is not to marry an unbelieving young lady, a young lady is not to marry an unbelieving young man. You say, well I'm not going to marry him. I'll just date him for a while. Hey, every date's a potential mate. Israel was told not to intermarry with the heathen nations around them. Israel was forbidden to make any alliances. With the nations around them. In fact, every time you had an Israelite king that made an alliance with a heathen king, God rebuked them sharply, and many times it resulted in the death of tens of thousands. God does not command anywhere his people to be a part of this world system. We are told to come out of the camp. We are told to bear his reproach outside the camp. How do we do that? How does that apply? To us today. Let me give you some ideas. Number one, to operate outside the camp, to operate out apart from this world system. Number one, I must make an open profession of my faith in Christ. Make an open profession of my faith in Christ. Say, what do you mean by that? By that I mean if you're saved, say so. Let people know you're a child of God. Let people know you trust in Christ. Don't try and be some sort of secret agent Christian. God has no secret agents. If you're saved, come out with it. If you're a Christian, declare your allegiance to Jesus Christ You say, oh, how does that get me outside the camp? I tell you what, that'll uh uh a bunch of the worldlings will run when that happens. Many of you would have a testimony perhaps very similar to mine. I got saved, May 7, 1979, I was 19 years old, worked in a meatpacking plant. Meatpacking plants are known for their godly humble sweet people that work in there. Not So I get saved on Monday night, and uh literally the majority of the guys were ex-cons, and uh the overwhelming majority drank and were heavily on drugs and all that. So I got saved. Tuesday morning I come in, I don't have any cigarettes, all that stuff's going, walk in, we're working away, and things go exactly like this, but something to this effect, and working away. I said to God beside me, guess what? What? I said, I accepted Jesus as my Savior last night. Brother, you could have heard a pin drop in that place. Huh? And uh you say, boy, you had to get away from all those guys. Not really, they all got away from me. It's like I developed leprosy or something. If you're a Christian, say so. If you've been saved, declare it. Let people know. I when I was a youth pastor for years, I always recommended to our young people, why don't you get you a big old black Bible? And you say they would say, uh kids in school, give me a gun. Get your big old black Bible, walk around the halls of school with a big Bible in your hand You say, oh, I don't want to be a sissy. That takes guts to do that. Ain't no sissy doing that. Let people know you're Christian. Take it on the work. Get your big Bible with you at work. Hey, when it's lunchtime, do this. Bow your head and thank God for your food. I'm not saying blow a trumpet. Hey, everybody, look at me. You just don't be ashamed of Jesus Christ. You're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't want to be part of this world system. How do I go out to camp? How do I operate outside this world's values? Be open about your faith in Christ. One of the ways you can do that is to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Most important thing a new believer can do is take that step of obedience in the waters of baptism. You say, Well, should I do this, that, and the other? If I understand my Bible correctly, and I believe I do, or I wouldn't be preaching it. If I understand my Bible correctly, first thing a person did in the Bible when they got saved was they got baptized. And so follow Lord in baptism. By the way, baptism does not save. No more than a wedding band uh makes me married. Uh my grandparents, and we've said this many times before, my grandparents. Godly Christians loved the Lord, loved each other dearly. They were like honeymooners up until they both passed away. They never once wore a wedding band, neither of them. Just never did. Does that mean they weren't married? No, they were as married as anybody. They had a, you know, going through the whole thing, they were married. But they never wore a wedding band. A wedding band doesn't make a person married. But on the other hand, they did have a wedding band, but just because a person has a wedding band doesn't make them married. Huh? We went to the um uh jewelry store. We were in the library, my wife and I had gotten engaged and we were in the library. Is she here? Oh good, I can exaggerate a little. Um Uh we're this is the way I remember it. Um she said uh she wrote a little note we were studying, uh we were still in Bible college, studied, she passed a little note over. That's that's her coming. I'll stand down here. She passed a little note over, says, uh, can I borrow three hundred bucks? It started then already, you know. I'm in Bible College. I wrote, what? Pants it back. And uh she goes, I uh we need to get I need to get you a wedding band. We were already engaged and everything. And so we went to the um Walmart. No, we went to the jewelry store and uh we were looking at 'em. We weren't married yet. We didn't take any vows, we didn't do any of that, but we're at the uh jewelry store and we're looking through 'em, and just for fun we tried on the $14,000 ones Yeah, I don't like the color of that. I'll buy this one here for three hundred dollars. And so we took it and she slipped it on my finger. I had a wedding band on. Walked around. Ooh. Question, was I married? No. That wedding band doesn't make me married or not having it doesn't make me unmarried. What it does, it simply identifies me as a married man. Oh, you got a wedding ban on. I was at Walmart yesterday. I'm at Walmart every day. So at Walmart yesterday. And there was a young lady And she was a very pretty young lady, and then there's a fellow about her same age, and he wasn't very pretty at all. But um And I was watching a lot I I I a lot of you like this. I'm a people watcher. I like to watch people figure out relationships. Alright, is that mother, daughter, what is it? And they're in front of me and I'm just kind of watching them. And um all of a sudden they get flirting with each other Oh, that's a nice grocery part you have. Oh, thank you. I like yours too. And it's just stupid. And they're going back and forth and she's just like, All that stuff. And so I got thinking, I wonder if they got w I wonder if they know each other. So I got looking around. I want to see if they had a wedding band on. And uh, but neither of them did, so they're cool. But anyway, doesn't make you married. Doesn't mean not marry. Hey, persons get baptized ninety-five times if they've never trusted Christ, they're not saved. Getting baptized doesn't save anybody And it's possible for a person to be saved and go to heaven and never be baptized. There's one person in the Bible that I know of in the New Testament that got saved and went to heaven but did not get baptized. You know why he didn't get baptized? He was nailed to a cross. And Jesus said, today you'll be with me in paradise. So being baptized doesn't get me to heaven. Not being baptized doesn't keep me out of heaven. Salvation is simply trusting Jesus as my personal Savior. But once I do that God expects me to come out for him and be baptized. Let people know I'm Christ. So coming outside the camp, Part of that simply means professing. Make an open profession of your faith in Christ Hey, I thank God for some of our young people who are unashamed of the fact that they're believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God for some men that work in factories and drive over to the road and different things, are unashamed of the fact that their Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God for women and wives and uh secretaries that are out in the workforce and in our world and in the market And make an open profession of the fact that I am a follower of Jesus Christ. That's part of being outside the camp. So number one, make an open profession of your salvation. If you're saved, say so. Number two, shun ungodly partners. Make an open profession. Number two, shun ungodly partners. We are not to isolate ourselves from society. Amen? Now let me say that again. We are not to isolate ourselves from society. We don't go up here underneath one of these windmills and build a little camp and you know we don't interact with society at all. That's isolation. That's not what we're talking about. We are in the world, we were not of the world. We are not to isolate ourselves from society, but we are to refuse to associate ourselves. with society, with unbelievers, with disobedient. I want you to come to another passage of scripture that in many churches is not looked at very much. Turn with me if you would to 2 Corinthians Now you've got to go towards the front of your move pages towards the front of your Bible, not too far, but 1 Corinthians, I'm sorry, 2 Corinthians, and chapter 6 Now this will be a good portion of scripture to underscore in your Bibles. We're talking about going outside the camp with Christ, bearing his reproach. Chapter 6, 2 Corinthians, verse 14. Now follow this very carefully. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers? Now he explains, he elaborates on a little bit. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What communion hath light with darkness? What concord, that word concord has, what agreement or contract would you make? What concord hath Christ with Belial? Belial's another word for the devil. What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And the answer to all of those is what? None. You don't make those agreements. You don't have part in those things. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? None. For ye are the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, walk in them and will be their God, and they shall be my people. Verse 17 Wherefore, because God is in us, because we are God's people, come out from among them, the world, the unbelievers, the ungodly. And be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. I will be a father unto you, and you will receive Now he's not saying that last verse that if we don't do these things, that God's not our Father, he's saying we will not experience his blessings as our Father. If we don't separate from the ungodly and the wicked. So, number one, make an open profession. Come out for Christ. Number two, shun ungodly partners Get away from the influences that are ungodly, that are unscriptural. Do not allow yourself to be influenced by them. The Bible says evil communications corrupt good manners. In other words, the things that I allow to influence my life are going to affect how I live my life. Number three, write this down. Put away unholy pleasures. Make an open profession. Shun ungodly partners. Put away unholy pleasures. Now listen, I'm not saying that Christians are not to enjoy life. I'm not saying that Christians are not to have any pleasure in life. Brother, I enjoy life as much as anybody. I like to laugh, I like to have a good time, I like to get out, do things. Enjoy that much as any. I'm not saying you sit at home, black clothes, long face, read your Bible 17 hours a day, the rest of the day pray and frown and don't do nothing. Alright? Amen? It's not what we're saying. And by the way, the devil likes to twist What Christianity is in this world's minds, and get them to think, oh, if you're a Christian, you're a funny dud, you don't do anything, you never laugh, you never enjoy anything, you're just miserable and sad and lonely and dark all the time I'll tell you what, that is the complete opposite. I've been happier since I've been saved than I ever was before I got saved. I've enjoyed life ten thousand times more since I've been saved than I ever did before I was saved. So we're not saying that we can't have any pleasure in life, not saying we can't enjoy life. We do, but We don't go to the same source for that joy and pleasure that the world does. Follow me? We do not seek for that pleasure and enjoyment in life where the world finds them. Which thrill, I put this down. I like this quote. As far as I know, it's original with me. But it's good. That thrills the world grieves the Holy Spirit. The world goes to the bars, dance floor, the world goes to the adulterous bed. The world goes to rock and roll, the world goes to self-centeredness, the world goes to everything that the Bible forbids. To find pleasure. But you go out in the world and you look in people's eyes and you look at people, you know who the saddest people in the world are? People that are looking to the world for pleasure. There's an emptiness there. Why do you think movie stars, people that, I mean, you talk about somebody that has everything the world has to offer? Rock and roll stars, country and western stars, movie stars, country and western stars, and uh and uh uh big shot politicians and country and western stars Somebody say amen. Or owe me or something. Listen, this church didn't call me to be popular. Right? And country and western stars. They've got everything that this world has to offer as far as pleasure and enjoyment. They've got everything this world offers, right? Am I right or wrong? So why are they getting divorced and remarried every other year? Why are they in rehab? Constantly. Why are they getting uh arrested and for cocaine and in jail? They've got everything They're miserable. Their lives are empty, and they're grasping at something to give them meaning and purpose in life, and it's not there. Listen, we enjoy life. Christians enjoy life. Good night. We laugh at church here as much as we cry. More, probably But the fact is, we don't go to what the world goes to to find those things. We put away those unholy pleasures. We put away that ungodly, destructive pleasures. We find that our joy is in the Lord. Our joy is in living for others. Our joy is glorifying God, living according to biblical principles How do I go outside the camp? Jesus went out of the camp. He went outside the world's principles and values and priorities. How do I bear his reproach? How do I do it? One, make an open profession. Just come out with Christ, just determine that this week I'm going to be a public Christian. We're not talking about putting on a show or blowing our own horns. We're just saying, I'm not ashamed of Christ. I'll hand the gospel track out. I'll say praise the Lord at appropriate times. I'm just going to give glory to my Father. I'm not going to worry about what people think. Open profession, shun ungodly partners, put away unholy pleasures, and last of all Disregard this world's policies. Disregard this world's policies. The principles of Scripture and the policies of the world have absolutely nothing in common. What is this world's policies? He said, what do you mean the policies of the world? That which the world operates by Uh I had a fella asked, calling, I've been out visiting, and he made a profession of faith with me at his door. I've gone through a gospel, he made a profession of faith Tried getting him out to church, never could. And then some time had passed, and he called me up and he wanted me to do something. And I really couldn't do what he was asking me to do. It would have violated some of my convictions. And so I found that every time I try and explain myself, people get mad. So I just said, listen, you know, it's really against my policies as a pastor to do that. It just, I just can't. And boy, the guy blew up. And he said, God doesn't have any policies. I thought, hmm, does God have policies? Yeah, God does have policies. He has principles that he operates by. There are certain things that he does and does not do. There are certain things that are acceptable and unacceptable. That's policies Yes, God does have policies, and the world has policies. And those two are diametrically opposed to each other. What is the world's policy? If you're going to boil down, in my mind, you're going to boil down the world's policies, what they operate by, the principles and practices that the world operates by, if you're going to boil it down, it's this. Look out for number one. Right? Me. I gotta make sure I take care of myself. I gotta make sure that I'm okay. Look out for number one. That's the world's policy. That's why when there's an earthquake somewhere, all of a sudden the crowds start looting the stores. The crowds don't go and try and find help people to help. The crown doesn't go and make sure that people trapped have water and all that. You'll have an element that does that, but the mob doesn't. The mob starts number one, number one, number one And you see it in corporations, you see it in religious institutes. What do you think? There's a very well-known, very huge worldwide religious organization. that has a reputation of its priests molesting children. You know what that is? It's the world's policy. Hey, my pleasure at whatever the other expense is. Hmm? This month's memory verse, thou shalt not commit adultery. You know what adultery is? Number one. Doesn't matter how it hurts anyone or what it does to anybody else. It's me and me, what I want. Turn with me if you would, and we're ending with this, to Philippians chapter 2. And here we have the Lord's policies. Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 4. World says, look out for yourself. God says in Philippians 2 verse 4, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. In other words, God's policy is die to self. God's policy is, hey, not me Not mine, but Lord, how can I be used of you to help others? How can I be used to influence and be a help to others The principles of Scripture and the policies of the world have absolutely nothing in common. By the way, just because something is legal doesn't mean it's scriptural. Just because a person has a right to do it doesn't mean it's the right thing to do. What is God's principles? What are God's principles? I put these down. Uncompromising honesty. Uncompromising honesty. Phew. Talk about living in a dishonest world. God expects his people to be honest, uncompromisingly honest. In other words, I lose that promotion rather than be dishonest. Huh? I become unpopular rather than I become dishonest. Uncompromising honesty. Now we're not talking about rude or not speaking the truth in hatefulness We are talking about being honest. Uncompromising honesty, uncompromising purity. Brother, you could preach a series on that. Do you talk about living in an impure world? Huh? There is not a church, there is not a home that has not been stained. by the impurity of this world to some degree or another. We have today children eight, nine, ten years old, are seeing things That a hundred years ago, the most perverse, demented, pervert in the back streets of Taiwan would have ever even thought of seeing. Huh? Purity! God's people keeping their hearts, their minds, their bodies pure. It's not the way the world works World's policy is, hey, you know, just be safe. Just be safe. There is nothing safe about disobedience to God. I don't care what kind of contraptions and medical pills you come up with, it is never safe to disobey God. Somebody say amen. Purity. We're to be distinct from the world outside the camp of perversion, outside the camp of sensuality. Pure. Uncompromising honesty, uncompromising purity, genuine humility Obedience to God at any cost. There has developed, and no doubt it's around the world, but I think particularly here in America. A Christianity that has no convictions, that has no distinction That is ease, comfort, pleasure, worldliness. And God says that's not Bible Christianity That is not what Jesus died for. Biblical Christianity is outside of this world. All that we just talked about. Outside the camp. Julius Caesar, you're familiar with great conqueror many, many years ago, conquered the known world before he was 33 years old He landed on the shores, the history books tell us, of Britain, and he had his legions of armies and their ships, and they are invading England. He had gotten that far. When he got everybody up on the mounts uh the cliffs of of Britain and they were f forming their uh What do you call it? Their platoons or their lines of soldiers. He got them all together and he gave instructions to his commanders to go out to the men. And he said, before we invade this country, I want everyone, instruct all your men. He had thousands of soldiers, he said, I want to instruct them all to go to the cliffs and look out at the sea. So they did that in an orderly fashion, all the sorts of things. And when they got up to the cliffs and they looked out at the sea, there were all their ships that they had just arrived that they invaded in. And every one of them was burning. Completely destroyed. And he said, we have no way to go back. Our only option is to conquer. Or be completely annihilated. And they did. Tremendous motivation. We're not going back. We use the term burning the bridges behind us Hey, when we trust Christ, whether we understood it all or not, when we accepted that free gift of eternal salvation, and salvation is simply that receiving a gift. And God forgave our sin and gave us a new nature and gave us a home in heaven. God expects us to burn those ships behind us. We're not going back to that. God has called us out of the world, out of the sins and unbelief and disobedience of this world. He expects us to go out the camp with him. Amen? This is what I'm asking. This is what God's been doing with my heart. Let's be for real. Let's be all out. Let's be what God expects us to be. We're not going to toy with the world. We're not going to be enamored by the world. We're going to examine the scriptures. What does God expect from us? And we commit ourselves to be that kind of person. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, I pray. Help us to be what you intend for us to be. Help us to see this world through the eyes of Scripture. Through the lenses of your holiness and see what we're to be. Our heads above and eyes are closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm so glad God saved me. What a joy, how fulfilling it is to know that I'm going to heaven when I die and not to hell. And you rejoice in that and you say, but preacher I need to work at being an all-out Christian. It's a lot of this old world camp still in me. A lot of times I find myself out here with the world in their camp. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. God will help me be all in all for Christ. God will help me be all out for the Lord. Whether you're a young person, grandparent Say, preacher, pray that God will help me. I want to be all out for Christ. I want to be all out for Christ. How about it? Anything like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, I want to be all out for Christ. Amen. God bless you. Hands all around. I just would imagine that would be the desire of any Christian. I want to be all out. Maybe there's some, say, preacher, there's a very specific area in my life I struggle with. And God deals with your heart about that. Did you say, preacher, I'd appreciate your special prayers with me in this one specific area that the Spirit of God is dealing with me. I've got to get victory over that. I don't want the devil to have victory. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me in this area. And you know what it is? It's different for all of us, no doubt. You say, preacher, pray with me. In a very specific area on my heart and mind right now That really needs to be brought in line with God's word. How about it? Any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. Many hands around. Now God will answer prayer. God answers prayer. God will help us. He's a helper. We bring that to him. Trust him. He'll help us. One last question. So someone here this morning said, preacher, I don't know for sure. If I die now, I'd go to heaven. So, preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me. I want that settled in my heart and mind. You say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me settle this matter. Of going to heaven when I die and not going to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. My salvation, I need that matter settled. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now, Lord. Your folks have listened intently, I believe, Father. I believe your Spirit is dealing with us, and so help us to be fully yielded to you, to be dedicated to Christ and Him alone in Jesus' name.