We love you and thank you so much for this time where we gather around and study the scriptures. And Lord, I pray as we study this passage that our hearts would be open, ready to receive it. Lord, I thank you so much again for this new year, and I pray this new year that we would have open hearts I pray that you would uh bless the speaking of your word, feel pastor, with your Holy Spirit's power, help them to be able to communicate the message across. Lord, we're asking your will be done in this service. We're asking this in Christ's name. This world is a place where man believes what he can see. The tangible, the visible is what he thinks must be, but he who would be wise Must see with different eyes. We live by faith where miracles Should come as no suffer I believe to see The goodness of the Lord. I believe the promises He gave us in his word. I do not need to know the outcome of his plan But I will trust his ways, though I can't see his hand. I will trust in him We're looking for a city that was not made with human hand We're living for a purpose that will far exceed our plans when trials take their toll. Beyond what we control, we rest upon the faithful one, the keeper of our souls. I believe to see the goodness of the Lord I believe the promises he gave us in his word. I do not need to know the outcome of his plan, but I will trust his ways, though I can't see his hand. I will trust him In him I will trust in him. I will trust in I will trust Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Brother Mark. Good job. Very good. If you want to take your Bibles, turn back to Re Revelation. Chapter number one. We're glad to have the young most of the young people up from uh down in King's Kids for the day, and uh we're glad they're up here. I just want to say a word to the young people. Keep an eye on the grown-ups. Make sure they listen and stay awake and behave themselves. They're in church now. And so, but we're glad to have the kids up here. I thank God for our children's ministries. Praise the Lord. It has just gone so well. This past year has been a banner year for our children's ministries, the buses and king's kids and all that's going on in teens. So we thank God for that. We're looking forward to the coming year what the Lord's going to do. I also want to recognize the Holbrooks and the Ziclers. They got in here. I looked right over top of them And uh they've been here, you come here so often you're just part of the crowd, you know. But uh we're glad to have you guys up here in the mountains and with us uh on this special day. New Year's Day Revelation chapter 1, I just want to read the first part of verse number 7. I'd like for you to take note here. Revelation chapter 1 and verse number 7. Look what it says. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. It's a reference to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I just entitled the message: Behold, the Lord comes. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, as we have our first message for the new year, I ask that you would bless in a very special way the truths that are here in this passage and throughout the scriptures that we'll be looking at I pray that you would challenge our hearts to this coming year live for you as closely as we ever had. I pray that this would be a year of victory. I pray it would be a year of growth for us spiritually I pray it would be a year of real intimacy with you, dear Lord Jesus. Perhaps there's some with us this morning that do not know the Lord Jesus, Savior. God, I pray that as we begin this new year, 2012, begin by trusting Christ and having that matter settled. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me Lord, I believe this is a message dear to your heart. And I ask, God, that you would have your way. Take my body, I yield it anew to you. Again, I ask, fill me, and have your way in this message. In Jesus' name, amen. I'd like to challenge folks to read their Bibles through in the year, beginning January 1st, of course, today, starting Genesis, read through to Revelation. There's a number of Bible reading plans available And I'll mention a few of them that we have later in the service. But one thing I try to encourage folks to do, and if you've been around here very long, you've heard me say this I try to encourage folks to underscore or highlight passages in the Bible that have special significance or maybe verses that God speaks to your heart. Uh I go through my Bible. I I very seldom do I read my Bible without a pen in hand. I want to underscore a verse if it speaks to my heart or highlight it in some way If I already have it underlined and God shows me something there, I'll uh highlight it a different way. I like to write uh notes out in the margin of my Bible, and I highly recommend that you do that. Now the reason I said that is here in Ro in Revelation chapter 1, verse number 7, we begin this verse with a very significant word. It is the word behold, behold. Can I suggest to you that this verse is God's way of highlighting what he's about to say? It is, it is God underlining the next statement. Notice the word behold is it has the idea there we go. It has the idea Of uh we do that just to keep people awake. You know, years ago, and this is true, some of y'all know this, years ago the ushers, while the preacher is preaching, they'd have these long poles Seriously. And they would go if somebody fell asleep or do something, they'd come up behind and poke them and uh wake them up. How many people knew that? How many people had ever heard of that? It's true. Years ago they did that in big crowds. D. L. Moody did that And uh they would come and poke them. Um and so in place of that, to avoid lawsuits, um we just mess with the sound. And uh but um Uh so anyway, uh this word behold is God turning the sound up, kind of He wants to get our attention. He's saying, God is saying, pay special attention to what is about to be said. The word behold there, he's saying, clear your minds of everything else and focus on the truth that is being given here. God wants us, and he uses this term other places on other statements, but here he wants us to focus intently on what's being said. Behold, he, of course the he referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see. Stop! Look! Listen to what's being said. Jesus is coming again. That's the impact of this verse here. One of the most fundamental doctrines, and by doctrines we mean teachings throughout Scripture, is the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back to earth again Well there's fundamental teachings. Now, there's two cautions that I want to throw out here at the beginning of our message and that relate to this. First of all, the one caution is this We must, as Christians, we must not be ignorant of the Lord's coming and the plan that involves the return of the Lord. Did I I just lost it now, didn't I? All right. I think it's something messed up here, Brother Dave. Yeah, he's just sound asleep back there. It's not him So just uh it'll keep us all awake this morning, I guess. But um uh uh the one thing uh one caution is this is being ignorant of the Lord is And how it all played. If you have your Bibles, and I hope you do, I'd like you to turn just real quickly with me to Matthew chapter 16 And we're going to look at various passages. Not a whole lot this morning, but several, so keep your Bibles handy. Matthew chapter 16 and verse number one. Matthew 16, verse number one. Matthew 16 and verse number one. Pharisees come and uh confront the Lord Jesus. The Pharisees also, Matthew 16, one With the Sadducees came tempting, desired him that he would show them a sign from heaven. Now notice what the Lord says. He answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and lowering What's he saying here? Red at night, sailor's delight, red in the morning, sailor take warning. He says, listen, you can look at the sky, and you can tell what the weather's going to be. Now look what he says next. Oh ye hypocrites. That's a pretty strong statement. Do you agree with me? How many people would maybe raise their eyebrows a little bit if I came in here and I looked at you and said, oh you hypocrite? How many folks would be a little uncomfortable with that maybe if the preacher did that? Jesus says that to the to the Pharisees. You hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky, but you cannot discern the what? Signs of the times. In other words, he says you've got the weather all figured out, but you don't even know God's plan You don't even know God's timetable. You don't even know where you're at in the plan of God. And Jesus gave a very strong rebuke here To the Pharisees because they did not understand God's plan and God's timetable. So we must not be ignorant of the Bible teaching about the second coming of Jesus Christ and how it all plays out. But the other But the uh the uh but the other danger is this, and that is becoming obsessed. With the time. You know what? I'm just going to turn this off. This is more of a distraction help. And I'll just I'll just go by this here, Dave. It's becoming obsessed with the plan. By that I mean this. Some people can become so obsessed with trying to figure out who the Antichrist is, when the Lord's coming back, and all of these This past year was a tragic example of people going beyond scripture in in the matter of prophecy. How many people remember back to May 21st? That yard bird out in California saying Jesus coming back and all of that. I told you months ahead of time that was baloney. The Lord's very, very clear. No man knows the day nor the hour. And that's blanton rebellion against God. And do I then have the audacity to go and do it again in October. Listen, we need to be careful. Number one, we need to understand the plan of God. We need to study scriptures, understand how it all plays out, but not become obsessed. with aspects of it that uh do not directly uh that are outside the perimeters of scripture. You follow what I'm saying? For instance, in Acts chapter 1, and we won't take time to turn there But in Acts chapter 1, the disciples came to the Lord Jesus after he was resurrected, and they said to him, Lord, will vow it this time! Establish the kingdom. I don't know they use the exact words, but wilt thou at this time begin uh set up your kingdom? You know what Jesus' answer was? He says, It is not for you to know the times. But ye shall be witnesses unto me. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. You know what he was saying He was saying, listen, don't get things out of order. You don't know when I'm coming back. You don't know when these events are going to take place. You stay focused. on your responsibility until that day comes when Jesus comes back and does these things. So there needs to be a balance here. On the one hand, he rebuked the Pharisees because they didn't understand the plan of God, what God was doing. On the other hand, he corrected the disciples when they became so obsessed with that that it distracted from the responsibilities of the. that they had. So we consider the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me suggest this as I get into my outline now. Number one, let's make sure we understand Bible teaching on the second coming of Christ. And number two, let's not worry about when it's going to happen. Alright? That's in the Lord's time. That's in the Lord's time. And I'll elaborate this on here in just a moment. Number one, here's my first thought. I'd like for us to consider prophecies concerning the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Prophecies concerning the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. One-third of the Bible is Bible prophecy. One-third of all the teaching in this book has to do with prophetic events. Um we are told that both in the Old Testament, well, we know this, both in the Old Testament and New Testament reference the second coming of Jesus Christ. Not just his initial coming at Bethlehem at Christmas time that we celebrate, but they one-third reference the return of Jesus Christ. Over 1,800 passages in the Old Testament reference the second coming of Jesus Christ. 300 in the New Testament. Seventeen books of the Old Testament reference give major emphasis on the return of Jesus Christ and him establishing his kingdom for Israel. 23 of the 27 New Testament books reference the second coming of Jesus Christ There are over 300 references in the New Testament just about the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now that is significant. If God is spending that much time, if God is dedicating that much scripture, to the teaching of the second coming of Jesus Christ, then it behooves us to pay close attention. Do you agree with me? We ought to be aware of that. This ought to be a, if that is a major portion of Scripture, then it ought to be a major portion of our preaching and our teaching and our thinking. The return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Long before Jesus came the first time in Bethlehem. By the way, when Jesus was born in Bethlehem, that was not the beginning of Jesus Christ. He existed from eternity past. It was simply him taking on flesh, becoming man. But long before Jesus uh was born in Bethlehem, took on flesh in Bethlehem The Old Testament was declaring his second coming. I wish we had time. We could go through Old Testament passages. I just jotted a few down. Two, four, six, eight passages down here. that uh in the Old Testament that reference very specifically the second coming of Jesus Christ. Um tell you what, uh we'll go to one of them. This one's quick and easy. Keep your place here in Revelation. Go with me if you would to Genesis. Genesis chapter number three. Now we looked at this verse, uh forget if it was last week or the week before, when we were looking at Christmas. But lo and behold, this same passage references in a very, very obscure way the second coming of Jesus Christ, Genesis chapter 3. And look with me at verse number fifteen. Again, Satan uh Jesus God is confronting Satan. He's rebuking them. They're being cursed for the sin. And notice the statement he makes in verse 15. Now this is one of those verses It's good to underscore in your Bible. It's a very significant passage. It says, God speaking to Satan in the form of the serpent. I will put enmity Between thee, Satan, the serpent, and the woman. And between thy seed and her seed. Now, if you remember in a previous message, we pointed out that the woman's seed was actually a early reference to the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. The woman does not have seed. So when it refers to the woman's seed, It is a somewhat obscure reference to the virgin birth of Jesus Christ, the first coming of Jesus Christ. But let's read on. It, the seed of the woman, Jesus, as we understand, shall bruise thy head And thou shalt bruise his heel. Now, we pointed out that the bruising of the heel of the woman's seed is not a permanently mortal wound. Yes, Satan, when Jesus was died on the cross, it was it was he died completely, but it wasn't permanently. You follow what I'm saying? His bruise his heel was bruised. But he says there, but this seed shall bruise Satan's head. That is a mortal wound. That he's done. He's put out of commission. He's no longer a player. Let me ask you a question. Has Satan's head been bruised yet? No. Goodness gracious. How many folks here? Well. Let me put it this way. How many folks have ever, at some point in your life, made some New Year's resolutions that uh spiritual-minded things you were going to do for the Lord, things you were going to stop doing, whatever, and and that uh New Year's resolutions that affected your walk with the Lord. How many people have ever done that at some point in the past? Sure, there's nothing wrong with that. How many folks before you got to one o'clock the New Year morning, already blew up? Yeah. You know what? The fact of the matter is, Satan is alive and well on planet Earth. He's still walking about seeking whom he may devour. We still have a very active, very effective enemy in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm suggesting to you this morning, That when God said to Satan that the seed of a woman would bruise his head, that is a very early reference to the second coming of Jesus Christ, when Satan will be bound a thousand years in the pit and eventually loosed and eventually cast forever in the lake of fire Now, not all that information is given there, but I believe, and I'm suggesting to you that that is a reference to it. Now, as we go through the Old Testament You get into Numbers and Deuteronomy and 1 Samuel, particularly Psalms, Isaiah. You get into the minor prophets and references prophesying the second coming of Jesus Christ Are throughout the Old Testament scriptures. Then you get to the New Testament. And over and over and over throughout the New Testament, we find references to Jesus' second coming, his return to earth. Listen, if a Christian is ignorant about the second coming of Jesus Christ, it is not because the Bible is silent or obscure on the matter But it's because that Christian is neglecting their Bible. You cannot read the Bible You cannot take the Bible at face value and not see clearly Jesus is coming back again. It's clear. So my first thought this morning is. I want us to consider the prophecies concerning the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. My second thought is this. I want us to consider the plan. Of Jesus' return to the Lord to the earth. The return of the Lord Jesus Christ to earth. If you pay attention to your Bible reading, if you study your scriptures If you enroll in Bible Institute, I throw those little advertisements in there every chance I can. But uh if you uh pay attention to the Bible teaching on the second coming, you come to this conclusion very easily. The return of Jesus Christ is not just a one-time event. There's not just some general resurrection. Jesus returns, everybody's resurrected, he judges the good and the evil, the goats and the sheep, and uh does all that, and lo and behold, we go on that. It doesn't happen that way I come out of a denomination I grew up in that taught in a general resurrection. Just a return of Jesus, one event, and all that. I got saved at the age of 19. Did I ever tell you about that? I began reading and studying my Bible. I had a whole new insight onto it after I got saved. I went off the Bible college, we started studying prophecy, and you know what I learned? The return of Jesus Christ is not just a single event. There are a series of events associated with the return of Jesus Christ. Very clearly laid out in Scripture. It's not difficult to see. And by the way, how many fol how many folks here ever heard reference to the Antichrist? Yeah. Yeah, the Antichrist. Hollywood every now and then gets all wound up about Antichrist. I go to Christian bookstore, all these sensational books. Antichrist, Antichrist, we figured out who the Antichrist is. You look back through uh recent history And uh Christians have been predicting who the Antichrist is about every election cycle. Right? Whoever the opponent is, is the Antichrist. I mean it's been all of them. How many folks remember back in the 80s, late 70s, early 80s, Henry Kissinger? Remember that? His name and the numbers and all that. That didn't pan out. Uh and then they had all this and this, that one, the other. Uh Obama's the Antichrist. Um Well, we'll just beep right along the message. But uh, no, um uh here's the thing. The second coming of Jesus Christ does not revolve around the Antichrist. Too many people spend too much time trying to figure out who the Antichrist is and they got their eyes off of Christ. The coming of the Jesus Christ revolves around Jesus Christ. The Antichrist and the tribulation period are not the focus of the second coming of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the focus of the second coming of Jesus Christ. So sometimes we are, well the uh Daniel and the and the statue and Daniel and the two legs and the five uh the how many toes? Ten toes. And uh uh this metal and the clay and uh boy they've got that figured out down to the toenails Uh what who the toena and the dirt under the toenails, oh what the significance of that is. Listen, there's a place for all that, but let's not get our eyes off of Jesus. He's the one that's coming back So what is the plan? What does the Bible say? How does this play out? The return of Jesus Christ? How exactly does this take place Well with that we could do a year couple year-long series on this. Some of you are very familiar with this, some of this may be new. But this is how the Bible, and I'm just going to summarize it summarize it and I wish I had a visual here. But this is how the Bible presents the plan of the Lord's coming. The very next event on God's prophetic calendar is the rapture of the church. Familiar with that? In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the archangel will shout, the trumpet of God will sound, and those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ shall be caught up The dead in Christ shall be resurrected, and we will be raptured. We will be caught up. We will be snatched up off this earth in the twinkling of an eye to be with the Lord in the air. That's the rapture That is not the return of Jesus Christ. That is the first event in a series of events that are associated with the return of Jesus Christ. Now I don't have my uh Mm microphone here. Does this thing here work? Can I use this? Test. Is that working? Anything there? See that it's working Man, I feel like I'm the guys on TV now. Let's let's look at the platform. Man, I've done this many times over the years, but let's look at the platform here as a timeline Way back here in past you have the crucifix of the Lord Jesus Christ, 2,000 years ago plus. He's buried, he resurrected, uh, and he ascended to heaven For all these years the church has been functioning, preaching the gospel, seeking to uh win the world of Christ. At some point in the future, I don't know, it could be today, it might not be for a thousand years, we do we do not know when the rapture is going to happen. We don't know. The next event is the rapture of the church. All Christians saved are caught up in a moment. Poo! We're out of here. Just a pile of clothes, dentures, whatever's left left behind. Right? And we're with the Lord. We get our glorified bodies. That begins the seven-year tribulation period. How many people ever heard reference to seven year Seven year tribulation period. Seven years where uh un incredible events take place, horrific events. One third uh of the earth is killed in just a few moments in the early part of Revelation, read through Revelation. And then even more uh uh it's just devastating. The Antichrist and uh the abomination uh de of desolation takes place and all these things finally At the end of that seven years, the armies of the world, again I'm just summarizing, the Bible teaches, the armies of the world will be gathered against against uh Israel. Um boy I can see that happening This whole world hates Israel. And uh as they are about to come on Israel, and in fact in Zechariah kind of implies, at least the way I see it, is they're actually into Jerusalem And the slaughter is beginning. And that's when the event in Revelation chapter 1, 7, takes place. The sky splits open, and Jesus Christ comes back visibly. That's called the second advent. First Advent was his birth in Jerusal in Bethlehem. Second Advent, he comes down. He destroys the armies of the world. He judges the nation and he sets up What we call the millennial reign, where Jesus Christ literally physically from Jerusalem reigns as world dictator. By the way, it'll be the best government this world has ever seen. He will reign from Jerusalem for 1,000 years. The devil's bound. The lion sleeps with the lamb. The kids play with um the The ass and the adder and the snakes and cobras and rattlesnakes and all that stuff. And it doesn't bite 'em and everybody and they beat their plows into s snow shovels. No. Uh bleep. Beat their ploughs into. Beat their swords into ploughs. Thank you, Brian And uh and at the end of the millennial year, uh millennial reign, thousand years, Satan's loosed a little bit, and there's a skirmish, Christ squashes it. And then the great white throne, death and hell are cast a lake of fire. All the unsaved people are cast a lake of fire. This heaven and earth is burned up and a new heaven, new earth. Alright, did you get that? I wish I could visualize that. Years ago, churches used to give out little charts, and you could stick them in your Bibles, and I did that in years going by, little chart, and it has the prophetic chart That is a summary of what the Bible teaches of the plan of Jesus' return. Alright? And so it's more than just boom, Jesus shows up and all that. There's a plan to it. And without getting off track here too much, I can see the world being set up to fit that plan beautifully. There are th very few things that have to change in the world setup for those events to take place. I'm pe speaking politically, economically. And all these types of things. And so uh I think it behooves us to live every day as if Jesus, as if the rapture was going to take place that day. So we have the prophecies concerning Christ's return. We have the plan of his return, very summarized there. Now here's the third thought I want to have real quickly. What's the purpose of Christ's return? Why is he coming back? Well, there's several reasons. I put down one to confirm the word of God. There is so much teaching and so many clear statements in Scripture of Jesus' return. If he does not come back, then this Bible is not true. He made so many statements when he was here on earth through the gospels that he's coming back again. He's coming back again. He's coming back again. If he does not come back, that tells us that he was lying. Jesus Christ, one of the purposes for him to come back, is to confirm his word that what he said is so. If Christ is not coming back, then we have no hope. Listen, if the statements in Scripture about the return of Christ are not true, Then we can safely assume that the promises given in here are not true. And nothing in this book is reliable if Jesus isn't coming back again, You say, well, Brother Leatherman, how do we know they're true? How do we know he's coming back again? I'll tell you a good way. Because of prophecy that has already been fulfilled. If all the verses about his first coming were fulfilled exactly as the Bible said they would be, then we can safely assume, in fact We can bank on it. The verses concerning his second coming will be fulfilled exactly as the Bible says. Are you with me? Now there's where I would have said a hearty Amen So they will be filled exactly as the Bible says. There we go. Good. You make me feel better when you do that. So why is Jesus coming back again? One purpose is to confirm the Word of God. To fulfill these prophecies. Second reason is to confront the wickedness of the world. Has anyone noticed this old world is a mess? Anybody notice that? How many folks have noticed that January 1st, 2012, the world is more wicked than it was January 1st, 2011? Good night. Um take your Bible, if you would, with me and turn to 2 Timothy. I'll show you something that the Bible says. Concerning this. 2 Timothy and chapter number 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3 And verse 1. Timothy chapter 3, verse 1. A good New Year's resolution would be to bring your Bible to every church service. Uh because we're going to use it. No use bringing it if we're not going to use it. Let's know also that in the last days Now, I need to give a little Bible teaching here on this. The last days actually began with the ascension of Christ. This whole church age is in the Bible referred to as the last days. Now, what I believe he's referring to here is the last days of the last days. As this dispensation is winding down. Look what he says will be characteristic of the world. in the days preceding the coming of Christ. In the last days perilous, that means dangerous, perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves. Check. Does that sound like today? Covetous, boaster, boasters, wow, uh proud. Get rid of this one. Proud, um, blasphemers, disobedient to parents Unthankful. Can I just say a word there? This Occupy Wall Street movement is unthankful. I got thinking about I don't want to be political, but let me get this off my chest just to start the year off right. Those people that are protesting that they don't get enough money and they don't get enough stuff are richer than ninety-nine percent of the rest of the world. They're complaining that they don't have what other people have. They've got more than most people in Africa have. They've got more than most people in Peru and South America have. It's just a bunch of spoiled brats. Thank you. I feel a whole lot better already. Unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. Truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent means they're without self-control, fierce, despisers of those that are good. Brother, that's getting more and more Despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. You can put United States of America beside that statement. Having the form of godliness, but denying the power of from such turn away. You know what the Bible says? The Bible says in the last days, wickedness is going to prevail more and more and more and more. Now one of the reasons Jesus Christ is coming back is to confront the wickedness of this world. Sometimes it gets discouraging. It seems like ungodliness is prevailing. Does it not? Sometimes it seems like what I'm can what I know is good in this world is declared to be bad. And what I know the Bible teaches is bad, this world proclaims as good. And it looks like I'm on the losing end of this. And sometimes it feels like we're going down and there's no hope that righteousness and truth will ever prevail. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ is coming back again to confront the wickedness and make right that which is wrong, make good that which is bad, and to correct this mess man has gotten us into It's coming back again. To confront wicked. Listen, you say I'm the only one that does right. Well just keep on doing right. Jesus coming back again. He'll deal with it. Confront Williams. Psalms chapter 9, verse number 8. Psalms 96, verse 13. Psalms 98, verse 9. Acts 17, verse 31. He is coming to judge the world. He's coming to judge the world. He's coming to judge the world. Yes, righteousness unrighteousness will be confronted Wickedness will be dealt with. We just look for his return. We look for his return. So the purpose Of his return, one, to confirm the word of God, two, to confront the wickedness of the world. Number three, to convert the nation of Israel. Now, this is a fascinating study. I'm not going to take time on it other than to suggest uh to point this out. When Jesus Christ comes back, the entire nation of Israel is going to get saved. Zechariah 12, verse 10, Romans 11, 26 says, when they see him whom they pierce, the nation of Israel, they will understand who that that truly is their Messiah, and they will turn to him in repentance and faith, and Israel as a nation will turn to Christ One of the reasons for his return. And then number four, the fourth purpose for his return, and no doubt there's many others, but I put this down to congregate the people of God. Now, what do I mean by that? If you would turn to John chapter 14. Real quickly, this is a familiar passage for most of us, I'm sure, John chapter 14. But there's a phrase here that is a special blessing to me, John 14. And look at verse number one. He just told the disciples of his crucifixion, and they're all confused and upset. And he says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Then look what he says. In my father's house are many mansions. If I were not so I would have told you. Now I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. How many folks agree with me? That's pretty clear. He says he's coming again. Now look what he says. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And look at this. And do what? Receive you unto myself. Why? Look at the rest of the verse. That where I am, there ye may be also. You know what the Lord wants? The Lord wants his people to be with him. Amen. Now, you say, well, why has he left us here? We have a job to do. We're to take the gospel into all the world. We're going to reach every lost person with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have a job to do. But when the Lord comes back, He's going to gather all the saints. In a moment, twinkling an eye, dead in Christ shall rise, and uh we shall uh and we shall uh Us be uh caught up together with them in the air, and so shall we what? Ever be with the Lord in the air. He wants us to be with them The Lord's coming back to gather all his people together, that where he is, there we may be also. Now what's the impact of it? We talked about the prophecies of his return, the plan of his return, the purpose of his return. What's the impact? How should it affect me if Jesus Christ is actually coming back again, as it's laid out, rapture, tribulation Return, millennial, uh judge great white throne, uh new heaven, new earth. If that's all the case, if the rapture can happen this afternoon, how should that impact me? How should that affect me? What should I do as a Christian Well, first of all, the Bible says we should be prayerful. Listen to Mark chapter 13 and verse 33. Referencing the second coming of Christ, he says this: take ye heed Watch and pray, for ye know not when the time is. The Bible puts special emphasis on prayer In relation to the Christian being prepared for the Lord's return. Listen, I cannot live a successful, victorious Christian life without diligent prayer. It cannot happen. I must listen, the way we prepare for the Lord's coming is we become prayer warriors. Praying for God's power, praying for God's protection, praying for God's wisdom, praying for God's leadership, prayer is a vital factor in being prepared for the coming of the Lord. If we know Jesus Christ is coming back again, we don't know when the time is, we must be people of prayer. I want to challenge you this coming year, January 1st, 2012, as we begin this new year, just determine, let's just determine that we are going to be prayer warriors We're going to pray for our children. We are going to pray for our spouses. We're going to pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ. We're going to pray for revival in our nation. We're going to pray for souls to be saved. We're going to pray for the power of God to be upon our ministries. We are going to pray that we are able to resist the world and the lust of the flesh and the pride of life and we can live for God as we ought to live for God. Prayer. It's not going to happen. We're not going to be prepared until we become. By the way, God have mercy on a daddy and a mommy that don't pray for their kids. God have mercy on a parent that has no concern for their children's spiritual well-being, that invests little or no time in prayer for their children One of the primary focuses, I believe, as parents in our prayer time ought to be our children. Pray, pray, pray for our children So, what's the impact of his coming? Jesus said, take heed, watch him pray. You don't know when I'm coming back. You take heed. You watch him pray. Second impact, oh by the way, you know what our greatest failures are at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? You know what our greatest failure is? Prayer failure. All our failures come back to a lack of prayer at some point or another. Why aren't people getting saved? Well, you've got to witness all that, but I tell you, if you don't back that witness up with prayers, it's going to be very ineffective. So that's another subject. So number one, be prayerful. Number two, we're to be a personal witness. Listen, Jesus Christ is coming back again. There's so much on this subject that we could deal with. But here's something important to understand. That person you work with. If they've heard a clear presentation of the gospel and the rapture takes place and they're unsaved, they will never, ever get saved. If we're going to win them to Christ, we've got to do it now. Before the rapture takes place, we have got to be diligent. Listen to what the Lord said in Acts chapter 1. I referenced it a few moments ago. The disciples came to Jesus and said, are you going to set up your kingdom now? Jesus said, it's not for you to know the times or the seasons. He said, but ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. He says, don't you, you don't know when it's happening I'm not going to tell you, you don't know when it's going to happen, but this is one thing you better do. You better make sure you're a witness. Sharing the gospel with the unsaved. By the way, if you happen to be here this morning and you don't have complete assurance in your heart and soul that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven. If you don't have a Bible basis for that, I plead with you, settle that matter this morning. Do not risk facing the tribulation period, the rapture of Christ, and being left behind to go into the tribulation period. Do not risk that for any reason. So well I'm afraid of what people will think of me. Listen, I'd rather everyone think ill of me and I go to heaven when I die than everyone think wonderful of me and I die and go to hell. It's too important. It's too important. We're to be a personal witness. You say, preacher, I've never been through the soul-winning training. I I I don't know what to say. You know what a witness does? Simply tells what they know. Just tell them how Jesus saved you. Just tell them how Christ, tell them the verses that God used to bring you to salvation. The woman at the well got saved. Woman living in adultery, married five times, we could very easily say a very ungodly woman She got saved. God forgave her for her sin. She immediately went into town, told the folks in town, and the town got saved. She had no soul-winning training. She had no Bible college education. She simply went and told them what Jesus did for her. And you and I can do that same thing. Be a witness. Be a witness. Be a witness. Number three, the Bible says we should be patient. Listen to James chapter 5, verse 78. It says this: Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it. Be ye also patient. Stablish your heart, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. You know he's saying he's saying, don't get worked up. Don't get all worked up about things. Jesus coming back again. It's going to be alright. Oh, what if so-and-so wins the election? Ah, Jesus coming back again. Amen? Oh, what if this what if the economy gets worse? Jesus coming back again. Just be patient. Just be patient. Oh, what if I get cancer this year? What if this year I get cancer? Ah, Jesus coming back again. You'll get a new body. Everything will be alright Now I'm not trying to trivialize the things that are important to us, but I am saying this. The coming of Christ overshadows anything this world can throw at us. So be patient. Be patient. Just keep doing right. Just keep trusting God. Keep walking with the Lord. One of these days Jesus come back. And last of all, I want you to turn to this passage and I quit with this. Titus chapter 2. Titus chapter 2. And I believe this truth is becoming more and more significant in the day and age we live. Titus chapter 2, and I want us to notice verse number 11. Titus 5, even just before Hebrews, right after 2 Timothy. Chapter 2. Here's a good passage to underscore in your Bible if you got a new Bible for Christmas. It's a good verse to underline. Verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly loss, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Look at this. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. You know what he's saying? He's saying we ought to be pure. We need to live pure, godly, humble lives, separate from the wickedness of this world, and look for that blessed hope Of Jesus Christ coming back again. One thing the second coming of God, Jesus Christ, ought to do in our hearts and lives, it ought to be a purifying factor. The fact that any moment That trumpet could sound. And as a Christian, I'm out of here. I was reading over my notes this morning just uh in the off in uh at the house and um just frushing up with uh on my notes. notes. And I got and I was reading over that and I thought of a whole list of things that I could mention That it would be awful if those things would be true in my life when the rapture took place. It would be awful to have certain things in my possession that are displeasing to God when the rapture takes place. It would be awful to find myself in some places I ought not to be when the Lord comes back. I'm telling you, the second coming of Jesus Christ should have a purifying factor on us. Our hearts, our minds, our behavior, being right and pure. How many some of y'all know what I'm talking about? You better straighten up. Your daddy's gonna be home soon. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now, I I I don't mean to be negative on this, but I think this verse is telling us you better straighten up. Jesus' coming. Jesus coming back. We better take it serious. This could be the year. I don't know. May not be for another thousand years. But I'm saying this, next year, this time could very possibly be one year into the tribulation period. I could see that happening very easily. We ought to live that way. Paul said, it's interesting, you follow Paul's statements on the second coming throughout his life. And early in his salvation experience, he makes statements like this, then we which are alive and remain at his coming, we shall be caught up. We he was expecting Christ to come in his lifetime Then you get to 2 Timothy, the very end of his life, and he says, the time of my departure is at hand. And it's almost like Paul was saying, Alright, I'm probably not going to be raptured. I'm going to die before it happens. But you better be ready. You better be ready. I don't know if I'm going to be alive when the rapture takes place or not. It's a real possibility. But we better be ready. Father in heaven, please bless and help us. I believe this is an important subject, Lord. Demands a better exposition than I've given it. Probably demands more attention than I've given it But God, I pray that this truth would grip our hearts, our homes, our families, our ministries, our witness, would be affected by the Bible teaching. That Jesus Christ is coming back again. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many Christians this morning say, preacher, there's areas of my Christian life that this year need definitely need attention Maybe it's the purity of my heart and life. Maybe it's my prayer life. Maybe it's my witnessing and my ministry for the Lord. But whatever it may be, you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want to be ready. If the Lord does come back, I want to be ready. I want to be prepared. I want to be the Christian He'd intend for me to be. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, some very specific areas in my life that the Spirit of God has dealt with And by his grace and with his help, I want to correct them. I want to change them. I want to make them what they ought to be. God bless you. Many, many hands all around. You can put your your hands down. Are there some here this morning who would say, preacher, there's somebody very dear to me. It may be a family member, maybe a co-worker, a good friend of many years. You say, preacher is somebody very dear to me that's without Christ. They're unsaved. And it's my burden that they would come to Christ perhaps this year before it's too late. They'd be born again and know what it's like to live a victorious, happy Christian life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. There's a very specific person heavy on my heart in this new year that I'd like to see them come to know Christ as Savior. And I need God to help me be a witness. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, God bless you, hands all around. God will help us. This is dear to the heart of the Lord. He'll help us. How many would say, preacher, I just want to start the new year dedicating my life to Christ, fully and completely, sold out, committed to the Lord You say, preacher, pray with me on this matter. Anything like that. God bless you, hands all around. One last question. Is there anyone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? He said, I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to be left behind. I want to know for sure that God has forgiven my sin. That I have a home in heaven and I'll be raptured when that thing takes place. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled in my heart and life. Any at all, preacher, pray for me. I need to know that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my Our way to heaven. Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. God, you know our hearts. Lord, we need you to help us on a daily basis, direct us and lead us. And I pray you'd get the victory at every situation. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed