We have been working through the Gospel of Matthew on Sunday mornings at Emmanuel Baptist Church. And this is a message I actually have not preached yet, but am ready to go for Sunday, and we'll work out the tweaks tonight. Okay But we've been working through a series in Matthew called Behold Your King. Behold Your King. And amidst all the insanity that is going on in our culture And likely in your own life, what all of us need to do is to behold our King, Jesus Christ. Because he is the one who holds everything together This very moment. He's the one who created everything, holds it all together. He's the one who will make all things new. And if you have a relationship with God through him, he's the one who has made you a new creature. So you need to behold him and you need to hear from him, and of course, that's why you're here tonight. Up to this point in the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus, of course, has begun his ministry in Galilee. And just loving people, ministering to people, right where they are, and it didn't matter who they were. It didn't matter the what side of the political aisle they came from. I'm reminded back in Matthew chapter 8. how a Roman centurion came to Jesus on behalf of his slave. He was the wrong he had a strike against them politically, according to the Jews. He has a had a strike against him racially, according to the Jews, and he had a strike against them because he's trying to get this social outcast or lower class, a slave, uh, to to be healed by Jesus, and Jesus loved people like that Jesus came to the lowest. I mean he came to me. He came to the lowest. And he loved people and he preached the word. And in the midst of all this, of course, he was training disciples. He called Just average fishermen and said, come follow me and I will make you fishers of men. And he spent time with them and he poured into their life He loved these men. And he gave them truth and filled them with hope and gave them an understanding about things they had never had before. And yet as he was very popular as he went about Galilee and went about the the region there, as he was popular, as he increased in popularity among the common people, he increased And opposition from the religious elite like the Pharisees and Sadducees. And I know who's speaking to tonight, you understand all this, you know all this, but just as a way of zer of a reminder And if you will remember at the end of Matthew chapter 11, when Jesus he offered the invitation to all come unto me All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and you shall find rest for your soul. And while that invitation was for all, the reality was most did not accept that invitation. And so the beginning of Matthew 13, we we're gonna our text tonight will be verses thirty-six through fifty-two, but I need to get us up to speed because of These parables Jesus has been telling. But if you look at chapter thirteen, beginning of verse one, it says, The same day when Jesus out of the house and sat by the seaside, he had been in this closed quarter kind of house and having a conversation with people that wanted him to go talk to his family but he said, hey my disciples are my family basically and they're in this crowded house And then Jesus left the house that same day, and he went and sat by the seaside. So picture him there. We've been out to Ocean City, not this trip, but before the sea uh uh Pops' parents out there and the seaside's a wonderful, beautiful place to be, especially at the sunrise, and you can picture Jesus by the seaside and there's great multitudes of says in verse two were gathered together unto him, so much so that in order for them to hear him teach He'd have to go into a ship and he did that and he pushed out from the shore and there he sat. And so you picture Jesus a away and on the ship, just off the shore, and the multitudes there. And look at verse 3, it says, He spoke many things unto them in parables, saying And he spoke a parable, he has the parable of the sower from verses three to verse eight. If you look at verse twenty-four, he speaks another parable or spoke another parable to them, the parable of the tares. In verse 31, he spoke the parable of the grain of mustard seed. In verse 33, he spoke to them the parable of the leaven. And he spoke parables to the multitudes on the secrets of the kingdom of heaven. I say secrets because you look in verse 35. Matthew quoted Psalm 78 saying that Jesus fulfilled Psalm 78 And the psalmist in Psalm 78 said, I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world. And so the things Jesus was talking to the common Jew about were things that were secret from the foundation of the world. Why did he speak to them in parables? I'm going to tell you why. The multitudes of Israel had unconverted hearts. That could not understand the secrets of God's kingdom. God's secrets are for God's subjects. I don't have the time to work through verses eleven through seventeen, but Jesus basically explains to the disciples, you are God's subjects, they are not. You have been given the ability to understand the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But they have not. And the reason why is because life he quotes uh uh Isaiah um in verse fourteen. He Isaiah came un to preach to Israel, God sent her priest to Israel in a day and time which the people of Israel their hearts waxed gross, that means their hearts got fat, it was too full of other things, and their ears were dull of hearing, and their eyes were blinded. And the same things that was going on in Isaiah's day were very similar to what was going on in Jesus' day, and the people of Israel, they just didn't get it because they didn't want to Their hearts were unconverted, and so Jesus couldn't work with them. He couldn't heal their soul because their hearts would not turn to him. And so we get the understanding here, especially with the parable of the sower, because The disciples Jesus is telling them these parables and telling these stories. It reminds me of Abraham Lincoln and the the people that you read about Abraham Lincoln and people how they say he would just tell stories all the time. He'd always tell stories. I kind of like that because sometimes you can tell a story. And and you can really get someone, but they may not realize you get get 'em. You know what I'm saying? You can just tell a story. And that's what Jesus did here And the disciples are scratching their heads. They didn't completely understand everything he was saying either. They didn't understand. Listen, you're the Messiah and you're making people scratch their head. You say, Well, you're making me scratch my head. Well just bear with me for a little bit and we'll get to where we're going tonight But you're the Messiah. Why are you doing this? Why are you speaking in parables? And Jesus told them. And then Jesus explained the parable of the sower. And I don't need to remind you uh about it There's there's different and we're going to use this in a moment, but there's different kinds of soils Jesus spoke of that represent different kinds of heart There's the wayside heart, right? There's the hard ground. There's no responsiveness. There's no understanding. And the devil just takes the seed right away and they don't respond because it just phew right over their head. For whatever reason. And then of course you have the stony ground, which is the person who makes an emotional response. And I'm gonna I'm gonna transplant this in our time The person who makes an emotional response at a VBS because all his friends are going forward and he doesn't mean it sincerely, but he's caught up in the excitement of it all. But two weeks later when real life hits, you find out his heart wasn't truly converted That's the kind of person the Stony Ground Hero was. Someone who was along for the ride at a Billy Graham crusade and was moved But was never truly born again, would never truly believe the gospel. And when the rubber meets the road and persecution hits their life, you find out how real their faith was or not. That's the stony ground. And then of course you have the thorny ground, which is someone who the things of this world are so wrapped around their heart, and it doesn't have to be just greed. It can be the deceitfulness of riches The lie of gaining things and building things, and as our society says more, more, more, more, more, you've got to have more. It could be that, but it could just be the cares of this life That's what Jesus said. Their hearts so wrapped up with the thorns of the things of this world that there's no chance they'll ever give the gospel a chance. And those are the hearts. And then of course there's the good ground, which would be the disciples, right? The good ground, who responded, who understood it, who received it, brought forth fruit in their life. And so Jesus explained to them That parable, and the point of it is this understanding the secrets of God's kingdom depends on the condition of a person's heart. You say, well I don't I just don't get it. Do you want to? Is it your desire to understand You see, the disciples of Jesus are given the ability to understand the meaning of God's secrets because they are God's subjects. They have opened their heart to Him He preached repent and they did. He preached believe and they did. He preached, blessed are the poor in spirit, and they said, That's me. I'm spiritually bankrupt and I need you, Jesus. And they responded with all their heart to him. God's secrets are for God's subjects And God gives them a growing ability to get it. You say, well, what are God's secrets in Matthew 13? And this is where our attention is tonight. What are God's secrets in Matthew 13? And I, from what I understand, your theme this year is maybe today. Maybe today. And if Jesus Christ came back today, the things that he talked about here in Matthew chapter 13 are going to be very, very relevant very, very soon. What are God's secrets? Well, the disciples now understood the difference between them and Israel at large being their heart. And so let's pick up. Our text is 36 and 52, like I said, but I want to pick up in verse 24, because there's some things we need to understand. Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. He got the good stuff. Obviously he wants to grow something. But while men slept, it was nighttime. His enemy came. And sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up so much later, or Not too long later in the season, I guess, and when the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also, and the servants are thinking, Oh, we messed this up. The servants of the householder came and said, An absurd, didn't you sow didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then has it terrest? Didn't we plant the good stuff? Then it I work on this garden all year, where are these weeds coming from? And he said unto them, An enemy hath done this. I have an enemy, and he sowed these tarrers. And the servant said unto him, Well wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said, No, no, no, no, don't do that, nay Lest while ye gather up the tares ye root up also the wheat with them, ye see tares were a weed that looked a lot like wheat And you didn't really tell them until they came and they budded. And as the the bigger the tares got, the more their roots overtook the weeds. And so if you or overtook the wheat, and so if you pulled up the tares, here comes the wheat. And that's a problem For a farmer who's interested in the quality of his crop. And he said, Don't do that. Let both grow together until the harvest. And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares Bind them in bundles. Can you picture them in your mind binding the tears in bundles to burn them? But gather the wheat into my barn. Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard. See, very small, very small. Which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all seeds. To them it was, but when it is grown, It is the greatest among herbs and becometh a tree. You're going from something really small to something really big, and the kingdom of heaven was like that. Would you agree with that? You'd agree with that So that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. And another parable, verse 33, spake he unto them, the kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, in which leaven is just real small. You put a little bit, don't put too much leaven in something Which a woman took and she hid it in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened. It started with this little bit of leaven, but put it in the bread, and soon it has permeated throughout all of the bread. Kingdom of heaven was like that, wasn't it? Verse 34. Let's go ahead and skip that actually. It tells the reason why Jesus spoke in parables. We touched on that. Verse 36. Then Jesus sent the multitude away and went into the house And his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. Expound this to us. What do you mean by this parable? And he answered and said unto them. And he basically gives them a glossary, he defines the terms in the He gives them uh uh uh word for word here. He that soweth the good seed is the son of man. The field is the world, the good seed are the children of the kingdom. But the tares are the children of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed them, that sowed the children of the wicked one in the world, is the devil. The harvest is the end of the world. And the reapers are the angels. As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend that. That means cause somebody to stumble. And what we're talking about here, stumble from true righteousness. Things that offend and them which do iniquity. And they'll take those people and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. And I just want to point out something. You notice from the parable to the explanation If the fire was just an allegory, Jesus did not remove it from parable to explanation. That means the furnace of fire is real. And there will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. When those are removed, verse 43, then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun. And the kingdom of their father, who hath ears to hear, let him hear. Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hidden a field, the which when a man hath found he hideth and For joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net that was cast into the sea. They'd have it between two boats and Gathered of every kind, which when it was full, they drew to shore and sat down, and they gathered the good in the vessels to keep the good fish, but they cast the bad away And that's how it's going to be at the end of the world, he says in 49. So shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just. And shall cast them into the furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Jesus saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea, Lord. Now remember, he's just talking to his disciples. He's explaining to them. He said, Have you understood this? Do you get it? The disciples have the ability to, so they better. I said the disciples have the ability to understand, so they better, disciples, it is upon us to understand what Jesus has given us to understand. Have you understood all these things? He said, Yea, Lord. Then said he unto them, Watch this, therefore every scribe Oh uh well wait wait a minute. I thought the scribes were the guys, the religious guys who are well versed. They've been to the you know the the Jewish seminary and they've got it. No no no he's talking to fishermen. He called them a scribe. Every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder. How about this? A homeowner Which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old. Our message tonight, the title is this Stories Worth Telling Stories worth telling. Jesus told stories worth hearing to his disciples because they were stories worth telling. For disciples, these are stories we're telling. And can I ask you, if you are a disciple of Jesus Christ tonight, you need to really process this. Do you understand the secrets of God that He communicates right here And if you do, are you teaching them to other people? Are you a disciple? Are you born again? Have you repented? Have you believed in Christ? If you are and you get this, you have a responsibility to tell others about it. Story's worth telling. If we could, let's ask God. I know doing the preacher thing. I'm ten minutes in, I'm going to pray again, but Can never get too much prayer on church. So let's pray. Father, help us understand your word. Ask you for clarity of mind and my own heart and mind. God, we have a responsibility. And so I pray that you would just clarify what is coming to us tonight. What is coming at the end of the world, and help us be ready to open our lives to others to share. We ask you for your blessing. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I want you to think about people in your life and use the parable of the sower as a filter. You think about the wayside hearer over here. People with zero spiritual understanding. You tried to talk to them about it, maybe it's a teenage child, and they just look at you with a glossy-eyed look. They don't get it. It's like the devil's taking the seat. You might call the devil video games or Alcohol or drugs or but it's all Satan's work People with spirit zero spiritual understanding. Think about people in your life who you have seen with short-lived emotional responses. I mentioned that a moment ago Short-lived emotional responses. They were here, they were excited, it seemed that something happened, but later on it didn't. Like what happened to them? Life happened and I don't know. I it's hard to tell whether they were actually sincere about it or not. Did they truly believe? Think about people in your life with no response due to a love of the world. I mean they they just they may get it, they may process it. They may understand, but they don't give a rip because they love this present world. They don't they don't want it. Think about those people. Think about all the people in your life whose hearts remain unconverted. They have not repented. They have not believed the gospel. They're not disciples of Jesus Christ. God is not their Father in heaven. They do not do His will. And yes, how are we to know you are a disciple, you are saved if you do not do your Father's will And I want you to think about those people because this parable of the tares has to do with them This doesn't just have to do with Jewish people 2,000 years ago who have long passed off the scene. The Word of God speaks with relevance right to us today. And I don't think we often give it a moment's thought. If it is maybe today, then what about that person I walk by? And what about that person I see? And what about my mother? What about my father? What about my cousin? What about my neighbor? What about the person, the the guy I bought my coffee from at the gas station for the past 30 years when I stop and fill up the tank? What about him? And I've got to consider this parable of the tears is talking about them. Talking about the man I struck up conversation with in Chiefs tonight and talked about the Big Twelve. Now walk out of the The store, I didn't even mention the name of Jesus. I might have said God bless because that's a nice southern thing to do, and I'm from Georgia now. But I even I even talked to him, I talked about football. Come on That man's gonna spend eternity in one of two places and and I know we don't want to be we we don't want to be over the top awkward or weird sometimes. Seek to find a wise way to do things and have relationships with people. Pastor and I were talking about that a moment ago, but For crying out loud, people are going to die and spend an eternity in one of two places, and maybe today things will be set in motion that puts a period on their opportunity to respond, and it's over and it's done And this parable is talking about them. God's secrets have to do with them. They may not be here to hear them tonight. They may not understand them, but they should. Unconverted people will never understand God's secrets if disciples don't first understand it. I said, unconverted people Out there will never understand God's secrets if disciples in this room don't first understand it. The disciples asked Jesus to declare to them the parables of the tares. of the field. They knew they could understand him, so they wanted more understanding. And Jesus wants his disciples to understand his secrets. I mean he wants the world to understand, but they just Just won't? And how much more does he want you, his disciple, whose heart belongs to him, to understand? And can I just ask you, is this your request this year? Is this my request to Jesus this year? Declare unto me Declare unto us, I'm hungry to understand the Word of God. I'm hungry to understand how it hits home in my life today. In January of 2022, I'm tired of all the crazy stuff going out there and being in this crazy cycle of fretfulness and stress and anxiety and oh what's gonna happen next. I'm tired of that and I want to live on a different level Declare unto me, Lord, help me understand. And if you're a disciple, if you know Jesus, you can ask him that and he will honor that request. More about Jesus, would you know? Jesus declared the parable of the tears of the disciples. He said that this man who's out there and he's sowing good seed in his field, that's the Son of Man. That's Jesus. And the field is the world, and the good seed is the children of the kingdom. That's the disciples of Jesus Christ. Jesus has planted his children in the world. He has disciple He has disciples in the world. You say, I wish I was born outside of my generation. I gotta be born born in this techno-gizmo generation that I don't I just had to maybe you're hearing seventy years old and just upgrade into a smartphone. You're like, what in the world is this? My grandpa is uh uh pushing eighty and he just gotta went from a flip phone to a smartphone for the first time and he's just cracking up. He's like, give me my flip-flop back. Give me my flip-flop. And maybe you feel like you were born out of time. But you know Jesus planted you as a disciple in this time in the world. You're here You are here. You're in the world. And so Jesus has done that. But unfortunately, there is an enemy, the devil, and he has planted his children on earth. You see, I thought all people on earth were children of God. Not according to Jesus. The devil's planted his children on earth. That is, every single person who has not repented and believed the gospel, that's them. They're children of the devil. And he has planted them there. But here's the idea of the parable. Jesus allows both to live side by side until the end of the world when his angels will sort it out. According here to this text. And I there's no there's more we could expound on that. But listen to God's secret about unconverted people. Okay, picture them. We've got the disciples over here, the unconverted here. The unconverted people in verse 41 it says that they are the things that offend and those those which do iniquity. They're the stumbling blocks of righteousness because they do iniquity. They want to say the religious bigots The Bible thumpers, they're the stumbling blocks of the world, not according to Jesus. The people who do not accept the gospel. Who do not believe the gospel, who push their agenda, who push their religion, who push their humanistic way, whatever it is They're the stumbling blocks to righteousness in the world. Them which do iniquity, they are the tares. And watch this at verse 40, you see it As the tares are gathered, Jesus said uh or that that the guy who owns a field, he tells his guys to wait and gather them and and and then burn them and And then gather my wheat. As the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of Man is going to send his angels, and they're going to gather up all the people that have rejected Jesus Christ And they will remove them from the righteous. They will gather them and they will catch them. And to a furnace of fire there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth You think back to Jesus' own message. He said, Repent, the kingdom of heaven's at hand And Jesus opened his kingdom to outsiders. I talked about that a moment ago, and he called outcasts like Matthew, the Israel Revenue Service Agent. First century IRS, Matthew, and he was hated, yet Jesus called him to follow me because he's interested in sinners coming to repentance. And up to this point, most people would not repent. And here was the deal, every unrepentant, unconverted soul was headed to a furnace of fire. And that has not changed. And they cannot escape their fate. I said they cannot escape their fate. The parable of the mustard seed. Kingdom of God is small. What is this group of disciples following this carpenter from Nazareth? What is this? You know, this is not going to amount to anything Little mustard seed planted in the ground becomes a great big tree. It's inevitable. They can't inv uh can't avoid what's going to happen because of Jesus The the the leaven, same thing. They can't avoid how the gospel will permeate everything. That's how their accountability before God Will permeate everything. It makes me think of America and how the gospel did permeate everything in this land at one point. And yet many Americans have said no. We've got to come to terms with that as we engage with people, that there are many people out there who have said no. And they are headed to a furnace of fire. Where there will be weeping and f gnashing of teeth. And though the unconverted do their own thing, they don't follow Jesus, and they're the source of evil in the world, they cannot escape the unavoidable kingdom, and they don't belong in the kingdom either. I could go, I'm I'm running out of time here, but I could go to Paul's words in in Corinthians and 1 Corinthians 6 where he says, Know ye not that the unrighteousness sh the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Don't be deceived. And he listed people who won't inherit the kingdom of God. The sexually immoral. That's any form of sex outside of marriage between a man and a woman That is a young man or an old man addicted to pornography. And anything else? Idolaters, those who worship anything but the Lord. And that doesn't just have to be a little Buddhist statue. It can be a football team that applies to married people who commit adultery. It applies to homosexuals Thieves, greedy people, drunks, verbally abusive people, swindlers And I could go to Galatians 5, I could go to Colossians 3 and add to the list, but Jesus Christ sums it up here, and it's very clear in Revelation whosoever is not found written in the book of life will be cast into the lake of fire. You say, well, I'm not too wicked. Well, he also said in Revelation 21, the fearful. The fearful will not have a part in the kingdom of heaven. And if you have been living fearfully, listen, you may legitimately be a disciple of Jesus Christ. But if you are living fearfully during all this pandemic and all this political stuff, if you are a disciple and you're living fearfully, you're living like someone who's not even going to be in the kingdom The fearful, the unbelieving, the abominable, murderers, whoremongers, sorcerers, adulterers, all liars Shall have their part in the lake which burn with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. At the end of the world, Jesus will send his angels to remove the wicked from his kingdom and cast them in the fire. That's what the parable of the tares is about. That's what the parable about the net and the gathering of the fish and dividing them about Jesus emphasized, he hammered it, and he hammers it to you and me, those who have rejected Jesus, who have not repented of their sin. Because repentance is still part of believing the gospel of Jesus Christ. Those who have not repented of their sin and believe in Jesus Christ, they are headed to a furnace of fire where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth And it will be terrible and it will be forever and it won't go away, and that's them. It's the people you know, and it's the people I know. And then I can stand up here in a message like this and not even shed a tear. Where is our hearts? But even as a pastor, I can struggle to love the world more than I love my God. And if I am not loving my God as I should, you can sure bet I will never love someone like someone that is lost as I should, let alone another disciple. You can forget it. If I am more interested in my life, in my security, and my health, and I'm not saying you're just going to take care of yourself, but if I am more interested in myself and my love has morphed into this self-love that so permeates our culture I can get away from loving a disciple in Jesus. And if I'm not loving another disciple I'm likely not no no, it's not likely. If I'm not loving another disciple, I'm not loving I'm not gonna love the world. They won't see the love of the Father in me. Go read John 17 You say, I want to get others the gospel. Well, do you love God or do you love your recent binge on Netflix? Hmm. How will we love the tares if we don't even care? I am so thankful though. That when Paul wrote to the Corinthians, he said, such were some of you. You're washed, you're sanctified. And I'm so thankful that Jesus tells unconverted sinners how they can be born again. And John 3. And I'm thankful, I don't know about you, but I'm thankful there was a day in my life where I owned up to what I was. And my name, I was guilty of many of those things. Many of those things. And yet I was a religious hypocrite, trying to do it myself and being the good little church boy. And I came to a point where I needed to believe the gospel, and I did, and Jesus gave me new life And if you are here today and you're a disciple, he's given you new life as well. And um when that event happens, when the angels come and they take the tares and they gather the wicked, the unrighteous, and they cast them into a furnace of fire. Look at verse 43 Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. The righteous shall shine forth as the sun. Well, how bright is the sun? How bright does it get up here on the mountain? You ever try to go stare at the sun in the noonday? Probably not a good idea. That's pretty bright. And your faith as a disciple of Jesus Christ? When that happens is to shine forth as the sun. We say maybe today we we are with him. We are dead here. And our identity is with him. What is it? Colossians chapter three. When Christ is our life shall appear, you'll appear also with him in glory. First John chapter three, beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doesn't appear yet what we shall be, but we know that When he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And there will be glory, the final destination of disciples of Jesus is glory. That's you and that's me. It's like the man that was out working in the field, the the other parable there. He's working in the field and he's digging and he What is that? And he discovers, oh, there's some treasure hidden in this field. And he covers it up real quick and he leaves and he goes and he sells everything he has just to buy that field because he knows there's treasure there. And the merchant the he was a wealthy individual. He'd be traveling around and Maybe even have a fleet of ships. And he's traveling. He has this hobby to collect goodly pearls. And one day he finds a an invaluable pearl. You can't even name a price on it. And he goes, he sells everything he has. Say he's a rich merchant who home owns a whole fleet of ships. He sells every last board, every last plank of every last ship, because he wants that pearl. And if you're a disciple, that's the decision you made because When you heard about Jesus, you found out about something more valuable than anything in this world, more valuable than anything you have, and you were willing to just forsake it all just for Jesus. That's you. You're not going to hell. I said, you're not going to hell. You have God in your life, and one day you'll shine forth in the kingdom of your Father But those that don't know Jesus won't. And so Jesus asks you, do you understand this? Do you understand this? Do you hear where the people in your life who are unconverted, unrepentant, unbelieving are headed to at the end of this world? Do you hear it? Do you hear the priceless treasure you have as a disciple of Jesus Christ? Do you have eyes to see clearly what is coming? If you do, Jesus expects you to tell others. Jesus, God's secrets are for God's subjects to share. And Jesus helps us understand the secrets of God about the end of the world So you can teach others. You're to understand the fate of the wicked so you can point them to the gate of God. You must understand the big picture of the Bible. You must understand where all of this is headed. You must understand that we need to tell people if they're living an obvious lifestyle of sin We meet a homosexual and we uh and they work at a maybe they're a barista or maybe they're working at a bank or whatever. And you meet someone out there and you you know it. They just got to look. And you know, well this could be sensitive real quick And you don't want to go in guns barrel guns blazing. But if you aren't willing to tell them the truth, that they need to repent and believe the gospel, they will not get away from that fate, and you have a responsibility to tell them. You have a loved one who's religious, they're Catholic, and you've seen them at family reunions for the past 40 years, and they're holding on to their works like nobody's business. If you're not willing to tell them that their works are not going to get them to heaven, they will not know. If you're not willing to tell them that Jesus Christ is the only way. If you're not willing to tell them that if they don't repent and believe the gospel, their fate will be a furnace of fire forever, who will tell them? Well, I don't want to scare them into heaven. You've got s well what what my pastor back home would say, will you scare them off to hell number two? So he says this, disciple. Every disciple that understands the secrets, the mysteries, is instructed in the kingdom of heaven, is like a scribe. You've been educated tonight perfectly by Jesus. And if you get this, you are like a householder. You're like a dear lady who has seasonal decorations And depending on the time of year, depends on when those decorations come out. In the spring, here come the vibrant colors. In the summer, I don't know, because I'm not a lady and I don't pay attention all the whole time to decoration. In the fall, we love the fall, right? In the winter, here comes the Christmas stuff And guess what? She found a new deal at the end of last season at Hobby Lobby or wherever else. So this year there's some new things and there's some old things, and she's so excited to have people in her house to see what she's got If you're going to buy Christmas decorations and put them out, it's so people can see them. And if you're going to understand these things that are both new and old Things that the old-fashioned preachers would have bellowed out again and again and again that there is a hell awaiting the wicked. If you understand that, you still, just as much as they did in the heyday of fundamentalism you still have a responsibility to teach others also. So this is what I want to suggest. The gospel comes with a house key. The house key is the key to the door of your life. God expects you as a disciple to make disciples of Jesus. If you're breathing, that's your job tomorrow. That's your job. And he expects you to open your life like a loving homeowner would and say, come on in, I have some things I would love to share with you. And you might do it over a cup of coffee, you might do it over brownies, over a casserole at your kitchen table, you might do it over a tractor that you're helping your bud work on. Who knows what it may be But the point is you know what's coming and you love them too much not to tell them. These are stories worth Telling. Father, would you help us live this? Would you help me tomorrow to live this? May we have the compassion of Jesus in our souls. Thank you for these dear people, their heart for you. Thank you for the witness of this church that is faithfully witnessed here in this community year after year after year. I don't want to take that for granted tonight. I pray that you'd encourage them and strengthen them in the work Help us be faithful. Help us to tell others what's coming. For surely it's coming soon. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.