Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight to Acts chapter sixteen. Acts chapter sixteen. June and I have thoroughly enjoyed our time here again this year. We of course this is uh a church we love, there's a congregation we have fallen in love with over the years and just appreciate uh your faithfulness and always enjoy coming. Thank you for everything you've done. Thank you for your faithfulness, being in the services. And we just enjoy coming to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church Uh I sometimes you you get to a uh certain get with certain churches and and you know you just get real close and you uh it gets real personal Uh last night I even had a dream. I may have had a dream like this here before, I don't know. But I had a dream last night. And I dreamed I went to heaven And I met some people from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church there. It was an amazing thing. I was walking down the streets of heaven and I ran into Brother Paul And when I ran into him, uh he was chained to uh one of the ugliest women. I'm telling you, she was she was absolutely ugly. And I I could understand. I said, Paul, what in the world's going on? And he said, well he said, I didn't pay my taxes for ten years. I've got to be chained. to this woman so to just have to pay the price. And I left and went on down and ran into Chester. And he was chained to even a an uglier woman I mean she was banned. And I said, Jester, what's going on? He said, Well, I didn't pay my taxes for fifteen years and I've got to be chained to this woman for fifteen years. And said So I left him, went on down, ran into Ed. Now when I ran into Ed, he was chained to one of the most beautiful women you would ever want to see in your life I mean she was a knockout. And I uh looked at him and said, Ed, what in the world's going on? Before he could say a word, the woman said, Oh, I didn't pay my taxa for twenty years I've got to be chained this woman So it gets real personal sometimes. It just it's uh when you start dreaming about it, you know you've had a good time there. June and I have had a good time Acts chapter 16, uh, let me just say this. I I think faith promise is one of the most exciting parts of the Christian life. Well it's uh you know, you uh you can be involved in giving the faith promise and and sending missionaries and partnering with missionaries. But if you get involved in missions, you become more sensitive to the responsibility of reaching people right in your own Jerusalem And so uh God blesses when you when you get involved in giving to missions. Uh June and I went to Bible school in 1967. And uh we uh we had been married for quite a few years, and I was twenty-eight years old. We had four children. And uh I was working in management and manufacturing, left uh uh job in manufacturing and management, and went to Chattanooga and got a job to make a two dollars and sixty-five cents an hour And I mean we just struggled to make ends meet, to keep our nose above water. And then they had the first missions conference there at Highland Park Baptist Church, Tennessee Temple And Dr. Robertson started talking about giving to missions. And I I thought to myself, he cannot be talking to me. He cannot be talking to us students here at Tennessee Temple struggling to just pay our school bill and pay the rent and uh uh uh just keep our nose above water But by the end of that conference I realized Dr. Robertson was not talking to me, but God was talking to me. And uh June and I, at that time, we had never been faced with faith giving to missions. And at that time, we made our first commitment to support missionaries above our tithes and offerings to the church. And that was a life-changing commitment. I am convinced over the years being able to look back and see what I think have been direct results of that decision that was made as a student in Bible school. We uh we had a bus route. That was our ministry at Highland Park. And I'll not go into all of that, but it it was a consuming ministry. You visited all day Saturday nine thirty to nine thirty at night and and you ministered to those people on your bus route taking clothes out and food out to 'em and going out Thursday night and having Bible clubs and it was just a consuming thing along with studies and working forty hours a week. And once we made that commitment to missions and God dealt with our heart about partnering with missionaries, then uh I started uh sharing that responsibility with those on my bus route. And we started uh we took on three missionaries on our bus route that uh the church supported But we made them our personal missionaries, and we started teaching our bus riders their responsibility to give to missions. And I I really uh uh have seen how that one decision to get involved in faith uh giving to missions, how God began to work on my heart. In leading me to take it a step further along the way. And so uh it's not just giving money When you partner with missionaries, supporting missionaries, God works in your life in so many other ways. God works in your family. Let me say this. One of the best things you could do for your family, for your children, is to teach them how to give to faith-promise missions. Teach them how to personally get involved. Or you think of what it's been in your life, uh giving to faith promise, and what God has done in your life. Imagine uh learning as a five year old, six year old, ten year old, and making a commitment to give and s keeping that commitment. And God teaching you those things as a young person. What it can mean in in uh just growing you. As a Christian. So faith promises more than just just money. And I would uh Just encourage you. Just do what God wants you to do. That's all He expects. Just do what He wants you to do. Well, I want to look at Acts chapter 16. And I want to read, beginning in Acts chapter 16. Let me see here. You'll have to bear with me. I'm in a new Bible, and it's a different for me, totally different. I want to begin reading in verse 23 of Acts chapter 16. I'm sorry, verse 22. The Bible says, and the multitude rose up together against them, that is, against Paul and Silas, and the magistrates ripped off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. Who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake. So that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loosed The keeper of the prison, awaking out of his sleep and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light. And sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas, and brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord. and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was baptized he and all his straightway And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house Father, we thank you for the Bible again tonight, the opportunity to open the Bible, and an opportunity for you to speak to our hearts. Thank for each person that has come tonight and just uh the blessings of the week. Now I pray that you would do some very special things tonight. I pray first of all that you would just speak to our hearts and make us aware that you're doing so. I know you want to speak to us, you want to do a work in our hearts, but but cause us to listen. Cause us to be alert to what you have for us. And then we want to pray for the faith promise and ask that you would continue to add to the total from this morning and that you would meet the need of supporting the missionaries that are already being supported and take on new missionaries tonight, this week, and the coming year. And I pray that you would help us, God help us to hear something that would cause us to enjoy serving you. More than ever before. Use this section of scripture that we've read and to help us to gain something from it. So familiar, but yet So much to learn. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now we love this portion of Scripture because it has so much to do with Paul and And things he said, things he did, call to go into Macedonia, and just uh uh so many things in this portion of scripture we enjoy and we talk about often. We enjoy the the story of the Philippian jailer. And his uh uh the story of him uh being saved and his family. Did I say something to make you mad? You didn't have this up here when I came I guess I didn't. He just slacked on his job, right? We'll have to meet after church. But here's what I want us to think about tonight. With all that and and this happens often. Often we become so familiar with certain portions of scripture. That familiarity keeps us from seeing other things that God wants to show us. And I think this is one of those places we we fail sometimes to read it, to learn. We just read it. To routinely do it. But here's the thought I want us to think about tonight. I want us to think about the miraculous thing that God did. In the lives of Paul and Silas. I mean, they experienced something That was miraculous, didn't he? Imagine, imagine seeing God, experiencing God do what he did I mean, the earthquake coming, I mean they're they're in the back of the prison, forgotten, the earthquake comes, splits the building, the doors swing open. And this jailer that had cast him into prison, all of a sudden he's saying, hey, what do I uh need to do to get saved? Uh uh they saw God do a miraculous thing. And that's what you and I want. Uh we really want God. We want to see God do some things that we have to stand back and know. I had very little to do with that, if anything. God did that. That is an exciting time, isn't it? When you just know God did something. Jeremiah says it this way: Call unto me, and I will answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. God tells us in that portion of Scripture, I have some miraculous things planned for you. Imagine that. Great and mighty things. I have some great and mighty things planned for you that you know nothing about. Some things that that when you go through them, when you experience them, you will not be able to take credit. You will have to stand back and say, God did that. God did a great and mighty thing. And that's what we want. Amen? We want to see that in our lives. We want to see it in our families. We want to see God do some miraculous things in the lives of our children. We want to see God do some miraculous things in our church. We want to see it. But you know, it does not just happen by accident. God has a plan. God has a direction. And I think in this portion of Scripture, we have some very definite things given to us that we need to latch on to if we really want to see God do something. If we really want to experience God, then we need to follow some things that Paul had to experience to get to that jail experience. So let's go back and take a look at it. First of all, we need to come to a place that we're willing to be where we're supposed to be. Willing to be where we're supposed to be. Now that's a cliche sometimes, and sometimes it's just a uh something we say off the cuff, but hey, that is a very serious thing Being where God wants us to be. You think about Moses. Moses saw the Red Sea experience. He saw the Red Sea uh separated and they walked across on dry land. But Moses did not cause that to happen. God did it. But Moses was where God wanted him at the moment. And he was able to experience that You think about Gideon and all he saw in the the Midianites and and uh how God touched that situation and they scattered and he saw the victory come with the three hundred men. But Gideon had nothing to do with that Except be there. God did that. But he permitted Gideon to be a part of it because Gideon was where God wanted him. We need to come to a place where we consider the fact that God has a place for us. And that's where He's going to do some miraculous things. Now let's go back to the beginning of the chapter And I want to start in verse 6. Paul, of course, is in the his second missionary journey. Timothy has just been discipled, some by Paul, and he has become a part of the team. So we have uh Paul and Silas and Timothy, at least those three. Luke evidently joins the team during this time, so there will be four, but let's begin in verse six. It says, now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word of Asia After they were come to Mycia, they essayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not. Now let's stop right there for a second. Let me say this. In order for you and for me to be where we're supposed to be, then the first thing we have to make sure of, we have to make sure we're not where we're not supposed to be. And that that m that more often than we probably recognize and definitely want to admit happens in our lives. We get the place that we're not supposed to be And it keeps us from being where we are supposed to be. But Paul here, now think about this. Paul has such a relationship with the Holy Spirit That when the Holy Spirit said to him, Don't go there, he didn't go. Don't go there, he didn't go. Look at it again. Now when they uh uh had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, now uh he wants uh he wants to Paul. Paul is looking to go westward into that part uh uh of the country. Uh but as they desired to go to that section, and evidently Paul wanted to go because there needed to be churches planned there. There needed to be uh there was a job there to do But it's not the place for Paul. And it says they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. So then he wants to go in another direction. He wants to go northward. And it says in verse 7, after they were come to Mycia, they essayed to go into Bythynia. So he he has a desire to go into Bythenia. Paul is a church planter. Paul is a soul winner. His life was uh the Lord's work. And so he wants to head that direction, not because he's looking for a vacation spot, because he's he's looking for a place to reach people, a place to start churches And even when he wanted to do this, it says, but the Spirit suffered them not. And then it says in verse 8, and they passing by Micah. When the Holy Spirit twice said, don't go there, don't go there, then they headed to this coastal town by Mice. They came to Troas. And there they waited on the Lord. Now uh why is that important? Why is it important? Uh because these were probably good places to go or Paul would not have wanted to go. They were probably needy places to go. or Paul uh would not have wanted to go. Why is it important uh to not go to a place where there's a need, but to go to the place where there's a call to go? Because God has A place for each one of us. I think a key reason, a key reason is this. When you and I get where we're not supposed to be, There's always pressure to do what we're not supposed to do. Even though it's a good place, even though it's a nice place, even though it's a needy place, If it's not the place God wants for us, then we have pressure to make decisions that we should not be making. Commitments that we should not be making. I think a good example is Abraham. You remember Abraham in Genesis chapter twelve? Boy God uh has given him direction and given him instructions. He commits to God and now he's moving in the right direction and all of a sudden famine And instead of talking to God about where what he should do, he heads down to Egypt, the world. And when he gets in Egypt There's pressure for him to make a wrong decision. He wants Sarai to say that she is his sister, and he lets Pharaoh take her into his household. Why? Because he is in the wrong place. Hey, uh, you would think a person would learn after going through that, but in Genesis chapter 20, you find the same thing. He's headed down to Jarar, and he gets under pressure and lets Abimelech take Sarah, going through the same process. When you and I get in the place where we're not supposed to be, then there's pressure on us to make wrong decisions. Fear comes. Pressure comes. So we need to have that relationship with the Holy Spirit. We need to learn when He's talking to us. We need to learn what it is when the Spirit of God is saying, don't do that. Because we can come to a place that we justify our fleshly desires. That we can we can justify being in our comfort zone when it's not where we're supposed to be. Right? We can do that. And we need to learn to listen to the Holy Spirit. So he didn't go where he was supposed to go. Verse 9, it says, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed to him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. And after He had seen the vision. Immediately we endeavored. The word we there indicates that Luke has become a part. He includes himself in the group now. We endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. That little phrase there, those words there, assuredly gathering has the thought of it had come together. All of a sudden they knew as a team this is the direction to go. This is what God wants. Boy, it is a wonderful thing when you know that's what God wants me to do. That's where God wants me. That's the decision God wants me to make. I'll tell you Uh we may get scared about this faith promise thing and and we may question and try to logically uh work it out, planning the next year ourselves, but I'll tell you th the thing that will will be uh a a time of contentment, a time of satisfaction, a time of enjoyment with God is to just do what He wants. Just agree with him. Just make the decision. And notice what notice what happened here. Verse eleven. Therefore, loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothricia, and the next day to Neopolis. And from thence to Phili uh Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia and a colony And we were in that city abiding certain days. You ought to underline those words. Abiding certain days. The thought there is that this is the place we're to remain. This is the place that we are to tarry. This is the place we are to continue. Hey, listen tonight. There is a place where God wants you to dock and tie to the pier. There's a place where God wants you to drop anchor and stay right there. And that is the place, that is the place that God will do some miraculous things for us. If we will just get where He wants us to be and just put down stake. And just say to ourselves, and make the commitment in our own lives: I am not leaving here until God definitely directs me Until God definitely leads me. I am going to stay right here, no matter what happens. And boy, that's the the beginning of God doing some miraculous things. I agree I remember years ago, think about this one day. When June and I first got in a church where we were challenged to serve the Lord, Baptist Bible Church in Elkton, Maryland. And uh we'd been saved three, four years, but we had not been challenged to really serve God and and do the things that we should have been doing. And we finally got in this church, and boy, it was a place where people were being saved, and they were running buses, and things were happening, and it was just an exciting place to watch God work And uh I got in there and we were we were just immature Christians, we didn't know much at all, and the pastor started talking about Thursday night soul winning, Thursday night visitation Wednesday night he'd have people raise their hands. Who's going to be here tomorrow night to go out? Finally I said, Goodness, uh these people are all going out and visiting. I said, I'm gonna go find out what this is all about So I went on Thursday night. And when I went the first Thursday night, Pastor put me with a band of the name of Ed Crow. Now, Ed Crow knew the Bible. He was a Bible teacher. I would go visiting with Ed Crow, and I would just sit there, and it was a discipleship time for me. He'd just teach those people the Bible. He'd win people to Christ and He'd tell them what they ought to do and show them the scriptures. I would just sit there and soak it in. I mean, I went Thursday after Thursday after Thursday Every night I went, I'd go in, I'd sit down by Ed Crow, and and uh as soon as we uh had prayer, he and I would take off, and and one night I went went on Thursday night And uh pastor came in, he starts separating people, send us out. He says, uh, Brother Creedy said, why don't you uh and Stu Balger go together tonight? Stu Balger had been saved two weeks. Man, I was scared to death. The blood just drained from my head. I had never witnessed to an adult. I had never knocked on a door myself. Man, I just enjoyed listening to Ed Crow. And so uh the pastor knew I was scared. Ed Crow knew I was scared. And the pastor gave me his card. He said, Listen, said why don't you guys go visit uh this man said he visited the church a couple of weeks ago, I'll never forget his name, Mr. Sabola. And uh then Ed Crow gave me this card. He said he said uh I've been trying to find this family for a couple of weeks, said why don't you see if you can locate them? Gave us a card, their address. And uh so Stu and I, we went out the car and I asked Stu, I said, Stu, do you have a bi uh a New Testament? He says, Oh yeah, I've got one. And that was good, because I didn't have one. I didn't need one. Ed Crow had one I didn't need a Bible. And so uh we had a Bible. And I said, well, we better have prayer. Now what I wanted to do was have about a two-hour prayer meeting. I wanted to pray for all these people that were out there witnessing and visiting and and but uh we prayed and then he he and I drove downtown to Elkton and went to this address for Mr. Sabula And uh we knocked on the door and his daughter come to came to the door. Uh he lived with his daughter, she was married, and her and her husband, he stayed with her and her husband and And we introduced ourselves, told him we were from the church and and asked about uh Mr. Sabul. She said, Oh yeah. Said, come on in. Said he'll be glad you've come tonight. Said, he's back in the family room, said go on back there and talk to him We went back there, and I mean he was waiting for somebody to come and just tell him, why don't you pray and receive Christ? I mean he knew he needed to be safe. He knew all of it, but he just needed somebody to lead him to receiving Christ. And boy, it didn't take us long to go through the simple plan of salvation as much as we knew. And Mr. Sabulla bowed his head and received Christ as Savior. 65 years old Stu and I just sort of floated back to the car. You know, man that we had seen God do something, and we absolutely knew we didn't have anything to do with that because we didn't have enough sense to make it happen. So we le we left there and we went to this other uh address that Ed Crow gave us and knocked on the door and and the lady came to the door and we said, uh we're looking for so and so and she said, Oh, so they moved About a month ago said we've lived here a couple of weeks at uh and we told her we can do church and we said okay we'll not bother you we just want to come and and check on them she said oh no don't leave She said, my husband is very sick. And she said, I've been praying all day that somebody would come. She said, Would you go back and talk to him? And we went back there. He was ready to be saved. All he needed was somebody just to open the Bible and say, here's where you are. Here's what you need to do. And he bowed his head and received Christ as Savior. Stu Balger and I saw God that night do a miraculous thing. Now that's exciting. That's what we want, isn't it? That's what we want to see. That's what we want to experience. But we're going to have to determine, we're going to have to be willing to be where we're supposed to be. We can't just live our own life, go our own direction, do our own thing, and expect God To put his hand on it. There's a place for us. There's a life for us. And we need to make up our minds we're going to be where God wants us to be. Let me give you a second thought. If we're going to experience these miraculous things, we're going to need to come to a place that we're willing to go through what we need to go through to be there. Now you think about what they went through. They saw a miraculous thing happen. You know, after this they experienced the prayer meeting down by the river. Lydia's life has changed and this this damsel filled with uh vexation starts po following them around. She's a soothsayer, she's a fortune teller, she She uh does business for these men, makes money for these men. And Paul gets tired of it, he just casts the spirit out of her. You know, he wasn't upset with her, he was upset with the spirit that filled her. He cast the spirit out. Boy, when he did, then her whole life was changed with meant which meant the business was over. And the men got mad. And they got mad and they started accusing Paul. Notice what it says here. Verse 22. It says, and the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. In other words, just to keep them securely, just to make sure there's they stay. Who having received such a charge Thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. Now wait a minute. They're just uh they're where God wants them to be. There's other places they want to go, but they've gone where God wanted them to be. They're doing what God wants them to do. They're preaching the gospel, winning people to Christ, seeing things happen, and all of a sudden they find themselves being falsely accused. Cast into prison, in stocks, cast into the inner prison. Now they're going through an extremely difficult Time, and they have not done one thing wrong. But they're willing to go through it. And that's what you and I need to learn. How many people run when the difficulty comes? How many people are not here tonight that you've seen here over the years And they've taken off because of problems. Just the difficulty comes, not willing to go through it If you and I are going to see God do some miraculous things, we're going to have to come to a place that we're willing to go through what God wants us to go through. Now let me show you something. Let me ask you to turn back to James chapter 1. James gives us some good instruction in this area. James chapter one Now James chapter 1, notice verse 1. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting, My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptation. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Count it all joy when you find yourself having trouble. and difficulty. Now I'll have to say, there was a long time that I looked at that verse and I said to myself many times, uh I could never be that kind of Christian. Huh? I always read that and I thought about boy God wants me to kids have a temperature of 102 and He wants me to jump up and click my heels and say, Praise the Lord You know, or the end of the week, uh the money runs out before the week does, and he expects me just to jump up and click my heels and say, Praise the Lord. But that's not what he's saying. That little phrase there Where it says, My brethren, count it all joy. The thought of those words there, count it all joy. The thought is to consider it, to examine it. It's not saying jump up and click your heels because you're going through trouble. What it's saying is when you find yourself in difficulty. When you find yourself going through that time of testing, time of trial, don't you make a quick emotional decision You stop and you look at what you're going through in light of the scriptures. You consider it Looking at the promises of God, the testimonies of people who have gone through it You make sure that you're making the right decision and not just an emotional decision getting upset at what you're going through. So we're when we find ourselves in trouble, uh stop. Think about the promises of God. Think about what God wants. Why? Look at what he says. Verse two of verse three. Knowing this That the trying of your faith worketh patience. Knowing this, that going through what you're going through Worketh patience. Now the word patience has the thought of endurance. Really, a better understanding is this. The word patience there has the thought of spiritual toughness. Sticking to it. Staying where you're supposed to be. Spirit, every Christian needs some spiritual toughness There are too many whiners. Huh? When we need to be tough. As I read this, I thought about a boxer. When a boxer is preparing for a match or a bout, they they have to get themselves in shape. They have to get their legs primarily, their legs and their arms in shape. And they'll they'll run miles and miles and miles to get their sh legs in shape to go uh the amount of rounds that they're gonna have to fight if they go the full distance And then once they get their legs in decent shape, then they start working on their arms and they'll start punching the small bag and then the heavy bag. And then they will eventually get into the ring with a sparring partner. And that sparring partner will have a helmet on and they'll wear a they'll have oversized gloves and they'll get in there and they'll bang around on each other a little bit. But that wow that boxer That boxer will never have the toughness that they need until they get in the ring with somebody trying to knock their head off. And when they get in there with somebody that's trying to lay them out on the canvas, turn their lights out, defeat them, then all of a sudden they begin to fight. To survive. That's where you and I need to get. We need to come to a place that there's spiritual toughness there And uh we uh when the bat when the the difficulties come, the trials come, instead of running, instead of getting mad, instead of blaming it on someone, instead of turning our backs on God We need to be tough enough to consider what's going on and react according to the Bible. For this reason, verse four. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing You and I are not going to become the complete Christian we need to be until we go through the difficulties. And that we have a willingness to battle the difficulties and stay where God wants us. Amen. And we are never going to experience the miraculous things that God wants to do in our lives until we come to a place that we're willing to go through. What we need to go through. Well, let's go back to Acts 16. Let me give you one last thought here. Thirdly, If we're going to experience the miraculous things, then we're going to have to come to a place that there's more praising and less complaining. Huh? We complain about so many things that we're really complaining about God. We just won't say it to God. We'd rather use somebody else But we're really complaining about what God's letting us go through. Now notice what happens here. Look with me at verse 25. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. No complaining, no whining, no griping, no threatening. Just singing praises unto God. Isn't that amazing? Wouldn't it be great to be that kind of Christian? Huh? Wouldn't it be great to grow to the place that you just didn't complain? You just praised God? That that you really believed God Has charge of everything. You really believe that all things work together for good? Instead of just talking about the verse. Wouldn't it be good to grow to that place? Well, if you and I are going to see the miraculous things that God has for us, We're gonna have to be uh praisers instead of complainers. Amen. Uh, I can remember when you and I were in Bible school, uh and there's so many things that come to your mind. All of us can just think of places where we complain and gripe and And just uh really do not let God grow us the way he wants. But uh We were in Bible school and I'll not go through all the details but uh I moved the family down there into a house that wasn't really a nice house and so we started June started looking for another house as soon as we got Chattanooga And uh she finally found another house and and I was in that bus ministry and we visited all day and I I just did not have time to move. Except Saturday night after we finished uh bus meditation late Saturday night. So all the bus captains came over and helped us move. So we moved our our furniture's about five blocks down and We moved everything down there and got in this new house. And this this one bus captain came to me and he said, uh, Brother Creedy said, I want to give you this uh box of soup. And they were cans uh of soup without labels. You know, that's sort of the way we lived. Buy stuff without labels and thi f thrift bakery and all that and and uh So he gave me that. He said it's black bean soup. Well, black bean soup at that time was just, you know, you put book uh beans in a strainer and run water through it and That was it and I I just thought to myself, I do not want this black bean soup. So I just stuck it down. We had an uh uh one of those old uh uh dirt basements and I just stuck it up in the corner of that basement and and uh one day June June worked at the school nursery. She worked eight to twelve. I went to school eight to twelve and I pick her up at the nursery and we'd go home and eat lunch together and I came out one day and picked her up and I said, uh, well let's go have some lunch and she said, There's nothing. I said I said, Well you mean nothing? She said, we have absolutely nothing. The only thing we have, some crackers. We have absolutely nothing to eat for lunch. And I said, black bean soup. She said, I'm not eating that black bean soup. I went home, got down there in that basement, and re and reached up there and got me a couple of cans of that bean and black bean soup. And I got up there and opened it up. You know what it was? Minestroni. Hey, it was like opening a stake. Now I'm gonna tell you something That has been in my memory for years. And you can think what you want. But I think God did a miraculous thing. Huh? That was an exciting time for me. That guy told me it's black bean soup, and I'm convinced God gave me some minister. Huh? Hey, if we would just come to a place that we just stop complaining and let God take us to it. He would show us some things that we'd have to stand back and say, only God. Amen. And that's really what we want. But we just don't want to pay the price to get there. We won't let God get us there. Let me get you to consider tonight what God's doing in your life, what he wants to do. And uh just say, God, I want to see those things. And help me to apply these things to my life so I can. Amen? Let's pray.