My my heart uh as we look around our nation today, uh it bothers me to see that a lot of churches aren't like this church. We used to be able to travel, my wife and I, when we'd take our girls to college or even on vacation, and we'd stop into an independent fundamental Baptist church You knew that they stood on the King James Bible. You knew that they had the music that was right, the doctrines that were right, but that's not the case today. It bothers me to see that our churches are falling by the wayside and adapting those things that are just physically pleasing. Instead of pleasing the Lord Jesus Christ. So tonight I want to bring a message of being steadfast and unmovable. If you have your Bibles tonight, I want you to turn to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 15 I'm going to read just one verse of Scripture, and then I'm going to have prayer, and then we'll get into the message. If you found your place, would you uh out of respect and reverence for the word stand while I read the verse, and I'll have prayer. And then you may be seated. If you're able to stand, I appreciate that so much. Notice in verse number 58, Paul's coming to the conclusion of this first church, to our letter to the church at Corinth. And he's kind of summarizing everything that the church needs to hear. And in the last part of this last chapter, or the next of the last chapter, he comes down to verse 58 and he says, Therefore My beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father, once again tonight we thank you for the privilege that we have, that we can gather into your house, that we can lift up your name. And Lord, I'm glad that you're going to safely bring us home. Lord, I'm excited tonight about you and all that you're doing here in Mountain Lake. And Lord, I thank you, God, for this wonderful church I thank you for these dear faithful folks. I thank you for their preacher, their pastor, who for all these years has stood steadfast, unmovable, in the work of the Lord. Lord, tonight, I pray, oh God, Holy Spirit, would you put a hedge around the building? I pray that you first of all would then fill me once again. Guard me, guide me, give me the words that you'd have me to say. And then I pray, O Holy Spirit, that you touch hearts tonight. Maybe there's someone tonight here that as kind of wavering a little bit. Maybe, Lord, there's some distractions in their life tonight. And uh maybe close to uh slipping out. And Lord, I just ask you, God, that you would work in our hearts Maybe we just need to rekindle the fire one more time to be determined to be steadfast and movable. Bless us, I pray, now in the next few moments. Use us, we ask, and we thank and praise you In Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. Thank you for standing. You know, as I read through the Bible, it always amazes me. how these uh Bible characters, the heroes of our faith, in so many instances when they were in dire distress When they were persecuted, when they were in trial, they were able to stand fast for the Lord You think of uh Joseph when he was uh tempted by Potiphar's life and he said, How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God. He took a stand. He was fed steadfast and faithful to the Lord. How about Joshua at the end of his life when he was uh turning everything over and Really, he said, Choose you this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord I think of the Apostle Paul as he stood at the end of his life and thinking about all the things that he suffered, the beatings, the stonings. uh the shipwreck, uh the uh uh trials and all of the rest, now in prison and at the end of it about ready to leave this world. He says, I have fought A good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Oh, what a trial, what a blessing, what a testimony to being steadfast unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know, a faith that can't be tested is a faith that can't be trusted. You know, if you have a strong faith, it's going to be tested. Sometimes we go through trials, do we not? Sometimes we go through situations that we don't know the answer to. Uh I was taught we were talking, had the privilege of talking to Miss Kathy this afternoon and all that she's going through and yet with a great attitude And she said, I'm just trusting the Lord. Well, that's faith. That's faith that can be trested and found to be faithful. I want you to realize that I believe the Lord wants us to be steadfast. He wants us to remain faithful, no matter what, being unmoved through the things of this world. You know, the greatest example we have is the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about all that he went through, living for God, serving God, miracles he worked, healing and raising the dead, giving sight back to the blind, hearing to the deaf, all the things that he did. Walked upon this earth for those thirty-three years of preaching and teaching, and now facing the cross for no reason except to pay the debt of our sin And yet he was faithful. He said, Aren't you glad that on the cross, when he could have called that legion of angels to take him off, aren't you glad he remained there? He stayed there, he paid the debt for our sin. If you look in this passage of Scripture, you'll find the first word, of course, is therefore. And anytime you find that word therefore, you want to go back and find out what it's therefore. And uh in our passage in this chapter, Paul gives us some reasons why we need to remain to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And I want to share those very briefly with you this evening. First of all, I believe we ought to remain steadfast because of the great salvation that we have. Look at verse number one of our chapter It says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which ye also have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved. If you keep in memory that which I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which also I received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. I want you to realize that the reason we ought to remain steadfast is because of the great gift that God has given to us He's paid the debt of my sin. He's given me this wonderful hope of eternal life. He's given me a place that he's preparing for me and has been preparing for me for all of these years, more beautiful than any heart, any mind can imagine. And he's given all that, and I don't worry, I'm not fearful of death, because I know where I'm spending eternity That's because of the great gift of my salvation, all that He's given to me. You know, if I uh was a millionaire tonight And uh and I'm not, by the way. Uh and uh if I had a Corvette Stingray, uh which is my favorite car, so if anybody would love to buy me a a car for the ministry, there you are. But anyway Uh but if I had a Corvette stingray and I decided I was going to give it to Brother Dave over here and I took the keys to that car And I said, Brother Dave, that car cost me over a hundred thousand dollars. And uh I love it, but uh I know you're a good fella, and I know that you will treat it right and and uh not go over a hundred and five and and uh So I'm gonna give you this car. Now I can hold the keys out to him. I can hold them out there all the time in the world. But what's he gonna have to do is he's got to have enough faith that I'm really meaning and sincering that and he's gonna have to reach out and take those keys. Don't you dare. That's the only color I got But the fact is, if I gave him a $100,000 vehicle at no cost to him at all, no strings attached, I want you to understand, I think he'd be my friend, wouldn't he? I I think he'd kind of like sure. I think he'd kind of like me a little bit. He'd he'd want to help me along the way if I needed some help too, because we're friends. Let me tell you something. The greatest gift I ever received was a gift of eternal life. It cost the giver a great deal. It cost his his very life, but he offered it to me free. And all I had to do is take it and receive it. Now, don't you think I owe him something? Don't you think that I ought to be recip uh reciprocating His love for me, his care for me, and therefore because of that great gift of salvation, I ought to remain steadfast. Unmovable, faithfully in serving the Lord Jesus Christ, because of that great gift of eternal life. We were all guilty. We're all worthy of eternity and away from God. The Bible says in Romans 5 twelve, of course, that wherefore as by one man sin and into the world death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned In John 3. 16, or 3. 36, excuse me, it says this: He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son hath not life, but the wrath of God Abideth on him. I want you to understand that salvation changed our destiny. It changed ought to change our disposition. It ought to change our dreams. And it ought to change our desires. I ought to desire to remain steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Then secondly, I think the reason that Paul gave here for the fact of why we ought to remain steadfast is because of the great sacrifice. of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number three of our text. It says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according To the scriptures. I want you to understand. We get this idea, yes, Jesus died on the cross. I want you to know it was much more than that. Jesus suffered on the cross. He suffered on that cross. He was beaten beyond all measure. When the Romans would scourge a man They would take his hands and tie them together. They take that rope and throw it over a low stone beam. And they would stretch that man so that the tips of his feet were just touching the floor. That would keep him from swinging. They would take that cat of nine-tails, that scourge, that would have those pieces of pottery and glass and bone sharpened in it. tied to the end of it, and they would get have the strongest Roman soldier begin to apply those forty stripes, save one. And during those times that throngs would come across that body, and those pieces of bone and whatever would bury itself into the flesh, and then as he would pull it back, it would literally start to cut it Many of those men would literally die under the scourging. Jesus suffered that for you, for me Then he would take that cloth, that purple robe, and they placed it over him, and all of that bleeding and and uh back and And you know what happens when you place a piece of cloth over an open bleeding wound, it begins to coagulate They would take that cat a crown of thorns with those three-inch thorns and they drove them down through his scalp and across the skull and coming out. Plated that crown on, plucked out his beard. Then they would take that robe and rip it off him and that pain of that. Then they took him to the cross. And as they laid him on that cross, he laid himself down, I believe that. Bible says, No man taketh my life, but I lay it down with myself. And so I believe he literally just got there and laid himself down and said, go ahead, boys, do what you gotta do. They put those nails in through his wrist and through the ankles and feet, paled him to that cross, dropped it into the ground with such force, the Bible says that every bone came out of joint. And he hung there. Now I want you to realize that that cross was not this nice, smooth, sanded wood that we see here in the church. It was a rough-hewn piece of wood. Splinters. And as he hung on that cross, sagging from the loss of blood and the weakness that he had, his back would rub across those splinters as he would sag. Because of the position that he was in, it would literally cut off his oxygen level That carbon dioxide in his body would actually start to produce a painkiller, and that would actually, that's when he would pull himself back up And those seven times spilt from the cross. Again rubbing that back across it. I want you to realize he did that for me. He was steadfast. And by the way, that did not catch him by surprise from the very moment of eternity. He was willing to say, I'll go. I'll pay that price. I'll do what is needed. He was willing to go to that cross. And he knew everything that was going to happen to him. And I want to stress the fact, yes, he was all of God, but I want you to realize he was also all of man. He had all the feelings that we have. He felt pain. He felt hunger. He felt sleeplessness and weariness. I want you to understand, when he went to that cross, he suffered everything He knew what he was going to do. And then the greatest of it all, I believe, more so than the pain than physical pain, was that one moment on the cross when the sky grew completely dark And God himself, because he had placed the sin of the world upon his son, could no longer look at his son, his righteous son, with the sin of the world. And the I believe he turned his back, and that's when Christ cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me For that one moment of time in all of eons of history past and future, that was the moment that Christ was separated from his Heavenly Father. He did that for me. He did that for you. How could I not be steadfast? How can I not be faithful in serving him? How can I quit? How can I quit? We need to realize that great sacrifice for us. Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 5 says, But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was placed upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. He did it for us. He did it for us. He was rejected by his own as he came to this earth. But I'm so glad that so many of you here tonight have received him as your Savior. So let's remember that great sacrifice. And as I think, oh, I get tired I get weary. I'll be honest with you. When I sat at the house tonight and I looked at my watch and it was getting close to 5 or 6. 30 And I thought to myself, you know, it's cold outside. It's raining outside. I really don't want to get out into that cold weather. My old flesh did not want to come to church tonight. But I had this message and the Lord said, wait a minute, what are you preaching tonight? Preaching being steadfast, unmovable, being faithful. God says, well then get up And go. Let me tell you something. Yeah, we face trials. We face troubles. We face times when we don't want to keep on going. But I'm glad Jesus did. I'm glad he kept on going. I'm cle kind of glad that he was faithful to that. So why can I how should why should I stay steadfast, unmovable Because of his great sacrifice, because of the great salvation that he's given. And then because of the great grace that he's given. Look at verse number 10. It says, by the grace of God I am what I am, Paul said. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was given me. I want you to understand, God's grace is giv grace is God giving to me that which I do not deserve. It is the unmerited favor of God. Oh, I'm so glad that I have his grace. I'm glad that God's grace is upon us. God did not only save us, but he stowed upon us sustaining grace, enabling grace, whereby we can serve and glorify Him He's given us this ability to lift him up and to praise him and to thank him for all that he's done for us. We have the grace of God that we can live for him and go on. He made us stewards of that manifold grace. In other words, he bestowed the grace upon me. And now my responsibility is to share that grace, to let others know, and to see that grace in my life. That is the purpose. That's why I have to stay steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. It's because of that grace that is given to me. In 1 Peter 4 and verse 10 it says, as every man hath received the gift. Even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. That word manifold means various, different graces of God. God has given gifts and abilities to us that he wants us to use for his honor and glory. He wants us to be found faithful. He wants us to be serving. He wants us. To be manifold stewards of that wonderful grace of God. If I cease in serving Him Think about this. Whatever gifts I have, and I don't have a lot of gifts. I'm not a gifted person. I wish I was. I saw this young man playing the organ and then jumped over to the piano and I was upset Man, I have a hard time playing the radio and here he is playing all of these different things. These young ladies get up and sing and the choir sings and when I sing the angels weep and the ra I mean it's just a horrible mess. And I thought to myself, you know, I can son, I get upset sometimes. But whatever gift that I have, I ought to be willing to use it for him and be steadfast in it Use it whenever I can. And by the way, I think all of us can hand out a track. I don't see anybody that's uh unable to do that. We can hand out tracts, we can witness, we can invite somebody to come to church. You know the problem is when I pastored, I pastored two churches and for a total of about thirty-five years. And uh I had people come to me and they say, you know, preacher, I used to work the bus route. I used to teach a Sunday school class. I used to sing in the choir. So I preached a message one time on the used to beers. And I said, you know what? If you're still alive, God still has something for you to do. Now maybe you can't uh play the instrument again. Maybe your fingers are gotten stiff or whatever. But you know what? You can still do something. In other words, as long as I'm breathing, God has a purpose for me And he's got a purpose for you. Are we fulfilling that purpose? Are we steadfast in it? Yes, we have to work. Yes, we have responsibilities with our family. But the greatest thing is I ought to say, God, what you've done for me. And I want to serve you and to be faithful in that service to Him. Being faithful How can we no longer Be faithful and minister to others what God has given to us. I must in my life remain steadfast, unmovable, and faithful. In thy service to the Lord Jesus Christ. Then I think also I think that one of the things that We ought to be reminded of and to be steadfast and unmovable is that great and glorious future. Look at verse 42, if you will It says, so also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption. It is raised in corruption. Look at verse number 51. He says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. I think that's the sign that hangs in the nursery. It says, in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible And we shall, and we shall be changed. I want you to understand. I've got a future. I've got something that's coming, and I believe it could be tonight I'm not a date setter and I'm not here to say that the Lord's coming back in the this month, but I believe as we look at what's happening in the world and the prophecies that are there. I believe the next step in the in the prophecy is the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm ready for it. And what a joy it is. And one day I'm going to have to stand before my Lord, and I'm going to give an account of how faithful I was in serving him. I'm going to give an account of every thought, of every word spoken Of every action I've done, of every attitude behind that. I'm going to give an account. I'm accountable to God. And as I think of that accountability, I when I was a boy My dad was a very stern disciplinarian, and I don't hate that. I think that helped me to become and I wasn't the best boy even, but I I think that helped me to kind of mold my life But my dad he did he believed in that scripture. He wasn't saved, but he believed spoiled the rod uh spare the rod, spoiled the child. And so uh there were times, and I probably Deserved each and every one, if not more, that he didn't catch me at. But the one thing that I hated above everything else Was that when he was disciplining me, he would say, son, look at my eyes. Look me in the eye. Now when I knew that I had disobeyed my dad That I had failed in doing whatever he asked me or uh expected of me. The hardest thing for me to do was to look up and to see the disappointment in his face When I get to heaven, I don't want to hold my head in shame. I want to be able to look at my Savior. I want to look into his eyes. I want to see him. I want to that that song we we just uh had uh just before the the message tonight I want to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. But to do that, that means I've got to stay steadfast. I've got to stay unmovable, always abounding in what God wants me to do. Whatever He's placed in my hand, He wants me to fulfill that. He wants me to fulfill that. Take your Bibles to a very familiar passage of Scripture. Turn over to 1 Thessalonians, if you will. First Thessalonians chapter 4. Most of us know this, probably could quote it by heart, but I want you to see it, this great and glorious future. Verse 13, Paul's writing again, and he says this, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel. with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord Wherefore comfort one another with these words. There's coming a great day. Great reunion. The greatest reunion that's ever been done is when we're all gathered together. in that wonderful place. There is a coming of time and as I think of that wonderful time I can't wait to see my mom and dad I can't wait to see my grandmother, my sister's there, my brother's there, I'm the last of our family that's alive But I'm looking forward to that reunion of seeing him again. But more than that, I'm looking forward to the day that I can see the one who gave his life for me. And because of that, that future, I want to stay steadfast. I've had some people say, preacher, you're 77 years old. It's getting to the place where it's a little harder to travel, isn't it? And I say, yeah. So why are you doing it? Because I want to be steadfast. I don't want to quit on God. I want to stay faithful. You know it bothers me when somebody gets a little bit offended and they have to leave a go off some. Listen There's nothing in this world, nothing in the in any church that ought to take us out of the church except God Himself. Stay steadfast. Stay. Why? Because of the future. And then I must hurry on. Then it's because of our great victory. Look at verse number 57 of our text back in 1 Corinthians. It says, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. I'm on the winning side, folks. I'm on the winning side. Praise God, I'm on the winning side. I have got victory already. I'm victory over death, victory over the grave, victory over all the problems. Yes, I still struggle with the flesh. Yes, I still struggle with uh sin uh uh failure and all the rest, but I want you to know I'm on the winning side. I know where I'm going. I know what's mine. I know the the that there's a potential to receive rewards and words and rewards and give them back to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm on the winning side. I want to stay faithful. Our adversary Satan He's roaming about seeking whom he may defy. But I want you to understand, I'm on the winning side. Romans chapter 8, verse 37 says, Nay, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him. That loved us. In 1 John 5, verse 4, it says, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is our victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. I'm on the winning side. And so are you. If you're a Christian, you're on the winning side. You don't have to be defeated. Listen, that doesn't matter what you're facing. Man, I'll tell you what, I'm getting to the place where I wake up in the morning and I say, well, that doesn't work anymore Or I didn't have that yesterday. I wonder where that pain came from. Some of you are shaking your head, yeah, you know what I'm talking about. And if you're too young to know it, I'll tell you this: if the Lord cares, you'll find out someday It comes. But I want you to understand, I don't let that thing defeat me. There's still things that I can do. I can still get up, I can still get dressed, takes me a little longer, but I can still do those things. Why? I'm a God's victory. Victory in Christ. Amen. Second Timothy 1, verse 7 says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Somebody would say, preacher, are you sure you got a sound mind? Well, I don't know. Sometimes I wonder about it. But he's given us a sound mind. We don't have to be defeated. We don't have to be discouraged. Yeah, listen, if I looked at the situation of this world, the problems that we're facing that all around this world and the things that that are going on, I could be discouraged, but I want you to know God has a plan God has it already worked out. And some of this all has to take place so that the scriptures can be fulfilled and so that we can look forward to that day that we're on the winning side. We're more than conquerors through him. I want to stay faithful. And then lastly, it's because of the great promise that I have. Look at verse number 58. It says, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. What a great promise. What a great promise. I'm glad tonight that whatever we do for the Lord is not in vain. You hand out a track. I want you to understand. You say, well, that person never came to church. I don't know anything about it. You don't know what that track might do down the way. They might throw it away, but somebody else might pick it up You never know what you're going to do. You invite somebody to come to church. They may not come, but you've already opened the door in their heart. Your labor is not in vain That was an old song that we used to sing many years ago. I haven't heard it recently, but it says something like this in one of the parts of the chorus. It says, only one life, so soon it will pass. Only what's done for Christ will last. That's the only thing. You can mass millions of dollars, the biggest house in the world. You can have all of that here on this earth, but I want you to know when we leave this earth, you're going to leave it all behind I've never seen a hearse with a U-Haul attached to it. It's all behind. But the one thing you can send ahead. is all the things of your labors, your faithfulness, your serving God. Our labor in the Lord is not wasted They are recorded by the Lord. I want you to understand when we stand before Him, yes, we're going to give an accountability. Yes, there will be times that we're going to say, oh, I wish I hadn't thought that I wish I hadn't said that. I wish I hadn't listened to that. Yeah, that's going to be a part of it. But I want you to know so he's going to know every every prayer we pray He's going to know every act. He's going to know every track. He's going to know every time we witnessed. He's going to know every time that we had a thought of him and an encouragement to somebody else I want you to understand your labor is not in vain in the Lord. It's time to start working. Take over to the book of Mark real fast, the last, and then I'm almost finished. Mark chapter ten. You know this morning I talked about my military career. And uh I didn't go through that initiation. I made E seven chief. That was my goal. But uh I got saved just shortly after that. And the Lord began to work on my heart about going into the ministry. I had five more years this to do in the Navy to get retirement. Back then, if you got out At nineteen years, six months, you receive nothing. No pension, no medical benefits, nothing I had five more years to do. The Lord began to tap on my shoulder and say, Jim, I want you into the ministry. Oh, we prayed about that. We sought counsel of that. My desire was to stay in the Navy. But I just couldn't get away from it. So we took our discharge. Got out of the Navy We didn't uh have any retirement, no medical benefits, nothing. No, no job We had to sell our, we had a nice home, we had to sell that, and we moved into what our girls called the bomb shelter. It was literally a an old cement block, run-down building. We lived there. We went to Bible college, worked our way through. So we said, why didn't you stay in? Why didn't you just stay that extra five years? I said, well the Lord pressed upon it. But I want you to understand something. Look at me. I've not missed a meal. Amen. We get to travel the world. We're going to Estonia and Finland this year We're going to be going to Italy and and back to Germany. We just came back from going out west to to uh uh wherever it was, uh New Mexico and Arizona visiting missionaries out there. I mean you say, how do you do it? It's the Lord. But I want to show you why. Look at here. Look at what it says in verse 29 of Mark chapter 10. It says, and Jesus answered and said, Now catch all of this. Verily I say unto you, there is no man that hath left house or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my sake and the gospels But he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brethren, and sisters, and mothers and children, and lands with persecution, and in the world to come eternal life. I want you to understand, you can't outgive God. God takes care of you. You say, how does he do it? I can't explain it. But he just does. Miracle after miracle. When we get to the place of why I want to stay faithful to God, because He's faithful to me. He meets every one of my needs when before I even know I have that need. He blesses us above all. This year we've got our almost our calendars pretty full. Going to different places, uh, as I mentioned, the trips that we have, but other than that We'll be preaching a couple of missions conferences and then a couple of other conferences and preaching in different places. I want you to understand, God just opens doors And why? Because we're steadfast, unmovable, wanting to serve God. And he'll do that for anyone who wants to see God use them in a wonderful way. I believe that. Revelation chapter 2, verse 19, says this: I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works. And the last to be more than the first. Jesus says, I know. I've got it recorded. It's all there Unmovable, always abounding in the work for the Lord. One last chapter. Turn over to 2 Timothy real fast. 2 Timothy chapter 4. Look at verse number six. Paul says, this is his testimony. He says, For I am now ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I finished my course. I kept the faith. Now notice this. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. And now look into this, and not only and not to me only. But unto all them also that love his appearing. Steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Hudson Taylor, the wonderful old missionary, said this: All these motives, however good, will fail you in times of trial. And testing, tribulation, and possible death. There is but one motive that will sustain you in every trial and testing, namely the love of Christ. That's what we need. We have the love of Christ. That's what motivates us. That is what ought to keep us be found faithful. No greater motivation to remain steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, in faith and service, than the love of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let me ask you tonight. How steadfast. How faithful are you? Yeah, you feel like maybe I'll just sit at home. On church night, the Bible says we're not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. We're to gather together. I need the encouragement. I need the fellowship So I need to be there. He says that we ought always to pray. Are we faithful in our prayer life? Are we Constantly being what God wants us and taking before the throne of grace the fellow church members, community, pastor, praying for him The Bible says that we ought to be faithful in our giving. Are we faithful? In other words, we need to realize to be steadfast, unmovable. God wants us. Why should I do it? Because of my great salvation. Because of the sacrifice of the Lord, because of the grace that He's bestowed upon me, because of the wonderful future that I have before me. Because of the certainly, certainly, all the gifts that he's given to me. He's coming again. Are you ready? Are you faithful tonight? Heads are bowed, eyes closed. Let's pray. Father Thank you tonight for Jesus. Thank you for the privilege it is to serve you. Lord, you could have saved us and taken us right to heaven But you had a plan, you had a a desire, and that is that your people would be serving you, living for you, being the testimonies and the example that the world needs to see And Lord, I pray that you would help all of us to be, as Paul wrote to the church here, to be steadfast and unmovable, and always abounding in serving you. Father, I pray that you would bless. Meet our needs tonight. Work on our hearts, Holy Spirit, and we'll thank you. I want to ask a couple of questions and I'll be finished. I wonder how many of us tonight would say, preacher. Somewhere in that message, God just maybe spoke to my heart in an area, and I want to be steadfast and unmovable, and I need to remind myself Maybe of the great gift of salvation, maybe of the great sacrifice of the Lord. But there's something that ought to keep me moving forward God has told me that, and I want to be found faithful. Preacher, would you pray for me? Here's my hand. Anyone like that? God bless you. God bless you. Many hands, thank you. I wonder if there's someone here tonight. Say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. When you spoke about all that the Lord did for me and how he loved me and was willing to go to the cross and suffer just for me. And give me this wonderful gift of eternal life in heaven. I've never had that, never experienced it. But Lord, and preacher, tonight, I would like to get it settled. I'd like to know that heaven's my home. I wonder, preacher, if you just remember to pray for me. No one's looking but me, and I'm just wanting to be your friend tonight. I'm not going to come drag you down. Now I'm not going to call your name, but I'd love to be your friend and pray for you I wonder if there's one that's slip your hand and say, I'm not sure, I'm saved, preacher. Would you just pray for me? Anyone like that? Anyone at all tonight? I never want to have a service where I don't give people opportunity to make sure that they're saved. Father, I thank you tonight for Jesus. I thank you for the great love wherewith you have loved us and this wonderful things that you've done for us. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to always, each and every one of us, every day. Get up with the idea of being steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in serving you. Bless, I pray, the invitation tonight. Do the business that in the hearts of your people, and we'll thank and praise you in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, eyes closed. Let's stand where