And uh turn with me please to Genesis chapter eighteen. Genesis chapter eighteen. The book of beginnings I love the book of Genesis. Man, it's a great book. Let me uh read just uh a couple of verses here. And um I want to I want to uh t just read you three verses and then um I want to speak to you uh for about four hours on uh no I'm joking. Um I want to speak to you on the subject being a leader your family admires Being a leader, your family admires. Now I want you to look at verse 17 of this 18th chapter. I want you to notice what God says about Abraham. Alright? This is God. Talking about Abraham. And what he says is amazing. Look at this. The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. Now watch this. For I know him Isn't that awesome? God says, For I know him. I know him. Hey, let me tell you something. God knows you too. All right? But let's look at what God knew about Abraham. Watch this. I know him That he will command his children and his household after him And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. That the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken. Now, what had God spoken? The covenant. That covenant he made with him. I'm going to give you a seed. Well, wait a minute, Lord. I'm old. And uh, you know, I'm old, but my wife's old too. She's real old, Lord. All right? But did that stop the Lord? No. No, sir. And God knew exactly who he was calling when he called Abraham. Alright, now I know him. Wow. How does the Lord know you? All right, let's pray real quick. Father, we love you. Thank you so much for what we have learned already. Thank you for the Word of God, and I pray you'll Help now just allow your word to pierce into our hearts this afternoon And Lord, may we walk away from here more challenged than ever to be what you would have us to be. And so, Father, bless. Thank you for everything that's been said and everything that's been done. Thank you for the great food, for the great fellowship, for the great message we just heard a few moments ago. And now, Lord, we we need your help again. So I pray you'll bless us. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. How would God characterize you as a leader in your home Alright, now think about that. That's what God's saying about Abraham here. God says about Abraham, I know him. I know him. I know that he's going to be a leader in his home. He's going to rule his house. Uh he is going to be uh strong. He is uh going to love his children and discipline his children. He's going to love his wife. Uh he's not going to be led around by the nose by his wife But he's going to be the leader in the hope from top to bottom. God knew that about Abraham And boy, isn't it amazing how Abraham followed through. I mean, he he followed through. He wasn't perfect. He wasn't perfect. None of us are. But he followed through with what the Lord wanted him to do. And God blessed him in a great way. Now, folks, you need to realize something here about Abraham Abraham was not raised in a godly environment. Okay? Abraham didn't have a Christian school that he attended. He did not have a solid fundamental King James only Baptist church that he went to. Alright, he did not have a youth pastor who took him under his wing and directed him and guided him and gave him advice on how on how to be a man He didn't have any of that. But what he did have was a God, and he called upon that God Uh while he was in a pagan land and uh while while he and his uh relatives all bowed down to gods that were made out of uh uh out of uh trees or out of stone. I mean, Abraham followed the Lord. He did what God wanted him to do. He was a faithful man. So he was a leader. He was a leader. You know, the truth of the matter is We know what we ought to do, don't we? We really do. I I think if uh if we be honest, we know as As uh as saved men, we know what we ought to be in our home. It's amazing how God gives us roles. Alright? And he said that the man is the high priest in the home. You're the leader in the home. You're the one that leads your family in spiritual matters. But don't you think it's strange that it's our wives that have to get up in the mor on Sunday morning? And it's our wives who have to come in and threaten us with life and limb if we don't get out of bed. And we know that we're going to lay there as long as we possibly can. And then it irritates us because she won't let up. And then she's trying to get three kids ready. And uh they're giving her a hard time. And so finally we get out and and and we say, um, all right, let's go. And w so we go out and get in the car, we start blowing the horn because She's not out there yet. She's still got three kids hanging on to her leg. And she finally gets out in the car, and you're upset because now we're gonna be late Are you listening? Ma'am, we need to realize that we're to be the leader in the home. Especially when it comes to spiritual things. Thank God for the women. You know? Thank God for the ladies in our churches. If it were not for the ladies in our churches, I'm telling you folks, our churches would be a whole lot worse off than what they are now. They have taught our Sunday schools They have. Man, when I w w when we announce that we need a Sunday school teacher, I just pray, Lord, send us a man. Send us a husband and a wife. But let that man teach the class. That's what I pray for. And I I I've actually gone and and said, hey, listen, have you ever thought about teaching a Sunday school class? Well, no, not really. I said, well, why not? Well my wife always teaches. How about you teaching? Well I never thought about that. What grade do you have? I said, well I I I've got a class full of primates. I mean I mean the the the class full of primary. Primary Primary students. And he goes, Well you know, you know that's something my wife and I might be interested in doing. That's leadership. I heard Doctor Howe say one time He and I were were uh preaching in a conference together, and uh and I was just a little kid, you know. I was so green, mercy, and I'm preaching with Dr. Hiles. It was embarrassing, to be honest with you. But I heard him say in that meeting, he said, leadership is this He said, leadership is a man standing up and saying, I'm going over there. Who wants to go with me? I thought, wow, that's wise. That's wise. And God is looking for men. I mean men that will take the leadership role. Men that will stand up and be men. Somebody said to me one time, I said, uh, well you you know you can't take anything to heaven with you. And I said, that's not true. That's right. And he looked at me and he said, Well what are you going to take? I said, My family. I can take my kids and all three of mine are saved. I made sure of that. I made sure of that. I have I have uh uh uh I had a two year old, my wife and I had a two year old, he is now my youth pastor. He still acts like he's two, but he's my youth pastor. Doesn't he mat? And then I had twin daughters. No training course or nothing, just there they were. Yeah, it was brutal And uh my girls came to me when they were about six. One of them said, Daddy, I need to get saved. And so I sat down with them at the table, went through the gospel with them. And the one that said, I need to get saved, she got it. I mean, she understood it, and I knew she understood it. But her sister, I wasn't convinced You know, I just you know your kids. And I just wasn't convinced. And she got about 16 years old And I finished preaching one Wednesday night, and all of a sudden I heard this commotion. And I heard the uh uh a just to Smith church, and the doors flew open in the back, and I heard this commotion, I looked up, and here she came running down the aisle Dad, Dad, Dad! And she jumped into my arms, shoved me back into the communion table. Almost broke my back. But she jumped in my arms and I said, what, Lauren? What? She said, Dad, I just got saved. Oh my. I mean get the band out, get the cheerleaders out. You know, let's have a let's have a celebration here. And man, everybody stopped, everybody paused, and everybody turned around to look, and they could hear her. I just got saved, Dad. And people they started to applaud. Amen. You can take your children with you. And you can take your grandchildren with you. I have had the privilege of leading a couple of my grandchildren to the Lord. They came to me as their pastor. Uh Paul, I need to get saved. I said, yes, you do. Thank God for the fact that God calls men to be men. Now the devil's gonna do gonna do everything he can to keep you from doing What you're supposed to do as leader in your home. Please understand that. But you just make up your mind that you're going to do The right thing, and you're going to to be the leader that your family can look at and admire. Admire. Alright? How do you do that, Pastor? Well, here's one thing: be consistent in your walk with God. Oh, you gotta be consistent with it. You know, uh I I I've I've heard for years parents say, well you know my children never make a decision for the Lord. Uh that's probably because you never make one. You know? Do you ever stop to think about that? Boy, I wish my kids would make a decision for the Lord. Maybe you ought to make a decision for the Lord. One fellow said one time that my my kids that they're just they're never impacted by a message. They just they just never impact it. Well, maybe that's because you're never impacted. You know, I hate to say this, but it's the truth. I've got some in my church, and I've been there 28 years now Twenty-eight years in one church. That's a lot of pastors, you know. I mean, I've heard it over and over and over. And I've had I've had folks say, you know, my kids, they're just not impacted by anything that goes on in these services. And I just look at him and I say, maybe because you're not impacted. You know, 28 years. And I could take you I don't assign seats, but everybody has an assigned seat in my church. They they all set the same spot. That's how it's How do you know I wasn't here? You weren't in your spot. It's not difficult. Do you pay attention to that? Yes. Don't you, preacher? I do. I walk in while we're s I know all the hymns. I know them all. I've been singing them for fifty years. I know them all. And so I'll stand up here and sing, but I don't have a hymn book. I mean I have it open so folks will watch me uh have it open and follow my example, but I know all the hymns and what I'm doing while we're singing hymns is looking around saying, Who's not here? Who's not here? If there's a pattern, then we go see what the problem is. But you know, be consistent in your walk. And maybe if you started making decisions for the Lord, your children would start making decisions for the Lord. You ever think of that? That's true. I mean, uh if you aren't consistent in your walk, then mark it down. Your children are not going to be consistent in their walk. I remember when I got saved in 1970. I was 16 years old. 16 years old in about two months Then I got saved, and um and I was not exactly um you know the poster child for good behavior before I got saved. And uh so when I got saved, uh, you know, my dad, one month later, got saved. We were all standing at the front. He had the pastor had us all come down and stand with my dad. And so we were all standing there, and I think the pastor was fishing for a compliment on his sermon that that uh evening when my dad got saved and he said uh what what finally convinced you That you need to get saved. And my dad pointed at me in front of the whole church and said, Well, anything that can change that has got to be real. It's no wonder I have a complex. And boy did my dad change. Amen. We went to church on Sunday mornings After Dad got saved, we went to church Sunday night, Wednesday night, missions conference, I mean you name it, revival meeting We went to church sometimes just to go. You know. Why are we here? I don't know. I thought we were supposed to be here tonight. I guess not. Nobody else showed up. I mean, things changed in our home. You know, my we would sit down and my mom would say Alright, who's going to give thanks for the food? And I would elbow my brother. And my brother would elbow me. And then I would really elbow my brother. And then I'd kick him. And my mom would say, Michael, go ahead and pray. And so Mike, my brother, would pray. Or we'd say, Cheryl will, and my little sister would pray. Do you know after my dad got saved? We all sat down. First night. First night, Monday. He got saved Sunday night. Next day. We sat down for dinner and dad said, all right, let's all bow our heads. We're going to pray. And he prayed and thanked the Lord for the food. And every evening from that day on, Dad prayed. Dad prayed. Dad would get up after dinner and go and get a Bible, come back in and sit down and say, I read this this morning and I want to share it with you guys. A leader that your family can admire. Man, I admired my dad for that I admired my my dad for the stand that he took. And here's the thing, folks, he was consistent He was consistent. I saw him read the Bible. I saw him pray. I saw him go soul winning I saw him go to the pastor. I was with him when he went to the pastor and said, We would like to have a bus ministry We'd like to have a bus. I said, we? Kee Musabi? We? Who's we? He meant our family. He meant us. And he led, and we got a bus route. We started bringing Kids to church that would never have come to church if we hadn't have gone with the bus and gotten them. And one of them is a pastor today. What a blessing to be able to go to his church and hold a revival meeting, and I've done that many times. Amen. He was a bus kid. Came from actually the poorest family The poorest family on our route. Amazing. But folks. We gotta put we gotta be that leader. Yes. Put the Lord first. Be consistent about it. Be consistent about it. Does your wife this is nitpicking, I realize this, but you know What we're doing's not working. Alright, so can I nitpick just for a couple seconds? Alright, this is nitpicking. I realize that. But does your wife And kids see someone who holds the hymn book and sings on Sunday morning and then cusses like a sailor on Monday. Well, I hope not. I asked a fellow one time who if he would consider coming on the board, on my deacon board. And I said, would you just pray about it? I said, you pray about it. I'm going to pray about it. And so I prayed. I said, Lord, I'd like to have him on the board. I like uh but uh I want you to guide him. And I prayed for the Lord to guide him. You ready for this? His son. His 16-year-old son came to me during school. We have a Christian school. This kid went to our school. And he came to me and he said Pastor, I don't think I'd put my dad on the board if I were you. Now you talk about could have knocked me over with a feather. And I didn't ask him why. I knew this kid. And I knew he was sincere. And I knew having been raised in the church since he was a baby. And gone all the way through our Christian school. I knew this kid had some sense. This kid is in the ministry today, by the way. And I just took his word for it. You say, well, did you go back and tell him anything? Nope. Nope. I just went on I just went on. Folks, let me tell you something. Our kids are watching us. If you come to church on Sunday and the pastor calls you to pray and you stand there and pray, and then you go home from church, And have baked pastor or baked youth pastor or baked song leader or sauteed Sunday school teacher Your kids see through that junk. They know exactly what's going on. And you know, listen Do they see someone who prays and then is so hateful and so angry at home that the family is scared to death to breathe in your presence? If they do, something's wrong. That's not a leader. That's not a leader And if you want to teach your children, listen, I mean this with all my heart, if there's a race on TV, if it's a Super Bowl If there's the championship game or the World Series final game, uh it doesn't matter. If that is all it takes to keep you home on Sunday night. Your kids are watching that. Your children are sitting there saying, oh, so we can stay home when it's convenient for you. They're watching you. Oh, be the leader. I mean just put a big old smile on your face and say, you know, Sports Center will be on after church And you get your kids and put them in the car, and you get your wife and put her in the car and come to church with your light shining. Oh how God will bless that. How God will bless that. My son, Joshua is um uh always has been. He was he he's just been an athlete. He's an athlete. He's he's he is amazing Just an athlete. And um uh he was walking around the furniture at five months Seriously. Walking around the furniture five months. At six months and two days, he took off across the floor when I came in the door one day. I mean, agile as a cat. And always, always an athlete. Well, we had little league in the town, Dixie, West Virginia Alright? Anybody know where Dixie is? Amen. Yes, sir, that's God's country down there. I uh we pa I pastored there at Bell Creek Baptist Church for six years. That's where I cut my teeth. Right there. And um we had a little league program. There were four teams. And so they had tryouts And so I took Joshua for the tryouts and uh and they hit him a ball and he snatched it up to its first base. So they hit him a harder ball, he snatched it up to its first base. So then they hit one in the hole, he ran over, backhanded it, turned around, pivoted, and threw it to first base. Perfect strike. Then they went in to bat and he bats left handed and right handed and so he got up there left handed And boom, line drive, line drive, just I uh and I was standing by it in the back stop. I said, hit it over second. Boom, line drive over second, hit it over to pitchers, uh, line drive right over the pictures head Drive it down third base. Boom, right down third base, it would go. Well they all started clamoring for coaches wanting him. And so the one the one coach came and said, uh, your son is going to be on my team. I said, good. I said, there's something you need to know though. He said, What's that? I said, We don't play Little league on Sundays or Wednesdays. He said, What y what w what you what do you mean? I said, I mean We have church on Sunday, and we have church on Wednesday, and that's what we do. Now, Joshua is standing right there beside me. Right there beside of me. Good. And so test number one makeup game. Uh uh Pastor We're having a makeup game Wednesday evening. Nope. Nope, can't do it. Well it'll be at five o'clock. I said, Nope. Nope. I told you we don't play games on Wednesday. Well you'll be dumb before church. No, no, no. We don't play ball on Wednesdays. We don't do it. Because inevitably something's going to happen. And then we're going to have to walk off the field when it's his turn to bat, and then he's going to be all upset. So no, we don't play ball on Wednesdays. So the next thing I know, I get a phone call and he says, we switch the game to Thursday. Is Thursday night alright? I said, yes sir, Thursday night's great So we went and played on Thursday night. And we lived by that all the way through. All the way through. And didn't back down from it. Not at all. He made a traveling team when we were in Illinois. A traveling team as a as a fourteen-year-old. And I told the coach, we don't play ball on Wednesday and Sunday. Oh, no problem. No problem. Well, of course it's a problem. Well, we have a game on Wednesday, Dad. No, you don't. They do He he kept my son giggled. He giggled. He said, I knew you'd say that Amen. Be consistent, folks. Listen, if you want to teach your kids that a ball game is more important than God's house, go ahead. But I'm not gonna do it. And by the way, my son is my youth pastor today. So go figure. You see, consistency is a word that we need to practice in our homes Someone someone comes to the preacher and says, Why don't our kids why don't our kids want to come to church anymore? Uh could it be because You went home for years after Sunday school when they were growing up and then you got upset when mom didn't get home exactly in time to feed you, and so you sat down and murmured and groaned and complained about that long-winded preacher And maybe your kids took your side. And not mom's side. God help us folks. Now guys, you stand up. You be the leader your family admires. Your kids ought to look at you and think you walk on water. Really? They ought to look at you and think you walk on water. Hey, hey, grandfather, they ought to look at you and think you're the greatest thing since sliced bread. My kids will come up to me in the in the foyer of the church and and it's uh hey dad and hit me on the back, give me a hug. My grandchildren see me, they come running Even the seventeen year old boy. He comes running and he grabs me. He doesn't care who's standing there, who's around, he grabs me. And all the other ones do too. And I just stand there and hug them all. I've told my church, listen, folks, I love you. I wouldn't have stayed here for 28 years and put up with your garbage. Increase your love. I love you, but listen, when my grandkids come around, step back. Because I'm going to go to them first. They don't pastor. They don't do that. They love me. They love me. And I'm going to love them back. Amen. And I give them first and foremost. Always have, and I always will. And they look at me and they think, wow, that's my pat that's my grandfather, but that's my pastor. And that man loves me. Oh, they know it. You know why they know it? I tell them every single time I see them. Never and I see them often. Often. And folks, that's a leader that your family will admire. I got several other things, but our time is about gone. Do you know what it boils down to is we do not want our families to have a double standard. Aren't you sick of double standards? You know? I mean just look look at our look at our government today. You got a double standard. I mean, you know, if your name's Trump, you're dog meat If your name's Biden whole different world. The press all over Trump What Biden has done is absolutely shameful. Shameful. And what do we see? Nothing. Nothing. Now they tell us that they're I I heard Mr. Colmer say the uh uh just the other day We're we're getting there. We're getting there. We're building a case. We're getting there. Well, hurry up. You know But I'm worried because there's such a double standard and we have seen it over and over and over and it makes us sick, doesn't it? Well let's not have a double standard in our in our families either. All right? Be consistent, gentlemen. Be consistent. Let your children and your grandchildren and your wife see a man who is consistent in his walk with God. Let's bow our heads, please. Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. I hope you'll let God speak to your heart