All this stuff over here is to get your attention. No, it's not a yard sale, and we're not going to give it away. And over here. As we get into the Bible, what I want to do tonight is teach you a word And want to get you, can I use the term, really engaged in missions? Alright? So now we're going to say over here, right over here is my ministry. In Papa New Guinea and Australia. You saved Algata? He'll hire him deck belong to me now, me I haven't talked Papa God. He can do Spanish so I can do pigeon, all right So uh we're gonna take all that stuff in the next few minutes and move it over here, okay? But I can't do it because I'm already over here I'm right where God has called me. You got that so far? Alright, here we go. Now, I want you to understand it only appears once in Scripture. And it appears in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. And it says in verse 15, and have addicted themselves. To the ministry of the saints. Rewind the tape, the whole chapter deals with giving to missions Paul says in verse 9: there's a great and effectual door open unto me, and there are many adversaries. He told that church, there, you're going to support me. You're going to help me get where I need to be. When I get there, there's a pup going to come behind me. Verse 10. Now if Tethimonius come, see that he may be with you without fear, for he worketh the work of the Lord as I also do. He's a missionary. Let no man therefore despise him, but conduct or support him forward. Alright? So What we want to do is look at verse 13. And I've had this thing preached out of context to me over the years. And it's about some guys who preach on conviction and being strong and being the man. They they they need to study the scriptures, okay? The Bible says in verse 13, watch ye and stand fast in faith. Quit you like men. Be strong. Let your all your things be done with charity. Now I won't tell you about faith promise giving tonight. If you love the Lord, you'll give. Man, I got one amen. If you love the Lord, you'll give. You'll give you'll see it. You'll smell it, you'll sense it. If you don't, if it's all about you, it's just well another night at church, you know. I want you to look what it says in verse 14, let all your things be done with charity. I beseech you, at the military term, brethren, ye know the house of Stephanus. That it is the first fruits of Acadia, that's a town south there in Greece, Cornet, that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. That means they appointed themselves That ye submit yourselves unto such. Oh. Pay attention to those guys. To everyone that helpeth with us and laboreth. Oh, there's that word helps. There's that word that's labor is not a dirty word. Ministry's work. Now I am glad of the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus And Achaius, for that which was lacking on your part, they have supplied money. Prayers and emotional support. For they have refreshed my spirit and yours, therefore acknowledge ye them that are such, are such what? Addicted. It only appears once in Scripture, and this is where it appears. Now, how many know how to spell the term, how many know what a lasso is here? Four of you, okay. How many's ever lassoed a calf? How mu I did a hog once. Don't last though a hog. Don't drag drag you around Alright, now take that L off and make it a T. And say it with me. Now we're we're Maryland Tasso. Not taso, tasso. You ready? Tasso. T-A-S-S-O. Do you see it? Now tasso means stand up. That's for you to stand up. This is Stephanus, and he is tassoe. He is addicted to taking care of Paul and his ministries and other missionaries, the saints that's serving God. He's got Tasso. Alright? Now have a seat. Now the next time I have him stand up, y'all gonna stand up. Even Ian? Is that your name? Evan, whatever. Anyway, uh take a look here. Look what it says, verse 15. I beseech you, brethren. Now you pay, I know ye. Now you gotta know this The house of Stephanus, that is the first fruits of Acadia, that they, not him, that house they Have get ready, all you five, addicted themselves. Could you stand up? They are addicted. Okay? Do you realize the number one addiction in the United States of America is alcohol? But you're not addicted to that. The number two thing is nicotine. All right. My dad said if you ever smoke a cigarette, I brought you into the world, I'll take you out. He smoked three packs of Lucky Strike a day And his brothers was alcoholic drunks and he said if you ever taste liquor, it'll be your last taste. And boy, I was scared of that. Amen. Then I got a little bit older and I never did smoke, never did drink. I wasn't I wasn't that But uh and I I've never been addicted to alcohol or nicotine. Uh well I'm addicted to some other things. All right. So the only time in Scripture That this word is ever used to raise up a family deals with missions and just that one family. That was addicted. Thank you. Be seated. Now, your addictions. Alcohol, almost 11% of America is addicted to it 9% is addicted to nicotine, 5. 1% to marijuana, and that's negative stuff. I don't like that. What I like is food Our food, the number one addictive food in America, does anybody have an idea? Shoot your hand up and give it to me. That little boy right back there, he just woke up. Pasta? You guys are twins, right? Ink and dink, I'm Dan and Sam. Pizza, you're right. Pizza. Guess what the number two food is, preacher. Oh no, no, that's not a food. That's an ingredient. Uh no, they're number seven. Uh uh wait wait and ice cream's number four. Chocolate, ladies, chocolate. Number three is potato chips, number four is ice cream, number five is French fries, six is cake. The cheeseburgers come in seventh, and the most addictive substance in the United States of America is, say it again, preacher, not liquor, sugar How many folks like sugar? How many ever went on one of those sugar diabetes diets like I've been on? Everything tastes like car a cardboard, amen. Uh addictive substance is sugar. Now what state, 50 states, what state in the Union eats more junk food? Now get this. This state has 187,026 restaurants in the state. They have 35 people for every restaurant. All right. And I want you to understand it's not the most populated state, it's not the least populated state, but they had all the restaurants, it was 18 uh 187,026 50% of them are fast food restaurants, which is the worst junk fooding state in America. The answer is nope. Nope. Nope. Maryland. Can you believe that? Oh yeah. We're joking up here in Maryland. Meah That's just unbelievable. You are the most addictive fast food eating state in the whole world per capita. There's a restaurant for 30 we'd have three restaurants represented here tonight. Unbelievable is that shocking. But that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about faith, promise, giving, and missions. And tonight I want to show you what that word means. Go back into your Bibles and I want you to go with me and understand that the word tasol, it means determined to action It means devoted to arrange, voluntarily to dedicate oneself for a purposeful action. This is what it means in the Greek. Setting a time and treasure of your own resources to make it happen. Now when a group does that Now uh uh Siphanus would I need some water in my ministry. Could you take some water from me? See, he he right now is going to supply my need over there in my country So what he does, he gets me a water purification system, and what he's doing is supplying the need I have, set it on the front pew there, then come back. He is to sowing me. Come on. And so God stuck's his heart and he listened to the preaching and teaching. And then I need, I need, can I have I need a curriculum for my Sunday school And and and and your wife reaches down and said, Do it again. I know the Morris. He wears the trousers, but she lays them out. I'm just saying. And uh I know her from way back. So he has just owned me again. Good to see you, Sarah. And so now he is now to sewing me. But notice what his wife did, and I didn't coach her. He goes back And she finds out that I need uh electric box to plug my computer in. He goes to reach for it, and you go net net, and then you take it over And you sit down. And little Stephanus, all right, wait, wait, wait. Daddy sees, but he's boys that you've trained him And she comes back and he sees, and you know that I need some support, all right? So he he gets up uh a and and and mom's already ready to get into it. And you've got to obey your mom. And he gets up. Now watch this. Now wait. Now now they're competitively now watch this. Here, I don't want you to go empty handed. Take this because I need I love coffee. I need it in my ministry. Go ahead and take it. As they're going taking that over there. The Bible says when you study the commentaries, they appointed themselves, they made a decision in here, in here, to do this for Paul's ministry. Come right back over. And Biggie's sitting there, he's one of the he's the older brother, and that's his wife, they're part of the family, and he Oh, thank you, through a prayer letter that have a seat. That I I now watch this. I like peanuts. He knows it. He gets ready to get it and he says, no way, Dad, I'll take care of it from here. Okay. So he takes it over. And then I have a need I need more Bibles. He gets ready to get it. Come on. But she says, you know, uh uh Paul Grandpa and Law, I'll take it. All right. So go ahead, Grandpa and Law. All right. So I have a secret. And then then then I watch this and then you find out you have a missions conference and that you you have find out that I have a need And so I need some tracks. And when you all find out that I need tracks, you all go after the tracks. Now stop right there. That term is called H-U-P-P-O, pronounce it, hoopo, not hippo, hoopo Say it with me. Test all. Say it again. Test all. That is an independent Bible-believing Baptist church. With a missions program that's actually living and growing and not dying, you become addicted I was here when you had what one of your first conferences. I remember with Pat Creed. He took four or five years to teach. And one of the things he said, as the church gets into missions, they'll have their own other ministries, but this will never lose its importance to that. I want you to catch this. Alright. So everybody grab one thing there. Would you do it, please? And as they grab the thing, the whole clan, he's got songbooks. He's got coffee for the machine. She's got chocolate for Pastor Leatherman. And she's got uh tracks there. And then come on back. It it it's it lasts for years. And so and that maroon bag since you're the biggest, that's full of uh I need some clothes, you know. And then uh uh you the wife get the not now you go morning eat and share it You need to share it. And then there's one thing left, that is the Pop Tarts. Can you have a seat? I wanted to show you this tonight. I have about a 20-minute message. And Bill Barrens comes in the message at the end. And I want you to see how this works. Because he is a prime example. You as a church, you tessel me in my ministry. You support me every month. You hoopo saw me because you do it as a group. You had me become one of your missionaries. You voted on me last night. You recognized, you authorized, you deputized. And then you realize that you're you are I represent you as a missionary in Papua New Guinea, Australia, around the USA. And uh the the young man that spoke tonight, uh is it Paraguay you're going to? And and and so I can't keep it straight. There's as many conferences. But anyway, that's where God's called him. God touches your heart to take him on for support. You as a church are not going to only toss him You're gonna hoopo. That mean as a group, that's like a regiment. Volunteer as a military term Were you volunteer? I'm going to go to the front line. You're volunteer, I'm going to take that water of purification. I'm going to give that support. And now now I'm going to pray for them. We had prayer cards here. We've got food here. We got song books. We got Bibles. We got tracks, we got curriculum, we got everyday life right there. And the thing is, when a man or a woman and a family goes to the mission field, they have none of that All God's people said, I didn't realize that. When somebody talks to me and said, I want to go to this mission field because they have electricity there more than they do in Spain. Or mo more running water. And I've had people make decisions. Well, if they don't have air conditioning, I'm not going. I've been in conversations like that. And you all shake your heads, all right? Wow. I'm telling you when God calls a guy to the mission field and a gal to the mission field, they cannot do anything else and he uses the local church. Not the banker, not some fund, some not not some investment in hull grazing, sheep killing, and uh butchering a pig factory to make the ministry go. It's through the local church. All God's people said. Well what's that term? What's a good mission church? They look like they're addicted. And it's not to Pop Tarts. And it's not to uh to uh cigarettes It's addicted, watch this, to get God's ministry around this world. Let's look at this with me. Would you please go with me, 1 Corinthians chapter 16? I want you to understand. It says this to verse 13, watch ye And stand fast in the faith. You've got to trust me on this. Every one of you sitting down in here tonight, everybody is. I didn't tell you this, but the pews are going to hold you up. You never questioned that Pew, did you? When it comes to our finances and things that God wants us to do, we begin to question who's in charge. And I want to give it a cross to you tonight. This word addiction means this. Watch, stand fast in the faith. I quit you be be a man as this as this honor of this thing. Fess up, let's be strong. Let all these things that you do be done with charity or love. If you love the Lord, you'll give, you'll be part of this Now he says, I beseech you, I want you to do this. Brethren, you know the house of Stephanus. This is one of the first fruits they would they I mean I led them to Christ and I discipled him, Paul says, and I brought him along. We started the church and then they they they addicted themselves, they appointed themselves to the ministry of the saints. Now what is that to labor to help when you translate that. They want to pay the way. They want to get that water purification. They want to get that electric box. They want to get that Bible. They want to get that tracks They want to get you where God has called you. And what does he say in verse 16? Ye submit yourselves to this such. Now you watch him. You watch him. And I want you to understand the first thing I want to point out today in the message is this. That word addiction means to appoint to determine, to arrange, to put in a certain place voluntarily with an attitude that is submitted till we're to the end of it. The first addiction I ran into in Australia was my neighbor. She's a Filipino lady. And she was a chain smoker. That means she smoked cigarette ass had that one time One kid said, why would they smoke a chain? All right. You all know what I mean by that, right? My dad was one, you know. And so, and I didn't pay my witness to her and her daughter, her daughter's name was Tesla. Uh you know, way before Tesla's ever. And he has kind of a funny one. And she was the same age as my our daughter and they all went to the same Christian school and everything is fine, but the mother was just she couldn't stop smoking And uh I'd invite her to church and she'd always put me off, and then there was a typhoon gonna hit Cans All Strait, and uh uh right it's gonna hit right where we were and it was gonna wipe us out And everybody had to leave. And we had to duct tape our dog cage, we had a little dog, and we had to duct tape it to the top of the refrigerator, because the water is supposed to come up in the house by four to five feet And refrigerators float by the way. As that thing goes up it's going to take our dog against the the roof. So he's going to be about seven foot up If it goes deeper than that, he's a gonna be a dog gone, amen. And and so and so well I got my dog duck taped in there. You couldn't take him to the shelter, the hurricane shelter is what it was. And and uh she she and she would not come to our church and and I walked out in the driveway and throwing a a supply kit in the in the tr in the car and And I've thrown the wife in the car and my daughter and a few sets of clothes, taking some money, got it all duct taped up so we could survive. Don't know what's gonna happen And this Filipino lady comes out and she falls on her knees right in our driveway. We're all gonna die. And I want to get saved now. I said, Your timing is impeccable We have to go. You follow me. And she did, and we went to the survival shelter. It had about five hundred people in it. They were screwing the boards into the windows and Uh we had several police there. They had the guns and they had food for us, supposed to be three days without water. They had three days of water for five hundred people. They had food for five hundred people. They had a guy that was in charge Now how of you folks have ever spent a few hours with a person That's addicted to nicotine or alcohol. It does not go well Didn't bother me at all, man. I was seeing an opportunity, but I didn't take any tracks with me. I just had my Bible. I had 500 people captured for the next 72 hours. Are you kidding me? Man And and and and the guy come on the announcement, the guy in charge. Hi, my name is the you know Cyclone Bob and I'm in charge of all this area for the Red Cross. We got the food, we got the water. I forgot to bring plates And I had 5,000 plates in my garage that I bought for the church. I was about five, six miles away. I said, I got plates. You got cups? I forgot the cups too. Yeah, about 5,000 cups. Oh man, oh man. Save my life. Let's go get them. I said, only on one condition. He said, what's that? Well I get a police escort. Are you kidding me? Well you're going to ride in the car. Okay. Number two is can I hand out church tracks? He said you can do anything you want, you just can't preach, but you can hand out anything And so I got a captured crowd for three days. I thought this was going to be amazing stuff. We drove back to the house. The storm's coming. The rain. Things are blowing. By the way, the dog did survive, okay? And uh uh the dog's name was Jazzy, and the name of the cyclone was Jazzy. You can Google it. We did we did all this with kind of a fun thing. But uh and and I went in there and I they drove me to the house and I got the plates and I got the cups and I got back there there, you know, and and I said now listen, if I can give out my tracks You can have all the plates. They're yours. Do you get it? I sold the Red Cross, and I was just trading it off to give the gospel. My daughter and Sandy and I, we went around that night and my my my my neighbor she said, Bring me some cigarettes, I'm gonna die. I didn't bring her a cigarette, you know. But I I talked to the cop and he had a pack of nicotine things right there. I'm telling you, I I and I I owned that room, you know, that night and and so everybody I'd go by and give them a track and and I invited five hundred people in like twelve hours that come to our church on Sunday The storm went an hour south of us. It missed us. I mean, you talk about a soul-winning experience. Two people trusted Christ. I invited 500 to church, and I thought that next Sunday we're going to be packed. Not one person came. But wait a minute. Did I do that for them? Or did God put me in a position to do it for Him? That's where you're at. He says, remember such, and you follow them, because I am in a position to Satanus put his family in a position. Apostle Paul under the direction of the Holy Spirit. This is how you support missionaries. Now they make it, and he said, I want you, watch this, watch this. I want you to understand what was their ministry there was to resupply The ministry for Paul. Amazing stuff. And he said nobody was addicted to it like you were. It was real. You know I I think of that, and I think of that storm, but within six months several families did visit, or a church did grow. But in that opportunity, you are supporting me. You still support me. I am out there like what I preached last night. But it's I can't do that without you. Every missionary, and you're going to need this. We need you to toss us. We need you to who tossole us in prayer And finances. Now watch this. And in connection. Amen. Look at the second thing here. I want you to catch this with me. That number two, the second application, is refreshing. Look at verse 18. For they have refreshed my spirit and yours, therefore acknowledge ye them that are such. Such what? That are addicted. You want to be refreshing to your pastor? You want to be refreshing to your missionary. You want to be refreshing to your family. I want you to understand three things you need to encourage every missionary here In prayer, in letter, and let them know, let them know that you're praying for Number two, you need to engage with them. Hey, what do you need? How many have ever asked somebody, what do you need? They said a hundred bucks. Well, I didn't mean that. I mean what you want? No, I need a hundred bucks. Well no, that's what you want. Be careful when you say, hey, I'll get you anything you need. That's not how God works. If you engage with your missionary, you will communicate with them. And then thirdly, you will eagerly invest in their ministry. Uh at Gospelite Baptist Church, that's my home church. And we had a Sunday school class there that we started and had about 20 people, and they had to be 21 years of age to be in the class. And you and your wife together had to be under the age of eighty, you know, put them together and and so uh man that class grew about twenty, twenty five people and second year it grew to about a about a hundred and The third year and Alan Comer was the head of the Sunday school class and this other guy named Bobby Allen worked for uh for UPS and Bobby was the song leader in that class and he worked for FedEx. And why I'm going to the ministry in Australia, they as my home church, they get in a contest. And uh they were not only uh tussling me, they were gonna surprise and they were gonna hoopoo tussul. And what they did, they who could raise the most money in six months to send a jumbo jet container Four feet wide, eighteen feet that way, full of Sunday school material, Bible curriculums, toys and gifts for Brother DeLong's ministry in the public school system of Papua New Guinea and Australia. We're going to surprise them. $14,000 just to fill the thing up. Listen, this preacher. $12,000 to fly it there. Just a hundred and fifty people in six months, you talk about carrying getting competitive. They almost got in fist fights. Who could get the most money coming in on Sunday morning? And and then they had to buy the stuff And Brother Bobby said, Well if you're doing that, here's two thousand dollars worth of songbooks. Good night. They filled that thing up. I didn't know it till it landed at the airport. I went over with a half a ton of pickup truck, little old pickup truck I rented I thought it was going to be five or six boxes. When they put that container there, they said, You got eight hours to get this thing out of here. Get it moved. Are you kidding me? I opened that thing up, packed to the ceiling, packed wall to wall, and stood there and cried Because my sending church just solved me. And I will never forget that. See, they not only encouraged me, they not only can I say engaged in my ministry, they eagerly invested in it. And I'm telling you, look what it said in verse 17, I am glad of the coming of Stephanus for that which was lacking on your part. He, those other two guys, they have supplied. I had a need for songbooks. I had a need for curriculum. I had a need for uh uh uh you know judge for the ministry it was growing and they heard about that need and they met that need and I am telling you they resupplied me for missions they invested in my life and number three And I'm probably going to close with this. And I want you that. He says in verse 18, you better remember them. Look what it says in verse 18. For they have refreshed me, my spirit, and yours. Therefore, acknowledge ye them. Remember this family. They did it right. You know, why did they help Paul? Well, because he had a ministry. And they were the first fruits, first people he led to Christ in that part of the world. Discipled them, started a church. You know, and Stephomas when he taught his family and he arranged in their lives and It took time to uh to uh teach them what this meant and and the humble respect and cooperation and loyalty, they submitted themselves to their dad and the household and and that word is voluntarily In Strong's concordance, it was a volunteer never no one makes you do this. You want to do this And verse 16 is a capstone. It says, helpeth with us and laboreth with us. Are you kidding me? It's unbelievable stuff. Paul says they you need to join in. You need to be like the house of Stephanus. And you need to be helping and supporting your missions program. And can I encourage you? Don't be the Lone Ranger on this. Do it together. It strengthens every church I do this at And I want you to understand, supply that which was lacking. I can get my ministry done without a coffee machine. I can get it done without a water purification machine, but it sure makes it easier. Amen. Now, how many of you folks in here know I like coffee? Three of you. How many of you know and and hear from the past that I'm a blueberry palpitarolic? But I got sugar diabetes real bad and I can't have it anymore. But I love coffee. I had a peanut butter and jelly coffee today with him. I'd sure go in. I stuttered for two two hours. I love Dunkin' Donuts. I am telling you, before I had diabetes, my wife will tell you Two strawberry frosted, if you can find them with the sprinkles, double sprinkles, medium-sized coffee, full cream, super hot. Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. How many of you men in here have ever been into one of those your favorite Duncan Donut And when you bite on that, you let that thing rest on the roof of your mouth, and that strawberry stuff melts down on the tongue. Oh, how many how many's ever had that? She's going nuts over here. How many folks like eating steak? How many like fresh hamburger? I love hamburger. I told you about uh Mama Joe's hamburger joint down in Tennessee. They make a smash burger Fresh, a thing was butchered two days before, hung for two days, they grind it, make that patty right in front of you It's like a one hundred percent. I like a little grease so I go eighty twenty, you know. And they fry that thing right in front of you and and then uh they put the tomato on it and they put you want f fried onions, you'll put that on there. They got the the two buns frying on the on the grill, you know, and then they bring out this about four to five ounces of of jiffy peanut butter. And I said, peanut butter me And they put that peanut butter on that hot meat that melts down in there. You slap that tomato on top of there. Oh now don't you now wait a minute You have no idea. It m it's like that strawberry donut on steroids. My wife, three weeks in a row, she made me go get her one on Tuesday night. We call that hamburger night. How many like to try one of those? Two of us? Three of us? You have heartburn for a week, but it is pretty good Well, Bill Barns was my neighbor, and we preached around the country together, and we're honestly we're about opposite as you could get, but we like we just like goofing around with each other. And uh I would buy him on when he'd go out on a trip if I was driving to start, I'd get him, he'd just meat and potatoes, three regular donuts, large black coffee, boiling. And he would suck on that thing between Cleveland and New York. He just He knew that I wanted two strawberry donuts. And I like a medium-sized coffee with three full creams, super hot. And we did this for 19 years. Just we got to know each other. I'd show up at his house, pick him up, I'd have it in the car, he'd show up at mine, and he's driving, he'd have it in the car When I went to Papua New Guinea, he is back here in the States and I had not seen a Dunkin' Donut in almost four years. And I invited him to come over to preach for us and he said that he would come and And we're having a revival and we we I expect him to have a total of seven hundred people over five nights. The first night when he got there was twelve hundred people sitting in there Man, it was and and and uh and Bill could handle the scriptures and and boy they they liked his but before he got up to preach, he got out of the airplane, we went to our house. And uh he had some gifts for me and some for Sandy, but he had an extra suitcase, Dan DeLong only. And he opened that suitcase up and he brought out a five-pound bag. Of Dunkin' Donut coffee. Then he brought out the second bag. Oh my. He said, wait for it. And he turned it around, and there was two, one dozen boxes of Dunkin' Donuts. Now it's closed My name's on top. Strawberry Frosted with Sprinkles. He had flown it all the way from Philadelphia all the way to Papua New Guinea. And he said, this is for you. And he opened them up. He had taken a bite out of every donut. Every donut. I looked at him and said, You jerk. He says, I know you. And he started to cry, I know you. I pray for you. I write a check for your support every month. I probably know you better than anybody at our church. And I want to do you're not going to share these with your wife? No way, Jose. You're going to free I'm going to freeze them. I'm going to eat about one, maybe two a month. And I I ate two a month. His teeth mark, I would look at them for the next 12 months. But you know what? He said you'll you'll understand. That you got a an old bald-headed preacher back in the States that believes in what you're doing. When you support missionaries, you resupply, you reinvest, you remember them, and it all comes on that little word, you'll do this if you're addicted to it. What's the closest thing to it we would understand in our own life? Your kids. You love them, don't you? They give you a heartburn, but you're addicted to loving them. That's the way God made you. All right. Don't make mistakes and that's somebody out of this line. Come on. But you can't unhook that. When you're a child of God and you're part of an independent Bible-believing local church Of the house of the Lord Jesus Christ, and He has ordained us, put this thing together for us. You need to be part of this Tassol thing. In fact, you need to go to the next level. Hufo Tassol. And what did he say? Remember such. Don't forget what they did. All God's people said. Father, we come to you tonight and thank you for the opportunity you give us to have this conference. I pray we can take this simple thought of addiction. And Lord, we can apply it to our lives. Who can say, Brother DeLong, God has spoken to my heart tonight I want to be not only a church member here, I not only want to be involved in missions, but I want to have an addiction where I pray for that missionary, those missionaries every day I want to have it be an encouragement. I want to invest in them. I want to be loving. I want to be caring. I want to do more than just financially. I want to pray for them And maybe you want to go, but I want to be part of that supply chain. I want to remember not only Stephanus, but my home church. I want to remember my testimony. That I will do this to get the gospel out around the world. Last night we found out What God wanted us to do when it comes to missions. We found out where He wants it done. And now tonight we found out how are we supposed to support it. Who can say, Brother Long, at this Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I want to be part of the missions program in a stronger way I want to do more than just occasionally be part of it, but I want to be addicted to it. I want to be part of it. I want to be faithful to it Who can say raise their hands and say tonight, preacher, I want to be that. Thank you. You've got hands up going all over. You know, as you put your hands down tonight, you need to make a decision That that is how you express your love. He said, all this happens through charity. You can talk about it You can be around the fringes on it. But if you are going to solve, and as a church you're going to hoopo to solve, as a group You'll have a love that pushes you forward in this and you'll be on the same page. You don't have to ask the question, what are they doing that for? You'll be asking the question, can I carry more? Can I move more? Can I help more? And Father, we give you this invitation. Pastor. Let's stand together ahead