Genesis twenty six verses twenty four and twenty five. The Bible says, And the Lord appeared unto him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father. Fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake He built it an altar there and called upon the name of the Lord and pitched his tent there, and there Isaac's servants digged a well. Heavenly Father, thank you for today. Thank you, Lord, first of all, for our salvation. And I remember at Independent Baptist Church I attended for eleven years. From uh till I was seventeen, Lord, till I knew for for sure that I was gonna go to heaven And so there may be somebody here today too, Lord, that uh does not know that they're saved. Uh Lord, it's it's uh one thing having another person tell you how you can know and And even praying and saying, Okay, now you've gone to heaven, but it's different, Lord, when you finally saved us and we know thank you, Lord, for our salvation and Those of us who are saved, Lord, please just bless the message to our hearts. Help us, Lord, to get what you want for our lives and help us to be what you want us to be with what we get. In Jesus' most precious name we pray. Amen. When God manifests Himself unto us. When God manifests himself unto us, of course, the Lord appeared unto Isaac. We talked about uh yesterday in the men's prayer breakfast how uh God appeared unto Jacob. But God appeared a four sudden Abra Abraham, he appeared appeared unto Isaac. And God wants to appear unto us. He wants to manifest Himself unto us. Looking If uh and keep your place there in Genesis uh uh chapter twenty-six, but in John fourteen twenty-one John fourteen twenty-one Says, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father. And I will love him and will manifest myself unto him. God wants to manifest himself unto us Uh I I remember hearing a story of uh some preachers way back that uh went to hear Charles Spurgeon preach. And they went and heard another fellow preach first and uh they came out and they were talking, I guess in the parking lot. And said, Man, that guy can preach the paint off the walls. He he really is a good preacher. We really enjoyed that. And and so then they went to hear Spurgeon preach And Spurgeon was uh really uh from what I what what they said was was really low key that day. I don't know if he uh what he w was like normally. He was sick Um they had put a um a railing up around the platform that he had to kinda lean on when he was preaching and wasn't bombastic, wasn't uh r uh anything out of the normal and when the folks left Uh again they began to talk about what happened and and and and instead of talking about the great preacher Spurgeon was, they said, Isn't God good? Didn't God work in your hearts today? And I'm glad when God speaks to my heart. Man, aren't you uh and God wants to manifest Himself unto us and and if you're like me I can't figure out why God would want to manifest Himself unto me. I'm I I looked in the mirror when I was little, always had a big head. Uh, yeah, I think it was this size when I came out my mother's womb. And uh I was a cute I was a cute little boy, but my head was big so they used to call me blackhead and And I think some I I really think that some other kids were jealous of 'cause I'm so good looking. When I was little, I don't know what happened I was a sh uh uh a nice handsome boy, but uh uh some kids called me black head. And I look at pictures of one of the boys who used to say that in me. I'm uh I'm a lot better looking than him Uh, but you know, uh what again what that has to do with what we're talking about? Oh, uh I look into the mirror and think I don't I don't have a good looking face. I I don't know why the Lord would like me. I don't have the best personality. I'm timid. I would like to be off by myself. I when I'm around preachers Brother Leatherman, I'm just by myself. I don't uh if I'm not careful I have to get up and start introducing myself and I find out the other preachers aren't mean. They're just gonna uh uh they need to have somebody say hi, uh just like I want them to say hi to me. But uh if if if we look at the the verses before the verses we just read and the verses afterwards We see Isaac was a lot like us. There was a hard time of famine in the land. And God manifested himself to him at that time. There was a time of family problems with with with Isaac. Isaac, like his dad, Abraham, lied and said that his wife was a sister. And it was a time of trouble with the authorities. Abimelech found out that he was lying, uh, about him not really uh not not being a sister and and he got in trouble with him and It was a time of troubles because people were jealous of them. The Phil Philistines were jealous of Isaac that he had a lot and they stopped up his wells. It was a time of opposition from the world, uh, because they were trying to dig the old wells of uh of his father again and call them what they used to be called and and and we live in a country where uh w the history is tr is trying to be changed uh by evil people drastically Where uh the Bible says, Woe unto them that called evil good and good evil, and that put darkness for light and light for darkness, uh that put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter, and and then there was a time of trouble uh w from being unequally yoked together. Uh at the very end of the chapter we see Esau uh married two women and And even in those days you're supposed to just have one. Uh there were some people that made mistakes and a lot of people a lot of the personalities in the Bible we wouldn't be able to have 'em maybe in our pulpit uh the uh t today. Uh but I'm I'm saying all that because right smack in the m smack in the middle Of those problems, God manifested himself to Isaac. And it may be That you consider yourself one of the worst Christians. Maybe you're a staff member here at the church. I know I think you just have two or three with the secretary. And I'm not trying to hit anybody up. And by the way, as I mentioned yesterday, uh Pastor did not tell me any gossip about anybody today If I say something about anybody today, he did not share anything with me today about anybody. Now last night on the telephone is another story. Uh but today uh but if God has something for you and I today Folks, we're pretty much all in the same boat. Why would God manif manifest Himself unto us? Why does God love the unlovely? Well, he does. And again in verse 24 it says, And the Lord appeared unto him the same night. When God appears unto us, he appears because, first of all, he wants to take away our fears. Amen? He wants to take away our fears. Maybe, young lady, you're afraid. of being pure. Most of the young ladies, for whatever reason, in our church, I don't know if part might be because I'm not able to take and spend a lot of time with the young ladies being a guy I can spend more time with the guys. But we haven't had a good success rate rate. We we call 'em window weddings where they climb out the window and and and and hook up with some guy And uh most of 'em never get married. They they just move in and um and and the girls are afraid. The peop remember the people are dirt, dirt poor Most of the area where we we are is is um squatter area and um i if somebody can at least provide a little shack for them to live in Some would rather have that than to be a preacher's wife, uh living by faith. Uh but but uh we ought to be courageous and know that God doesn't want us to fear when he manifests himself under us. Uh he w he he he he he he wants us to have courage. Amen. He wants us to have valor. Um he he he wants us to to uh have have the courage to listen to the right type of music. He wants us to have the courage to do whatever God would have us. So he wants us to have the courage to follow God's call. I remember when y'all were in someone it it makes me a little mad, really that uh people don't see what God's been doing there for years. They were like, oh boy, this place is really open. Man, right a and somebody said one day, well I told Steve, well, uh Steve knew uh thirty-some years ago that the Dominican Republic was open The Dominican Republic is open to the gospel. And when people come down, uh I remember a missionary uh in a fellowship we had He uh uh was given, we were all given testimonies and he began to weep a little bit and said, Pray for me, and I praise God. He said, uh, I won my first Dominican to the Lord today He was there two years, Brother Leatherman. We have people come, I have a little sheep that I give them that they can take and use the little sheep to go soul wet. And as a matter of fact, those of you who went this year, if I didn't give you one, I might have forgot to bring it Uh but you can take that and just read the plan of salvation and and you might uh La Biblia disse que todos somos pescadores. That's what I used to say, pescador is a is a fish uh pecador is a sinner. And so you might mess up when you're saying, don't know what you say and and there are people that win ten, twenty people And one one little week that they're there, the people are open to the gospel there. We w w we should not fear when God speaks to our heart. When I was a teenager I used to like to walk up to walk up to another teenager and I would say Are you looking at me? And it was, oh I wasn't looking at oh that's what I thought. And then I would laugh. And they they didn't think it was very funny. Uh but but but but I did I'm not promoting it but have have you ever seen The Wizard of Oz and when the lion comes in with the scarecrow and and and they have to br they have to present their self before the m I I always hated the Wizard of Oz. I was afraid of the monkskins. I was afraid I'd have if what would happen if I had to live with them those little m uh anyway. Uh but the great and powerful y you know him they had him a big head and uh I am the great and powerful Oz and he wanted to be scared to death. Well God does not want you to be scared to death of him. And we should we should fear, have a reverential fear. And we and sometimes we should outright not just reverential, I believe we need to be outright scared to death sometimes, but uh but usually folks God appears unto us Um he w to take away our fears. What are you fearful of today? Maybe you came today and said, No If I could just have this area of my life straightened out, I think things would be a lot better. Maybe it's the way somebody else acts. Maybe it's lacking uh something that you do that you shouldn't do, but God loves you. Man, He wants to show Himself to you in a special way today God may speak to you your heart about the same thing every service, but God comes to us because He wants to take away our fears and He manifests himself unto us too because he wants us to know that he is with us. And verse 24 again says, I am the God of Abraham thy father, fear not For I am with thee. I am with thee. God doesn't want to just be with Steve Siddler. He wants to be with Angela. My daughter, with Sarah, with Michael. Michael, my son's a Maryland state trooper. So if you find a guy named Siddler, if you tell him, hey, I'm from Pastor Leatherman's church, he might cut you some slack, amen. Uh but Michael Michael, almost every church he's visited before he became a member where he is, every everywhere he went, people are like, Oh You can start a Spanish ministry here. Oh, you can you you can work on a uh in a teen boys Sunday school class, oh you can do this, you can do that. Well, they wanted a little Steve Siddler They were used to me, what I did, and Michael is not Steve Siddler. But let me tell you, the god of Steve S Steve Siddler also wants to be the god of Michael God doesn't want you to be fearful. Uh uh he he he he g uh uh uh uh he he wants us to know that he's on our side. I remember when I was little I lived in Dennis Grove apartments in Oxen Hill and we were very poor. And I guess the other kids knew it. We had fun. We didn't really know we were poor. Uh, but we uh we were outside playing one time and I don't remember what kind of serial it was, but one of the neighbor kids they had three, we were three kids. And one of the neighbor kids, their mom gave them uh one of those Ziploc baggies, or wasn't the Ziploc, it's the ones that kinda folded over, full of really good sugary cereal And and they re they were taking that cereal and eating it and saying, This is good And they said, Your mama's not gonna give you any 'cause you're too poor. You're too poor And we were And we were we're ready to kick 'em, you know, do whatever. And and my mom was looking from the window and just a few minutes came by and my mom had these bags of cereal and I don't remember what type of cereal it was but it was better. It was better than what they had. My mom was looking And she gave us all the bag and we a and we were just as mean as those other kids were, showing it in their face afterwards. God wants us to know that He's with us. Amen. He loves you today. He's your friend. Amen. When God manifests Himself under us, He wants to take away our fears. He wants to know He's with us and He wants to bless us. He wants to bless us. The verse continues saying, Fear not, for I am with thee, and I will bless thee. And in Mark chapter 10 And verse number 28 and following says, Then Peter said unto him, Lo, we have left all and have followed thee. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, there's no man that will left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife. or children, or lands for my sake and the gospel gospels, but he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time houses and brethren and sisters and mothers and children and lands and for persecutions, and in the world to come, eternal life. But many that are first shall be last in the last first. It is worth Serving the Lord. And serving the Lord doesn't, I'm not just saying being a pastor or a missionary. Just you and I simply doing whatever God wants us to do It is worth it. And God blesses us. Blesses us so much. I I remember hearing a story of evangelist with bus ministry named Wally Beebe. He went to a church And uh the pastor said, Well Brother Wally, would you visit with Brother Jim today? Brother Jim has a bus route and he usually brings five, six, seven people in every week, but there's nobody more faithful than Brother Jim. Brother Jim just goes out every Saturday and visits and but I don't know why his bus route doesn't grow anymore. Could you help him? And so he said sure and he went out with them and I got to the first house and knocked on the door and somebody said, Is that you, Brother Jim? The food's ready. Come on in. And when they came in they they ate a big meal. Then they got to the next house. Hey Brother Jim Uh breakfast is ready, come on in. And everywhere they went that day they ate. You know, really, I'm saying that uh for a reason we're really kind of spoiled rotten We have so many blessings. God manifests Himself unto us, and He every good and perfect gift cometh from above, descendeth from above. Amen. God has great things for us, so many blessings and material. The Bible says that the the the uh uh uh I can say I use the King James but I preach in Spanish, so when I'm preaching in English I go back from the Spanish back in the English and it might not come out exactly uh King James But God gives us many, many blessings and God wants to bless our life. Are are you willing to let hold ever? Put your hand in something, you just have one time to get it. Put your hand in a jar to get some candy. If you try to get a lot, whole lot. You're gonna find out you're gonna have to let go aho of a lot of it to be able to get your hand out of the jar. Amen. But if you want a lot, really don't don't grab as much and you'll actually be able to get Quite a bit more. Amen. And we need to be willing to to m to maybe give uh uh leave behind something. My wife is a great cook. You come down to Dominican and eat some of her food, you'll find out she is a good, good cook. Mrs. Leatherman asked me, Did you like that food yesterday? I said, Yeah And she probably looked at me like, Oh, you didn't like it. What I meant is, uh, I'm sorry, not as good as Noemi's. She's a good cook. Uh but uh sometimes I'll go to church and I'm busy. I don't bring lunch with me. No Amy makes it fresh at home. And Noemi's so worried and she'll call the ladies at the church, make sure you send something to Noemi and uh or to the pastor, he's gonna be there. And uh uh the last time that happened just before we came, I went and Noemi was so worried that I wasn't gonna have anything to eat, I said, Noemi Please don't misunderstand me, but I eat better usually when I'm not here at home, when I don't have anything planned. Seems like the Lord provides better uh than than I would ever get here. The last time I was at the church, I got two giant pork chops. I'm a one pork chop eater. I'm a one sandwich man. I'm I'm I'm big but Uh uh I don't use usually move move around a lot and work in construction whatever about two big pork chops, white rice, red beans, salad with cucumbers and carrots avocado, peach juice, amen. And then dessert. Man, I ate some of it there I had to take some of it home. Lamies said, I didn't see anything, that's because I didn't give it to you. But God wants to bless us When God manifests Himself unto us, He'll give us a lot better life than we would ever have. Amen. Not only that. He wants to multiply us. Amen. He wants to multiply us. The verse continues saying, and multiply thy seed. In Sunday school I mentioned our first year we had Dr. Creed in the service, on a anniversary service, Mrs. Creed, a seven-year-old boy, a a four-year-old girl, and me. That was it And I was so discouraged, Dr. Greed said, Steve, you need to learn to preach. And he wasn't talking about the presentation, giving a great message, but just be faithful. He said, Steve, the majority of what God does And your ministry is gonna is gonna happen through the preaching and teaching of his word at church. Now it doesn't mean we don't need to soul wind, don't need to do other things with God. uh chose the foolishness of preaching and and uh praise the lord he's he he's worked and it seemed to me like um I would get two or three And then we would lose uh uh four or five, two or three and we were almost in the negatives uh for a while. Uh but uh eleven years into it we were able to start our second church And now twenty-seven years into it we have thirteen churches. And I believe God wants to continue multiplying. Armando is a sergeant major in the military. He and the Dominican hardly anybody has a gun uh it's illegal. Uh but because he's a sergeant major, he's able to have one. He always looks out for us. But he's starting a church and this last week they had that case in Bible school, Brother Leatherman and Their first day they had 175 kids come out and they had seventy-five saved. Man, seventy-five souls saved. The second day they had a hundred and thirty And they had fifty-six souls saved. During the same time, Brother Oliver and Fantino had a vacation Bible school going on and Oliver had a vacation Bible school at 430 And he had 105 there, 30 saved, or excuse me, 30 visitors, 50 saved. Uh at seven he had a family service. There were 99 there They had one visitor and two saved. Uh during the day, early in the day that day, they had 128 saved out of public school. And the last in the last couple of months, Oliver has seen over three thousand kids saved in the public schools. I believe if we were able to go into the public schools here in the States that kids would would listen. They'd listen to all the foolishness they've been learning, stuff makes no sense and perverted. But God wants to take and multiply us. Amen the first time I was in the Dominican I uh was handing tracks out and I came up to a military base and I just walked in, started handing tracks out, and everybody was taking them. And then this guy came up to me with with the with a gun and said, What are you doing? And I told him, I'm Pastor So and so and I was a young guy, thirty years old and and s skinny and and uh single still and uh but uh he took me to the to officials office And uh these guys stood up real quick like what what's going on? And he said, uh Sir, uh this pastor's here handing out these Bibles and literature. Is it okay? And he said, yes it is. He said, take them wherever he wants And let him give out th that literature to anybody that that he wants to give it to. The folks are really open there. And uh praise the Lord. God is multiplying us And God wants to multiply uh all of our lives. Amen. Uh I I I I if you had a hundred dollars And somebody gave you two dollars more. Do you like that? What if you had a hundred dollars and somebody gave you another hundred dollars? Amen. Or or maybe $200. $100 times two? A hundred times three? Amen. God uh isn't just send the addition Market, he's in the multiplication. You better learn your multiplication so you can count all the blessings God will give you uh when He manifests Himself unto you When he manifests himself unto us, he also wants us to remember the example of our spiritual fathers. In verse 24, the last part of the verse says, For my servant Abraham's sake. You know what God has used in my life to manifest Himself unto me, to bless me, Dr. Pat Creed. Years ago they pulled into the parking lot of Independent Baptist Church in Clinton, Maryland, country as country can be. It was then, not now. Country. And they went in, the people weren't very happy to have them there. He preached the fire out of them and and figured I'm I'm gonna give them um what I'm gonna give 'em normally and and when they were leaving They really didn't uh uh weren't w didn't seem real happy with him being there and they were in the car and Pat Jr. said that when they were pulling out That dad said, Dr. Creed said, you don't have to worry about us ever coming to a place like this. We'll never be here. And just a couple weeks later, they moved there to start Independent Baptist Church. And uh shortly after that, a blue Sunday school bus, the bus captain's name was Mr. Blue started coming to Dennis Grove apartments and picking up Dana and Stevie and Vincent and taking us to Sunday school. And I I remember I love being at church. They always have plenty of candy and and toys and stuff. And I remember uh like Brother Mark, the guy up there moving his hands, I thought that was neat. So the next service I sat in the front row when Brother Mark got up, or whoever the song leader's name was to lead, I stood up and started doing all this type of stuff too. And so then they made me sit with this guy and his wife run the service and and he would always give me money. I thought, they give me a quarter every week. I bet if if I'm real good today They'll probably give me fifty cents. So I said, I'll just go to sleep and so I can't be bad. Well that dad didn't even get a quarter uh for being there. Uh but praise the Lord for my spiritual father, Dr. Pat Creed, and how God blessed him. And because God blessed him, that overflowed to me, he reached me with the gospel. uh baptized me and disciple me and then God used his influence for me to get down to the Dominican Republic. Some of y'all know very well and love the Weston family You know, the Westons were influenced by Doctor Creed. Most of the missionaries in the Dominican Republic were influenced by Doctor Creed. Well uh uh for a while now we haven't seen Doctor Creed hasn't been able to go as much. And for whatever reason, doc uh uh the Lord is is stirring Pastor Mike Reed's heart up about five years ago. He said, you know, we ought to come down and just Hit that whole area. And I believe God has already called some people. There's some people that have already started getting ready that come to the Dominican Republic, but because of our spiritual father. Amen. And can you say what you want? Uh uh Abraham was just as good a big of a rascal and Isaac and Jacob as we are today. But God manifested Himself unto them, and He wants to manifest Himself unto us. Amen. And when He uh when when He re manifests Himself unto us Number six, he wants us to use the altar. He wants us to use the altar. And verse 25 says, and he builded an altar there. Uh I know some people get mad when you talk about the altar, say, well, the altar's not biblical. Folks, the altar is from Genesis to Revelation. The altar is a representation of our redemption. When Christ died on the cross, the veil of the temple was torn asunder, and now we can we can come uh courageously uh I can say it in Spanish I I don't remember what it says in it. We can come uh uh courageously boldly to the throne of grace define help for a time of need and I was at a church preaching and I said a lot about the altar and this older man came up and looked like he was a little defensive and folks uh You don't have to use the altar to please me. But what a great place. Amen. What a great place of decisions. He came and he said, Brother Siddler, I just want you to know I wasn't at the altar today, but I was at my seat. And I know some older people can't. Have a hard time walking up here, have a hard time bowing your knees knees. Uh he said, but I decided a long time ago my altar is wherever I am. Amen I agree with that, but are you going to do that in heaven? In heaven you're going to say well everybody else is bowing their knees, well, I don't do that Mm-mm. I don't do that. Well praise the Lord for the altar. Praise the Lord that we can use the altar. And God when God manifested himself under Isaac He built an altar. Naomi, do you have your fan with you this morning? You do? Could you put it up in the air and turn it on? If you're cold, Noemia will let you use some of her fan. She has that because in the Dominican we don't have air conditioned in our church. And so we have ceiling fans and they're running. And sometimes they get to running so hard the glass thing will fall, uh uh is falling on people's heads and everything through the years and uh but Naomi even when it's colder She needs to have that air blowing around so she has that little fan. And folks, we don't need a little fan To use the altar, have our own little altar there. Yeah, uh do y'all do what is your favorite? Krispy Kreme or Dunkin' Donuts? I like Dunkin' Donuts. I like those those ones with the powder, the white powder and and the white icing inside. Oh man. They are so good. Krispy Kreme's good too, especially when you get it right out of the oven, amen. But when I go to Dunkin' Donuts or Krispy Kreme, they have a drive through. How are you going to pick out your donuts unless you know the donut you're going to get already? I like to come in and be able to pick out my donut. Amen. We went to Disney World one time and some and one of the workers we were at a church where they had like ten people that worked at Disney World. uh in Claremont, Florida. And uh he said, Listen, at night when it's time to leave, go to such and such spot And there you can see the fireworks and everything's going to be closed. So after the fireworks you're going to have thousands of people trying to get out, but if you're right there It's it's really close to the car. You get in your car and you'll be like the first one out of the parking lot. Folks, I don't know about you. It was fine watching it. We did that. But it's nicer being right up there in the front. Amen. Uh folks, uh when God manifests himself on us We shouldn't be embarrassed of being at the altar. If your son or daughter were to be getting married today, I don't think you want to be in the back seat Amen. Usually the first or second row is where mom and dad sit. They want to be up there close. Amen. And we folks we we we we could talk again and again and and I'm not trying to make you feel bad, uh but what I'm trying to say what a blessing it is to be able to use the altar What a blessing it is to be able to pray. The biggest decisions in my life were made at the altar. I I don't know about you that uh with the social distancing that we had from the pandemic time. Uh I'm so glad uh that we're able to use the altar again. I'm glad that we're able to shake hands today. Amen. Uh when God manifests Himself to us to us, of course He wants us to pray. You ever Brother Leatherman see little kids at the altar? And they'll they'll they'll be you know kneeling down there and want to reach over and pluck the ear of the other. They're they're really Sometimes we come to the altar and we're really not praying. Maybe you come to the altar and say, I wonder if there's any of that fried chicken left over from last night I'm gonna have me some more of that corner of the cob and some of that peach cobbler, woohoo! Uh some of that vanilla ice cream that was on sale to Albies. Uh uh folks, we need to pray. Amen. Uh uh I heard Don Sis say one time, if you're praying, you're seeing great things from God. And if you're not seeing great things from God, you're probably not praying. You probably sing the song, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Amen. Uh he we he will answer us. When I got saved, I didn't pray a lot for me. I prayed, but I didn't pray for my daily bread. Because I I kind of thought, that doesn't make sense. When I have kids, is my son Michael going to come and say, Daddy, you think we'll be able to eat today? Well, let me think about it. And so I thought, uh uh, I don't need to pray for my daily bread. God's gonna give me the food and and guess what? I was going hungry. I s I started working at our academy and I made lunch for 300 kids every day. I wasn't able to eat one hot dog or one piece of pizza for free and some of these boys would would would take and eat two bites out of their second or third piece of pizza and take and throw it, chuck it in the trash get a Coke uh out of the Coke machine and tr and take two little drinks and throw the whole thing away or or whatever. And and I'm like wanting to dig out of the trash and was going hungry and my mom put a roof over her head But um she wasn't able to buy a lot of food and so uh I was eating ketchup sandwiches is all I could afford sometimes And so one day I'm sitting in the cafeteria or standing there counting the money. And I said, Lord, you know, I'm tired of going hungry. All these kids are throwing food away. And Lord, I sure would like to. I'm serving you full-time here at the school And Lord, it sure would be good for you to give me something good to eat. And not a literal voice, but the Holy Spirit said, Hey Steve, good to hear from you. It's been a long time And and I knew. I knew God manifested Himself to me at that time talking to Him a special way. And and the Lord said, What do you want? And I wasn't real experienced at this yet. I should have said a a pepperoni pizza with extra cheese and extra pepperoni and a double liter of Pepsi Cola But you know what I wanted? I said, Lord, you know what I would want? I want a banana. A banana. Do you ever eat banana that had those black marks on them? You gotta take them cut 'em out. I hate that. Or when you opened a banana, there's this little black point, and I think it's a little worm that pulled up in it, so I cut that part off too. And uh I was praying, Lord, I would like a banana And there's a lady named Mrs. Carpenter that cleaned the cafeteria. And I heard her voice as I was praying with my eyes closed. She said, Brother Siddler I said, yes, ma'am, and there was a banana in her hand right in my face. She said, Is this your banana? I thought, Lord, that was pretty quick. God gave me a banana. And let me tell you, if God will give us a banana, He wants to give you anything you need. I asked God for something specifically last night. Lord maybe I haven't been asking enough Lord please do this for me and I'm not gonna say because I want to know it's from him um and don't want to be humiliated if I don't get it, but uh God God will answer our prayer. Amen. When He manifests Himself unto us, maybe, do you want butterscotch? Do you want uh cookie dough, chocolate, chalk chip? That's the bomb. That is some good ice cream. Amen. But he we need to pray. And he wants, when he manifests himself unto us, for us to be in the place of his will. He wants us to be in the place of his will. Verse 25 continues saying, and pitched his tent there. God will provide everything we need for the place of his service. We love the Dominican Republic. It is our home. Sometimes people will say when we're in the States, how long are you home for? And we used to answer, we're going back home in three weeks, or we're going back home next month Um but that's uh our home when during the COVID time the State Department sent us emails daily uh what went since it started and saying all Americans who live in the States should make plans to come back immediately unless you're willing to stay where you are indefinitely We have no desire to leave. Um I I didn't know i if they were gonna make me um uh take take a shot and then I w I I I I probably would have. But uh Why would we want to come to the States? The Dominican is our home. Amen. That's where we pitched our tent. That's where God takes away our fears. That's where God is with us That's where God blesses us. That's where God multiplies us. That's where God is allowing us to practice what our spiritual fathers have taught us. That is where our altar is. I don't we don't have to make a pilgrimage to Clinton, Maryland to be able to pray at our home church. We pray in the Dominican Republic. And when God manifests Himself unto us lastly today, He wants us to dig wells in the place of His will. Amen. He wants us to dig wells in the place of his will. At the very end of verse 25, it says, And there Isaac's servants digged a well. We've dug in in the Dominican Republic. And I want to encourage you, you can dig in wherever God wants you to be. Are you going to hit water? I believe you will. Might not hit it today, might not hit it tomorrow, but just dig in Do what God wants you to do. Where you are, the Philistines have filled all the wells of Abraham. Isaac reopened. The uh the wills. In the world, the flesh and the devil would like to take and erase all the spiritual success that our fathers have had But let's not let 'em do it. Amen. Are you with me? Uh uh t today we we we we need to dig some wells in our life. Praise the Lord. for the fun it's been to dig wells and the sea gun, send living water all over the Dominican Republic. Uh Naimi and I lived in a neighborhood for a year that we had to bring in water by the truckload. On the way we were able to have water. One day they were out there from the water company and with with their big wire cutters and were cutting the the the plumbing and we said, What are you doing? Where cutting people's water off? I said, What water? We haven't had water here for a year. And I said and they said, Well people need to pay their bill Uh, so we can fix it. I said, Well why pay for something we're not getting it? They said, Well if you don't pay then we're not gonna be able to fix it. Uh it didn't make any sense. Finally they did cut the water on. And praise the Lord um uh there's some water being cut on. All over. Carlos and Sarah started the church there. And someone we shouldn't fear today because God has manifested Himself unto us. Folks, I don't need to uh to jump up and and and and troll around with that ceiling fan in order uh to get your attention. The Holy Spirit of God, I believe, has narrowed in directly in some area in your life of what he wants to do for you and manifesting himself unto you. One little soft spoken voice speaks to our heart today and we don't respond, then we're we may be rejecting the only thing God is going to do to manifest Himself unto us today. But will you let God do in your life what he wants to do this morning? Amen. Would wouldn't you like to leave here church today knowing That you're going to heaven not because the preacher told you, not because the Baptist church saved you, but because Jesus Christ Himself helped you see That he was the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father, but by him would you receive him today. Let's pray with our heads bowed and our eyes closed this morning