Chapter sixteen, verse twenty five through thirty four. You follow along as I as I read And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened. and everyone's bands were loosed. And the keeper of the prison, awakening out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, uh he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. And he called for a light and sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was baptized, he and all his straightway. And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. I ask that you would bless this reading of Scripture to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name, amen. When peace like a river I tend to my way where souls like sing Thou has taught me to say it is well It is well with my soul. It is well with my soul. It is well, it is well with my soul Though Satan should both the trial should come Let these bless They cried my hell bless days And hath shed his own blood for my soul, my sins. Oh the bliss of this glory My same part but Is nailed to the cross and I no more Praise the Lord, praise the Lord my soul. It is what I with my so It is well, it is well Amen. Amen. Thank you, Jennifer, very much. And uh that is a powerful song. Uh if you know the story behind it, it's uh a testimony of uh submission to God's will in trying times. If you would take your Bibles, turn back to Acts chapter sixteen. And I wanna like for us to read together verse number thirty-one. Read together in unison. I failed to recognize uh Brother Greg and Becky Renard, and uh they're in the service this morning, and I understand are going to be back tonight. They were helping us out at our fair uh fairgrounds. Um Becky did uh chalk drawings and Brother Greg uh present a gospel and you'll hear more about it tonight, but uh had, I believe I'm correct, about thirty professions of faith just in the last two days, Friday and Saturday night. And so tremendous ministry. We're glad they're So we're able to stay over and be with us today. And so we're we're excited about that. Acts chapter 16. Look with me if you would at verse number 31. And I'd like for us, as I said, to read this together in unison. Ready? Read it with me And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house I just want to preach on that one statement, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's uh pray again and ask the Lord to bless this service. Father, I'm grateful uh for uh what's taken place so far. It's been a blessing to have the visitors in the service, family and friends. And we ask Lord that uh you would bless now as we look into the Word of God I pray you'd help us give our undivided attention to the truths given here in your word. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to offer of any eternal benefit to anybody. But uh, Lord, I yield myself to you, and I present my body anew, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and Lord, that it would be you, speaking your word through me to each of our hearts. And uh bless us this time now in your word, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. A man was sitting in a train station and he was reading his Bible as the people walked by. And there was one fellow who was a skeptic. And by skeptic I mean a man who did not believe the Bible, who thought it was foolishness. The skeptic walked by this man reading his Bible caught his attention, and something about it just irked the skeptic. And he walked back and forth in front of this man reading his Bible several times until finally he stopped and he said to the man reading the Bible, He says, You don't believe everything in that book, do you? And the man reading the Bible stopped. He looked up and he held his Bible in his hand. He says, Well, actually, I must admit, there is one verse that I find very hard to believe. And the skeptic said, I knew it. I knew it. You can't believe everything in that book. And he said, This is the verse I find very hard to believe. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life He said, to me, it is unbelievable that God would love me that much. Boy, what a great message. Paul and Silas had been going city to city to city, preaching that very message that God loved them so much That he gave his only Son, that whoever, anybody, would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, that they would not perish, and they would have everlasting life As they went city to city, many times people would respond to that message in a positive way, and they believed the message and accepted Christ and Paul and Silas, earlier Barnabas, they would uh uh establish churches and they'd spend some time there teaching the new believers and establish them in the Word of God. And then they would move on But on the other hand, there was many times in just about every city they went to, there was folks who did not accept the message. But rather they rejected and resisted their message, and in many cases actually brought intense, sometimes violent persecution, trying to shut them up. That they would not preach that message. In our chapter of our text here this morning, Paul and Silas arrive in a city named Philippi. And dare they do as they always did. They began preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. They began declaring to the folks in that city that God loved them so much. That Jesus Christ died for their sins, was buried, and rose again. They would believe on him and turn to him in faith, trusting Jesus as their personal Savior. They would not perish, die, and go to hell, but they'd have everlasting life. And the same results in Philippi that in many, many of the other cities they experienced. If you would, look with me in chapter 16 at verse number 12. This is when they first show up in the city. The Bible says in verse number 12, and from thence to Philippi, their traveling, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony, and we were in that city abiding certain days. And on the Sabbath we we went out of the city by a riverside where prayer was wont to be made. And we sat down and spake unto the women which resorted thither. What do you think they were speaking to them? The gospel of Jesus Christ, that God loved them so much that he gave his Son to die for them And if they believe on him, they would not perish, but of everlasting life. And verse number 14, and a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple, of the city of Thyatira, which worship God, heard us. whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of uh uh spoken of Paul. And uh and and And when she was baptized and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide there. And she constrained us. Paul and Silas show up in the city. They preach the gospel as they were always did, and they found a group of ladies down by the river, and they were having prayer. meeting there and he told them of Christ and Liddy in particular believes and accepts the gospel, follows the Lord and believers baptism. There was a positive response. To Paul and Silas's presentation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But as we read on, there was also a negative response. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 19. And when uh let's start in verse 16, I'm sorry. And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us. which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying. The same followed Paul and us in cried, saying, These men are the servants of the Most High God, which show unto us the way of salvation And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee, in the name of Jesus Christ, come out of her. And he came out of the same, and he came out the same hour. Now look at verse number 19. And when her master saw that the hope of their gain was gone, They caught Paul and Silas, drew them out of the marketplace unto the rulers. Now I think that's interesting there. They're not thrilled that this young girl is delivered from her affliction. But rather they're upset that they lost money, that they lost their income. And boy, is that not an accurate picture of the world today? It's more of a concern about my well-being, about my comfort, about what's good for me, than we are concerned about the spiritual well-being of those around us. That's exactly the way these guys were And look what happens here in verse number twenty. And they brought them unto the magistrates, saying, These men being Jews do exceedingly trouble our city. and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans. And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. So Paul and Silas show up in the city, as I mentioned. They're preaching the gospel of Christ. They're pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. A handful of folks respond in a positive way. They receive the message. They accept Christ as Savior. They're baptized. And uh they associate themselves with Paul. Paul, uh, under the power of the Holy Spirit as apostle, he casts this demon out of this woman's uh this young lady's uh body and changes her life. She gets saved, her life is transformed. And her masters, her slave owners, basically, uh they're upset about it. And they throw uh uh they throw Paul and Silas into the prison and they're beaten with stripes and they're put in stocks And so you have this positive and negative response to the message of Christ. Hey, that's the way it has always been. You give the gospel to people, you're generally going to have one of two responses. Either they're going to accept it or they're going to say, no, we don't want it. And so that was the case here. Notice how Paul and Silas respond in verse number 25. We read it a moment ago. And at midnight. Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. Wow, what a response! Um Paul and Silas are praying and singing praises to God. Now I have no doubt that prayer in prison was very common. Everybody prays in prison. It's kind of like warfare. Oh God, get me out of here. Oh Lord, please. Lord, if you'll just get me out of this prison, I'll live for you. I'll do right. Well, there's a lot of praying going on in prison. We had a little prison ministry uh in Indianapolis when I was there in the Marion County Jail. It was a little ministry, but it was a big jail. And we get down there once a month and we preach to these guys, and it's amazing how much religion there is behind those cell bars. Oh man, they're praying, praying. So it's not uncommon that there's prayer going on in prison, but I tell you what is uncommon to have praising going on in prison. Paul and Silas prayed and praised the Lord. That is unheard of. And the Bible says the dec uh the prisoners heard that. Now as we read down through here and then we read about how the earthquake hits and the and the jailer responds and they end up in the jailer's house and baptizing him and his household. It dawned on me as I was studying this how quickly our circumstances can change in life. How suddenly things can be so well and then be so bad and then be so well. Think about that. Paul and Silas show up. The very first people they talk to respond positively. And they're having a prayer meeting and a baptism service by the river as soon as they show up. A day later, apparently. Now all of a sudden they're being turned on by the city. They're thrown in jail. They're being beat up. They're being whipped. Stripes are being laid upon them. They're in the stocks. And lo and behold, a day later, they're in the jailer's house baptizing the jailer. He's feeding them and cleaning them up. You're talking about emotional roller coaster. And how quickly things can change for us. I want us this morning to consider this jailer. I'd like for us to look at him for a little bit. There is an apparent catastrophe. The jailer is asleep. The Bible tells us. Midnight, Paul and Silas are in their jail cell and very rustic, very uncomfortable type setting, nothing like ours today. And uh they're in there singing and and praying to God and singing praises. All the prisoners hear them, the jailer doesn't hear them, he's asleep. An earthquake hits. It is an earthquake of pretty significant uh magnitude in that it busts all the doors. And miraculously, everyone's bands are broken loose. I mean, if I read this correctly, the whole prison, all prisoners, they are suddenly loose from their bands and the doors are open. Um uh man for the for the uh uh jailers can uh point of view, this is disaster. He's been given the responsibility of keeping these prisoners secure. No doubt many of them are violent. No doubt many of them are a threat to society, and he has been given the responsibility by the government To keep these guys behind bars and now they're all loose. His only conclusion is there's no hope for me I failed in my responsibilities, and he takes a sword, and he's about to kill himself when uh Paul jumps in and says, uh hey, don't do yourself any harm. Everybody's here I don't know. We're not given all the details, minute details here, but I can see the jailer saying, huh? And uh so he throws the sword down, he walks through the prison, and lo and behold, all the guys are just sitting there Nobody's running, nobody's taking off, they're just staying in their place. I'm telling you, that was as much of a miracle that these prisoners didn't run away as it was that the earthquake busted all their bands off None of them left. And so the prisoner, the the the jailer Suddenly takes his spiritual condition very seriously. He's seen something he's never seen before. Something has happened in his life that has caused him To seriously consider his standing before God and his spiritual well-being. And that's what caught my attention. What it took for this, no doubt, hardened man. To suddenly become very, very concerned about where he's going to spend eternity. To become very concerned about his standing before God and his spiritual well-being I want us to take a moment and look at this jailer, just a three thoughts about this man. Number one, I put this down. I'd like for us to consider the character of this jailer. What kind of man was he? Not told a lot, this is the only record we have of him, but we can surmise some things as we look carefully at his actions and in throughout this and we can pick up a little bit perhaps of what type of man he was and what his character was like. As I look at this and study this man, I see no indication that he was a really depraved man I see no indication here that there's drunkenness or adultery or dishonesty or that type of thing going on. None that we're aware of. He appears to be a man with great respect for his authority. If you would look with me at uh verse number 24, speaking of the jailer who having received Such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. Uh he was a man who was given a job by his authorities. His responsibility was to take these two men, put them in prison, make their life miserable, do not let them get out And he took his responsibility very seriously. To me, this man, this jailer, was a man that could be trusted. That you could give him a job and he would get the job done. He seems to be a man of his word. He had prompt obedience as far as I can see what he was told he wanted to do. Again, he was a man of his word. He appears to be a very responsible man. As you look at this, the doors are locked, the lights are out. When the earthquake came, he asked for a light. He apparently ran a tight ship here. The lights were out when they're supposed to go out. The doors are locked when they're supposed to be locked. This may come as a surprise to you, but it is not uncommon for corruption to be in a prison. Shocking. It's not uncommon for prisoners, for one way or another, to be able to buy off the guards and grease the wheels a little bit, so to speak, and get special favors. But as far as we can tell, the record here is no indication that this guy uh put up with any briberies. He could not be bought Things were in order. Things were done the way they were supposed to be done. And uh I just don't see that here. I look at verse 27. It says, um He says, and the keeper, this is after the earthquake and everybody's loose, the keeper of the prison awakening out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open. He drew out his sword and would have killed himself supposing that the prisoners had been fled. He knew what these guys were like. He knew if they had the opportunity, they would be gone. He knew what he was dealing with. And he would rather die than be disgraced in failing at his job. He would rather take his own life than face failure. What does that tell us about him? That was a man that takes his responsibilities very seriously. I don't see him making any excuses. I don't see him trying to bribe his authorities and say, hey, listen, it's an earthquake. I didn't have any control of this. He took absolute responsibility for it and he was willing to take his own life before he'd be disgraced with failure. What am I trying to say? I'm trying to say this was a good guy. This was a man that was not uh depraved. He was not living in debauchery. He was not living a life of blatant, wicked, ungodly sin. He was a good man by man's standards. But yet he still needed to be saved. A good man that needed to be saved. When I worked, uh when I was in Bible college, I worked at uh a uh hospital. And for those of you that aren't familiar with my story, I worked in the surgery department of a hospital. That is supposed to be very impressive in the surgery department. And when you're impressed by something you say, there you go, here catching on. I worked in the surgery department of a hospital for four years. I wore all the surgery garb. I'd get on the elevator and there'd be other folks, patients and whatnot there, and uh they would say hi doctor, and I'd say hi. They never asked me anything more and they want to call me doctor, they could call me doctor if they wanted to. And occasionally folks would say, well what what's your what's your occupation? I'd say I I'm a garbologist in the surgery department. They say a garbologist. Ooh, well. You know what my job was? I took out the garbage from the emergence uh from the operating rooms. And you want to talk about interesting garbage. Garbage from int operating rooms is very interesting. And so I'm forget I forget why I was telling a story. But um anyway, uh Uh anyway, I worked in the hospital. And of course these are very you know these are high some of them are very high powered doctors that I'm working with and I was in there during the surgeries procedures and all that and had responsibilities and and with the nurses and one night it was so I worked the the second shift and there wasn't any surgeries going on and the head nurse was sitting there and And we got talking and I always tried to share my faith if I can in an appropriate way and and uh we got talking and uh somehow my testimony came up and I began sharing my testimony with her And uh most of you are familiar with uh saved out of drugs and just a very depraved lifestyle during my teenage years and and uh I was sharing that with her and she was listening and watching, she was very fascinated And I told how Christ, I accepted Christ and how He changed my life and delivered me from that and and what a new life I had. And now I was studying the Bible. And at that point in time I was wanting to be a school teacher and And uh what God was doing in my life, and I was real excited, and she seemed very interested. And then when I came and I wanted to try and apply it to her and about her relationship with the Lord, and she made this statement She said, Dennis, no doubt you needed Jesus Christ in your life because of the way your life was. She goes, but I'm not living that way. I don't need that in my life. But you did. And I learned two things. One, I learned I need to be careful when I give my testimony. And I don't give the impression that only really bad people need Christ. But you know what? Really good people need Christ too. And I could not win that lady to Christ. And I submit to you, if I understand scripture correctly, I believe I do. That dear lady in that surgery department, that head nurse, she needed Christ just as much as Dennis Leatherman needed Christ. Our sins were just different. Mine were more blanton. Mine were more of the raw nature. But nevertheless, for all have sinned. So we have this jailer here. He's a good man. I look at his character and I'm trying to find a flaw in his character. I'm trying to find something that would say, hey, this guy's a mess. He really needs Christ. And I find out he's not a mess. Apparently he is an honest, hardworking, responsible man. And nevertheless, he's brought to a point where he realizes there's something missing in his life. And he asks the question: what must I do to be saved? It's interesting. It's not a prisoner, some murderer who's about to face the death penalty, saying, Oh, what must I do to be saved? It's the head of the prison. It's a good guy. Listen, I may be speaking to someone this morning you've never touched liquor in your life. You may be an honest, hardworking person. You may be a good father and a good mother You may be a respectable citizen in our community. But I'm telling you, if you never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you're just as lost as the guy living in the ditch that was drunk all night last night. We need Christ. So the first thing I notice here is this man's character. Second thing I want us to consider is the conversion. of this jailer, the conversion of this jailer. Notice it's a very simple process at this point. I hope you picture this in your mind, what's taking place. Paul and Silas have been falsely accused and thrown in jail because they're doing nothing but sharing the gospel. Young ladies' life is transformed by the power of God. Uh the com the certain men hate that. They're losing income They had them thrown in prison, Paul and Silas, rather than calling the Christian Law Association, rather than organizing uh citywide protests of their unjust treatment, they pray and they praise God And God in response sends a miraculous uh uh earthquake. Breaks everybody loose Uh the jailer wakes up and he sees this, and the first thing I'm a thinking is going through his mind, how in the world did an earthquake break everybody's bands. How did this happen? This is unbelievable. I failed totally. He's going to take his life. Paul stops him. And then he realizes nobody has left. This is even more miraculous. Now the Bible doesn't tell us this. I'm just speculating here, but I'm thinking in this guy's mind, he's starting to think. There's something happening here beyond my ability. There's something bigger than me at work here. Now I can't say this for certain, but I have a sneaking suspicion. That things, God had been working in this man's life in previous weeks and months. That something had been taking place, and suddenly he is confronted through these series of circumstances With his standing before God in his spiritual condition, and he realizes in spite of his honesty, in spite of his hard work, in spite of his integrity, he's falling short. He needs a Savior Now, once he gets to that point, it's a very simple process of being saved. I found the most difficult part in winning souls is getting individuals to be aware of their need. Getting individuals, getting people to care whether they go to heaven or hell. Getting people to actually be concerned about their spiritual needs. I'm telling you, there is an apathy and an indifference in our world today concerning their people's spiritual well-beings that is absolutely shocking I do a lot of funerals, done many, over the years, many, many funerals. Many times at a funeral I'll point something out, particularly if it was a saved person. And I'll point out this: the tragedy is in so many lives, we will buy insurance for our cars in case we have an accident. I have car insurance. I hope you do too. And uh why do we buy car insurance? Well, I got insurance because I'm going to have a wreck on Tuesday. Now you don't know that. You hope you never have a wreck. But you buy car insurance what? In case you do. You don't know for sure it's going to happen, may never. Many, if most of us, if not all of us, we have some form of life insurance. And we buy that because someday we're going to die, and we want to be concerned for our family, and we plan ahead and we prepare for that, our physical deaths so that our loved ones are taken care of when we're gone. But then when it comes to our spiritual well-being, we give it no attention. Listen, as sure as physical death is, there is a facing of God and eternity in heaven or hell. And to get people to the point where they're actually concerned about whether they go to heaven or go to hell. That they actually give it any thought of where I'm going to spend eternity. That to me has become the hardest part of soul winning. Um, I don't know how many folks I've witnessed to and stood at their door or sat down in the office or somewhere. And I ask them, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? And I'll get this sort of answer. Well, I don't know. And I like to ask this, do you ever give that any thought? Does it concern you at all? I tell you what concerns me is the number of people that say, you know, I really don't think about it. I really don't give it any thought at all. And that person, there's not much I can do for. I can go through the gospel with them and tell them how to be saved. But if they're not concerned, there's not a whole lot you can do. Listen, if you're here this morning and you never accepted Jesus Christ your personal Savior, I'm telling you, you need to be concerned about that. We don't know what a day may bring forth. We don't know what's going to happen. Death is certain. What's beyond the grave, only God can help us prepare for. And we need the Lord Jesus Christ. So getting someone to be aware of their need, getting someone to be concerned about their spiritual well-being. Now, I will say this: God is very good at getting our attention. God is very good at backing us. God won't save some against the someone against their will. But I tell you what, God is awfully good at backing us in a corner until we are willing to be saved. So that's where we're at with this jailer. The nearness of death caused him to become very concerned for his spiritual well-being. The obvious hand of God working in these circumstances. Paul is tend to be very concerned about his eternal destiny. And so At this point, it's pretty simple to get him to a saving faith in Christ. All he needed now was information to be given. And Paul says to him, he says, What must I do to be saved? Paul says to him, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. The word believe there is a is a very specific word It means to rely and to trust upon what Jesus Christ has done for me, to trust what Jesus has done for me, for him to save me. It's depending on Jesus Christ the same. Notice there's no mention of church here. What must I do to be saved? Subject of church does not come up. Question: Is church important? Absolutely. Church is vitally important to the spiritual growth of a Christian. But that's not what saves us. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot, never has, never will be able to save a person from sin and hell and give him eternal life. We cannot do that. Only Jesus Christ can do that. We had a track this week at the fair we were given out. It said, which church saves? Is the question on the track. Which church saves? And I was giving that out and people taking, I got talking to folks, and I started this doing this about halfway through the week. I would say this, here's a gospel track, we'll tell you which church can get you to heaven. Boy, that caught people's attention What do you mean? I had several people say, What do you mean which church can get you to heaven? There ain't no church can get you to heaven. I said, read it and see what you think. A little bit later they'd come back. You know what? You're right What'd the gospel tracts say? There isn't any church can save a soul. No church can get a person. There's no word. What must I do to be saved? Doesn't say anything about church. No, it doesn't say anything about baptism. Is baptism important? Absolutely. Every person except Jesus Christ the Savior ought to be baptized as soon as possible after they're saved. I see that in the Bible. There's no word about uh their own goodness. Uh, he doesn't say, What must I do to be saved? Well, you just keep on being good. You just keep on telling the truth, you just keep on working hard. No, no, no. Our own business never saves us. We cannot be good enough to get to heaven This past March, uh, had the opportunity to go down to the Dominican Republic and teach in a Bible institute for a week down there. And I just thoroughly enjoyed that. And so we went over and we flew out of Reagan International Airport down in Washington, D. C. We flew down to Miami Airport and then over to uh Santo Domingo in uh Dominican Republic And when we uh flew down there, um uh you had to that get this, get this. If you wanted to get the Miami from Reagan National, you had to get on the plane and fly down. Isn't that an amazing thing? Now I always felt like I was a pretty good jumper. I can jump pretty far. I mean, all things considered. And um Uh, you know, I say, well, I'll just jump down to Miami. Now that's stupid. You're gonna you can't get a plane now, I'm just gonna jump down there. You say, What are you you're you're mentally ill, something's wrong with you. Why was it And uh I can jump pretty far. I'm a white man, but I can still jump pretty far, I think. But uh I can't jump that far. Follow what I'm saying? I needed an airplane to fly me down there. Hey, listen, you and I might be pretty good by this world's standards. You know, we tell the truth. I work hard. I'm honest. Try to be nice and kind and helpful. Hey, praise God for it. We'll take all those people we can. That's not going to get you to heaven any more than me jumping was going to get me to Miami. Only Jesus can get us to heaven. If I was going to get to Miami and then over to I had to get on that airplane and trust that plane and that pilot to take me where I needed to go. And that is exactly what salvation is It is simply trusting Jesus Christ to get me to heaven. Because I can't get myself there. I can't be good enough. I can't give enough money. I can't be religious enough. Only Jesus can take away my sins and get me to heaven. And that's what Paul was saying to this jailer, this good man. He says, what must I do to be saved? You need to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And then there needs to be a reception of the truth. I need to personally and consciously accept that truth for myself. I'm afraid there's a lot of people know the go the gospel facts. They've got all the facts in their head, but they never personally received Jesus Christ as Savior. Back to the airplane. I have my ticket, it's fully paid for. I'm standing outside that plane. I know there's no doubt in my mind that airplane can fly me down. All I've got to do is get on it and sit on there and let that plane get me down to Miami I can have all those facts in my head, but until I make the decision to step onto that plane and sit down and let it take me, I'll never make it to Miami. I can have all the Bible facts in my mind that I want. I can know that I'm a sinner. I can know that Christ died for my sins. I can know that He's the only way, truth, and life. No man can come to the Father but through Him. I can have all those facts in my mind. But until I make that conscious decision to accept what he has done for me, I'll never make it to heaven. I'll never make it to heaven. I wonder how many people today are burning in a devil's hell that knew the gospel, that knew John 3. 16. That knew that except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. They had those facts in their head, but they never trusted Christ in their heart And die without Christ. So there must be a reception. We see the character of this man. Good guy, honest, humanly speaking, he's a fine fellow. Hold him up to God's standards. He's a sinner. He sees God's hand. He sees destiny. So I need to be saved. What do I do to be saved? Well, the hard part's over. He's concerned about it Now he just needs the information about Christ dying for him, he needs to accept it, and he's got it settled. Now, what are the consequences of his conversion Real quickly, I notice he submitted the baptism. Look there with me if you would. And verse number 2032. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house, and he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was baptized. Again, I emphasize this. Baptism is the most important thing for a person to do after they accept Jesus Christ as Savior. Baptism does not save me, it doesn't keep me saved. It's possible to die and go to heaven without being baptized. But it is God's will and God's instructions for new believers to be baptized. That is important. Yesterday, last evening, my son was married. Can you imagine as he was down there and uh they're about to exchange rings? And can you imagine that when it came time to exchange rings, Sam would say, you know, I want to get married, but I'm not really prepared to wear that ring. And I don't just don't want people to see me. Maybe I can wear it when nobody sees me wearing it, and uh we'll just do it that way. What do you think Sarah would have done? He he would have walked away with a bloody nose, believe me. I know Sarah. She would have dealt with that. No, it's not ashamed To identify as a married man, and that's what baptism is. I'm not ashamed to identify myself as a believer in Jesus Christ. So the first thing he does, he follows the Lord in baptism. Second thing is he humbles himself I'm telling you, his acceptance of Jesus Christ has changed this man. Now you have the prison warden, the jailer, is washing the stripes of the prisoners. You talk about a reversal of roles. This guy is humbling himself before these two men have been beaten. And he's cleaning their stripes. And he's submitting to baptism by a prisoner baptizing the jail warden. Man, he's humbling himself. What in the world are the other jailers gonna say? They hear that this guy's that I'm uh being baptized by a prisoner. He don't care about that He's accepting Christ. God has changed his whole perspective. He's unashamed. He's concerned for others. Verse 33, cleans up their stripes and washes them. The joy of the Lord is there. Look at verse 34, the last part. And he rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. And he had tremendous influence. Here's my question this morning. Is God working in your life? Are there things happening in your life where God is trying to get your attention? Are you at the point yet where you're concerned about where you spend eternity, heaven or hell? Do you give any thought to your spiritual well-being You're here this morning. Maybe you're like this jailer, good person, hard worker, honest, but never accepted Jesus Christ your personal Savior. That is the only way for you to be saved. Your goodness and your integrity will not save you from sin in hell. Only Jesus Christ can. And you must trust Him and accept Him. Many of us here maybe have already made that decision. You say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I trusted Christ. There's no doubt about it. God changed my life. I have Bible basis for my confidence. My sins are viewed on my way to heaven. Let me ask you this Do you know someone that needs Christ? You know someone that God's working in their heart and life. Sometimes, uh, you know, we can't judge people's hearts, we don't know. But sometimes you just look at somebody and what's happening and you can't help but come to the conclusion God's working in that guy's life. We can be a witness. We can be an influence. So let's ask God to help us. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for this jail. We're a good man as far as I can tell, honest, upright. But nevertheless, he needed to be saved. Lord, I pray you'd help us to be genuinely concerned about our eternal destiny and our spiritual standing with you. God, none of us are better than others. We just have different types of sins. Some are more obvious than others. But Lord, we're all sinners. Help us to see that and understand that. And I pray that everyone under the sound of my voice that has never trusted Christ as Savior, I pray, Lord, that today would be the day of salvation. They would accept you as your Savior. Lord, many of us know folks that are that need Christ. Not being judgmental. It's just we know they need Christ. And help us to be compassionate and bold in our witness and sharing Christ with them and living lives that are genuine. We ask you to help us with our heads bowed and eyes