Twenty-seven, Acts chapter twenty-seven, and I'm gonna read verse number twenty-five A blonde was out weed eating and uh She was going through and she accidentally cut off the tail of her cat who was hiding in the grass. And so she grabbed the cat, grabbed the tail, and rushed to Walmart. Somebody said, why did you go to Walmart? She said, because Walmart is the largest retailer in the world. Retailer in the world. Sandy Schofield stood in the back because she's the one that sent that to me and she was listening it. Alright. Acts chapter 27. Notice with me, if you would, verse 25. Paul says, under the inspiration of God, he says, Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer. Now look at this next phrase, and this is what caught my attention. Be of good cheer, for I believe God That it shall be even as it was told me. I want to speak this morning on believing God. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you bless now our study in your word. I ask, Lord, that you would speak to all of our hearts. Lord, we all uh Lord we uh recognize that we are spiritual beings and as such we have spiritual needs And God, we uh understand that you are the only one that can meet these needs of our hearts and souls. So, Lord, we open our hearts and minds to you. We ask that your will would be done in each of our lives. I present myself, Lord, as preacher to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Empower me to be faithful to your word And I just pray you'd speak through me, Lord, and have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I am not a baseball expert. I enjoy the game. We go to one every now and then. We'll go up to Pittsburgh. But um The the uh pitchers when they're playing baseball, the pitcher he has various uh types of pitches he can make. One of them, and this is very obvious, one of them is a curveball Now the way I understand a curve ball works is it the ball will go down towards the plate and just before it gets the plate it will curve and actually come across the plate at a different place than what the pitcher anticipated it. Am I correct, any baseball experts here? I think that's pretty much the way it works A curveball looks like it's going one way and ends up another direction, another spot. Life has a way of throwing us curveballs We're going, we end up, we find ourselves going in directions we never anticipated. Life has a way of Throwing at us issues we never intended to have to deal with. Curveballs Uh when we were younger, perhaps, we had our life laid out, we had it planned out. And boy, we were going to do this and we were going to do that, and this is where we're going to be at this point in life. And uh all these things. I know in college I had uh these different ideas. And you know, I found in the last 49 years of my life, I've had to deal with some issues I did not anticipate Can I get a witness from anybody? Anybody know? Um I found my life go in directions I never uh expected that my life would go. Now, here in Acts chapter 27, Paul has been dealt a curveball. If we study the scriptures, the ratings that Paul, that God used Paul to record. We know from these portions of Scripture that Paul had an intense desire to preach the gospel throughout the entire Roman Empire, which was huge at that time. It was a largest, most powerful kingdom on earth. And Paul's desire was to take the gospel to every corner of the Roman Empire. One of his Intense desires was to get to the city of Rome. Rome was in some ways the center of the world And if he could get to Rome, and if he could get there and introduce the gospel to Rome and get some churches established there in Rome. From Rome, the word of God could go out, and Christianity could be spread throughout the kingdom. And that's wise. What was the old saying? All roads lead to Rome. It was the center of the world, the center of commerce. And so he had a strategy in mind. He had a plan of reaching the world with the gospel. But I do not believe that Paul ever anticipated going to Rome as a prisoner. I do not believe that Paul ever anticipated having the opportunity, though a prisoner, of standing before Caesar. And presenting his case. Nevertheless, that's what happened. If you read the chapters leading up to Acts chapter 27, You find that Paul had come back to Jerusalem and he had brought some Gentile converts with him. Paul went into the temple, and uh the Pharisees, the Jews Mistakenly believed that he had brought a Gentile into the kingdom, which would have been blasphemous for the Jews. He did not do that, but they mistakenly thought he did. There was an uproar. One thing led to the other, and lo and behold, Paul finds himself in prison. False accusations are thrown at him, threats are made on his life, and he is transported to the head, the governor of that region, the Israeli region of the Roman Empire. And there he's left in prison for a long time because the authorities were corrupt. Finally, in Exasperated, he makes an appeal to Caesar. As a Roman citizen, he had that legal right, and he appeals to Caesar and he says, I'm innocent These charges are false. You guys uh are are corrupt is basically what he was saying. I appeal to Caesar. I'm innocent, you know I am, I want to go see Caesar So as a Roman citizen, he has that right, and um they ship him off to Rome, which is where he wanted to go, but not this way Or en route to Rome, things go as they often do, went from bad to worse Not only now is he a falsely accused, mistreated prisoner on his way to Rome, but a storm hits A horrendous storm hits. Look at verse number 14 with me, if you would. But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind. Now they're in sailing en route to Rome. Uh called a Euroclidon. Just like a uh hurricane. What we would call a hurricane in the m in the east they call 'em typhoons. Um Euroclidon. When the ship was caught uh uh and when the ship was caught and could not bear up into the wind We let her drive. In other words, they let the sails down, the wing the waves can just take the boat wherever it goes. They can't control it And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat, which when they had taken up, they used helps undergirding the ship. They're trying to hold the thing together, fearing lest they should fall into the quicksand. They straight sail and so were driven. And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest. The next day they lighten the ship. They're throwing stuff overboard. And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship. Look at this. And we when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us. Look at this last statement. All hope that we should be saved was then taken away. They are in extreme peril. They uh all hope of surviving vanishes. That word hope there, I got studying that a little bit and I found it has the idea of expectation of good. All expectation of anything good happening is gone. All anticipation of surviving this thing is taken away. There's no hope. They anticipate nothing but death and destruction. Boy, what a terrible situation to be in. Hopeless. These are hardened criminals. These are sailors and soldiers. Men skilled in what they're doing. And all hope is gone. No anticipation of surviving. I don't know if you've ever been in situations like that, probably not a storm, but maybe you've been in situations uh emotional or financial or whatever it is and you look at it and you say, you know, there is no hope of me surviving this There is no hope of me coming out of this. This situation is so bad. I do not anticipate coming out of this in any good shape at all. Anything good coming out of this Maybe your marriage, you say, you look at your marriage, you say, there is no hope, no anticipation of anything good coming out of this situation. That was the situation they were in physically. But Paul speaks up And what he says changes everything. Paul speaks up, and the words that come out of his mouth bring courage. To the hearts and minds of the people around in that situation. And I would go so far as to say, not only did it Not only did the words Paul say bring courage to the people in that boat, it actually saved their lives. I've found that in the midst of the storms, those who walk with God are going to shine forth. Those who know God, those who have a real, genuine relationship and walk with God, when things get bad. When things are their darkest, those who walk with God will rise to the top and they will shine forth. I found that hypocrites have nothing to offer anybody in times of trials. A phony Christian has nothing to offer. A person who says one thing and does another, a person who is bitter and uh angry and self-centered And all caught up in herself. A person who can never all they ever see is what everyone else does wrong. That person has nothing to offer in times of trials. But the person that walks with God The person like Paul who knows the Lord and it is in a has a genuine relationship with the God of creation. Boy, let the storms come. They've got something to offer They've got some hoop and some uh strength and courage to give people. I want us to notice three things just quickly this morning, uh particularly from verse number 25. Notice what Paul says. He says, wherefore, sirs Be of good cheer. Why in the world should they be of good cheer? All hope is gone. All anticipation of anything good coming out of this is taken away. All anticipation of survival has vanished. Why should we be of good cheer? Look what he says. Be of good cheer, for I believe God. That is the expression of his faith. I believe God. Now let me give you a little tip in studying your Bible You can learn a lot in studying your Bible by noticing not just by what is said, but taking notice of what is not said sometimes. Notice what Paul does not say here. He does not say, I believe in God. Did you notice that? There is a world of difference of believing in God and believing God Believing in God, there's nothing profound about that, saying, well, I believe God exists. Well, La Dida, aren't you a genius? In fact, if you would, keep your place here, and I want you to come back to the very first book of the Bible. And I'd like for you to go there. Probably don't have to, but I'd like for you to do it. You brought your Bibles. We might as well get some use out of them. Go to Genesis, the book of Genesis, and turn to chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1. Very easy chapter to find in the Bible. Genesis chapter 1, very first book, very first chapter. I'd like me to go to the very first. Verse in Genesis chapter 1. First book, first chapter, first verse. Notice what the Bible says In the beginning, there was a God. Correct? No, it doesn't say that at all. What does it say? In the beginning God. Do you notice how the Bible begins? It begins with the assumption that there is a God. There's no explanation here. The Bible never tries to prove God's existence. The Bible simply assumes That everybody understands there is a God. Um the Bible that doesn't start out the Bible saying, well, uh in the beginning There's uh there's ample evidence of the existence of a God. No, no. In the beginning, God. God's existence is assumed We could take time, we won't do it. We could go to James chapter number two and verse 19, where the Bible says, You believe in God, ye do well. The devils believe also and tremble. You know what James is saying? Under the inspiration of God? He says, you're bragging that you believe in God? Whoop de doo, good for you. The devils in hell believe there's a God. The devil himself believes in the existence of God. It is of no credit to him. He's not some great wise being because he believes in God. He trembles at the thought of a God. And so, Paul doesn't stand up in the midst of this trial and say, hey, I believe there's a God. The Bible assumes that everyone believes that. James 2, verse 19 says that uh the devils believe that there's a God. Um in fact in Prov in Psalms chapter 14 and verse number one, and again in Psalms chapter 53 and verse number one, the Bible says The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God. So the whole premise of the Bible In dealing with the existence of God, the Bible begins with the assumption that there is a God. The Bible declares plainly that even the devils in hell believe there is a God. And he got says twice in the Bible that if you say you don't believe in God, if you declare there is no God, you are an absolute fool. The evidence, the declaration of the existence of a God is so overwhelming. That only a fool, only a fool would say there is no God. Tell you what, in that case, we've got universities full of fools. Hey, we've got pulpits with fools behind them. There is no God. So to simple to to simply say that somehow Because I believe in a God, that somehow that is some merit or some credit to me, or somehow puts me uh above anything else, the Bible just says, hey, you're a fool if you don't In fact, every person in hell right now believes in God. Every person who died without Christ, maybe they lived their life boldly declaring their atheism, boldly declaring their rejection of the reality of God the moment they died in hell. They realized and believed immediately in the reality of hell. So I think it's interesting, Paul simply declaring that he believes in the existence of God. is not what brought comfort to these people. Is not what helped these people at all. He doesn't say, I, hey, be of good cheer. I believe in God. I believe God exists. That's not what he says. Paul says, I believe God. He's saying, I uh it's more than just believing in God's existence. I believe God. He's saying I trust in God's goodness. I don't just believe in God's existence. I am trusting in his power. I am trusting. I am depending upon his goodness. I am relying upon his promises. I believe God. We have churches full of people who believe in God but do not believe God. Follow what I'm saying? Oh, yes, I believe in God. That's head knowledge. Oh yes, I believe he exists. I see it and I believe God. I believe in God. But to believe God means to say, all right, what God says about himself self is true. What God says about me is true. I believe what God says I should do and should not do is true. I believe God When he communicates what he says. So we must get beyond a head knowledge in God's existence and get to a heart faith in God's person. Believing God. As I said, we have churches full of people who believe in God. We have Uh in our homes we have husbands who believe in God but do not believe God. We have wives who believe in God but do not believe God. We have teenagers and children who believe in God but will not believe God for their lives. And so Paul expresses his faith. He says, I believe God. We have people who believe in God, yet have no faith in God, have no submission to God. Come back with me if you would to Acts chapter 27, verse 25 again. I want you to notice that word. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer, for I believe God. What does he mean when he says I believe God. That word believe there has the idea of having confidence in. I like this definition of it. To be persuaded of To entrust my life and my soul with. Paul is saying, listen, cheer up I have entrusted myself. I uh God has said some things, and I put my confidence in what He has said. I put my hope in what God has said. I put my light In the hands of God. You know what salvation is? Salvation is not believing in God. Salvation is believing God. For my eternal destiny. Where I spend eternity, the moment I trust Christ as Savior, where I spend eternity is no longer in my hands I have put it in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. Follow what I'm saying? That's believing God for my salvation. Not just believing it exists. But actually putting my hope of eternal life, putting my hope of ultimately being forgiven of my sins, I've put it in the hands of Christ I believe he is who he says he is. I believe he will do what he says he's done. I've entrusted myself. I am persuaded That he says, if I will trust him and put my soul in his control, make him responsible for my soul, that I can know for sure I'm going to heaven someday. Does that make sense? I believe God. I believe God. I was reading that and I thought, huh. I believe God is more than just believing in God. By the way, it is impossible to believe God and not obey God. If I am not obeying Him, then I don't believe that what He says is best. God says, alright, uh, God says, uh, uh, alright, this is what you should do as a believer, this is what you should not do. If I believe God. If I have entrusted myself with him, if I have confidence in him, then when he says there's something I should do, if I believe that, then I will do that. If he says there's something I should avoid, if I believe him, if I have confidence in him, then I will avoid that. It is impossible for trust and disobedience to coexist. If I am trusting him, then I will obey him. You've heard the illustration, I'm sure it's been used many times, and no doubt I've used it over the years. A fellow was a tightrope walker. And uh he had put, I believe it's a true story, uh he had put a tightrope across the Niagara Falls. Uh I don't know how they got it across there, but somehow they got across there, and uh he had this tightrope Big crowd was there, big exhibition, and he got up there and of course he had his big pole and he walked across the tightrope all the way across and everybody, yay, it's amazing. And he walks back and uh he gets back on the other side and everybody Wow uh the guy's incredible, yay and he gets a wheelbarrow up there, he has a wheelbarrow and he pushes the wheelbarrow across Yay, comes back, yeah. Wow, amazing, the guy's incredible, he can do anything. And uh here's how many people here believe That if somebody got in this wheelbarrow, I could safely push them across the other side. How many people believe that? Everybody's hands went up. Oh yeah, you're the best. Yeah, we believe that. We believe that. Alright, how many people will get in? And let me go across. They believed he could do it, but they weren't willing to what? Trust him with themselves. And I tell you, there's a lot of people die and go to hell, believe Jesus is the Savior, but never come to the point where they trust him as their own personal Savior. Hey, can I give a rebuke out to pastors? Not just in our community, but across the world, no doubt. that will talk about being saved, that will talk about reality of heaven and hell, that will talk about Jesus as the only Savior, but never bring people to a point where they must make a decision Whether to trust them as their personal Savior or not. We get out and knock on doors and talk to people. Oh yeah, I believe Jesus is the Savior. Oh yeah, people need to be saved. Oh yeah. And they've heard all that. And they believe in God. But they've never personally believed God for themselves. And you ask them, Do you know for sure if you died right now, you go to heaven? Oh no, I don't know that, I don't know that. They have a head knowledge, but they do not have a what Hard knowledge. Paul said, I believe God. Not in God, that's obvious. You're fool if you don't believe in God's existence. But if you come to the point where you believe God with your life, you've entrusted Him with your soul, with your future And so Paul expresses his faith by saying, I believe God. Then notice the substance of his faith. Now, this is where it gets important. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer, verse 25. For I believe God, but he doesn't stop there, that it shall be, look at this, even as it was what? Told me the substance of his faith. Paul believing God wasn't just he believed what his imagination thought that God wanted him to do He didn't manufacture some things about God that he believed. His basis of believing God was the word of God. It will be even as it was told me. What God has said to me is what I believe God. His faith wasn't in what he thought God wanted him to do, but what God said he should do. We need to be careful that our faith does not go beyond what God has declared. We need to be careful that our faith does not fall short of what God has declared. Paul is saying, listen, fellas, be of good cheer. I put my confidence, my hope, I am certain that what God said is going to happen is going to happen exactly as He said it would. I believe Him. I trust Him. I have confidence in Him. The substance of his faith was what God had promised. Hey, listen, you and I here this morning, I trust most, if not all of us, know the Lord Jesus Christ, our personal Savior. Hey, our faith uh in the Lord Jesus Christ is not just some feel-good or some dream that some guys had or some idea I come up with. It is not a Baptist idea. Our confidence that our sins are forgiven, our home is in heaven, is based upon what God has promised us in His Word. So he says, Do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? I say, Absolutely. I had a fellow out in uh out towards Eglin actually, I was years ago and shortly after I moved here, I knocked on the door I asked him, do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? He says, let me ask you a question. I said, okay. He said, do you know for sure if you died right now you would go to heaven? I wasn't used to that. Kinda caught me off guard, but uh without hesitation I was able to say, Sir, I know for sure That when I die, my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. And then I quickly added this. I said, but let me say this. It's not because I'm better than you or anyone else It's not because I deserved it or have earned it in some way. I know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven for one reason and one reason alone is because God has Promised me that in response to trusting Jesus Savior. Paul says, Oh yeah, I believe God, but my belief in God is based on His Word. I believe what God has said. I believe what God has declared to be true. My belief, my faith and confidence. Does not go outside of the perimeters of God's word. My faith and confidence is within there. Hey, God has promised us some things that absolutely defy the imagination. You go through the scriptures and read what God has promised us. We have no reason to go beyond His Word. His promises within His Word are so great We don't need extra revelations. We don't need promises given to us outside of what God has promised. Think about it. God has promised God has promised that whoever calls on him, their sins would be forgiven, they'd be saved from hell. Is that not incredible? Promise of God. I tell you, it bothers me these preachers. Again, uh send a rebuke out the preachers. It bothers me these preachers who have the audacity to stand behind the pulpit and with authority declare to their people that you cannot know for sure How dare they defy the promises of God? Paul says, I believe God, it shall be even as it was told me. I am confident that God will do exactly what He says he will do. Promise of salvation, the promise of security. I tell you, I feel sorry for folks who think they can lose their salvation. What a miserable way to live. What a hopeless. What do you have to rejoice in? I hope I'm saved. I wonder these churches, how do they sing, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine? Oh, what a foretaste. How do they sing, I know whom I have believed, and I'm persuaded he is able. How can they sing these songs? God has promised us that our salvation is secure. God has promised. Here's the one where we get worked up about. God's promised us that He will meet our needs. Matthew 6, 33. I use that verse through many years of Bible college. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. If you read the context of that chapter, he's talking about food and clothing and the needs of life. If I put Christ first, if I commit myself to him, if I'll do what he says, God will take care of me. Doesn't say I'll be rich. By the way, we are all rich here today by the world's standards. Maybe not by United States of America's standards, but you go the whole world. We are rich God has promised to meet our needs. You know what? We get all banned out of shape because we don't have all our wants. God didn't promise me everything I want. Hey, sometimes He gives me what I want. But he hasn't promised me he's going to give me everything I want. He has promised if I'll put him first, he will meet my needs. He will meet my needs. That's a promise of God I believe in God. He doesn't say I believe in God. He says, I believe God that it will be exactly the way God said it will be. God said, if you seek me first, I'll meet all your needs. God said if you'll trust me with your heart and soul, commit your salvation of your soul into Uh the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe I died for you rose again. I'll save you and I will keep you saved. I believe that God will do exactly what He said He will do Needs met, souls saved. How about victory over sin? I have no doubt. I have no doubt. A crowd this size, I'm talking to some folks today, there's a sin that's defeating you I don't know what it is. That's between you and God. Maybe the sin of dishonesty. Seems like some people just dishonesty has a stronghold in their life Seems like some people lying is a is a uh uh a besetting sin. And they just don't even think, it just happens, and they just lie I'm here to tell you, God says you can have victory over that thing. God says you can be honest in every situation at all times. No matter what the circumstances are, be honest. Amen. God says you can be. Some people maybe the besetting sin is stealing. Ephesians talks about that. Apparently, there was an element in the Ephesian church that uh had a besetting sin of stealing. Taking things that are not theirs. God says you can have victory over that thing. Say, I don't know why I do it. Doesn't make man afterwards, I feel it at the time it seems right. And God says you don't have to be that way You can be honest. You can be truthful. You can uh uh maybe it's uh um uh any other number of sins. But God says we can have victory. Faith is the victory. There's not a sin in the world that the power of God cannot give me victory over. There's not a sin in the world. I thought of the sin of gluttony, but I wasn't going to bring that up right now, right after Thanksgiving. But we can have victory over it. I think there's something interesting here also. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer, for I believe God that it shall be even as it was told me, the substance of his faith. But the thing is he was not ashamed to declare his faith in what God said publicly. If he'd have sat down in the bottom of that boat, say, Oh yeah, God, I believe it's going to be exactly the way you say it's going to be, and never shared that with anyone. Would it have been of any cheer? No good. But he declared it publicly. And think about the crowd he's saying this to. These are soldiers, these are hardened sailors. This was a rough Godless crowd, but he was unashamed to stand up and speak out his faith in God. I am convinced our country would not be in the shape it's in now If God's people would simply trust God, believe God, and then declare what God has said, it could turn this country around. I'm not talking about being arrogant or hateful or rude. I'm simply saying, hey, hey, uh community, hey, Oakland, be of good cheer. God will do what he says he will do if we just trust him Paul declared it publicly to a rough ground. I worked uh when I got saved, I was working in a meat packing plant um back in Pennsylvania. I started there when I was sixteen. I got saved at the age of nineteen. I worked till I guess I was twenty or twenty-one, worked there four years. And um uh when I got saved, uh it was a rough crowd. If you ever uh worked in a meat pack and plant. It was a large one. It was a rough crowd. All ex-cons and alcoholics and drug addicts and all of that. It was just a rough crowd. When God saved me, he absolutely transformed my life And uh I wish I would have been a better Christian than I was at the time, but man, God just brought about a change and I wanted to be a witness. I started speaking to the guys about what the Lord did for me, and it was so obvious. Uh that the change had happened in my life. And um There was about there was two other Christians, one of the foreman got saved right about the same time I did, and there was another lady that worked on the line down the other end, she got saved right around that same time. And when all three of us began speaking up for the Lord. Well, lo and behold, in among the crowd, there's probably about 25-30 people worked on that floor, in among there was a seminary student, a fella that went to a seminary, Bible-believing seminary. Fundamental, basically. But he worked there. Not one of us knew that that guy was a Christian. When we got saved, Guess who all of a sudden wanted to talk about theology and uh the Bible and all with us? The seminary student He never said a word to us about Christ when we were lost. He never said a word to me about Christ when us taking his name in vain and living all this ungodly sin. Never a word! No one knew he was a Christian! But boy, once the threat of being ridiculed was taken away, suddenly he's ready to argue Calvinism with me and all of that. I tell you, I have zero respect for that man God give us some Christians, regardless of what the crowd is. Maybe it's prisoners, maybe it's some ungodly sailors who will stand up and say, Hey, God is faithful, God will do what he says. Why don't we just trust God? That's what Paul did. There was an expression of his faith. There was substance to his faith. Genuine public faith in God has a profound effect on other people. It has a profound effect. How many people here would testify that it was the testimony of some good Christian that had a powerful influence on you coming to Christ? How many people would say that's a fact for you? Majority of the people, my father. Unashamed of Christ. Powerful testimony had a powerful influence on me. I tell you what it is. Thin-skinned, phony, self-centered Christians Do not help the cause of Christ, they hurt the cause of Christ. So we have expression of his faith, the substance of his faith. Last of all, I want us to notice the powerful influence of his faith. Come over to verse 36. Now, a number of things transpire, but look how what happens here in verse number 36. Verse 35. And when he had thus spoken, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all. And when he had broken it, he began to eat. Look at verse 36. Then were they all of good cheer. And they also took some meat. Paul's testimony, Paul's faith in God had a powerful influence on that entire ship. And though the ship was gone and the material possessions were gone, their lives were saved, and I want to believe that many of those sailors were born again. Paul had a powerful testimony. Sooner or later, the man or the woman who genuinely walks with God The man or woman who is genuinely committed to Jesus Christ will be called upon to exercise great faith in God. Sooner or later, fear for real. Listen, if you are for real, sooner or later God is going to use you To be an influence to others in a time of need. Um when the September eleventh, when the towers were attacked and we had all the uh everything going on in 2001 I had the powerful impression in my heart that that is why Christians are in the United States of America for hours like that. When people are scared, when people have questions, that is what God's people are here for. To provide answers, to provide every man an answer for the hope that is within us and have a powerful influence. God wants to use you. God wants to use me to be an influence in the lives of others when they have needs at work and in your family When their world is falling apart, when all hope is taken away, if you'll be for real, God can use you in a powerful way in the lives of these people. The influence that Paul had called upon to exercise great faith in God. Our country needs believers who die to self and trust God completely. Our community needs that. Our church needs that. When Paul was in danger, he was in danger with everyone else on that ship. But it was in the trials. That God used him. When Paul going through that trial with him, it's interesting. Paul wasn't standing on the shore yelling out, hey guys, don't worry. God said everything's going to be alright. That wouldn't have been much influence But he was in there with them. And with him in the storm, he says, hey guys, don't worry. Everything's going to be alright. I believe what God has said. What a powerful influence that was. I was growing up My parents, early in our family's life, we went to Sunday school. It was a different denomination, but I had a Sunday school teacher that believed God. I didn't say believed in God. She believed in God, but she believed God. That Sunday school teacher would bring us in there. I remember it clearly. I can see it in my mind's eye. She'd have that little classroom, about 10, 12 kids. I'm talking about second, third grade. And she would hold that Bible and she would tell us the Bible is God's word. This is true. Jesus is God's Son. He died on a cross. So our sins could be forgiven. We go to heaven. And she believed that And I'm telling you, here I am many years later, and that influence is a powerful influence on me. I'm here to say I'm saying this this morning. Every one of us here, we have an influence on others. We do, whether you recognize or not, you have influence. Now, the genuine uh genuineness of my faith in God is going to determine what that influence is going to be. Am I bringing spiritual cheer to others or am I discouraging them? Am I helping them grow in their faith? Or am I turning their faith away? Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, Lord, to be for real. Help us, Lord, not just to believe in you, but to believe you, to trust you. To cast our lives, our needs, our cares on you, believing that you will do exactly what you said, with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I have some needs in my life. I have some situations in my life. I didn't anticipate them. I didn't think I'd ever be dealing with a situation like this, but I am. And I'm in this boat that I never dreamed I'd be in. And you'd say, preacher, this morning, I'm going to go beyond just believing in God. I'm going to trust God in this situation. I'm going to believe and trust that God's going to do exactly what He said in His Word He would do. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I've got some situation I never dreamed I would be in. But I'm going to be of good cheer. I'm going to take courage and just trust that what God said he will do. God bless you. Hands all around. Now listen, that's a daily thing. I've got to say, all right, God, this is what you said I need to do in this situation. I'm going to do it. God, you said this is what I need to avoid, then I believe you, I'm going to avoid that. And let the Lord have his way. Is there someone here this morning that said, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Trying to be the best person I can, trying to do right I don't know that when I die I'm going to heaven. This morning you would say, preacher, I just need to get to the point where I take my trust off of myself, off of my works, and I put it completely on the Lord Jesus Christ and trust what He has done for me. And you say, preacher, pray for me that this matter of my eternal salvation will be settled, and I can know I'm going to heaven someday. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that matter Father in heaven, thank you for speaking our hearts. Have your way. You know our situations. God, you know our needs. Help us to believe you in Jesus' name