Second Peter chapter number three. I just want to read one verse. We're coming to the end of Peter's letter. This is of course his second letter he wrote And um he's coming to the end. We have two verses here, and I just want to look at verse 17, and there's a word here, there's a statement he makes, a word right in the middle of this verse that caught my attention, and I want to zero in on Verse 17, he says, Therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things before, what's that next word? Beware, beware. Seeing you know these things before, beware lest ye also being led away with the error of the wicked And he spent two chapters warning about false teachers, these wicked men that were creeping in the church and infiltrating the church and redirecting their doctrine and in and affecting how they lived their lives. And he says, lest ye also be led away with the error of the wicked, fall and fall from your own steadfastness. And so I want to talk about this matter of beware. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for a good day. And this this weekend, of course, is is uh significant in our nation. As a citizen of the United States, we uh remember our fallen uh men and women in in the defense of our country. So we're grateful for that. But now Lord as we look in your word. I pray you'd help every one of us, myself particularly as pastor, but all of us that make up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, every one of us that are part of this body of Christ here That you would help us to beware, be very, very careful. And we don't want to fall away from our steadfastness. And so I ask that you would please, with that in mind, fill me with your spirit. As I yield my will and present my body, I pray that you would speak through me and press upon all of our hearts The urgency, the seriousness of this matter, being careful and being aware. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh he's finishing out this letter here, and it seems pretty obvious if you were in the adult Sunday school class for the last year or so, we studied the book of Jude And 2 Peter chapter 2 and the little book of Jude are almost identical in their subject and actually in the outline of what they were writing. And it's very difficult not to come to the conclusion that Peter and Jude, now I use this word, I don't really mean it this way, but they uh it becomes to me evident that they collaborated together in writing these two books, Jude and Peter, I mean it's almost verbatim. It's like they followed the same template. Now we understand, I want to point out, we understand, this is all by the inspiration of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God But how God led them to put down, you know, it looks like they cooperated together. They share identical information in almost identical format And one thing also we find that they did the same is both of them are in their letter with an appeal to the believers to not just beware of false teachers. That's what the subject was But they finish up saying, listen, you need to keep your spiritual health in place. You need to concern be concerned not just fighting off the false teaching, but keep yourself, your spiritual well-being right. And uh that's what Peter's doing here, and we've been noticing that, particularly in the next verse, will he it's very, very clear. And so he's writing here and he's challenging the believers that he's writing to. Notice he says the last part of the verse, lest you fall from your own steadfastness. He's challenging them, he's urging them, calling them to be steadfast in their walk with God. And their service to the Lord. Be steadfast. Now, somebody talk to me. Help me a little bit. What does he mean by being steadfast? When the Bible says we're to be steadfast, it means we're to what? Unmovable or I hear murmuring, but uh what? Consistent? Somebody said consistent Steadfast. It has the idea of being unfailing. I'm not going to fail. I'm going to press on. Of unwavering Be steadfast, unwavering. Press on. Here's the terms that one term particularly I like to use and uh when talking with folks that are making decision or maybe they're starting to drift a little bit, pastors and different things, I like to use the phrase stay the course Be steadfast, just stay the course. I had a pastor not too long ago from upstate uh up in New England called and um He was struggling, different things. I don't know if I should stay or not. And I I told him my advice to him was just stay the course. You plant your feet there, you put your roots down, and you just stay the course. They stay f steadfast. Sometimes we word it this way, just keep on keeping on. Anybody ever hear that phrase? Just be steadfast. Just keep on. This will date me back when I was a teen. It was keep on trucking. Anybody remember that? That was cool. That was groovy. And um What is that? Don't quit. Be steadfast. Stay at it. Get in your place. Stay in your place. Be where you ought to be, doing what you ought to be doing, and just keep on doing it. Keep on doing it. Keep on doing it. There's a reason the Christian life is described as a walk. It's just one step in front of the other. One step in front of the other, just keep doing that over and over and over and over, and you make progress. And so he's urging them to be steadfast, and he's warning them that they need to beware or they will not be steadfast. They can fall away from that Course that God has for him, the the uh uh uh the walk that God has for him. Beware or you'll fall away from that. I like the way Patch the Pirate put it in one of his songs He said, when the going gets tough, sail on. When the sea gets rough, sail on. When you're tempted to quit, sail on. Don't give up the ship, sail on. Isn't that good? Steadfast, steadfast. And Peter's writing to these believers, and he's telling them: listen, you need to beware so you don't fall away from that steadfastness. Paul put it this way, he ended his letter to the church at Corinth, his first letter to the church at Corinth in chapter 15, verse 58. He says, Therefore, my beloved brethren Now do you notice what Peter says there? Therefore, beloved, very similar statement. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. What's he saying? He says, stay the course You get where God wants you to be. You get in the condition God wants you to be in. You get the frame of mind that God wants you to have. And regardless of what's going on around you, regardless of circumstances, regardless of your situation, regardless of what anybody else is doing, just be steadfast. Get on track and stay on track for God. That's what he's saying. And he says, now you need to beware, because there can be some things that happen, get you off course. I'm becoming more and more convinced the longer I'm in this, as a believer and then in the ministry, is one of the greatest characteristics Of a successful Christian life is just, here's my word. This is uh my word. This is out of the Dennis Leatherman dictionary. It is unquittableness How many people like that one? Unquittableness. I mean you just don't quit. You just don't quit. Steadfast. Unquittableness. I like that. Pretty good. We stand before Jesus Christ someday. And by the way, that day's coming. Amen or not? That day's coming. And it's we're literally going to stand before Jesus Christ, not give an account for our sins. That was all settled on the cross. Amen. How I lived my life, how I served God, was I steadfast, was I faithful? And one of the things that we all want to hear Jesus Christ say as a believer What we want to hear him say is Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Faithful, steadfast You didn't quit. You stayed at it. You got hurt? You kept right on course. Somebody treated you wrong? You kept right on course. People around you failed somehow. They drifted off, but you stayed right on close. Well done. Now good and faithful, steadfast servant. Too often we have a tendency to drift, don't we? Hebrews talks about that. We drift. We have a tendency to kind of stray off course. Anybody here ever, maybe a revival service or maybe there's a moving of the spirit in in some way in your heart and life and man you get on tune get in tune with God and uh you get uh uh man you're just heart stirred to live for God and you do good, you do good And after a while the novelty wears off a little bit and the enthusiasm maybe uh dims a little bit. And if you're not careful, if we don't beware, we find ourselves just kind of straying a little bit. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I kind of drift away from that Bible reading. I drift away from my church attendance. I drift away from my soul. I drift away from some of these things. And we have a tendency to do that. It's part of, I think, our fallen human nature. is to uh stray off course, lose our focus on what God has called us to do and what God instructs us to do. We lose our focus Our theme when we came here in 93, we established our motto is looking unto Jesus. Just stay in that Focus on Christ. And our tendency is to get that focus off. And something catches our attention. There's a little light splinking over here. Something somebody's doing some drama going on over here. And we get off on that And keep our focus on Christ. We have a tendency to become a little bit indifferent. There's a time when we were burdened for the lost. There was a time when we made an effort to try and reach people for Christ. A time when we scheduled time to get out and talk to people and share the Christ. And that enthusiasm dies off, and that uh burden dies off, and we come indifferent. The fact that people around us are without Christ. And Peter's warning him, he's saying, beware that you that or you'll lose that steadfastness. You'll fall away from that course. That we need to stay on. We need to stay on. Now, remember who Peter's writing to. He's writing to believers. It's not a particular church he's writing to. He's writing to believers at large, primarily And we see that in 1 Peter when we study that. But it's believers who have suffered severely For their faith in Christ. These are believers who have been persecuted intensely. And First Peter, he's writing to try and encourage them and give them some instruction to To live for God and deal with this persecution and he's a lot of promises there in 1 Peter Now it appears to me anyway, as I'm stu as we've been studying 2 Peter, is now it seems to me, my impression is, is that the imperson the persecution of these believers he's addressing, that persecution is kind of It faded a little bit. It's not as intense. The fires of persecution have dimmed a little, and they're kind of settling down and settling in. And we mentioned this early in our study. It looks to me that they're starting to maybe regroup with local churches to the areas they've they've fled to. And now they're kind of coming back together and organizing their churches. And what was happening is these false teachers were infiltrating these believers. Their bodies, the church is there infiltrating and affecting them. And so that's who he's writing to, and they settled down, and uh he's urging them to keep to keep that faithfulness there. You know, sometimes we're more faithful in opposition than we are when there's no opposition Sometimes when the fires of of uh persecution are burning, God's people are more faithful, Lord, and more focused on Christ. when there when there's fires going on, but when those persecution dies off and the opp opposition uh kind of diminishes, then we lose focus. You follow my thinking here? And so he's finishing up here. He's warned them about these false teachers. They're going to come in. They'll corrupt your doctrine. If you don't deal with it, they will corrupt your doctrine. They will get you living lives that are contrary to Scripture if you don't watch out. They'll do that to you. And he gives a strong, strong warning. Now he's there telling him, now listen, don't lose focus. Don't get off course Now let's look at this verse real quick in a little bit of time I have. Number one, I noticed in the first part of verse 17 how precious these people were to Peter. Notice he uses a term there. Anybody want to guess what term I'm thinking of when I say that they were precious to him? Beloved And therefore, ye therefore beloved. That's the fourth time he used that word in chapter 3. Back, look if you would at verse number one of chapter three. He says, This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you. And he tells them, be mindful. Verse 2, he says that you be mindful of the words that were spoken. Don't forget what you've been told, what you've been taught. Then in verse number 8, he uses that tender, precious word again, he says, but beloved. And there he says, be not ignorant. Don't be dumb. Be smart in your Christian life. Don't be dumb. How many people here ever got dumb in your Christian life and you messed up some way? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, what was I thinking? Anyone there? Whenever we say what was I thinking, what we're saying is I wasn't thinking. I was being dumb. And he says, don't be ignorant, don't be dumb, be smart. And then verse 14 he uses the term again. He says, wherefore, beloved, seeing you look for such things, be diligent. Stay at it. Work hard. Be fired up. Get after it. And now he says, beloved, beware, beware, beware. The word beloved means to be highly esteemed. It means to be highly valued. Peter was saying this, I believe, and the fact that he used it four times in one chapter, I think he was saying that these believers were very, very precious to him. They were very dear to his heart. Now I got thinking about that. The world had beat these believers up. Literally. They had been abused, they had been mistreated, they had been treated unjustly for no other reason than their faith in Jesus Christ. And they had been slandered, they had been lied about, they had been gossiped of, the world treated them wrong. And Peter says, you're precious to me. You might not be precious to the world. This world doesn't love you. By the way, and we said this before, a Christian can fall in love with the world, but you mark it down, this world will never love the Christian. And Peter says, You're beloved to me, you're precious to me. And I think the challenge there is Among ourselves as believers, as a body of believers. Let's not do what the world does. The world does enough gossiping and criticizing and fault finding and hurting the believers. We don't need to do it to ourselves. We don't need to be running each other down. We don't need to be pointing each other's faults out. We don't have to be dwelling on one another's fault flaws because the world is very, very good at that And we get enough of that from the world, we don't need it in the church. They're precious to them. God's people, God's people are precious to God's people. And so they are precious to Peter. Then, the second thing I notice in this verse, he says, Therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things, they had prior knowledge You know these things before. You knew these. What I told you, what you've been taught, it's not new. You've knew this before that you need to beware. You know there's things and people out there who will draw you away and get you to be unfaithful and get you to fail your Lord. You know they're out there. That word, that phrase, know these things before. That little phrase comes from one word. It's a English, it comes from a Greek word, and uh it's a phrase, but it comes from one word. And that word is the same word we get our word prognosis. You say, what in the world does that mean? If you've ever been to the doctor and you have some condition or something, They will give a prognosis. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And basically what they're saying is, um, those saying is, if you keep on doing what you're doing, my prognosis is. This is going to happen. It is a very educated, knowledgeable, experienced expectation of a certain outcome if something continues. And for instance You'll hear doctors say this. If you keep on smoking, you're going to get cancer. You're going to get lung cancer. Keep chewing tobacco, you're going to get Mouth cancer. You're going to get cancer. You keep doing this? Uh-huh. You keep eating burritos every day? You're gonna get fat. Or stay fat in some cases It's a prognosis. I know if I do this, then this is what's going to happen. And he's saying, Listen, you know. If you don't be careful, if you don't beware It's going to have an effect. And you know this. You've already been exposed to this information. In other words, there was no excuse for them to fall for these false teachers. There was no excuse for them to be caught off guard. There was no excuse. I think what he's saying to him is listen, you knew this before, you had prior knowledge. There's no excuse for you to be influenced by ungodly people and ungodly events. You know better. How many people remember Jimmy Rose? Anybody on our missionary Jimmy Rose? He was missionary to Brazil. I love Jimmy Rose. He's been with the Lord a number of years. He he was just a mild meat guy, but man, you put him behind the pulpit and he exploded. And he tell he told us about uh one of his messages here, he told us about a fellow, he's in Brazil for years and amazing stories. And one of his men in the church, one of his good men, was getting involved in some sinful stuff. Brother Rose had to go and confront him. And I liked what he said. He says, I just told him, brother so-and-so, you know better than this. That's what Peter's saying. You know better than this. You know that what's going to happen, you know how this is going to affect you, you know how this is going to influence you. You're not ignorant of these things. So they had prior knowledge. Peter had been warning them here for two whole chapters: chapter 2 about the false prophets, chapter 3 about the scoffers. Every book in the New Testament warns about false teachers. Every single book in the New Testament warns about the influence of ungodly people on God's people. Everyone says, you know this. The apostles, before the we even had the Bible, the canon of scripture was finished, before that, the apostles had been warning The churches of false teachers, ungodly living creeping in, you know better I believe one of the major responsibilities of a church, from the pulpit on down to the Sunday school classes, anywhere there's teaching going on within the church One of the major responsibilities is to warn God's people of false teachers and sinful temptation. That preacher he's always he's always preaching about sin. He's always saying, oh, you ought to be careful what you do, careful where you go, careful what you look at. Yeah, that's what the Bible tells me to do. Because God's people should know what these influences are and the things that hurt us and draw us aside. He said, You knew this before. You had prior knowledge of this. And then thirdly, I noticed Peter's precaution. He says, seeing you know these things before, you knew, you know better. Beware! That's his precaution. The word beware means what you think it would mean. Means to keep on guard, to keep your eye out, be on watch, stay alert, be careful, pay close attention That word beware is used 16 times in the New Testament. Jesus used it multiple times. Beware. Beware of wolves in sheep's clothing. Beware. Of the dot the leaven of the Pharisees. Beware, beware, beware. Be careful, be on alert. Be watchful. Pay attention to what's going on in your life. Pay attention to what's influencing you. Pay attention to what you get involved in. Be on guard. Major part of staying true to the Lord is staying alert for things that will draw me away from the Lord. Be on guard for things that would derail me. Be on guard for people who would influence me in a net in a negative way and draw me away. Proverbs says, Make no friends with an angry man, lest thou be like him. Then be Lord, watch out. Sixteen times the Bible warns us to be on guard. My son Sam, my oldest son, uh in the summer of twenty twenty-three was hired of all things. To go to Alaska and they flew him back a two-hour flight. He was, I think if I remember correctly, it was 200 miles to the nearest person. They dropped them off on this little bush plane, dropped them on his pictures and and all and they dropped them off by this river, little little beach where they can land along this river on the gravel And his job was to fix up an old camp that had been abandoned for nine years and then make a runway on a a legitimate runway for planes to land. And there was supposed to be another guy with them But that guy it didn't work out. And so s the guy said, well listen, I'm not going to send you up there myself. And if you know my son, he said, I'll go by myself. I said, what are you, an idiot? Forty days. He's in the outback of Alaska by himself. 200 miles the nearest person. I I thought about that verse where the fella came to Jesus, he said, My son is a lunatic. And he had a satellite hook up to us that starlight internet so we could communicate, so there was at least that. And he told me something. He said the cra and this is like this is a camp for hunting grizzly bears. So if you're hunting grizzly bears, that means there are grizzly bears there, because you wouldn't hunt for them a place where they weren't. Right? So he's in a tent in a grizzly bearville. Grizzly Bearville. And he said, dad, he said the hardest part was mentally always having to be alert 24-7 as to your surroundings. He had a little electric fence he put up by solar panel solar he put electric fence up around his camp and one day he came he was working on the r the runway, he came back and the fence was knocked down. There's grizzly bear tracks all through his camp. So he doubled it. He put two satell uh solar panels up and doubled it. And he made this statement. He said, Dad, just getting back, there was an old cabin there. He said, just staying in the cabin where I could close a door. Brought so much peace of mind that I could be inside a secure place. Now I think that's what Peter's talking about. Not for grizzly bears. I'm telling you, it's something a whole lot worse than grizzly bears. It's spiritual influences that will derail us from being faithful to God. And being faithful to God. And we have to be alert. 24-7. 24-7. Now, the difference is Sam was alone. You and I are not alone. Jesus said, Lo, I am with you always. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. But we have the responsibility to be alert. Little stinky attitude starts coming in. Be aware. I'm not going to tolerate that. Bitterness starts creeping up. Somebody said or did something bitterness? No. I gotta beware. That's gonna ruin me. Temptation, oh everybody, everybody's doing this. Beware. Are you with me? It says, beware, be alert, be on your guard, be on the watch, keep your eye out. And then he ends with this: the potential for ruin. Lest ye also, he says, beware, lest ye also The fact that he used the word also implies what? Others have done this. Others were not careful, did not beware, and their lives were ruined They were derailed. Lest ye also, like these others, be led away with the error of the wicked, that's what he's been warning about, and fall from your own what? Steadfastness. You lose your faithfulness. You get off course. None of us are exempt from the possibility of being led astray. Not one of us. Not the preacher, not the deacons, not the trustees, not the Sunday school teachers, not the nursery workers, not the choir members, not the people that sit in the pew. Every single one of us can possibly be derailed. None of us are exempt from it. Being led astray, ruining our testimony. Think about Eve. She has no simple nature. She's living in a perfect environment. One serpent comes up. She does not beware. She is not careful. She engages the serpent in conversation, which to her defense, perhaps she didn't know who she was dealing with. But she listened to what he had to say. She believed his lie. And all humanity is plunged into the abyss of sin. Why? Because one person didn't beware. You and I do not, you and I have a sinful nature. We do not live in a perfect environment. We live in a fallen world, and Satan is just as much Satan now as he was to Eve. And so she could be vulnerable. Good night. We've got to beware. We've got to beware. We've got to be careful. We've got to be on alert. I think Peter knew this firsthand, what he was talking about. He experienced this. Remember, he denied the Lord Well, how do you end up denying the Lord? Well, when Jesus was being taken to Pilate after Gethsemane and they came and took him, it says Peter followed afar off And then he got over with the unbelievers and those who were persecuting Jesus, and he warmed himself the fire with the same people who were crucifying Jesus. What are you doing running with the people that hate your Savior? Wasn't being aware, wasn't being careful. He denied the Lord. Later on, even after the Christ ascends and he has the Holy Spirit after Pentecost. In Galatian, we talked about this not too long ago. Peter got caught up in the Jewish hatred of the Gentiles. And when The Jews weren't around. He was fellowshipping, going to church, singing and praying with the Gentiles. Some Jews show up from Jerusalem. All of a sudden he goes, Oh, I'm not doing nothing with them Paul had to remember, Paul had to rebuke them to his face publicly. You're wrong, Peter. They're just as much part of the body of Christ as the Jews, as Jews are, anybody. There is no difference. Huh? He didn't know exactly what he's writing about. He experienced it firsthand. And he says, you be careful. You beware. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, beware. We know what is right. I may be talking to some people now, and your steadfastness is slipping And I say to you, you know better. You know better. I'm not tooting my own horn, but I'm saying this. The teaching and preaching at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been biblical enough, you know better. I know better. Been here for coming up on 32 years. Before that, in youth evangelism, before that, youth pastor. So I'm uh this summer is forty years I've been in the ministry. Forty years. I could ruin. Tonight, I could ruin in five minutes of carelessness a testimony that's taken me 40 years to establish. Believe me, I'm not where what I ought to be. I had plenty of ups and downs. But I'm simply saying this. You and I can ruin our steadfastness and our testimony like that if we don't beware. We don't beware. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us take our Christian life seriously. I pray you'd help us stay the course. Our church as a body and each of us as individuals, our homes That we could stay the course and be faithful. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how we'd say, Preacher, I need to be a little more careful. of my own spiritual well-being, of what I'm letting influence me and and that. Is there any like that? Preacher, I I really need to take this serious, be a little more careful. Sure. Probably if the truth were known, every one of us would have to say that Because it requires diligence. It requires consistency. Maybe we can finish out this Lord's Day on a Memorial Day weekend and an altar and just say, Lord, help me be careful. Holy Spirit, prompt me. Keep me. Prick me, convict me when I start to wander here. And help me to do what I know God would have me to do. Father, bless our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed