Chapter 14, look at verse 11. I think sometimes we really we read our Bible, but we really don't meditate on it. Do you ever think about that? And I think if we'd if if we would just stop and think about what God's saying and make it real, it would change our lives. We'd see revival. We wouldn't have to have a bunch of sermons on on re I I I mean that But I really believe that. I believe this is one of those verses if we just take it just understand what God is saying here. Revelation chapter 14. I'm going to read the first part of verse 11. And the smoke. Of their torment. Ascendeth up forever and ever. And they have no rest day nor night. Isn't that an amazing verse It really is, if you think about it. I'm going to bring you a message this morning. Here's the title: Forever in Hell. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this morning. Lord, I I pray first of all that we would uh understand that if we're saved That we have friends and neighbors and relatives that are lost and on their way to that place called hell forever. Or break our hearts this morning. Lord, we look around the world. And despite, I believe, despite the All the positive remarks that we hear, there are still billions of people without hope on their way to hell. Well, that ought to greatly bother us. Then, Lord, this morning, if we have anybody sitting here, and I I just I just absolutely know. I'll be in a crowd this size, we we have a couple. And in their heart of hearts they know they're not underway to heaven. They're not sure maybe where they're going to spend forever. Lord, help them to understand right here, right now, that this will be the single most important decision. That they ever make in their life where they're going to spend forever. And I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. Give us a good service, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, the Bible, if you read your Bible, you'll find out very quickly that the Bible is a book of eternity. All throughout the Bible, the theme of eternity or forever is very prominent. In fact, it's interesting. It'd take you a while to do the study, but if you do a word study in your Bible on words like eternity or forever, They occur, think about this, they occur over 600 times in the Bible. Now, I don't know about you, but whenever I think about that, I always have three thoughts. Number one Man is the only creature that is somewhat able to grasp this idea of forever. Am I not right? Have you ever tried to think be how how many of you have ever tried to think how long forever is? Have you ever? What about the rest of you? You know, I tell you what, it'll drive you crazy. Am I not right? But we're the only creature that's able to even somewhat remotely understand it. Oh over to Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 11. The Bible says this. He has set the world in their heart so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. You say, preacher, what's that verse mean? It's the idea that in an abstract way God has placed eternity in every one of our hearts. We are able in a little way to understand that word forever. That's the first thought I always think about. The second thought I always think about is this, is that man is also the only creature that knows he's going to die How many have a dog? I'm sorry. But phido, fifi, and fluffy, they don't know they're gonna die. Huh? You say, But you what about cash? Cash. Come on, laugh Third thought I always have is that the Word of God also teaches us that every single person in here has a living soul. Friend, you better understand this. If you're sitting here this morning, which you are, you've got a living soul. That means that soul of yours is never going to die. It's going to live somewhere forever. Genesis chapter 2 and verse 7. And God breathed into man's nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living body. I've got Chip's Bible here. That's what it says in his Bible. How many of me rather pick on Chip than you this week? Yeah, that's what I figured. And man became a living what? A living soul. You see, listen, you know what you're looking at right here? As you look at me this morning, you are looking at a box. Handsome box. If you say amen, I cut back in the sermon by five minutes. You're looking at a box. Listen, by the way, I'm looking at some boxes too You're looking at what God gave Bill Bears to live with while I'm on here on this earth. The very second I die, what you're looking at this box It goes to the grave and it rocks. But yet, what is most valuable What you can't see, my eternal soul. The very second I die and you die, it slips out and it's got to spend somewhere forever. Matthew chapter 16, verse 26. For what is a man profited? In other words, what good will it do you? That's what God's saying. For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world? And lose his own soul. God says this your soul Is more valuable than all the riches of the earth. Isn't that amazing? Do you know why God says that? Because your soul lives forever. That's why it's so valuable. Tiger Wood. How many ever heard of Tiger Wood? Huh? He's a golfer. Now real men don't golf. Are there any other enemies I can make this week? Think about this. Tiger Wood, his mortgage payment on his house is five hundred thousand dollars a month Some of you think you have it rough. Think about that. A half million dollars a month, and he makes it. But tiger wood isn't saved. Can you handle something this early in the day? Can you handle this? Bill Gates makes. Y'all heard of Bill Gates? President of Microsoft. Bill Gates makes $38,000 a minute. I've often thought, just give me ten minutes of his life. That's all I want. He lives in a $40 million house, but Bill Gates isn't saved. You see, folks, under the point is this. Don't we look at those things and say, wow I do if I'm not careful. But the very second they die, listen to me, all that stuff that we go, wow, becomes trash. They leave it behind. And what is most important, their soul, they've never taken care of. And that's sad. That's tragic. Job fourteen, fourteen It's a rhetorical question. It answers itself. If a man die, shall he live again? The answer is absolutely Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27. And as it is appointed unto man once to die. In other words Listen, as you sit here today, we don't think about this. As you sit here today, do you really understand that you have an appointment with death? In other words, you have a set, get that, you have a set year, God says A set month, a set week, a set day, a set hour, that you're going to die. And here's where a lot of people make the mistake. It might be a lot sooner than what you think There are millions of people burning in hell today because they waited one day, one hour, one minute, too long. And as it is appointed unto men once a night, but what's that mean? God says, whenever you see words like that, you better pay attention. But after this, the judgment So I always think about three things. Whenever I read a verse, I always think, hey, listen, in an abstract way, I can somewhat understand that word forever. I know that someday I'm going to die, and so are you, unless the Lord comes back. God's word also teaches every one of us that we have a living soul. That lives on forever after you die. And yet, get this, and yet, there are so many of us we don't want to think about dying. We don't want to think about what happens after death. This is what amazes me. We spend years getting an education. We spend years getting a trade. We spend years on hobbies like hunting and fishing. But we won't spend ten minutes of our life thinking about where we're going to spend forever Why is that? I think I have the answer. They tell us that the strongest emotion of man is fear. And I believe that. And they also tell us that the strongest fear of man is the fear of the unknown. Over the years, I have lost count of the young people and the adults that I have run into, and they come up and they say, you know what, preacher, the thing that scares me the most It's what they call the great fear or the fear of the great unknown. I'm just so scared about what's going to happen. The day I die. Folks, listen, you better understand this. You need to know before you die where you're going to spend forever Because after you die, it's too late. And listen, you don't have a lot of time to make the decision where you're going to spend forever. You don't have a lot of hey listen, you old people here, now I'm not talking about me, I'm talking about you. Amen You old folks here, like Pastor Lellowman, amen? Hey, doesn't life go by fast? Huh? James 4, 14. For what is your life? That's what God says. For what is your life? It is even a. Vapor go out on a ice cold Oakland, Maryland morning, say in July And you do this, what do you get? A vapor. But wait a minute, how long does that vapor last? About like that. God says that's how long your life lives, uh life is in light of eternity For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. I was just in my hometown and uh visiting my mother, and uh while I was there, I drove by my high school. I looked down over the hill and I thought, where's time going? You ever think about that? I mean, it just seems like yesterday that I was a teenager walking the halls of those high schools. And now, I mean like that here I I'm thirty-nine. It didn't fly, did it? Sixty-four, amen And you know what? Listen, there's a lot of people right now, there's a lot of people right now planning this and planning that, and they're never going to see this and that. Now, let me give you real quickly here this morning, how many believe a preacher when he says real quick? Ouch! I will be quick. I will not be forever. Amen? I want to leave you this morning. Boy, I hope you'll get this three thoughts on forever. Friend, if you're here today and you don't know where you're going to spend forever, you better understand something. This applies to you. You have a forever. Whether you want to admit it or not, you've got a forever. Those of us that are saved, you have people right now right outside the door that they got it forever. What are you doing about it? We better do something about it, or they're gonna go to hell forever. Three thoughts. Number one, first of all, the period of forever. You say, preacher When does forever start? Well, you know what? I can tell you when forever starts. I can tell you that. The very moment you breathe your last breath, forever starts for all of us. You see, as human beings, we put a time on everything, don't we? Wonder how long this preacher's gonna be. About three hours. I'm only kidding. But when you use the word forever, it's always beginning. There's never a countdown. Forever is forever beginning. The very second you die, there's going to be one word that comes out of your vocabulary. You know what that word is? It's the word time. Let me give you a small picture of how long forever is. And it really isn't a great picture. But you better understand something. You're going to spend somewhere forever, heaven or hell. All around the earth There's a lot of beaches and there's a lot of deserts. Am I not right? That adds up to a lot of sand. If we were to go to say the uh say the most well-known desert On the earth. That would probably be the Sahara Desert. Everybody have heard of it, haven't we? The Sahara Desert. They tell us if you were to take all the sand in the Sahara Desert and count every grain of sand in the Sahara Desert, it would add up to eight a killion grains of sand Hmm? Yeah, a pressure, isn't it? Have I come up now? You say, preacher, how do you know that? Google There are people with too much time on their am I not right? Now, that is an eight with 27 zeros after it. That's a lot of sin. Am I not right? Take a little sparrow. Send that sparrow to the Sahara Desert. Let that little sparrow pick up one grain of sand out of the eight octillion. Fly all the way to the moon. Drop that one grain of sand on the moon. Are we talking a lot of time right there? Man, we're talking a lot of time. But then let that little sparrow back and forth and back and forth and back and forth until finally It has dropped the last of the eight Ottilian grains of sand on the moon. Our minds can't even comprehend the amount of time that that would take. Am I not right? But can I suggest something this morning? When that little sparrow dropped that last eight kiloth grain of sand on the moon, that is still not even the first hour of eternity. If you're saved, that ought to save you. But if you're here today and you say, preacher, I'm not saved, it ought to scare you to death. Folks, understand something. When God uses this word forever, He uses it with you spiritually. He's putting you into one of two places, heaven or hell. You see, I believe, just personal opinion, I believe The single most frightening, horrible, terrifying thought is not the thought of hell, but it's the thought of hell for me. Wow. First of all, the period of forever. Secondly, the place of forever We could preach hours on this. Don't worry, I won't, but we could. We live in a day of odd. Options. Choices. We have options on cars, don't we? We have options on appliances. Burger King. Have it your way. Amen? Baskin Robins, 31 flavors. Do you want to eat out? Yeah. Where do you want to go? Wendy's or McDonald's? Well, if you got taste buds, there's no choice. Amen? There's only two reasons why anybody would ever eat a McDonald's. Number one, you ain't got taste buds. Or number two, you got kids and it's cheap. Amen. Real men eat at Wendy's. Amen. Yeah, I know. Chip didn't get that way by eating real man food. Now we laugh, but friend, let me tell you something. When it comes to avoiding going to hell and going to heaven, you better understand this. There's no options. Did you get that? Well, preacher, we're all gonna get to heaven some. We're all just going different roads That's a lie. Where'd you ever read that? Show me out of the Bible where the Bible says that You see, God says this it's either Jesus or hell. John 14, 6. Jesus said this if you want to get to heaven and avoid going to hell forever. Jesus said this: I am the way. The truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. In other words, you want to go to heaven, you've got to go through me. Now, why is it? Get this, why is it? Because Jesus is the only one that died on the cross for your sins. He's the only one that rose again from the grave. He shed his blood for your sins. That's why he's the only way. Listen, it's not through Buddha. It's not through Mohammed. It's not through good works. It's not by giving money, it's not by baptism, it's not by confirmation, it's not by church membership. It's through Jesus. I'll be honest with you, sometimes in life it's hard to make a decision. Isn't that? It's hard to choose. Yeah, I'm just not gonna I'm not but I'm gonna tell you if God died what When God came to me, I got saved later on in life. I got saved uh right after I was a Marine Corps drill instructor for about two years down in Pariton, South Carolina. When that when God came to me right after I got off the drill field, At Paris Island, South Carolina. When God came to me, I was unsaved. And God came to me and He says, Bill, you're going to die. Now, when I say when He came to me, I heard this through preaching. Amen. So you don't don't get too spooky on me here. When God came to me and he says, Bill, you're gonna now I'm gonna tell you something. I already knew I was gonna die In fact, I had spent 14 months of the wafle company in Vietnam. I'm thinking, you know what? I already ought to be dead. God comes and says, Bill, you're gonna die. God I already know that. Bill, you have a soul. Now you know what? I was a reprobate. But even as a reprobate, I knew I had a soul. I knew that this life wasn't it. I already knew that Bill, you've got a soul. Lord, I know that. Bill, that soul of yours has to spend somewhere forever. I knew that too. It was amazing how much theology I knew as an unsaved person. I knew that too. Then from God's word, God spoke to me and said, This, Bill, Jesus died on the cross for your sins. So that you could go to heaven forever and not go to hell forever. Lord, I believe God's word, I know that. And then God said this to me: Bill, choose You know what? Let me tell you something. I didn't even have to think about it. You say, why? Because of the difference, the contrast in the two places One heaven was so perfect. The other hell was so horrible. Folks, listen. Do you really understand what you're choosing? When you reject Jesus Christ, do you really understand that? Heaven! I mean, it's a place where you're never going to have to worry about dying again. Isn't that amazing? Our minds can't comprehend that. It's a place where we're never going to be tired, we're never going to be sick. We're never going to be hungry. I like to eat. Amen? It's a place where we're never going to say goodbye again. No more problems. And I'm going to have me a full head of hair again. Heaven can't help you, I'm sorry, bud. Huh? Is it listen, isn't heaven an amazing place? But the other hell is so horrible. Listen, our little mind, we can't even begin to imagine how horrible hell is. You see, here's our problem. Today we tried to make hell an air-conditioned place. We make jokes about it. Hey, I dare say, I don't know where any of you guys work, but I dare say there are some, I'm guessing maybe even some ladies, that there are many of you, you don't even go through a day without somebody using hell as a curse word. I I I run into people. You talk to them about getting saved. And I I've had this, they'll say, preacher, I'm going to hell. I want to go to hell. When somebody says that to me, you know what I'm thinking? I'm thinking, man, you could sue your brain for non-support and win every time Why do you want to go to hell? Why why do you you know why do you want oh preacher man? That's that's where the fun's gonna be. Man, we'll be partying and we'll be drinking. That's where oh my buddy, do you really listen to me, do you really think that's hell? I asked him this. Where'd you read that? Watch! Where'd you get that? Well, preacher. I just think that. I just feel that. And then I ask him this: In your life, how many times has your feeling and your thinking been wrong? If I had a dollar for every time my thinking, every time my feeling has been wrong, I'd be a millionaire. I don't know about you, but if I am going to spend somewhere forever, you know what I want? I want an authority. Amen. What's your authority? Well, preacher, I just think. That's not an authority, that's stupidity. What is our authority? It's the Word of God. Man, if you're going to spend somewhere forever, you better have an authority. And people say, well, I'm going to hell, and they don't have any clue as to what hell is really like. Can I give you a clue, just real quickly? Let me give you a clue as to how horrible hell is. Matthew chapter 13, verse 42, and shall cast them, this is this is this God describing hell, and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. And there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Now, get this. What does that mean? Hell is a furnace of fire. It is so horrible. Watch this, that God says there will be welling and gnashing of teeth. You say, preacher, what does that mean? Here's what it means. My doctor tells me that I have, I'm just telling you what he tells me. He's told me, he said, that I have a real, real high pain threshold. But I'm going to tell you something. You want to bring tears to my eyes? You want to bring me to my knees about like that? Let me bite my tongue. I turned into a whimpering baby. Come on, some of you are you too God says this that hell is so horrible that people will literally be chewing on their tongues To try and numb the pain of a that's how bad it is. Matthew chapter 25, verse 46. And these shall go away into everlasting, that's forever. But wait a minute, there's a word right after that. And sometimes we just read it for the words that it is. Everlasting punishment. But the righteous, those that are saved, into life eternal. Now go back to that phrase, everlasting, what's it mean Forever, in other words, this is going to last forever. Never going to end. Punishment. What's that word punishment? Here's what it means. What that word literally means is this, punishment Forever, forever, the most extreme pain and anguish. Punishment. Forever. It means the upper limit or degree of pain and agony. It's the idea of the most intense pain without ever lowering. That gives you a little bit of a different idea how bad hell is? In other words, when we get hurt, our pain threshold does what? It goes up and then what? It goes down, does it not? But God says, hey, you better understand something if you're not saved. That's not the way hell works. If you go to hell, it is always going to be the most intense painful agony without ever coming down one little bit. Why in the world wouldn't you want to get saved? First of all, the period of forever. Secondly, the place of forever. And then thirdly and lastly the people of forever. If you're here today and you say, listen, and if you're honest, if you're honest and you say, preacher, you know what? Man, I don't know where I'm going to spend. Well, I hope you'll listen right here. You say why? Because all too often when people are confronted, and that's what's being happen that's what's happening in this room, you're being confronted When people are confronted about where they're going to spend forever, they're like channel changers I don't want to think about it. Well, I'll get saved tonight. I'll get saved next week. I've got another few years to live. I'll get saved a couple years down the You don't know that you you have that this may be the last service you ever have. I'm not going to take the time. I could. I could stand listen, I could, I could stand up here for an hour. I could tell you story after story after story of young people, just young people, just y not counting old people, just young people Sat in services like this, knew they should have got. They even raised their hand. Preacher, I need to get, but they wouldn't get saved. Walked out, listen, literally walk out the door. 15 minutes later, they're dead I could talk for an hour just on young people, and then another hour on older people. You see We live in a day and age where we just hate to hear the fact that we need to get saved. We hate to hear what God has to say about getting saved. We care more about what our friends or neighbors or relatives think than we care about the one that has the power to send us to hell thinks. You know I'm right. Whenever I preach out on the West Coast I always try and get what we call a red-eye flight home. Y'all know what a red-eye flight is? That's like the middle of the night One two o'clock in the morning. That way I I get home and I've got the rest of the day. I don't I'm I don't spend all day flying A couple times ago when I was out on the West Coast, Seattle, I was out in Seattle, and I got a red-eyed flight home, 2. 10 in the morning. After the service, the preacher and I, we went to Denny's. I thought of you. We went to Denny's See, I think about you even when you don't know. We went to Denny's and well we just had we had something to eat and stuff and then he took me to the airport. So I'm sitting there at the airport. I mean nobody I I'm I'm starting to think I'm the only one on this flight. You know, I mean I'm just shooting nobody's run just I'm looking out the window and a couple planes going and then all of a sudden I mean this huge passenger line, not a little big passenger plane comes from my left to my right And uh I'm always, you know, I'm always looking at the uh uh you know the uh emblems. The other day I I can't I can't remember w I think it was down in the I can't remember what, but I you know you see planes from the Far East and Japan and all this other stuff You know, and so I looked at the plane and it had no markings on it. I mean it had nothing on it. And I'm thinking, well look and look and look, it kinda caught my just looking for anything to catch my attention, you know. But nothing, just nothing. I thought, man I wonder if that's a private plane. I mean, it was a passenger, I mean a big one. And uh the thing went down, down, down, and then started to turn in To one of the areas. And a couple minutes later the doors opened up, and as soon as the doors opened up, you could tell they weren't normal people Because of the noise. Just I mean, yeah, well that's low. Normal people don't get off planes like that. I mean they're quiet. Am I not right? They get out. And this was just noise. And I thought, whoa. You know, and I'm standing here and it's off to my left here, and I'm looking down what no World, you know. And they get off and all of a sudden as they get off, you could tell they've done this many a time. As they get off, there's a little group. They all got in a little group. And then around them came these I mean these big, huge muscular guys. Kind of look like me. And uh that so I knew right away that there there's there's somebody important in the little group and that's security. Around them. And uh what I mean that that you know you always like to see who don't you like to see important people? You know, I don't care. You know, somebody, you know. And so I'm looking And uh but I couldn't identify. They're getting closer and closer. I I can't I don't recognize any of them Then all of a sudden they get from about here to where you're preaching. That's about all the fur all of it, and then all I mean this is millisecond. All of a sudden, well maybe a little bit further than that, maybe to the you know end of the all of a sudden I recognize one of the men in that group. It was Mick Jagger Of the Rolling Stones. You say, brother Barron, come on, I'm a child of the 60, I know And all of a sudden it hit me, that is the Rolling Stones. The whole man. And let me just say this: he is ugly. I'm not I mean ugly His picture doesn't do him justice. I mean, he looked like he fell out of an ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. I mean, he just ugly But I'm looking and I'm oh it just yeah that's that's Nick Jagger. And then I you know I recognize the guy I thought was his drummer and stuff like you know I you y you know I I'm I'm from the you know from the sixties and And uh then they you know they had the other people with them and then the security and and uh I'm just y you ever have one of those moments where you just you there's a battle you know, whoa, you know, should I look or should I make a spectacle of myself myself, you know? And so I'm looking, and then I I remembered something. I reached in my jacket pocket and pulled out my brochure. You say why? Because on the back, it has God's plan of salvation. How to get saved. I waited until Mid Jagger got right about to where you're at, preacher. And uh, you know, they eyeballed me, and of course, I'm just now I'm a harmless old man. That's all they looked at me as. And uh when they got about that far away, li I all I did was I just went just like that. I jumped out and their forward moment they carried them right into me. They stopped. I am now right here, and Mick Jagger is right here. Did I tell you he was ugly? Oh We're looking at each other. And uh I look at them and I said, you know what, and let me just say something. You don't be nasty to them, or you know, you be nice and respectful. And that's what I was. I said, Mr. Jagger, I said, I I recognize you, and you can tell you like that. I said, I recognized you coming. I said, uh, can I give you this This is exactly what he did. He took it and looked at it, reached in his pocket and said, Where do you want me to sign? I said uh I said sir, I called him, sir, I said sir, I said, I don't want your autograph. I said, I'm a I'm a Baptist evangelist. I said, this is my brochure. I said, on the back, there are Bible verses from God's Word that tell you how to get saved, how to go to heaven and not go to hell. He looked like somebody slapped him across the. He didn't know what to do. I think, I think if he'd have been alone, he'd have taken it Just for a second, all of a sudden he became aware of everybody in that group looking at him, waiting to see what he would do. His eyes just just for a minute his eye you could just see his eyes just went just like that just and uh he looked at it and then a little smirk came across his face He threw the brochure on the concourse. And he looked at me and he says, You can blankety blank, you're God. And everybody laughed. Everybody chuckled, and they just kind of walked right on through me But you know what they all forgot? They all forgot what God's Word had to say in Job chapter 20 and verse 5. That the triumphing, isn't that what they were doing? That the triumphing of the wicked is short. How long is life? Is short. That the triumphing of the wicked is short. And the joy, they thought they won one. And the joy of the hypocrite. But for a moment. You see, you can laugh, you can get a kick out of this morning, you can think everything is funny, but you'll pay for it forever We forget something, folks. Hebrews 10. 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. My wife and I, I'm done, but my wife and I, not long ago, we looked at a documentary on 9-11. They had advertised that uh some of the footage was never seen before footage. And uh we had all seen people that would had jumped from the top of the towers This footage, I'd never seen it. I mean it shocked me that they would have this foot this was close-up. You could actually see the people, and then they would jump. Marley turned to me and she said, honey. How could people, think about this, how could people jump so far, knowing that when they hit the pavement, they're not only going to die, but they're going to splatter Just for a second, God gave me the answer. I'm glad. I said, you know what I think? That people will do anything this side of eternity to stay out of the flames. Those people would have sooner jumped a hundred stories, splattered on the pavement, than to get burned. Can I remind you of something? Hell is a furnace of flames. What are you willing to do to stay out of the flames forever? Let me ask you this, and we're done. 30 seconds after you're dead. Do you believe you're going to die? Make this real. 30 seconds after you die. What emotion are you going to be experiencing? Huh? You ever think about that? What's going to be running through in 30 seconds? Hey, get here. Here you are. You're saved. Are you with me? Here you are, you're saved. Huh? And you breathe your last breath. Watch. Here you are. You breathe your last breath. You're safe. Now, my Bible says, absent from the body, present with the Lord, watch. Woo ha Woo Woo! It's even better than that! You say, Preacher, come on, you better get used to it If you ain't an A-Benner now, you will be. Come on. Hey, this is real. But What about the other way? Unsaved. You put it off this morning. You died before you fought you died. And you're in the flames of hell. Forever. One of the worst things about hell, you know what it is? Memory. Do you know what you're going to think forever? August 14th. August 14th I came to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I heard a message on hell forever. I knew I should have gotten saved. I came back close to heaven and I blew it! What a fool! Forever is an awful long time to pay for a mistake That you could correct in about five minutes. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Nobody looking around Let me ask two questions, just two questions. My first question is directed towards Christians. We we may preach on this again next to this. I'm not sure yet what we're what direction we're going to go, but I I I I've got to take this opportunity You're here today and you're saved. You know you're on your way to heaven. But friends, listen to me. Friends, listen. What about your friends? What about your neighbors? What about your relatives? We are talking about them going to a place like this. Do you care? Are we doing anything about it? When's the last hey? When's the last time you gave out a trap? When's the last time you invited somebody out? When's the last time you witnessed to somebody? Do we even care anymore? Simple question, just a real simple question I'm wondering how many we have here today that would just simply say this, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. There's a time and a place that I can point to. There's a time and a place when I've asked Jesus in my heart as my Savior. But you know what, preacher? Right now, right now, I I can think of I can think of people that I love and they're on that way. They're on their way to that horrible place called hell forever. Preacher, would you pray for me this morning? God's dealt with my heart. Would you pray for me this morning that God would use me To see him get saved. Somehow, some way, get him out the church, witness to them, somehow, some way, would you pray for me that God would use me to see him get saved? Would you slip up your hand just slip it up thank you I won't even try just almost many many many many hands thank you too many even count I appreciate that really do anybody else real quickly thank you ma'am anybody else Anybody else? Just slip it up. Put it back down. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Just many, many, many hands here this morning Let me ask one other question. And let me just say this. This will put you at ease. I'm not going to embarrass you. Did you get what I just said there? I am not going to embarrass you. You. I am not going to call you out. I am not going to have you stand up. I am not going to come back. Did you get this? I am not going to come back and knack you out of your feud. Not going to do it. You say, why, preacher? Because you have to want to get saved. Just like I wanted to get saved, you have to want to get saved. So I'm not going to embarrass you. I want you to I want to put you at perfectly at ease right there. But you know what I'd love to do? I would dearly love to pray for you this morning. Would you let me do that? Would you allow me to do that? I'm wondering if we have anybody here today, a man or a woman or a young person, that would say this, preacher I'm not sure I'm saved. Preacher, if I walk out of here today, and I've seen I've literally seen this happen probably four or five times. If I walked out of here today, got in my car, got in my truck, and I were going down the road and I were involved in a terrible wreck and I died. You know what Brother Barron I don't know if I go to heaven. I don't know if I go to hell. I have no idea where I'd been forever. But I do know this. I know this for sure this morning. I don't want to go to that horrible place called hell forever. I really do want to go to heaven forever. Forever. And I'm concerned about that. I worry about that. Would you also this morning, in addition to these many, many others, would you also this morning remember me and prayer. Would you just slip your hand up quietly and put it back down? Just slip it up, put it right back down, and I'll pray for you. Just real quickly. Just high enough so I can see it Just slip it up. Put it back down. I won't embarrass you. I won't call you out. I'll just acknowledge that you raised your hand and that's it. Anybody at all? Just slip it up right now. Now's the time to do it I'm going to say it again, forever is an awful long time to pay for a mistake that you could correct in just a few minutes. Anyone at all? Is there a man here, a woman here, a young person here? Preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about this. Pray for me. Anybody at all? Come on, now's the time to do it. Now's the time to do it. Father, thank you for the time that we've had here this morning. Lord, the many, many Christians that have raised their hand, Lord, break our hearts this morning. Make us real. Help us to understand that in the lives of our friends, we forget this. There is a forever, and it isn't good. Help us to be what we ought to be. Lord. I can't help but believe that probably we don't have at least one or two here this morning that aren't saved and maybe they're a little bit nervous and I understand that. But help them to remember that the invitation is never They can see myself, they can see Pastor Leatherman, they can see somebody after the service, and we'd be glad to open up the Bible. That's the authority. We'd be glad to open up the Bible and show them out of the Bible how they can go to heaven and avoid it we going to hell. Fortune Jesus' name we pray. With heads bad