Chapter uh three if we'll start looking at verse um twenty six and I'll read a few verses and and there'll be a lot of scripture we go to uh tonight but we'll just start here Galatians 3, 26. For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus, for as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you're all one in Christ Jesus If ye be in Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Let's pray, and then um just for a few minutes, uh what the Bible has to say about equality. Lord, we thank you for uh this day that you've given us, Lord, and we uh just think about Um Memorial Day, Lord, think about those that have served uh our country, Lord, giving us the freedom to even be here uh tonight. Um we thank you for that. We ask that you would bless uh uh your word now as we look at it. I pray that you would teach us tonight. Um and help us to understand what you have to say about this subject of equality, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Um it's kind of a hot button, I guess you'd say right now, hot topic right now. We've talked about it a lot in youth group too, uh in the over the past few weeks and Sunday school it seems like it comes up a lot and uh just day-to-day questions as well. Um and then of course in Bible Institute, it just seems like it's kind of a hot topic right now and it's uh you know the this subject of of equality. Anyway, so surely the Bible has some things to say about it and it does. And so, um, I'm a Christian and you claim to be a Christian, so we should see what the Bible has to say about these subjects. I mean, you know, I guess it's okay to pay attention to what's going on and and stuff like that. But um you know we ought to base what we believe off of the Bible, not off of the news or something like that, on uh on any issue, especially something as serious as this. Um and and and so what I'm gonna do is is is this might not be like a normal three point message type of thing. Just kind of more of a a study, I guess, uh if you want to call it that, on um areas of of claimed inequality, what the Bible has to say about those areas, how we should view it and what we should do about it, things like that. So first we need a definition. I think. Um a lot of what people claim is equality or inequality is not. Uh the definition has been skewed, it's been mis um misdefined, I guess you could say um to mean uh something totally different. Well uh equality, Webster says the same degree of dignity or claims, this is Webster's definition talks about the equality of nobles of the same rank or equality of rights, evenness, uniformity. uh sameness in state or continued course, evenness, plainness, uniformity, such as an equal surface A modern dictionary would say the state of being equal, especially in the status of status, rights, and opportunities. And I find this very um very interesting um in in a country like this where we have so many opportunities We see a lot of complaints of inequality when this is one of the most equal countries, I guess you could say it that way. There's more opportunities here than, you know, most of the world, but at the same time we hear the most complaints about inequality. I just kind of find that that's like jumbo shrimp. It doesn't make sense You know what I mean? It's like an oxymoron. And so a country like this where we have the most opportunities and uh one of the most equal certain of course it's not perfectly equal, of course that not, but Um if in and if you look in terms of a level playing field, this is a is one of the most level playing fields you're gonna get. Um I mean you go somewhere uh like some of these Middle Eastern countries or something and You you y y you talk about equal rights, um might not be good for you. So uh anyway, I just find that interesting. That's just a by the way. But so anyway That's what Webster says equality is, evenness, plainness, uniformity as an equality of surface. Now, um like I said, a lot of what people claim Is inequality is more or less just complaining. We have um an equality of opportunity isn't the same thing as equality of outcome. And that's not really the focus of once tonight, but we need to understand that. You might have two young men that have the same opportunity, but they do two totally different things, they're not going to get the same outcome. That would not be fair. That would not be just, that would not be equal if they both had the same outcome, although they took two totally different paths. But a lot of times in our society what people are complaining about is equality of outcome, not equality of opportunity. And again, that's not the focus of tonight, but that's just something to kind of keep on the the back burner there in the back of your mind. I want to know not what society is saying about equality, but what the Bible says about it. And so that's kind of what I want to focus on tonight. Now the first thing we need to understand is this. Um inequality does exist. It is real. In the sense that the you know the media might say maybe not, probably not, but there is such a thing as inequality Um the to to to to say everything is perfectly fair would would would not be an accurate statement. Inequality is real. I think there's a lot less of it here in our country, and I'm grateful for that. Talking about Memorial Day, I'm grateful for that. I think there's a lot more equal opportunities here. And that's that's wonderful. But there always is going to be different degrees of unfairness, of inequality. Go to Ecclesiastes chapter 9 for just a moment, if you would. I'm going to read just one verse out of it. Ecclesiastes nine, verse eleven says, Um, and I I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle of the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill. But time and chance happens to them all. And and really, if you go through Ecclesiastes a lot, there's this theme that you know rainfall is on the just and the unjust, and there's that that's just the way it's going to be sometimes. Life isn't always fair That's because it's life. It's not fair. And so equality is real. There you there is simply because of maybe your background, your ethnicity, your age There will be people that look down on you and they shouldn't. But that's real. Um prejudice is a real thing. Um Uh uh discrimination is a real thing. Again, I think there's a whole lot less of it here than most of the world, but there's always going to be people that look down on you because you're of a different group of people. Which again we should see what the Bible has to say about this, not our feelings or anything like that. But the point is, is it's it's real. There's always going to be someone that looks down on someone else because of what they look like, because of their age, and it's a shame and it's a tragedy. And that's not the way God intended it. And we'll look at some more verses here in a minute, but it's real. Will people try to take advantage of a woman because she's a woman? Unfortunately, yeah. Unfortunately, and that's a shame. Um there is um I I I've used this illustration before in youth group, I don't know that I've mentioned up here, but When I was working in uh Lynchburg, there was a job that I bid on, and I put a lot of time and effort into it over several weeks. Um took took the my computer home with me, worked on this for a long time and uh bid the job won the bid and that we were all excited because it was going to be a very good uh job, uh a good payout on it. And anyway they ended up it was a government job, they ended up calling us, told us because uh we weren't a swam vendor, we didn't get it, that's discrimination. Because we weren't uh at the swam single women and minority. We were just a bunch of white guys, so we lost it. It's kind of funny actually. So uh but that's the thing. Is that discrimination? Yeah. But what what are we going to do about it? Are we going to complain about it? No, we just keep going. You know, I think it's wrong to gripe, I think it's wrong to complain. But we need to understand and accept that this is reality. Before we can address the problem, we need to admit that there is a problem. And I know a lot of people are already saying, like, Pastor Matt, where are you going with this? Just hang on, okay? It's real. It exists. But why does it exist? Well, because of sin. Proverbs thirteen ten. Does anyone have that memorized? Proverbs thirteen ten. Someone said it, huh? Only by pride cometh contention. Why is it that someone will look down on someone else? Because of pride, because of sin. As long as we live in a sin-cursed world, this is the reality that we're going to have to face. And sitting around complaining about it's not going to get much done. And again, uh this whole message is in parentheses of we live in one of the most equal countries in the world. I'm grateful for it. But it is real. And the reason that it exists isn't because of a certain political party, isn't because of a certain economic system. It's because of sin. And as long as there's sin, there's going to be injustice. There's going to be unfairness And that's just reality. That's just part of life. I'm not saying it's okay. I'm not saying it's good. And I'm not saying we shouldn't do anything about it. But it's real. The reason for it is sin, pride. As long as we live on planet Earth, we're going to have to deal with unfairness. We're gonna have to deal with people lying about us, mistreating us, because of w where we're from, because of our accent, because of our age. It's just the way it is. And it's sad. But there's something we can do about it. I'll get there in a minute. Now, if you I'm just going to use three areas just as a sake of example. If you watch the news, if you're on social media, if you Go to Walmart or Target. We don't have Target here. But um if you go out and about, you'll see three areas where people complain about inequality And I'm going to look at I'm going to use these three areas as an example of what the Bible has to say about inequality. So the message is not necessarily on these three things. This is there's three examples. If we look in our our our our society, people will complain about inequality in terms of uh gender In terms of prejudice or racism, and in terms of maybe pay and pay gap. There's other and other areas of inequality, but these are three I'm going to use as an example To prove to everyone here, but also to someone who might be listening, or really just to society, that the Bible teaches equality. The Bible teaches fairness. The Bible is justice. God is just. And we're going to prove that here. And this is just three examples. So example one would be that of gender inequality or gender equality. Now to understand that we've got to go back to Genesis 1. 27. You don't have to tur turn there, but I'm just gonna I mean I'm just gonna talk about it. It's uh where where where we see the first mention of the genders, the God created man and woman. Male and female, created he them in the image of God created he them. Um so there's two genders and There's a whole nother side route here where people will say that there's more than one. I'm not going to even get into that because there's not. Um, there's two, and that's one that's Bible, two that's science, and so I don't want to be harsh or mean, but if somebody's confused on that, they need they need help. They need to they they need the gospel, they don't need to be enabled. We don't need to help them in with their disillusion, with their sin. We need to help them by giving them the gospel That's what they really need. But um anyway, so th there there's there's two there's two genders and Most of history, there has been a lot, and even in today, around the world, there is a lot of unfairness. There's a lot of inequality. Um I know some of those Middle Eastern uh countries. Um you told me about some things you've seen over there. It's the the treatment of women is absolutely awful. It's just awful. It makes makes your stomach turn, makes you sick. Um it's not right. It's it's sin. And it w a and not just over there, but uh around the world we see this this mis and throughout most of history we've seen this. But there's something interesting and uh a lot of people will claim that um our faith is against women, our faith is against uh women's equality or or women's rights even. And it's not. The Bible is pro-people, men and women. God loves people, right? Now go to uh Numbers 27 I'm gonna read a little story here. Um this is kind of cool. I think it's fascinating. You know, someone that says um you know, where this uh the society that's always just uh men first and and and all this and uh you know especially Christians that you know women don't have a place and I think that's nonsense because The Bible says just the opposite. Numbers chapter twenty-seven, verse one. Then came the daughters of Azalophiad, I guess how you say that the son of son of Hephr, the son of Gilead uh son of Amaker, the son of Manasseh, the families of Manasseh, the son of Joseph. These are the names of his daughters, Malah, Noah. uh Hogla, Milkah, and Tirzah. And they stood before Moses and before Eliezer the priest and before the princes and all the congregation by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gathered themselves together against the Lord in the company of Korah, but died in his own sin, had no sons. Why should the name of our father be done away from among his families, because he hath no son? Give us therefore a possession among the brethren of our father And Moses brought their cause before the Lord, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, The daughters of Zephia speak, right? Thou shalt surely give them a possession of an inheritance among the f their father's uh brethren. Thou shalt cause the inheritance of their father to pass unto them. This was a this was a strange concept at that time. Wait a minute. Women have equal rights in inheritance? What is this? Women can can these daughters? Can actually inherit? What? I'm telling you, the the Bible, God invented equality And so pe if someone is looking at the Bible, someone's looking at Christianity and saying, uh uh, you know, it's it's all about men and it doesn't that there's no women's uh rights or anything like that, they don't know the Bible because God God see we see that in the Old Testament. And this is what sparked it in Bible Institute, I think, when um uh when Jesus rose from the dead, the the it was women that discovered the empty tomb. And at in that culture at that time, um the the the heathen culture, the Roman culture, did not really take the word of women as seriously as the word of men. But here we see in in the New Testament that they're validated. They have the same credit as as men do. And it's it's it's it it's a big deal if someone's gonna come and accuse us of not being equal. Well well God is. Okay. And I think I think the confusion is um Well well it's not even really confusion. It might just be rebellion. What it is is God has created us for different roles and we just don't want to fulfill our roles. And so people will complain about that, but it's not that one's more important or less important. And Pastor, you preached a series through the when you were doing going through First Peter talking about different roles. God loves all of us equal. There's not one you know, it's not like oh the husband's more important than the wife, or the wife's more important. No, they're both they're both important. There's just different roles there. But equality is is God. Equality is a Bible thing. And this modern definition of equality is not an actual dictionary definition of equality or a Bible definition of equality. And so if someone says that we're not equal, or got or the Bible isn't for equality, then they just don't know the Bible or they're lying So the the Bible never claims that man is more important than woman. The Bible never claims woman is more important than man. Yes, there's defined roles and um For the sake of time, I won't go to these passages because you can look at Ephesians 5. It gives the role of wife, gives the role of husband, and of parents, and there's different roles. Yes. But all are equal in Christ. If we re go back to Galatians where we started, there's something I kind of want to point out here. Verse 28 of chapter 3, if you're not there, Galatians 3, 28, if you're not there, it's final three, it says There's neither Jew nor Greek, there's neither bond nor free, there's neither male nor female, for you're all one in Christ, Jesus. Does that mean that genders don't exist? Of course not He's talking about our equality. Doesn't matter if you're a servant or a master, a man or a woman. It doesn't matter if you're a Jew or Greek or a Greek. In Christ we're all equal. And people claim, oh, there's so much inequality, there's so much prejudice, there's so much hatred. Unfortunately, that's true, but it's not coming from the Bible. It's coming from sin and from pride. And so if we want to combat inequality and injustice, the best way to do that is with the Bible. It's with the Bible. Um I think we ought to be involved in politics. I really I really do. Um I think that's part of our duty as Christians to uh I mean at the bare minimum vote. I mean too many people died for you to vote for you to not to. The bare minimum vote, but also we ought to write letters. We ought to get involved, make phone calls, absolutely. Um, but that's not the best way to fight inequality and injustice. The best way is with God's word. So Galatians here says that there's uh no Jew nor Greek. Does that mean that uh nations don't exist, nationalities don't exist? Of course not. We live in a nation here. It means that we're equal in Christ. He loved me as much as he loved someone of another nation. Of another economic standing, of another nationality, of another gender Of the other gender. I could keep rephrase. I gotta phrase it right, there's two. We know that. But um So so this idea that um Christianity is um oppressive towards women, uh not the Christianity I know. Not the Bible I know. Um I see where in it where I'm s uh where if anything I see where I'm supposed to honor my father and mother and I'm s I see that I'm supposed to love my wife as Christ loved the church and I see a very, very high regard for both men and women in God's Word. And so to say otherwise, you would either not know or you're lying. uh God is about um gender equality. Equality is not the same role. Of course there's different roles You have to have different if we were all the same, it'd be weird. If we were all the same, if we were all a bunch of men or we were all a bunch of women, that would be weird and uh we wouldn't get very far. So Um another area we see with that in mind, uh go to Acts chapter 17. The uh people will say that the Bible um or people say Christianity i it's um it's um Bunch of prejudice or a bunch of racists or something like that. Acts chapter 17, go there. And while you're turning there, I've heard this argument. Um That uh God is racist. I heard someone say once that God is racist because he sent the uh the the Hebrews to go kill all these Canaanites. He hated Canaanites. without getting too far into it. God told uh Moses and Aaron it it's not because of how good you are, it's because of how bad they are. I'm using you to judge them. I'm paraphrasing and And if you turn from me, someone else will judge you. So we see actually even more equality there. God's consistency. But also I want to read this, Acts 17, 26 25. Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needeth anything, seeing that giveth to all life and breath and all things, and hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth have to determine the times uh before pointed and of the bounds of their inhabitations. How many different bloods do we see? One. I don't like the con I don't like the word racist, and I was telling the teens this a few weeks ago I guess, but I don't like the I don't like that term racist because we're all one race. We're all Adam's race. We're all the human race Um to to say that uh oh well this this race or that race I hate filling out questionnaires where it says race and there's no box for human You know, I'm talking about human race, or where's Adam on here? You know, it's I'm Adam's race, I'm human race. I don't we're all one race And a lot of this division is fabricated. A lot of it's for political gain, but I also, it's it's pride. Only by pride cometh contention. We're all one race And I don't think we should allow the culture to teach us that we're different races when the Bible says we're all one blood. I have a brother uh who's six foot seven. He's been here, Ross. He's he's the baby of the family, but he's the tallest one. He's got me beat by an inch. Probably more than that now. I'm shrinking, I think. But um Ross he's a giant. And um then um Mark he's six five so it's Ross six six or six seven, I'm six six, uh Mark's six five. Then Stuart somehow, he's a midget. He's only six two. He's just a little guy. I mean I we don't know what happened to him. He's just he's like I hope he's not listening, but love you, Stu. But um Uh and then Stacy, she was more normal size. She's she's just like an average height person, like five five or five six, something like that. We're all huge and Stacy's Normal. And um it's just we're all we're all look but we're all f one family. We look different. Um Differ different hair color even, different eye color even, but we're all the same family, have the same parents, have the same blood. But we're all one family. I'm not saying everyone in the world is under the in the Christian family, but we're all of one race. We're all of one blood. We all are of all biologically of Adam's family. And I kind of get frustrated and get a little disgusted when people try to pit family against each other because we are different height, different eye color, different skin color, different nation. That's not the Bible. That's not God. And to say that we are promoting inequality because we're prejudiced or because we're racist, well, my Bible says we're all one blood, so therefore I'm gonna go with what the Bible says and I'm for equality. So anyway, um The a and I think a lot of this, I'm getting a little sidetracked here, comes from the the th the theory of evolution. You know, well we're a little more evolved than them and so then maybe that's why they think that we're different races or they're a little more evolved than us and And that's just a bunch of nonsense. We're all of one blood. Another thing we see, and this is this is all especially lately, we complain about inequality of pay. In a different few different areas, some will say that there's a pay gap between men and women, some will say there's a pay gap between ages, some will say Uh uh and I want to see what the Bible has to say about this. I don't want to get hung up on this and complain and lose sleep over what social media says. I want to make sure I I go off what the Bible says and stick with it. 1 Timothy 5. 18. Go there real quick if you could. First Timothy five eighteen. Um Evan, can you go to Colossians four one? Thank you. First Timothy five eighteen. For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox to tread without the corn. The laborer is worthy of his reward. He's worthy of his hire. He's worthy of his reward. The Bible is for paying fair wages. The Bible is for paying fair wages. The Bible is not okay with slave labor. And say the Bible promotes it, you wouldn't know the Bible. Don't muzzle the ox and tread up the corn. I mean, come on. Pay pay him what he's worth, pay him what's fair. The Bible is for fair uh payment for fair wages. Um and we see man that that's a that's a a hot topic right now isn't it Everyone wants to r w r keep raising the minimum wage and I mean I guess you could you s you know pay twenty dollars a gallon for gas but I mean I mean if you raise wages everything else will just go up it's economics. But anyway, back to the Bible. Um The Bible is for fair payment. Employers should give a just wage. And this is what the Bible teaches. Colossians 4, 1, do you have that if you read that? Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Just and equal. That's what the Bible says. It's not right to take advantage of an employee It's not right. It's not right to um uh uh uh pay an unfair wage. The Bible says that and so if if you'll notice in the workforce in the in the public sector um Well uh some of the best companies to work for are Christian-owned companies because they're going to apply the Christian principles. There's a reason every every every uh uh high school kid and college kid flocks to Chick-fil-A There's a reason for that. They're they're fair. It's it's a good workplace. And I mean there's they're Christian, uh Christian run anyway, so that's that's a good thing. Um Anyway, so the Bible's for that. So here's the problem is I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but that's okay. We're kind of running out of time here, but What we see in our culture is someone will go to work and you'll agree to a minimum wage or a certain salary, and then they'll say it's not fair. Well, if it's not fair, then you don't have to work. We live in America. You can quit. You can go get another job if you if it's not fair. That's kind of how it works. But don't agree to work for something a certain amount and then complain when you get what you agreed to With that in mind, I want to read Matthew chapter 20. You might already know where I'm going with this. Matthew chapter 20. I'll start ri reading in verse number ten, I believe. Oh no, back up. The kingdom of he if it and you you can catch up when you get there. Matthew twenty verse one the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man As a householder which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. When he had agreed with the laborers for a penny of the day, they agreed to a price, right They agreed to a wage, a penny a day, and a penny was then a day's wage. A penny a day. And he sent them into his vineyard. He went about the third hour and saw others standing in the marketplace, said unto them, Go ye also in the vineyards, and Whatever is right, I'll give you. And they went their way, and then he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise, and about the eleventh hour he went out, found others standing idle, so and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? Say unto him, Because no man hath hired us, he said unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive. So when Edom was come, The Lord of the vineyard, saved under his steward, called the laborers and give them their hire, beginning from the first and the last, or from the last unto the first. And when they uh came, they were that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more, and they likewise received every man a penny. What did they agree to? A penny. A day's wage. And when they had received it, they murmured against the good men of the house, saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden, and he all day or he of the day. And he answered One of them and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Didst not thou agree with me for a penny? Take that is thine and go thy way. I will give them the last even as unto thee. They agreed for a wage, someone else got a better deal in their mind, in their opinion, got a better deal, and they complained about it. What's equality? What's fair? What's just? What does the Bible teach? You work for what was agreed, and you get paid what was agreed. If an employer promises a certain amount and they don't pay it, that's a problem. But if you're promised ten an hour and you work ten hours, you should get 100. And don't complain when you don't get more. And so we see these uh the these are just three examples of inequality that people uh are focused on, but the whole overlying theme of this of this evening is The Bible is for equality. The Bible is just. God is fair. He invented equality when he said Um well when he created man, all of us came from one blood that way, and he created different roles, yeah, but uh uh we're in in Christ there's no bond, no free, no male, no female, no Jew, nor Greek It's all totally equal in Christ. And so what can I do about the inequality in our in our world? Again, here Compared to most of the world, there's not much. Is there some? Sure. But um we can combat inequality here that that does ex true inequality, not what people claim is inequality, but that's inequality of of of of um people wanting equality of outcome without um putting forward the work and stuff like that That's ridiculous. But is there a way that we can really fight injustice? Well yeah, there's a few, and I'll give them to you real quick. Um Well, one, we need to promote the Bible, because God is the author of equality. It would make sense that if we say we are for equality, that we would promote the book of equality. That would make sense. If you take the Bible out of an institution, that institution will cease to teach true equality. And that's why our our our public systems aren't teaching true equality. Like the Bible teaches. They got their own definition of it. You take it out of the home, you're not gonna have everyone equal in the home. Someone's gonna be viewed at as lesser or so there's gonna be grudging, there's gonna be strife and contention because of pride if the Bible the book of equality is taken out of the home. And so if we want to fight inequality and we want to promote justice and fairness, the best way to do that is to promote God's Word. God's the author of it. Where there is no vision, where there's no Bible, the people perish. People will die because of unfairness, because of pride, because of inequality. Promote just righteousness, righteous living. Righteousness exalts a nation. Um sins are reproached to any people. But I think the key is soul winning People want to be treated fair, people want to be treated just, people want to be treated equal There's no system in the world that teaches it other than the Bible, under the other than God's Word. And if you want to be part of a equal family, the only way you can be is to be a part of God's family. I am just as loved by Christ as much as he loves anyone in this room. I'm loved that much. By Christ. He loves me equal. He loves me equal. He died for me equal. True equality can only be found in Christ. So these people that are fighting saying That Christianity and our faith and and what this country was built on is against women, is racist, and all this kind of stuff, it's just baloney. And we're not going to win the battle if we just fight on their terms and with their definitions. We just got to stick with the Bible, promote the Bible, promote righteousness. Soul win, and if we don't, we're not gonna be a nation of equality. We're not gonna be a nation of justice and fairness. There's going to be someone, there's going to be a demographic that overpowers another. Sure, there will always be injustice and inequality, but we sure can do a lot to fight it If we'll just take soul winning seriously. If we'll just take the Bible seriously. I don't know how to give an invitation tonight or anything like that. Again, this wasn't really a um you know a three-point message or anything like like that, but Boy, if if you ever if you've if you've thought on these things at all, or if anyone's ever challenged you, maybe in the workplace or at school or something like that, saying Oh, you know, the Bible the the the Christian heritage that we have, that was just so uh misogynistic and that was just so uh prejudiced. No, it wasn't The Bible is for equality. And I hope, if nothing else, this maybe gave someone some passages to go to and say, oh, by the way, the Bible says this Um so there's nothing else that said. I again I don't know how to give an invitation something like like this. Maybe it's just the oh maybe honestly the invitation should probably be We need to commit ourselves to spreading God's word and spreading the gospel because if we don't, then I mean how how how can we have um fairness and justice if If we take God out of the picture, we can't. So um heads bowed, eyes closed, we'll have invitation here. I don't know how God could be dealing with your heart, but um Maybe it's just to surrender to s to to to him. You know, we we we got it pretty good here, but I mean this thought just came to my mind. We were saying that there is nations around the world where there's a lot of unfairness. There's nations where where women are treated awful, where people of a different nationality are treated awful. I mean I mean brutal Uh nothing will combat that like the gospel will. Maybe maybe the Lord's using this to call someone to go to one of those countries that are Really uh unequal and unfair. One of those prejudiced countries maybe where that is it's that way because there's no gospel. I don't know, maybe this is a missions message. I don't know. But uh however God's speaking to your heart when when she star if you'll stand to your feet when she starts playing the altar's open