Excellent ladies. Appreciate that. That was a blessing. If you want to take your Bibles and turn again with me to Luke chapter eleven. I can get hooked up here quickly. Luke chapter eleven. Should have done this earlier, I guess. All right, I just want to read uh once again versus 9 and 10, Luke chapter 11, verses 9 and 10. If you notice, if you have a red letter edition of the Bible, you notice that this is in red, meaning it's coming from the lips of the Lord Jesus. Alright, I think we're good to go there. And Jesus says here, I say unto you, now that's an important phrase, and we'll look at that in a moment. I say unto you. Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you If he could stop there, that'd be good. Amen. Then he comes back and he rewords it for emphasis to be even more emphatic. He says, for everyone that asketh receiveth. Well, that's basically what he said in the first verse, right? Ask and it shall be given unto you. Now he's saying it again, rewording a little bit, but he's re-emphasizing it. And he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. If we would take time and look at the passages, the verses that we read just before this, and the verses we read just after these two verses, we found that this whole context The Lord is emphasizing the fact that God answers prayer. He illustrates it with a little story about a guy going to his friend. In previous verses following, he illustrates it with a son asking his father for some things, and uh the father of course gives his son good things and he says I want to speak this morning. I hesitate to say this. I don't think we'll be long. Making that statement just immediately means it's going to be long. But no I don't know why that is. But um I want to speak this morning on the, I've entitled it Biblical Confidence in Prayer. And uh so let's pray, ask the Lord to help us. Father, uh Lord, we're so grateful uh again for the promises you've given us in your word. Many of us could stand and testify, Father, for your glory that your promises have been true. And uh you've been faithful, your word, you've answered prayer in sometimes miraculous ways. Lord, we're grateful. And I pray that you would help me now in the following uh with the rest of the service here Help me, Lord, and speak through me and use me to bring assurance to all of our hearts that you do indeed answer prayer in great ways. Please, I pray, help me to be a pastor of prayer. Help us as a church and our homes to be characterized by genuine prayer and we see answers. I yield myself to you, Lord. Father, this is your word, not mine. And so I ask you to fill me with your Spirit and you would speak through me your word to all of our hearts and our lives. In Jesus' name I think it's because the older you get the more money you have and he wants I don't know. But um when you go in for a doctor, he does something I think is very strange. I've never figured out the purpose of it. I imagine there's a reason. He has you sit there And uh he rolls your rolls your uh I won't get too personal here, he rolls your uh pants leg up and he has this little mallet You know where I'm going with this? And he hits you right below the kneecap, and you have an involuntary reaction. You kid. I have no idea what that has to do with anything. Akonan, Doctor, I got a sore throat. Alright, let me hit your kneecap. Now the funny thing about that is some people are more sensitive than others. Some you just tap it a little bit and wham! My wife is very, amazingly, is very insensitive in that area. And uh he hits her with a little mallet, nothing happens. So he hits a little harder, still nothing happens. And the other month she was in and the guy was doing that, he reached back and got a great big mallet out. And um It's an involuntary reaction to stimulus. Boom, that blade kicks out In a very similar way, God has placed deep within the heart and soul of all mankind what I'm calling a spiritual involuntary reaction. When certain things happen, there's a spiritual reaction. And I believe that just like very similar to hitting That little nerve in your knee causes your leg to kick. There's a part of our being that when something happens, we react spiritually, and that reaction, I believe, is prayer Prayer. I believe often it's involuntary almost. Trouble comes, a prayer goes out. Um bad situation happens, a prayer goes out. I found, and I'm convinced this is true, I found that all men And I'm when I use the term men, I mean mankind, all people, all men everywhere pray. You've seen it, and I've seen it. You can have you can have uh somebody the most professed atheist you can find, and something bad happens, and they'll say, Oh Lord. Oh God. You know what that really is, whether they're aware of it? That's a prayer reaction. Boy, they're hoping for something to happen, something good, and they're waiting in anticipation, and they'll say, oh Lord, please. It just comes out. Um we see it in the news, and I don't have much respect for news anchors and all that, to be very honest with you. But a tragedy happens like these earthquakes and stuff going on. And by the way, just an aside here, I almost changed my message Um, you know, Jesus said that in the last days there would be great earthquakes in diverse places and things would be happening in the earth. I don't think that's a coincidence I got an email uh just I think it was this morning, last evening or this morning, from a person that's a very liberal uh leader in a very liberal church, and he said Boy, this sounds biblical. Isn't that something? And so I forget what I was talking about. Reactions come. And uh so anyway, oh news guys. So you have these um earthquakes and whatnot going on, and these guys will mock God, they'll criticize Christians and do all that. Something like this happens, you know what they say? Our prayers are with you. There's something down in the heart and soul of man when things go bad The reaction is to cry out to God. Cry out to, you know, some people would put it a higher power. Something bigger than me, something in control, someone that is able to do something, cries out. As I said, sometimes it's expressed, oh Lord. Or do you ever hear did you ever hear this? Somebody, I mean they have nothing to do with God, they have no concern. They'll say something like this, oh please, please Please. You know what I think that is? I think that's a form of prayer going out. They're asking, please let this be. Please let them be okay. Please don't let this happen. Now whether they're aware of what they're doing or not, you have that, you have that boom, does, oh please, oh God. It's interesting, and my experience has been it's often those who mock God the loudest. Often, those who mock God the loudest, in good times, when trouble comes, sometimes they're the first to say, hey preacher, I need you to pray. Would you please come visit in the hospital Uh we don't think he's gonna make it. Uh oh, oh, pray for us please. Isn't that something? The fact of the matter is I don't believe it's difficult to get a person to pray. Just send them some trouble, right? Have them lose their job. I have the doctor say cancer. They'll start praying. The difficulty is not getting someone to pray necessarily on God's part. Although it's definitely neglected. The difficulty is getting people to meet the conditions of answered prayer. It's one thing to throw a prayer up to God. It's another thing to be in the position, in the condition. Where God will answer that prayer. Now, question: Can God answer prayer? Yes or no? Now here's a little tricky, so don't necessarily answer this. Will God answer all prayer? And the answer to that is no. God can. The Lord's hand is not shortened that he cannot hear and answer your prayer. But the Isaiah says, your iniquities Have separated you from God so that He will not hear your prayers. So the difficulty, the challenge for you and I as believers Uh uh for all mankind really is not so much to pray. I mean that's there, that's a reaction The challenge is for us to be in the position, to be in the condition, I guess is the word I want, where God will answer our prayers. Now that's not the purpose of my message. We've preached on that many times before, and no doubt we will again, Lord willing, in the future. The conditions, I'm not preaching on this, but just to summarize, the conditions for answered prayer, we could uh I summarize it in three areas here, and you would make application much more detailed. But one is salvation. I do not believe that God answers the prayers of unsaved people. Now there is one prayer God answers, that's God be merciful to me, a sinner. You call on the Lord for savage. Of course, God answers that prayer. But I think if a person is unsaved, if they never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, if they're trusting in their good works, trusting in their church membership, trusting in anything else to make them acceptable to God they're trusting anything of themselves to make them acceptable to God, then God's ears are closed to their prayers. There's only one way I can have access to the throne of God, and that is through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, through accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. He cleanses me of sins. He forgives my sins. He give makes me a new creature. And now I have access to God's throne. But that's not the only requirement for answered prayer. Not only must there be salvation, but there must also, I must have, I must be in For lack of a better way, to be I must be in fellowship with the Lord. Once we're saved see if I can get a witness on this. Once we're saved, we still sin. If you say you don't, you're sinning. The Bible says if we are without s if we say we're without sin, we make God a liar. I'm not going to call God a liar, are you? And so even after we get saved, we still sin. You say, how can that be? Then how can it be is we still live in this old sinful nature, this old sinful body. So once I'm saved, that gives me access to God's throne. But as a believer, I need to keep excuse the I need to keep my nose clean. Right? I've got to obey the Lord. I I can't even as a child uh you uh uh you have a little child. I remember when I was a kid, I was about twelve years old. And um it was my twelfth birthday, I guess. And my parents, oh, this comes back. My parents got me a Rupp Roadster mini bike. For my twelfth birthday. How many people remember Rupp Roadsters? Three people. And they got me one. I was so excited. It's been in the garage for a few days and I couldn't get it until my birthday. And it's like, man. And I have no idea what I did. For the life of me, I cannot remember what I did. But I did something stupid. And I wasn't allowed to get the Rubb Roadster motor mo mini bike on my birthday. You talk about a bummer. And the worst thing was they let my sisters go out and ride it on my birthday. I have been bitter at my sisters ever since then. Now, I did something stupid. I don't know what I'm sure it was a misunderstanding on my parents' part. I'm sure it was. But my quote-unquote sin separated me from the blessings of my parents. They withheld that from me because of my disobedience. Well, as a believer, we're children of God. And if we persist in disobeying God If we persist in not doing what God tells us to do, or doing things God tells us not to do, God says, I'm not going to answer your prayers. I'm going to withhold my blessings. So conditions are salvation. I need to be in fellowship with the Lord, obedient to Him. And then James tells us there's another condition, and again I'm spending more time on this than I wanted to. But James tells us that one of the reasons our prayers are not answered is because we ask them to consume them upon our own lusts. In other words, we ask them for selfish reasons. God wants us to be in so in many ways like Him. God is a giving God. For God so loved the world, He Gave. God wants us to be like him. And God says, all right, I want to bless you. I want to answer your prayers. I want to give to you. But I don't want to give to you just so you can hoard stuff up. I want to give to you so you can be like me and help others and advance the cause of Christ and enable the gospel to go into all the world. So if you're just asking stuff for me to consume it upon your own lusts, well then I'm not going to answer those prayers So the difficulty, as I said, I reiterate here, the difficulty is not getting people to pray. Send some trouble, send an earthquake, uh have the doctor say we found diabetes or whatever Send some trouble, you get the ping slip at the job. People are going to pray. Most hardened atheists is going to pray to some degree. So that's not the problem. Problem is meeting the conditions. Now, here's where my the message this morning comes in And this is the context of what Jesus is saying here. He's not necessarily saying this to get people to pray. He's not giving conditions on prayer. They're given other places in the Bible. But what the Lord Jesus here in Luke 11 is doing. He's assuring us that God does answer prayer. You get those, you pray, you get those things in line, you get your ducks in line. And you can be sure that God hears and answers prayer. And that is the message of our text this morning. Biblical confidence that God answers prayer. Once the requirements are met, we have biblical confidence that God answers prayer. Listen, we must not allow the thinking, boy, I hope God answers prayer. That's not Christian. That's not Bible. Well, I hope he'll answer my prayer. We meet the conditions. No, we're saved. Sins put out, we're in right fellowship with the Lord, we're not asking selfishly, we're praying according to the will of God. And we can say, I know God hears and answers these prayers. That's what the Lord is saying. Confidence, not hope-so, not think-so, not man-based assurance, but Bible-based assurance. And by the way, I if it ain't Bible based, it ain't gonna do me any good. Right? Ain't how you like that, Sandy? Think about pastoring school teachers makes you s self-confident. Uh I mean self-conscious. But I don't let it bother me. Number one, let me give you some biblical assurances that God answers prayer. Number one. Prayer is God's plan for meeting our needs. It's not man's idea Man didn't come up with the idea of praying to God. God's the one that came up with that. In fact, over and over throughout the Bible, God has commanded us to pray. He said, that is my needs. God says to us, in so many words, this is the way I want it to be. For me to meet your needs. This is the process that I want our relationship to go through For me to direct you, for me to provide for you, for me to protect you, is that you come to me and pray. Meeting the conditions, and I will respond to that prayer, and I will meet those needs and provide for you. That's God's plan. It's not some church's idea. Now, man has come along and tried to tweak God's plan. And come up with rosaries and ritualistic prayers and prayer books and all these types of things. That's man tweaking God's plan. But God's plan is for his children to come to him and seek him for the needs they have in their lives. It's God's plan. Not man's idea. With that in mind, with that being true, then we know it is sin to not pray. It is disobedience to God to neglect my prayer life. Now somebody says this, pray chair, you know, I'm just not comfortable. I'm just not comfortable praying. And I I don't like to get up in front of people and pray. That's not what we're talking about here. In fact, the Bible says very little about public prayers. And the areas when God does address public prayers He's very restrictive on them. And the fact of the matter is, God isn't impressed with people standing up in front of others and making flowery prayers. That's not impressing God The overwhelming majority of passages of scripture on prayer had to do with private prayer, personal prayer. And so It's God's plan. It's the way God set it up. You say, Man, I got needs in my life. Man, my uh uh my marriage uh has well I need God to help in my marriage. I need God to help with my finances, I need God to help me with my testimony on the job, I need My physical health, I got this, that, and the other. God's plan for having those needs met for getting direction and wisdom is that I come to him and pray. Not publicly, but privately. Hey, get in your room alone with God and pray. Tell him. It doesn't have to be in front of people. Now, I think family prayer time is very good and very important. Now I can relate, I don't know how many men I've talked to over the years, scores. Man, I've talked 30 years, they'll say something. I'm just not comfortable praying with in front of my wife and with my family. And you may be shocked to hear this, but I felt that way for a long time. Be honest. I just I just wasn't for whatever reason, pride or whatever, I wasn't comfortable praying uh with my wife. Isn't that weird Somebody say that's weird, please. Or saying, I don't know what you're talking about You know, I just had to get over that. I just had to alright pray with my wife. Now it's just a blessing. In fact, she don't want to pray with me now, because no, I'm I'm kidding But prayer. Get along with God. In fact, Jesus said, listen, go in your closet and pray. Just get along with God and pray. When I was in Bible college, it was hard to get along with we had eight guys living in a one-bedroom apartment. I've told you that story other times. Man, where do you get a loan to pray? There's one room in that apartment you can get a loan to pray. And ru I used it for prayer. And uh God knows what He's doing, and God's programs work. So when God establishes the institution of prayer, when God sets up the program of prayer, we can be sure it works. God's programs work. Would in all wise, now let's get this, would an all-wise, all-knowing, good God establish a program that would not work? I don't think so. And so I can have biblical assurance that God answers prayer I can have biblical assurance that God will respond in prayer and meet my needs and help me when I seek Him. Because, first of all, prayer is God's program. It was his idea. Second of all I have biblical assurance of answer prayer in number two because prayer comes with the authority of God's word. Now come back with me to Luke 11 here and we're going to start looking up some verses here quick. But look at verse 9, and I hi I m made reference to this phrase when we had at the beginning of the message when I read this scripture Verse 9, red letter edition, Jesus speaking, and I say unto you, brother, if Jesus says it, we can be sure of it. Amen. When Jesus says, I am saying this unto you, well, there's no debate. It's settled. Al Gore says, There's no debate about global warming. I'm saying unto you, it's a settled fact. Now I may get in hot water for this, but. I don't put a whole lot of stock on his words. Excuse me. Come on, look out the window But when Jesus says, I say unto you, hey, it's settled. But I say unto you, we have the authority of God's word. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find not, and it shall be, it shall be, shall be, shall be. I'm saying unto you, Jesus says, if you ask, it shall be given I think the primary characteristic of a child of God is that he believes God. Right? Say here's a Christian. What does that mean? He believes God. He believes the Bible. He's a believer. So, when our Lord says, I say unto you, ask and it shall be given. I believe my Lord. His word has authority for me. In fact, the Lord's word has authority in all areas We'll notice that in a minute. But the longer I've been saved, see if I can get a witness on this. The longer I've been saved, the more sure I am becoming that I can take the Lord at his word. The longer I'm saved. Now when I first got saved, I just simple child, you know, i ignorant faith was, well sure you believe the Bible. But the longer I'm saved, I'm finding out, yeah, I I don't just believe it now, I'm finding it to be true in my experience. You follow what I'm saying? There is power in the Word of God. Prayer comes with the authority of God's Word, and that word has power. Now here, you got your Bibles with you? Do you bring your Bibles? We're going to use them, alright? So get them out here. We're not going to go far, but come back with me to Matthew 28, real quickly. The last chapter of the book of Matthew In fact, this is a familiar passage for many of us, but I want us to zero in on one phrase in particular that applies to our subject this morning. Matthew 28, come with me to verse 18. And then we're going to work our way through the Gospels here, look at several other verses. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, What's the next two words? All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Now your Bible scholars will tell you that word power there has reference to authority. All power is given unto me. God, all power, all authority is given unto the Lord Jesus Christ. So as uh just think about that. All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. So when we're gonna take Jesus at his word, We are taking the word of an all-powerful being. Now let's look at some illustrations of how his word Has power. Turn with me now. We're going to look at a few of these. Chapter of Mark. Right there, the next book. Come over to chapter 4. Mark 4 and verse 37. The disciples are out in the boat and a storm comes. Verse 37, Mark 4. And there rose a great storm of wind. And the waves beat unto the ship so that it was now full. And he, Lord Jesus, was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow. That's incredible. And they awaked him and said to him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? Now look at this. And he arose and rebuked the wind, and what's that next word? Said. Alright, look at the power of his words. He said unto the sea, peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was great calm. And he said of them, Why are you so sick fearful? How is it that you have no faith? Look how the disciples responded. And they feared exceedingly. And said one to another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea what? Obey him. You talk about the power of the words of the Lord Jesus. Peace! Be still. Imagine that. That same Lord says to you and I, I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given Seek, ye shall find. Not, it will be opened unto you. The same Lord that said, Peace be still, and the wind and the sea obeyed him, promises us that he will. Give what we ask for, that we'll find what we seek for. We knock, it'll be open to us. And that's something. Come with me if you would to Mark chapter 5, just the next chapter over, and look with me At verse 7, here we have the Maniac of Gadera. This is a fascinating story. Reminds me of some deacons I've had in years gone by, but no, I'm kidding. And cried with a loud voice. Well let's go back up to verse four, verse three. Let's go ahead and begin in verse one. And they came over onto the other side they came over onto the other side of the country of Gan Gadaras, Gerdarines. Now think this is he just finished calming the store, and then this happens And when he was come out of the ship, do you think it was boring to be a disciple? I don't think so. When he had come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tomb the man with an unclean spirit Who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no not with chains, because that he had often been bound with feathers and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him and the feathers broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. I mean this guy is a maniac. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs crying and cutting himself with stones But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him. And cried with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I adjure thee, by God, thou torment me not. For he, Jesus, had said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, what is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. And if he sought him much that he would not send him away out of the country, now there was nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding. And all the devils besought him, the Lord Jesus, saying, send us into the swine, that we may enter into them. Look at this, this is incredible. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the steep There were about two thousand and were choked in the sea. That's incredible. Well then in verse 15, and they came to Jesus and said And see him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion sitting and clothed in his right mind, and they were afraid. Now, a legion, there's hundreds and hundreds of devils in this man Steel chains can't keep them. No mankind cannot control this guy. And here's the point I'm trying to make. Jesus just spoke to them. And they obeyed. They didn't resist. They didn't rebel. They could not resist the word of the Lord Jesus Christ. I tried to bargain with them a little bit. Don't send us into the pit. Just let us put us in these swine. And he gave them leave. The authority and power of God's word over the winds, over the elements of the earth, over spiritual forces. Hundreds. Can you imagine? Suppose in just a wild imagination we would come across a legion of demons, devils. And you and I try and say, oh, get on out of here, go in those swine. You and I don't have that authority. Jesus Christ does. His word has power. And that Lord that commanded a legion of evil spirits says to you and I, I say unto you, ask. Shall be given unto you. Seek, ye shall find. Knock. Shall be open unto you. Quickly, just one more. Let's go over to John chapter 18. And verse number three Uh verse 3 says, And Judas then having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests And Pharisees cometh hither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye? And they answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Now look at this. And Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with him. And as soon as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. Then he asked again, then he asked them again, whom seek ye? And they sent him Jesus of Nazareth. He said, I have told you that I am he. If therefore ye seek me, let the ye feel their way. Now, what I see here is the power of God's word. All he does is says, I am he. And these men fell backwards. The power of God's word, the authority. We have the authority of God's word. He tells us he will answer our prayers. So there's power in the Word of God. I put this down. There's practical experience in the Word of God. We're talking about the authority of God's Word. His authority because of its power. Because of its practical experience. Jesus was an eyewitness of answered prayer. He had seen his father answer prayers over and over and over firsthand. Now I want to go, I think it's one more verse, if you would. Turn over to John chapter 11, just a few pages away. This is the incident of Lazarus being resurrected from the dead. And by the way, Jesus didn't go in and perform CPR. He didn't have a defibrillator. In fact, he wasn't even in the tomb with him. And Jesus, look well let's look at it. John 11, verse 41. Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. Now remember they were fussing with him. He's been dead four days. This isn't a good thing. Finally convinced them. They took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people which stand by, I said it, that thou may that they may believe that thou hast sent me. He's saying, Lord, I know you hear me. You answer my prayers. God, you are a prayer-answering God. I know that. You know that, but for the sake of the people around, I've said that so they will know that you answer prayer. When Jesus says, I say unto you, ask and it shall be given unto you, he's saying that from a human perspective, just from practic from practical experience, he knows it's true. If you go into a store somewhere, you go into a shop somewhere and there's a red button and the guy there says uh if you mash that button this lift is gonna go up. And you say, yeah, right He says, how do you know? Well I've worked here for thirty-five years and every day I mash that button. Every time I mash that button that lift goes up. How many people would say, probably if you mash that button that lift goes up Anybody? Probably. Jesus had answered prayer for all eternity. He's been one with the Father. He knows God. He says, Listen, I'm telling you. If you're not, if you mash that button, the lift goes up. You ask. I'm telling you. It shall be given unto you. I know what I'm talking about. I'm saying this. God knows that I know it. I'm saying this so you know that. So you have the power of God's word, but he have practical experience of the Word of God. And another thing that tells another aspect of the authority of God's Word is the Lord's position gives his word authority. Hebrews 12, 2 tells us that Jesus is right now at the right hand of God the Father. Seated at the right hand of God the Father. And if the Lord, at the right hand of the God the Father, says that God answers prayer, how foolish would we be to doubt that word? He's at the right hand of God the Father. And he says to us, if you ask, you will see. If you seek, you will find. If you knock, you'll receive. So we have biblical assurance of answer prayer first because it's God's plan, second of all because of the prayer comes with the authority of God, and last of all, and with this, prayer comes with the promise of God. Now come back to Luke with me if you would, and we're going to end here. Luke chapter 11 once again. I circled three words. I have this whole passage underlined, but I circled three words in verse number nine. Luke 11. I say unto you, I circled the word ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, I circled the word seek. It shall be you find. Knock, I circle the word knock, and it shall be open unto you. Ask, seek, knock. Now I think there's significance to that, not just in that the Lord used three different words. To assure us of answered prayer. But I think there's significance even in the order of those words. I think he's telling us something here. God's promises to answer prayer come in three forms. Asking Is one form of prayer seeking and knocking Three forms or aspects of prayer that God hears. Now, what is the significance of that? Let me offer this suggestion to you I believe when he says ask, and it shall be given unto you, that word ask is the most basic of prayers. John R. Rice, a great evangelist, the years gone by, influenced my father and myself tremendously. He's been with the Lord since 1980. He wrote a book entitled Prayer, Asking and Receiving. And the thesis of his book, the point of his book was this. Prayer is simply asking something from God. That's what it boils down to. Prayer is asking and receiving from God. I agree with that And when the Lord says, ask, and it shall be given it to you, he's making reference, I believe, there, to the everyday simple prayers that you and I ask. The most basic form of prayer, Lord, help me. I'm running late, Lord help me to be on time. Now the answer is not drive faster, the answer is leave sooner. That's the Lord's answer to your prayer. Alright? I'm tempted to make Can I get a witness? Yeah, Todd's back there. I told Todd, I said, I would be uncomfortable if you didn't come in the middle of a service. There goes his tithe. Prayer uh asking is the most basic form. And I think what the Lord is telling us here, those simple, everyday requests for needs Those simple everyday things. Lord, Lord, help me to have a nice meal for my husband. Lord, uh help me to Lord, help me to study hard on this test and do my best. Ask and you'll receive. Do you meet those conditions? You're in the right position to get your prayers answered. You ask. You know what I found is a neat thing about the Christian life? God cares about the little things. The little answers to prayer. I tell you, we get up and we should do this. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. We should get we get up and say, man, the doctors found cancer. I went for the test and it was gone. God did a miraculous, powerful prayer and took that cancer away. I believe in that. Amen? I believe God can do that. He doesn't always do it, but he can. And he does. When it's according to his will. And praise God for that. But you know what? It's just as wonderful when God helps you find those keys you laid down. Can't find them. Lord help me find them. I tell you, God has answered more prayers just finding keys than anything else in my life, I think. And so when he says ask and it shall begin it to you, I think he's talking about those little everyday things. You say, oh, I don't pray about that. I think you should. So God don't care about something little like that. Yeah, he does. Ask shall be given unto you. Driving down and you come to a toll road, all she wrote is I don't got no money. Truckers, no man, you start digging around down in the seat you find 75 cents. Praise the Lord. Lord help, I need 75 cents. You dig around, there it is Say God wouldn't do that. Yeah, he would. Then he says, seek. I think uh there's significance to the word seek. Now this is I'm suggesting you that by when he uses that term seek, he's talking more about The diligent prayers or those special prayers when there's an intense need. This is something pretty serious Lord, I've lost my job. I've got house payments. I've got this, that, and the other. God, I'm really seeking you. Show me what to do. God, this uh uh this is intense. I uh I'm uh I'm diligent in this. God, I'm seeking you God, I'm having problems in my marriage. Lord, you know, I don't care about the 75 cents now. This is, God, I'm seeking you. Help solve this problem. Or the doctor says they found something. They don't know what it is. God. I'm looking to you. I'm seeking. There's much more than intensity. to the seeking aspect than there is to the asking aspect. Now, does God answer the the asking aspect? Yes But when we get in those situations that are much more intense, God gives us just as much assurance. See, ye shall find. You'll find what you're looking for, you'll find what you need in that intense situation. For instance, we read in the book of Luke a little later on, we find a woman who lost a coin. And to you and I think we think uh quarter. She lost a quarter, no big deal, she'll find it. That's not the case. This was a very, very important coin, and there's various suggestions there, but it was something of incredible value. It's not like losing a quarter. It would be like losing a life savings. And what does the Bible say? She swept her house and looked and sought, seeking. God said, Said she found it. Also, another illustration of the attention of this is a shepherd that has, he's got his sheep in. He counts them, he's got a hundred sheep counts them down, he has ninety-nine. One's missing. What's he do? Say, well, Lord, maybe tomorrow I can find that sheep. No, he doesn't do that, does he? That's asking. But he goes the next step and he starts what? Seeking. He secures those 99. He heads out there into the storm, out in the danger. He's seeking. A little more intense. And God says, just as you can be sure I'll answer those everyday uh everyday prayers, I'll answer those intense ones. When you see, but then he takes it to another level. Knock. Knock and it shall be open unto you. And every one of these is in a tense where it's not just You ask something from God one time and then it's over. The whole idea here is you ask and you ask and you ask and you ask and you ask and you ask. And the idea of seeking is you just keep on seeking and seeking and seeking and seeking. It is a continuous thing going on. And when he comes to the aspect of uh the the form of knocking. Man, it's the idea of knocking and knocking and knocking and knocking I've got a friend come by, he doesn't have anything to eat. My cupboards are bare. I've got to go over to my neighbor. It's the middle of the night, and I knock, and he says, We're in bed, come back tomorrow. No, I need it tonight, I need it tonight, it has to be. And because of his importunity, he comes down and gives him what he needs. That's what the Lord's talking about here. The desperate prayer. The loud, unrelenting, crying out to God. As pastor, I've been with some people when they've been in that situation. Looks like all hope is gone, everything is shattered. I just cried out, oh God. I think this may have reference to where in Romans 8, where it talks about the Holy Spirit making groanings for us that cannot be uttered. When our heart is so broken, we just oh God and God says You have just as much assurance when you're in that situation as you have when you're asking and you're seeking. He's saying this: God answers. Prayer. Whether it's the everyday kind or it is the life-threatening desperation kind. God answers prayer. Then you go to ch verse 10 and he reiterates the whole thing over again. And he's given us assurance. I think about Blind Bartimaeus. Remember Blind Bartimaeus? Lord's going by. Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And everyone said, Oh, shut up, hush, be quiet. Don't bother the Lord. But Pharmaeus was desperate. He wasn't just going to ask the Lord. And he wasn't even necessarily seeking. He's already been beyond that. He's knocking. And everybody's telling him to shut up, be quiet, sit down. And he ignores them all and he gets up and he cries out again, Jesus, thou son of David! The Bible says he cries out, Have mercy on me. Knocking and knocking. And guess what? His prayers were answered. And he couldn't see. With such resources as God has given us, how foolish it is not to pray. Huh? I told the illustration, it's been some months ago, I think, but I think it applies here again where I come across somewhere in my reading about You know, in India they have all kinds of religions and all kinds of false gods, just hundreds and hundreds. And apparently there is one idol, this false god that they pray to Of course they don't think he's false, but it's a idol, but you can't get close to the statue. And they're Religious teaching is when you have a prayer request, you don't just pray to this idol. What you do is you write it down on a piece of paper, you wad it up, you spit on it, get some mud, and you wad it into a little spitball type thing And you throw it against the idol. And the teaching is this: if the wad of paper, muddy wad of paper that has your prayer request on, if it sticks to the idol, Then your prayer will be answered. If it slides off or you miss or it just bounces off, then your prayer won't be answered. I'm telling you, our assurance of prayer is not hit or miss. It's not whether it sticks or not. We have biblical assurance that God answers prayer. Now, either it's true or it isn't. Either we believe it or we don't. You say, well, I believe Prayed this and God didn't answer it. Not yet. Alright? Not yet. That's a whole nother subject. But I'm telling you this morning, God answers prayer. Let's be a church of prayer. Amen? Let's be a church of prayer. We have God's authority. Let's make our homes homes of prayer. Don't make it hey, don't let it be a strange thing for there to be prayer in your home Just anything. We pray before we take a trip. Let's pray first. Sam comes in before he leaves. Hey, let's get let's have a word of prayer. God bless you. Uh uh different things we do. I was thinking um sometimes I was thinking when I was Sam was a teen, we'd go out hunting. Before we go out, we just stop, hey let's pray first Before we go up and stand, Lord, please bless us. Of course God always answered his prayers, not mine. He got the one. But um maybe I wasn't in the right condition. You follow what I'm saying? Let's just pray. Let's come and say, Lord, help me to take you out your word and pray. Father, please bless this message. Lord, I went longer than I wanted, but I trust you used it. That you'll help us, Father, to be people of prayer, confident, sure, believing, and then just waiting on you in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.