Not a complicated equation. It's a simple equation. But we find in our heart a resistance to truth And when we have a resistance to truth, we're not obedient to that truth. And as a result of it, God can't fill an upside-down cup. We've got to turn it over. What do you want in your life when it comes to the things of God? What is your life I've been saved a long time now. I've been preaching for 46 years. Nearly 47. pastor for many of those years. God's kept me busy. I've seen a lot of interesting things. I'm going to make a statement that's a very seems like a harsh statement. I think I've kind of earned the right to make the statement. I think my hair reveals it, my age does. That we have unhealthy churches because we have unhealthy habits. Now you you may equate that to something I'm not meaning. I'm not talking about Christians that drink and smoke and spit and chew and shouldn't do those things. That shouldn't be part of your activity, your life. But I'm talking about our walk with God. I'm talking about our love relationship the w with the one that soul loved that it gave. To those that I love, there's several things that are just automatic in my life. I love to be with my wife. I never tire of that. We've been together almost 49 years. I never tire of a presence. And you know, it doesn't necessitate that she say anything to me, just having her there, sitting in my recliner and watch her walk through the next room. Come in the house and see her at the stove fixing and preparing our supper. She doesn't have to say anything. Just just her presence. I love it. I love it. In my billfold, I have an unusual thing for a lot of people to see. I have in my billfold the very first picture she ever gave me. 50 years ago. First picture. She was 17 years of age. And on the other side of that picture, I have an updated picture. On one side I see the schoolgirl, on the other side I see the grandmother. But I know this sounds strange. But when I look into her face, I don't see the grandmother. I see the seventeen year old old girl that I met. She's ageless to me. She's wonderful. Because I love her, I love her presence. But because I love her, I love to hear her voice. I love her to talk to me. That's one of the reasons I I really enjoy the cell phones. I I'm really not a techie guy, but don't want to be. I'm glad I have a cell phone because we stay in communication. And every once a while she'll say, why are you calling? I said, well thanks. She said, No, I didn't mean it that way. I said, just to hear your voice, babe. That's that's all I want to do, just hear your voice. Then I love her when I feel her touch. Reach over and hold my hand as we walk someplace. Walked into the building, the church, whatever it is, and she puts her arm through my arm. Have her arms put around my neck. Steal the sweet kisses that she gives me. I love those things. You say, where in the world are you taking this? I'm taking this to the communication that we are to have with God Have you been in communication with him today? Do you ever get weary of his presence? Or ever sense his presence? Do you ever hear his voice? You say, do you hear God talk to you? Every time I open the book He doesn't talk to me like you and I converse, but he talks to me. I open the Word of God and He speaks. Sometimes he speaks in a very small, still, calm voice. But there have been times I've turned a portion of scriptures that to get my attention. He screams at me. Not only am I to love his presence, his voice, his touch He wants mine. It's a reciprocating thing And I want to talk to you tonight about one of those. I want you to take your Bible and turn to the book of Ephesians, if you would please. I want you to look at Ephesians chapter 6. Most generally when I uh ask someone to turn to Ephesians chapter six, they think of the whole armor of God, and you'd be right, it's there, but Most generally when people read the whole armor of God, they read from verse 10 down to verse 17. And they don't go beyond that. But if you read that sixth chapter, here's what you're going to find. You're going to find that the power and the authority of The armor is found in the conclusion of Paul's request. See what you have in verses 10 through 17 is basically you have Paul instruction. He's telling us why how we're to dress because we're in a battle. We are in a war. And he tells us How we are to clothe ourselves in its spiritual warfare. But then he turns from instruction to a request Look with me, if you would please, at chapter 6 and verse 18. You notice that verse 17 does not end with a period. It's not an end of a thought. It continues. Because in verse 17 he says, and take the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying. I want to talk to you about prayer. Look what he says. Praying always with all prayer and supplication of the Spirit and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication and for all saints. And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel for which I am an ambassador and the bonds, and therein I may speak boldly. As I ought to speak. Father, help us tonight to an all-important subject. One that we're to learn and one that it takes forever to learn. Help me, I pray. For God, I feel led to preach a message on something that I need to be taught myself. So help me deliver this. May our hearts be captured with the interest of the subject. And Father, when we say our final amen and go home, maybe our hearts burn with conviction. Concerning our prayer life. I love you tonight. Thanks for loving me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Very quickly, I want to give you two things, and then we're going to get into the heart of the message. The first thing I want us to think about is prayer service. You find that in verse 18. Simply he talks about supplicating prayer, praying in the Spirit, and then praying for saints. I'm not going to get into that. Those are really messages themselves. You could really teach Three sermons easily out of that portion of scripture. But I'm just talking about, he's talking about the service of prayer. Prayer is to serve a purpose. Don't you agree? Have you ever thought about the element of prayer? Have you ever thought about this? What is the ultimate end of prayer to produce? I'm not asking you to answer tonight, but I am going to tell you what I believe. I believe that the ultimate end of all prayer is that God gets the praise from it. See, the reason I pray, and there's all kinds of prayer, and we'll kind of touch on that in a moment. You know, there's Prayer where we intercede, I I pray for you. I pray for others. Then there is not only intercessory prayer or interceding prayer, but there's petitional prayer. Petitional prayer is personal. It's not that I am neglecting you, but I'm praying for me. Because I need to pray for me. I read a book, I have a book in my library of a famous man, Pastor large church. He was a friend of mine asked me to be on his staff at one time which was a compliment. I never went. He wrote a book on The Holy Spirit. And in that book, he said, I never pray for myself. He said, I don't think that we should pray for ourselves. I don't agree with that. Not at all. Sometimes before I can pray concerning things, I've got to get my life right and in the attitude of prayer to pray. So there's intercessional prayer, there's petitional prayer, there's prayers of praise, there's a prayer of thanksgiving, of adoration. You just go on and on and on, there's all kinds of prayer. Paul says, and in this strength of prayer, or the service of prayer, is supplicating It's a supplicating prayer, one with humility and earnest. And whether you understand this or not, it is also coming to the determination that Jesus revealed In his prayer before he went to the cross, and he made a request of God the Father, and then he said, This nevertheless, not my will. But thy will be done. I've run and dealt with a lot of people that get mad at God because He doesn't answer the prayer according to their will. You and I need to learn the lesson that the answering of prayer is never for our will. It is always to the will of God. That he gets the recognition, the praise out of it, and sometime he gets greater glory out of the no than he does the yes. It's hard for us to accept that, that's true. And then not only does Paul deal in verse 18 within supplicating, but spirit, that is spiritual prayer, that is in the control of It surrounds itself with not my will, but thy will be done. And then with saints, I know a lot of people praise someone has said that Christians are only people that bury the wounded. I pastor long enough and I'm old enough that I I've come and I'm firmly convinced that Christians are no better at warning gossip than the world is. We'd rather talk about people than for people. Somebody down, a brother or sister falls in some way or other, and we can't wait for it to become conversational. Somehow we've cut out and snipped out Galatians 6, 1 and 2. We would rather make it worse than to redeem a fallen brother. Pray for saints. Did you hear Well, maybe haven't maybe haven't, but why do you want to tell me? See, these things on the side of my head Are hearing instruments, not garbage cans. Put in good stuff, but not bad stuff. And then he goes out of the method of prayer service in verses 19 and 20, he talks about the strength of prayer. Pray for me. Pray for the power of God upon me. Pray for the free utterance of the gospel. Pray for me. I know of no greater time than I'm in the battle of spiritual warfare, and I'm going to say this on behalf of your pastor. That when a man of God is in several positions. One, when he's in his study trying to birth a message. He's not alone. Not only is the Spirit of God there, there's a battle going on because Satan is there as well. His emissaries are there as well. Anything to detract, to pull away from, to trouble the heart and the mind of the servant of God away from that which God once declared there's a there's a battlefield going on in there. And then the second place is when that same man studied and empowered the Holy Spirit stands in the pulpit. To declare the truth of the Word of God, I want you to know tonight there's a warfare going on. The devil doesn't allow this to happen victoriously. With the out the power of God coming in and pushing Satan out. How much have you prayed for this meeting? How much have you prayed for me? How much have you prayed for your pastor? Those are things that demand you to answer in your life. Those are things that I have no answer for. I have an answer for me, but not for you. The power of prayer is powerful. I have seen, and you've seen, things accomplished because of prayer. Still part of her life. But here's the heart of the message. I want us to look at the prayer structure. the structure of prayer. Now, before I get into that, as I do, I have some stories. I love telling stories. By the way, and I already told the pastor this, do everything you can to be here Wednesday night Try to be here as a family if you possibly can and bring families. I'm going to preach on this subject. Let me tell you a story. Out of Psalm 78. Has to do with the family and the home. God has been so good to me. Just a country kid, bashful, backward, would not give an oral book report when I was in school. And when God began to work with my life concerning the ministry, I knew finally that God had made his first mistake. How can you preach when you can't get in front of people? That was my question. And I battled with God and I talked with God some of the strangest prayers, and I'll admit some of them to you. When I knew God was dealing with me concerning ministry and preaching in particular, I tried to bargain with him. I did not want to do it. Now I know people that say, man, I I that's all I want to do. Just I just wanted to preach. I couldn't wait to preach. I wasn't like that. I was afraid of it. I was afraid of it for my inability. I was not afraid of my ability, I was afraid of it for accountability. Phenomenal account. I'm going to stand before God for this. Can you imagine standing before God? You will. I will I tried to bargain with God and I'd say, God, this was first. I tell you what, God, I you need some good ameners. Because I sat in church and there's not much of it going on. So I I I will amen. I'll I'll be your amener. And Lord, I'm going to learn how to really say an amen that has impact. Now I've got to remind you, I was raised on a farm. My parents didn't know what was going on in my heart. This was a battle raging within myself. Now I didn't know how they'd receive it. I not that they they were wonderful parents, Christian parents. But they knew their baby boy too. So I'd go out to the barn. I'd go out to the barn and I'd practice on animals. I've had more brown-eyed cows look at me like, who is this? I've had big old sows of orch at my efforts. Chickens cluck, dogs whine, cats run. Because I would say, all right. What have I heard men say? So I would say, Amen. Then I heard a guy say it was kind of unique. He could have been an auctioneer. He would say, yeah, many, amen, amen. Always intrigued me how he got that many amen running out of his mouth one time. Yeah, many amen. I said, well maybe that'll work. But you know, found no peace in those efforts. Then I said to God, I'll tell you what, I'll try to teach a boys' class. I'll try to teach a boys' class. But I cannot run from God. Now that I've been preaching all these years, I can't imagine spending a life doing anything other than what God's had designed for me. See, God takes the unlikely and gives it ability. Only God can do that. And in the process of growing up in ministry, God allowed me to serve with a wonderful man. I was his associate for seven and a half years. Met great preachers and one of the greatest preachers in all the world I met became like a father to me and some of you may remember him, most of you may not. He's been dead now for a long time. But he's a white Russian Jew by the name of Dr. Hyman Appleman. Dr. Appelman adopted me kind of like a spiritual son. Dr. Appelman was a white Russian Jew. Still about that tall, he was dumpy, wore dark corner and glasses. He was the most, I could tell by hours stories of his impact in my life He was undoubtedly the most praying man I've ever known in my life. I've had the privilege to know Dr. John R. Rice. He prayed as well, but I'd never had impact like Hyman Appelman. I was telling this story to your preacher, I think it was yesterday. Dr. Appelman I'd pick him up at the airport and he would say, You drive and I'll pray. Now I don't know if that was a reflection on my driving or not, but he'd lay his head on my dashboard and we'd go up the interstate and he'd be praying. But let me tell you one of his prayers. He was holding a revival meeting for me a good number of years. He died at the age of 82. And um I used to pick him up and one night I dropped him off at his motel room. And he said, Roger said, when you come to get me tomorrow, said uh bring me a picture. Billfold size picture of you. I want I want a picture of you. I said, all right. So I picked him up at his motel room and I went in and I said, here's the picture you want of Dr. Appleman. I said, but may I ask you a question? He certainly, he said, I said, why do you want my my picture? He said, I'll show you. He traveled like a vagabond and he dressed, oh my, nothing matched. Nothing. He didn't care. He was still wearing his clothes from World War Two. He traveled with boxes and he traveled with old Briefcases, handles broken off, they were tied together with belts. And he could well afford anything he wanted if he desired. He walked over to an old beat-up briefcase, took the belt off of it, reached in, and pulled out a stack of pictures about that tall. They were bound together with rubber bands. He said, here's why I wanted your picture. He went over to the bed and he began to deal them like cards on the top of the table. And then he knelt. He said, Every day, twice a day, I do this. He picked up the first picture. Man's name and ministry is on the back of it. He said, and I pray for him. I do that with every picture. So now I want you to know that for the rest of my life, every day, twice a day, Hyman Effins praying for Roger Green. His daughter called me one evening. She never married, lived in Kansas City with her mother. Dr. Apple had two children, a son and a daughter. son lived in Canada and was superintendent of all the public schools of Quebec. His daughter called me one evening and she said Brother Green said, I hate to report to you, but my daddy's in heaven It dug deep. I went to my bedroom and I sat on the side of the bed closing the door to the room and I wept for a while. Only to ask God this, Lord, who's praying for me twice a day? My dad heard me make that story one day and he called me. He said, Roger said, I've I've no Hyman Appleman But I've taken the challenge. And I want you to know that your daddy's praying for you twice a day. On a Sunday morning, January the 22nd, before I went to the pulpit, the phone rang and I picked it up and my adult sister of one of my sisters-in-law. Went out to get in the car and my dad was laying in the seat dead. I've never had anyone come up to me since my daddy's death. January twenty-second, nineteen eighty-nine. Say I'm praying for you twice a day. No one's taking that challenge Although I know my wife prays for me a lot. Children do. Others do. But no one's taking that challenge. He was in a meeting with me and he said, Roger said, let's go to your study and pray. I said, that'll be fine, Dr. Apple. And we went went to my study and he said, now you pray first and I'll close in prayer. And so I did. And when I got finished praying, I waited for him to pray. He was about 80 years of age at that time, and he didn't pray. And I waited and I I waited and I waited and I must make a confession. I began to be wary because number one, I thought, well, maybe he fell asleep. Worse, dear God in heaven, I hope he hadn't died on me. And so I peeked And when I peeked, he had taken his glasses off, laid them over to the side on the carpet. He was on his stomach He had his hands cupped over his head, and all I could see was the side of his face and tears dripping off of his nose into my carpet. I knew to leave him alone. He was in God's presence. I've never forgotten what he said. When he did speak, he said this. Jesus, it's Hymen again. Unworthy am I to be found in your presence, but made worthy by your blood. I crawl on my hands and my knees to bury my face in the crucified feet of my Lord, asking permission. To make love to you just one more time. I don't know how that affects you. That sends cold chills over me every time I tell a story. And when he prayed, you knew he knew how to pray. He you knew he was no stranger to the upper room. You knew that he had a healthy diet of conversation to the one that so loved him. He just could not get over that Christ saved him. The stories I could tell were unbelievable. But he carried with his life that challenge, and so years went by. I was in Northern Ireland preaching. For 16 days I traveled that land and I preached anywhere from two to five times a day. But I didn't God didn't send me over there. For me to do anything. But to fall into the conviction of my prayer life, when I heard those Irishmen Get a hold of God. It crushed me. That's another story. Tell it sometime, not tonight. I was in all night prayer meeting and left and the sun was coming across the morning mountains there in Belfast. I was taken to where I was spending and living while I was there. I could not sleep. I was so under conviction because of the shallowness and the indifference and the mechanics of my prayer life. And I got along with God broken. Asking God to forgive me. But if you turn to Matthew chapter six, I want you to turn there. Something happened to me that early morning outside of Belfast, place called Newcastle. I was in the pastor's mans or his mansion. I got alone with God, and God got alone with me. It was more or less a certification of God saying to me, You got what I sent you here for. I had never read what we call the Lord's Shepherd the Lord's Prayer. It isn't, and I'll show you that in just a moment. The Lord's Prayer is John 17. This is a model prayer. But I found something if you follow the different writers of the Lord's Prayer. as is called, you're going to find that one day the disciples came to Jesus and said, Lord, as John taught his disciples to pray Teach us to pray. Have you ever considered that praying is a learned thing? I'd never paid any attention to that up until that point. Prayer is a learned thing. That is, we are to be taught how to pray. Now I've got to tell you another story and then I'll give you the message. How many of you, and you've got to have hair close to my color. Remembers the winter of nineteen seventy-eight. Anyone? The blizzard? It came this way. But it stalled over northern Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, especially Nineteen seventy eight. It was it was unbelievable. It dump it did not dump inches. It dumped feet. In a matter of hours. People stranded, truck drivers stranded, people couldn't get out of the cars, people froze to death. It was amazing I'm not a couch potato. I was born on the farm. I loved the outdoors. I couldn't get out of my house. We were living in town at that time and our house was above street level considerably a number of feet, probably about five or six feet, and we had on-street parking. You couldn't see the cars. The cars were covered up not because snow plows. Snow plows weren't out there because of the snow. And the drifts were unbelievable. I could not get out, and I was going nuts in a house with a wonderful wife. And at that time, four pedigreed absolute died-in-the-wool boys. I was about to go nuts. I had a brainstorm. I went to my wife and I said, sweetheart. You know what I'm going to do? She said, no. Never know what you're going to do. Said, what's in your mind? I said, I'm going to bake a cake She said, same about the same reaction. She said, you're going to do what? I said, I'm going to bake a cake. She said, you've never baked a cake in your life. I said, always the first time. She said, I tell you what, let's do it together. I said, no, ma'am. It's not our cake, my cake. I'm going to bake a cake. She said, well, so if that's what you want to do, said have at it. She said, there's all kinds of cake mixes in there. I said, oh no, no, no, no. My mother never made cakes from boxes. She made scratch cakes. And a son of a Tiber Green is not going to make a box cake I'm gonna be like my mother, I'm gonna make a scratch cake. She just kind of looked at me and all she said in her sweetness was, uh-huh. That's all she said. So I started the process. I went in there and I started doing this and that, one thing another, not understanding half what I was doing. And it came time to put it in the the cake pan. And um we had an oven in those days that had a glass in it. You could watch things. So I was washing the dishes and stuff, and my cake was in there And I looked in there at a certain time and it was amazing. It was nothing short of a phenomenon. It looked like, and I called my wife, said, babe, come here, look. You've got to see this. And she came in and I said, look in that oven. It looked like there was two derby hats in there It was unbelievable. I never got any response out of that sweet thing other than, wow. She turned around and walked off Had a timer and finally the timer went off and it was time to pull those out. She heard the timer. And I saw my mother take a broom straw all my life, never understood why she was poking it in her cake. I do now, but didn't know then. But I thought, well my mother did it, so I've got to do it too. I don't know why. So I took a brilliant straw and I was ready. I opened the oven. I could not believe it. A cake thief came through the oven. There wasn't enough cake to make one small brownie. You know who was there? Brenda. Sweet, kind little wife. I knew she wanted to laugh. She bit her tongue. But she finally got out. Honey, you've left something out. I said, I have not. Don't tell me I've left something out of my recipe. Something isn't right. She said, you've left something out. And then she said, I tell you what, let's go through everything you did. And as always. She was right. One thing messed up the ingredients. One thing messed up the recipe. One thing messed up the product What I'm giving you tonight is a recipe. It's not mine. It's God's. So if it is God's, it is absolutely infallible. It's perfect. God or the Lord Jesus said, all right. And so let's look, if you would please, at Matthew chapter 6 and in Matthew chapter 6 I want us to begin reading with verse 8 Matthew 6 and verse 8. Now let me get there so I can Do my thing. Look in Matthew chapter six and verse eight, and we will read down through thirteen. They've already made the request to teach them to pray. So Jesus opens his mouth and he says Be not ye therefore like unto them, the Pharisees, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask. Now I want us to look at this. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now, before we get into this recipe, I want you to notice the first phrase. Of that portion of Scripture after this manner. Do we have any school teachers here? Raise your hand. School teacher? Okay. I hope you haven't been grading me this this week. But I remember this very distinctly when I was a little boy in school. I remember it especially in math and in English. And uh a test would be given. And oftentimes those tests are pre-printed, and the teacher would say, All right, class, we're going to have a test. And when she would pass it out, at the head of the test There would be an example. Whether it was a math problem or whether it was a diagramming, a sentence, whatever, there would be an example, and that example was worked out to its conclusion. Giving the answer. Now, the purpose of that example was not to say every problem below this will give you this answer. The purpose of the example is this, if you work the problem as the example has worked, you will have the answer. Am I right? Probably could be explained better, but that's as good as a country can make it Now, that's exactly what Jesus is saying. It's an example. You're not to repeat it. You're not to memorize it. Oh, you can do that. But Praying this model prayer isn't doing anything. The structure of the model prayer teaches us how to pray. So let's look how Jesus said we're to pray. It begins with this, our Father. Don't go any further than that. Our Father. Our Father Establishes relationship. That's one. Relationship. To know that you have relationship with God the Father. See, there's only one person, listen, there's only one person in all of the billions of people that have ever lived that I can ever say is my father. Only one. I could call anyone else my father, but that's illegitimate because only one is my father. There's no difference with God the Father. Either he is my Father or someone else is. And Jesus labeled it, year of your father, the devil. So you've got to determine, right, where's your relationship? Is it in Christ? Because there was a time in your life you recognized yourself to be a sinner underneath the judging hand of a righteous almighty God, and in repentance of faith you turned from your sin to Christ, and he redeemed you and he saved you and he purchased you. And now you can say, He is my father. See, any prayer outside that relationship doesn't mean a thing. And there may be someone here tonight that wants to argue the point by saying that I don't believe that at all, because my father told me when he was in World War Two or V Vietnam or wherever and the heat of the battle and bombs coming in and bombardments and he was in a foxhole or someplace and and the bombs were coming in and he cried out, Dear God save me And he came home after the war, God answered his prayer. No. As a lost man, God never answered his prayer, never heard his prayer, but back home somewhere in a humble little kitchen, there was probably a mother or a grandmother or a Christian dad that loved God, had a walk and a relationship with God, and in behalf of their son in the battlefield, they cried out to God and God heard that prayer. And answered that prayer because of the relationship that they had with him. Relationship Marvel not that I say to thee, ye must be born again. The greatest decision man ever make is what he does in Jesus Christ. What have you done with him? Can you honestly lift your heart, your voice into the face of God and say, My Father? And be correct. Our Father, which art in heaven, relationship. Remember in Acts chapter 10, we have a man by the name of Cornelius. He was a religious man, and it says that he prayed daily. I've often thought, boy, he gave alms. He was faithful, he was praying, he was giving, he was supportive. Wouldn't that be a wonderful church member? Because he was an unsaved man. You know the story how God came to Peter and said, You go down to Joffa, there's a man down there that wants me. After some coercion, Peter minded and went down and led Cornelius and his house to the Lord. He was a religious man, unsaved man. But that portion of scripture says God never paid attention to his prayers. Why? No relationship What right do I have to cross the street to another man that's not my father and say, I want you to treat me like your son and buy me my lunch tomorrow? I did not have that opportunity, and I did not have the right. Now, the man may have responded as a neighbor and as a friend, but not as a father, because he wasn't a father. To know you're saved. To think of all the messages many of you have heard and maybe not responded to Christ. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Your prayer life doesn't mean anything without relationship to God the Father. So the prayer starts out with Jesus saying, make sure of your relationship, our fathers, which art of heaven. Then notice he says, Halloween be thy name. Not only do we have a relationship, but now we have respect for the one that we find ourselves in the presence of. Hallowed be thy name. He's been given a name which is above every name, and at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. Jesus. Hallowed. Hallowed be our thy name. You know when I was a little boy, I was raised in a Christian home, religious home. of another faith of under the denomination, but there were several things my father was very stickler about. Number one, you never put anything on top of the Bible. When you laid it on the table or something, you never, you never put anything on top of the Bible. That's God's word. That was my dad. And if he caught you, he would say, don't put that there. Take that off. You can put the Bible on anything, but don't put anything on the Bible. And the second thing is, my father would never allow us to use slang. Never. He would say that's just another form of cursing. You're not you're not going to say that in our home. And I hear people say, gosh, golly, uh, heck, all that kind of stuff. And uh I remember came home one time and I said something like that and my father said down. I'm gonna tell you why you don't talk that way and you're not gonna talk that way in my home. But it's worse than that, I hear Christians actually use blasphemy. Take God's name in vain. It's a holy name. It was so holy that the scribes of the Old Testament, when they pinned Holy Scripture and they came to the names of God. They would only use the pen once, discard it, and pick up a new pen because no other word was worthy to be used. When God's name was mentioned. A holy name. Let me tell you this little story. I got a bunch of them. Several years ago, I happened to be and still am the president of a mission agency, Independent Baptist Missions for Asians, and it's the training of the nationals to reach the national I've been part of that situation ever since it was founded, just a few weeks after it was founded. Several years ago we I was uh went over to Cambodia, I've been there a number of times, but I went over there to sign a paper with the government to allow us To bring medical supplies into the land of Cambodia. And you know somewhat of the history of Pol Pot and how he killed all the intelligentsia of the country. That's a long story. But I stayed in the in the Cambodian hotel right on the Mekong Delta, and of all things they put me in the presidential suite, and it was the presidential suite. I didn't have to do anything. Every night my doorbell would ring, and there would be two little Kim Bowden girls and they would bow and I would bow and They spoke no English, but they would just make a gesture. Could they come in? They came in. They turned my bed down. They put house slippers out and a house coat on the edge of the bed every night. That was for me. Every day I received fresh fruit. They would take what fruit I did not eat today out and bring in fresh fruit every day, fresh flowers every day. Treated me wonderfully well. One day I got a call from the government building, and it was the liaison agent for what would be the equivalent of the president's office And he said, I need to see you, Dr. Green, and I'll come to your motel room. I need to tell you how protocol is going to operate when you come to sign The agreement. So pretty soon the doorbell rang on my motel hotel room and there stood this tall, lengthy Cambodian man, intelligent, spoke impeccable English. I asked him to come in. We sat down in the living room with a suite and he said, I want to tell you how this is going to take place. He said, It's nothing mat more than a matter of just Order. Said you're not going to meet what would have been the president, you're going to meet like his vice. And said, you'll sign the papers, he'll greet you, shake your hand, picture's be taken, and it's done. Said, don't expect to spend more than five minutes. So, but we'll come, we'll pick you up, we'll take you over to the government building, which would be equivalent to like the Capitol building, and said, uh, you will be met with military honors and you will be let out with on a red carpet. Well that's interesting. And he said, the military will be here to get you, and I will be with them promptly at, and he told me what time, and he was exactly on I mean to the minute. Doorbell rang, there they stood. Escorting me down to the vehicle, carried me through Phnom Penh to this area and He gets out. He says, you stay in the car. He went in a door in the building. And I was not close to the door. Any door. Pretty soon the car just moves slowly, slowly, and next thing I know, I look out and there's red carpet. Military are lining it And they stand with swords like this And the minute the door was open and I was asked to step out, my foot hit the ground. They took those swords. And I walked underneath those swords to meet the liaison officer, and I wanted to make sure they were my friends. Liaison officer met me, greeted me as though we had never seen each other. He said, All right, we're gonna go in to the meeting and said, I want you to just be aware that news media is in there, TV. Newspapers. This is historical time. And when this man comes in, I want you to stand to attention. He'll come and he'll stand in the table in front of you. I'm speeding this up right now. Truth form, exactly that. News media, TV, all that was in there. The door opened down this side and here came this gentleman with a guard He walked down this lengthy table and he came and he stood right in front of me. He asked me to be seated after we shook hands and he greeted me to The Kingdom of Cambodia. We went through the ritual. I agreed with him. I gave him the first Bible he ever had in his life. He greeted me to Cambodia. We signed papers. And then for forty-five minutes That man told me the history under Pol Pot. He was in no hurry. He spent time. And finally he said, I must go. And he stood and I stood, the room stood, there was many people in there. And he said this, he and he spoke wonderful English. He said, I want everyone out of the chambers, but Dr. Green. I want him to stay. Everyone got out of there but me. He closed the door. It was just he and I, no one else. And he welcomed me and he told me, he said, I count you as a friend. You are welcome to this kingdom anytime you want to come. He said, but from now on, I will never have you humiliated. when you come into this country by going through customs and immigration. Said, I want to know when you come. And the officer will meet you at the plane and escort you into this country. He was telling me how to behave. You see, why are you telling that story to impress? No, I'm telling you that it's amazing how We treat and honor human beings, and we storm into the very presence of God as though he is common man when in truth he's God Almighty. Hallowed be thy name. See, I honored my father. I loved him, but I knew how to present myself to him as well. He was my daddy. Hallowed be thy name. Then notice a third thing very quickly. He said, Thy kingdom come. That's rule. Have control, not only of this world, but have control of me. Thy kingdom come. Looking for that blessed hope of the glorious appearing. Do you ever pray in the process of your opening prayer and introducing yourself to God, the Heavenly Father, and say, by the way, Lord, won't you come? I'm ready, won't you come? Come again. That's how John closed the book of the Revelation when he said, even so come. Lord Jesus, does that beat in your heart? Are you warning of the Christ to come? Are you warning for the heavens to split open and Jesus descend and the shout be made and the born again rise? Is that an ambition? Is it a heartbeat? Is it a want? Is it a desire? Is it a hunger in your heart? Jesus said, we need to pray that way. Thy kingdom come. But then I want you to notice another thing, not only the relationship, the respect, the rule, but here's probably one of the most difficult parts of the prayer. There's a resolution. And that resolution is found in this: thy will be done. See, we want our will done. God heal me. God touch my mom, my dad. God salvage my marriage. God give me. God do. God see. God, God, God. We're in a demanding motion when the Lord says the important thing is God's will be done, because his will is that which magnifies his holiness. When Jesus was in the garden, his blood became was great, or his sweat became with great drops of blood. Can you imagine the agony and the hurt and all that was going through his body at that time because the punishment of God was getting ready to be dumped upon him of all the sins of all mankind for all ages He was becoming that. He said, Lord, please take this cup from me. Not the death, but the public humiliation of him becoming sin But then the next phrase, nevertheless, not my will, thy will be done. I told you about my son and my daughter-in-law. I had to reach a point where I said, I don't deserve it. I'm asking and I want it. But Lord, I know you're not going to make a mistake either. Not my will be done, but his will. I'm going to ask you a question. We're going to go closely to the closing other four points of this message. But before I do, I'm going to ask you a question. So far, what has the Lord asked? Can you tell me? Look at it. Our Father, which art of heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. What has he asked for? Nothing Nothing. That's the only how we begin our prayer and keep our prayer and end our prayer, asking and demanding of God everything. And Jesus said, that's not how we're to pray. Spend time with him and acknowledge him as your father. Love him and honor who he is and adore him how he is. Let me tell you something. If we would change our prayer life to the structure that God laid out, I'm going to tell you something. Some of our prayers would change by the time we got to the Amen. But now let's look very quickly Give us this day. Now the request. Now the request. Isn't it something? Now the request Hadn't asked for a thing up to this point. And now he asked for the request. But notice the request, give us For the rest of our life, all that we need. Is that the prayer? No, give us this day our daily bread. Back in the Old Testament there's a widow had a little boy. All she had was enough meal and oil to make Some bread and they were going to eat it and then they were just going to go die. Had nothing else. I'm always intrigued by this. Because here comes the preacher. He sees this situation and you know what he does? Have you stopped to think about this? He knows her just a little oil, he knows there's just a little meal, and he looks at that widow and he says Fix that for me. I've got guts, but I don't have that much Have you ever stopped to think about that? Really? Fix that for me. I don't want your son to eat. I don't want you to eat. You fix it. I'm going to eat it. And it gets more amazing. She does it. She does it. Now this isn't in the text, but it's got to be there somewhere because after she does it and he partakes of the bread He says, go back and look in the barrel. Go back and look in the cruise There's meal in there. There's oil in there. Not full, but sufficient to the need. Why did he do that? I can only give you my hint. Because Jesus longs for his children. To come and ask of him. And he knows if he gives a life supply, we won't be back tomorrow. Give us this day. Give us this day. See, I cannot rely on yesterday. That's used up. And I may not be here tomorrow, so I won't need it. But I'm here today. Don't you think that I haven't asked God to give me some bread for tonight? Do you know what? I'm going to use it up here in just a few minutes, and you're warning me to. I can't use tonight for tomorrow night. Request Are you understanding what I'm trying to teach? Are you starting to get what prayer is? Now let's look to the next thing. Not on a request, but now look at this one. Forgive us. Forgive us. That's repentance. I'm saved through repentance, but I'm also honored through repentance We are to forgive. Forgive us as we forgive others. Have you ever heard someone say something like this? I'll never forgive them as long as I live. Oh, I've had people tell me that. Go through problems and difficulties one thing or another, get to feelings hurt and emotions hurt and one thing or another. Problems come into life and disastrous things happen as a result of it. And they look at the individual and say, they call it, and I'll never forgive them as long as I live. Do you know unforgiveness is one of the rare things that always destroys the container in which it is held? Always. Always. Search me, oh God Here's the overwhelming verse. Ephesians four, thirty-one and thirty-two. But it says for forgiving one another for Christ's sake as He hath forgiven us. Now that's my paraphrase, but that's what he's saying. As God hath forgiven us, we're to forgive one another. Isn't it rather selfish for us to accept God's forgiveness for us and we're not willing to forgive someone else? I think that's rather shallow. But boy, I see it all the time. Allow me this, what has God forgiven you of? I thank God that I can start every day with a clean slate. Aren't you? I'm glad that God's not man because a lot of people held things against me that long time ago God has forgiven me Your preacher heard me tell a man on the phone at s at supper tonight. Dear man, he's eighty years of age, his health has fallen apart. He was my main Janitor. He was head of sanitation. He was a sanitary engineer at Grace. He emptied the trash and mopped floors. He was wonderful at it. He was the head one I I have six of them or had six ca custodians there. Told me tonight on the phone, he said, preacher, I have such trouble living with my past. Why are you living your past? And I told him this. I said, Harold, you can do one of two things. You can live in your guilt, or you can live in his forgiveness. I'm not trying to deny my wrong in life. I'm guilty, but I'm not going to live in that which He has forgiven me. So I choose to live forgiven. There's victory in that. There's advance in that. There's a future in that. See, that the devil can keep you in yesterday, you have no tomorrow. Don't forget that. But preacher, you just don't know what I've done. I don't have to know, but he does. And he still says If you ask me to forgive you, I'll forgive you. I'll erase your sin. I'll cast it to the sea of God's forgetfulness And I'll never remember it again. Oh, God's a wonderful daddy. Wonderful daddy. Then not only is there repentance, but look very quickly, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now I must explain this a little bit. That's redemption. There's a redeeming grace of God in my life. See, either I have the leadership of God in my life or I have The leadership of the devil in my life. See, the leadership of God always honors him. The leadership of God always builds up. The leadership of God is always positive to his purpose and plan. But sometimes people choose To live by their own agenda and they tear up the work of God and they enjoy it. Why don't somebody get in his plan? Huh? Why don't you back up and say, you know, all I am is a hunk of dirt? That for some reason he bought, redeemed, and purchased, and made me his own. So I want him to redeem me on a daily basis. I believe in security. I'm kept with the power of God, but I'm talking about my daily life, my daily living. I need a redemptive grace in that preacher. So do you. But I want to end on one thing, and this is the end. You can put your shoes on, we're gonna go here in a minute. Look what the ending of that prayer says. Thine is the kingdom, the power, the glory forever. Amen. Do you know if I enter my prayer biblically, here's the last point. I end rejoicingly. Amen. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Let's close on this. Jesus and I lived 32, 33 years of age. Last three, three and a half years of your life, he shook the world up. He did what no mere man had ever done. And by him being in the flesh, he allowed humankind to get a glimpse of God. His following, the eleven, not the twelfth, but the eleven, loved him. They hung their soul on his song, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So he sends some of them down to find a donkey, trying for entry, but at the end of that He said, you go find a man and such such treat, and he's got an upper room. I want you to I want you to tell him that the master has need of that room. Tomorrow night, with the grace and help of God, I'm going to preach on this subject, things you find in the upper room. Prayer is more than just prayer. Prayer is a place. And they did it. And you find it in John chapter 13. I can only imagine being hid in a corner of that room. I'm very vivid in my imagination. I'm a carpenter by trade and I know this sounds spooky, but I can actually see things before they are. It's kind of a carpenter's way of doing things. I'm in the corner of that upper room. Here they file in, twelve of them, and our Lord. And he does an amazing thing. He disrobes. He takes his clothing off. He finds a large towel and he wraps himself in that towel. Then he takes a base of water, and begins to go around. God in the flesh stooping to wash human feet. But he does it. He goes to Peter, Peter says, God, you're not doing this to me. Either you let me do it or you have no part of me, Peter. When Peter got the message, he said, Not my feet only. Put my hands and my head. Peter had trouble getting things in order, didn't he? When he did, he did. But Jesus made a most startling Revelation. I'm leaving you. But I'm not going to leave you comfortless. I'm going to send my partner. The sweet Holy Spirit. And he can be more to you than I because he can feel all at the same time. But Jesus, being God, knew their heart, and we find as he steps across the threshold of chapter 13 into chapter 14, he says this, let not your hearts be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am There you may be also. That is a promise. Our Father, which art of heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Forgive us Can you say amen? I'm gonna give this over to my sweet friend.