That's for you, preacher. When I sing angels weep. Oh well. Well, I hope that was a blessing to you, preacher. Keep preaching. Amen. Take your Bibles, go to Matthew, the twelfth chapter Thank you, preacher, for uh allowing us to come and having this privilege and and the the really nice little home you put us in is really, really nice and the good fellowship good belly ship and good fellowship. Amen. And uh we appreciate so much you and thank you again. Uh really thank you for supporting us. We really cannot do what we're doing. uh if I don't get help financially because it's expensive, you know. Uh my trip uh to Indy Indian last uh last last February January was about no thirty two hundred dollars. So it costs a lot of money to go and to minister and serve and uh so your financial help And of course your prayers really are needed, and I thank you so much for that. Matthew the twelfth chapter and verse number twenty-nine Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strongman and then he will spoil his house? Of course he's talking about the devil And uh so on. But he notice he said that look at it again. Let's read verse twenty-eight with it. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come unto you, or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his good, except he first bind the strong man And um and of course he's talking about the devil. And um so I w I want to just take this scripture and we'll just take a look at it and see how it'll help us. All right. Father, it's been wonderful today. Thank you for the kindness of this church and the good fellowship and the good uh time we spent together. And uh Father, the good food and the place to stay in this and good church and these folks and how they've treated us. And we thank you for that. Now help us, Father. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts. I pray for liberty of the Holy Spirit and help. Please I pray in Jesus' name. Amen Uh 1963, uh as a young married man and uh my wife and I were sound asleep on a Friday, actually Saturday morning. Uh we had two children, Holly and Scott at that time. They're just babies. And uh I was deeply sound asleep. I mean I was three fathoms down. I mean I was gone about quarter to six, ten to six on Saturday morning. And my wife woke up because she heard something, and of course being a mother and having two small babies She began to listen and what she heard really was the whisper of the pant legs of a man who was coming down our hall that had broken into our house. And she sat up and she listened, and what is that sound? She heard that pant legs. Imagine that. And um and he had uh you come to find out later once he got caught. We didn't didn't catch him for about three months after this, but But uh he would put sweat socks over his uh over his sneakers and he'd come into the house and he'd been viralizing homes and everything, and when he'd come down that hallway, and uh when he came into the bedroom, he was sneaking like this. The bed's here and my my pants were over here on the other side of the bed on a chair and he was going after my wallet. Boys he in for a surprise. And but he was coming to me coming across like this and my wife got up on one elbow and saw his reflection in the mirror She didn't really see him, but she saw his reflection, and she's trying to get her bearings. And all of a sudden she realized somehow she let out a scream, Fred, somebody's in the house! Man, I want to tell you something. Did you ever try to climb up out of a deep sleep? And uh by the time I got conscious of what was going on and took off after him, he'd already been long gone But it was the most terrifying thing to have somebody evade your home. And he's coming in, he's kind of trying to get my valuables, whatever he thought I might have So it's a terrifying thing to have somebody break into your house. Well here we see that Jesus said that a strong man, he has a house, he has a home. And he says, we must be careful because see the devil, if he's going to come in, he's got to bind the strong man first to do it. And he's talking about the home. And I want you to notice the devil is not afraid to come into a strong man's house. In fact, the devil is not afraid of anything. You know he attacked God himself. You know that. He said, I want your throne. I want your throne. I'm going to be worshipped. I'm going to be exalted. I'm going to sit on your throne And he attacked God, so he attacked a perfect God in a perfect place called heaven. He weren't afraid to go in heaven. In fact, you know he led a rebellion and one third of the angels came to earth with him and so on. So he wasn't afraid to attack the perfect home in heaven, a perfect God. He even went to a perfect place called Eden. You know why he went to Eden? He wanted to attack the home of Adam and Eve See, God's plan is to have a home. And he says, I'm going to give you Eve. I'm going to create Eve and I'm going to make her and bring her to you. And I want you to have a family. I want you to have a home. I want you to build a home And of course we know what the devil did. The devil stepped in and the devil tried to destroy and did destroy that home. In fact later on you know even Cain killed uh Abel and trouble has been in the home ever since because the devil wants to destroy the home And so the devil was attacked a perfect place. And uh and then you know he attacked the perfect Savior when Jesus came. He had no compunction whatsoever to go after the Son of God himself Try to tempt the Lord himself. And of course the Lord wouldn't fall to that temptation and wouldn't sin against God and refuse to fall to the wiles of the devil. The devil's been trying to get into the home ever since. He knows if we destroy the family, he can destroy everything God's trying to do in this world, because God has a plan. He gave it to Abraham. He said, Out of you every family will be blessed. See, God's warning homes and families. When the Philippian jailer got saved, it says that uh he got saved, then his household got saved In fact, it says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved and thy house. God's interest in families getting saved. God's interest in mom and dad serving the Lord. God's interested in you raising your children to serve God and live for God and to fulfill the Great Commission to reach the world for Christ. That's God's plan. So the devil knows that. So the devil's going to do everything he can to step in and destroy our homes. He's going to attack our homes. He's going to do everything he can And we need to be aware of that. And 'cause sometimes we go through life where it's almost like we're oblivious to what's going on around us. Sometimes we're not even cognizant of what how the devil can make inroads right into our home and into our family, and we don't recognize as him. I think I think a lot of things going on in America where the devil's involved. And we don't recognize that God's people and the church is just going on doing its thing and just going on and sometimes oblivious to everything that's going on around them And so on. But I want to tell you something, the devil is very active. He's still a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. And he wants to devour you He wants to devour you. He wants to devour your home. He wants to devour your marriage. He wants to devour your life. He wants to devour to devour your children. He's ac If he's wanting to do that, he's walking round seeking. I ask myself, why does he walk That's because he doesn't have to get in a hurry because we're not in a hurry serve God. And so he's trying to attack, and so he's going to come and he's going to do everything he can to attack. And so he will attack you and your home Hold your hand here and go to Psalms 101, would you please? Psalms 101. Psalms 101. He said, I will sing unto mercy and judgment, and unto thee, O Lord, will I sing. Watch this now. Verse number two, Psalms 101. I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart. He said, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I wonder what that is. What's a wicked thing that you said? I you we could say, well, they're talking about idols. That'd be wicked, wouldn't it? But I wonder if the television would be wicked if we're not careful. Maybe a computer would be wicked if we're not careful. What are we putting before our eyes? He said, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them to turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. A forward heart shall depart from me. I will not know a wicked person Whosoever privileges his neighbour, him will I cut off, him that hath a high look and a proud heart will I not suffer. Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land That's my pastor and the people of the church that love God. Now my eyes are going to be on them, that they may dwell with me, and he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me. He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house. He that telleth my eyes shall not tarry in my sight. What he's saying is there's a target If you want to know a target, go home tonight, and maybe mentally you ought to draw a big target right on your front door. Say that's where the devil's aiming. That's what he's after, right there. He's after my family. He's after my home. He's after my wife. He's after my children. See, when a thief comes in, he goes after the valuables. He wants to get the most valuable thing you have. And I want to tell you something. The most valuable thing you have is your family. The most valuable thing you have is your wife and your children. or your husband and your children. That's what the devil wants to destroy and he's targeting you. He's targeting you. He wants your home. He wants your marriage. He wants your life. He wants your children. He wants these teenagers. He wants them. And he's going to get them if he can. And we've got to realize that. And it doesn't matter how strong you are, he's still going to come and he's still going to try and find you and he's going to try and destroy your life. And I asked myself, how is he working? What's he doing? Well, first of all, he wants to destroy your love. You remember when you first fell in love? You remember how exciting it was? Wow, man. Pshew, man, I you're like that guy. He said, Man, I love my wife when I met her so much I gotta eat her up. Now I wish I had it. Huh? Yeah. Boy, you remember how you go-eyed each other and sit in a restaurant talking, boy, you listened to every word he said and oh wow. Boy, you're you got him with your looks and your looks Huh? Boy, and your heart was thumping and you're so excited and boy your marriage dee, boy it was just we were a honeymoon and all those wonderful times together and things. Remember how wonderful it was, remember how you loved each other, remember how your heart burned when with each other? Huh? What happened? Well maybe the devil stepped in and he's found a way to tamper with that love. Maybe he's found a way to work on your heart, somehow bring circumstances or get you thinking about something, get something to happen or something so that he can destroy your love that you have one for another I thought another way he might attack, he might attack the um uh your intimacy. A good way to attack you is to get you men hooked on pornography. That's a good way to destroy your intimacy. Get you making selfish love with yourself, huh? Instead of loving your wife properly. That's a good way. See, 'cause the devil wants to do everything to destroy the inf intimacy that's in your life in your life. And that's one of the most important things in your life you need to work on all the time. And the devil will do everything he can to take the fire out of your life. I think he also wants to tack not only your love And your intimacy, but also your closeness. Are you growing closer together? Huh? There ought to be a bind or bond between you and your wife, and it ought to be getting deeper and closer and tighter all the time And so on. And you ought to be close. Can you give a testimony say, boy, me and my wife, we are so close. See the devil doesn't want you to be close. The devil's going to do everything he can to fight your relationship one with another He's not trying to get between you and the and the work of God. He's trying to get between you and God. If you get between you and God, then maybe he can get between you and your mate. That's the way he'll do it. He's not going to walk in and say, hey, I'm here tonight and I've come to destroy your life. He doesn't announce himself. The devil doesn't know you don't know when he's going to attack. He's just going to come. He's going to be subtle And he's going to come in, he's going to be starting working, and if you're not careful, you'll listen to him and you'll begin to cooperate with him. Next thing you'll start having problems in your relationship. You need to realize that's the devil, and that's the way the devil attacks I thought about also he attacked you you and your children. How? First of all, by infiltration and by influence. Infiltration and by influence. I asked this this morning, I think. I said, what's influencing you? Who has your ear? What makes you think and what gives you your opinions? Where where you get your values from? Where where what what what is it that influences you in your daily thinking? See, you sit in front of the television and watches the stomach turns and uh uh general sane asylum. Huh? If that's where you get your inspiration for your marriage and your life and so and you're you're you're being tricked to the devil and duped to the devil, the devil's found a way into your life, you see. And he's going to come and he's going to do that, and then he's going to try to get between you and your children. You know? I can ask this. Maybe I'll ask you. I ask it a lot. How many of you can honestly like my dad? I do not remember My dad, I do not constantly remember my mother though, and I think my mother probably did say it, but I don't remember ever my father saying, I love you, son Those were not like that. I grew up not knowing whether my father loved me, never told me. I never had a conversation with him anyway, even though I lived in a house until I was 22, until I got married But let me ask you this, how many can say, I don't remember ever my father saying I love you? Can you hold your hand up and you give a testimony of that? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, maybe ten or eleven people here tonight can raise their hand and say, Well, you know that's kinda sad. Why how how'd that happen? See the devil got between you and your dad. Got between you and your mother. Why? Because he wants to destroy that love. That's what he wants to do. He wants your kids to think that your mom and that mama daddy doesn't love them I was remember years ago uh as a young uh just a young father, I was going through uh to a mall and uh I happened to go by and there was a teenage girl, I say she's fourteen or fifteen, she was talking on the payphone. Now you remember the payphone? You remember that's like a typewriter. You remember typewriter? Well this was a payphone. And uh she was talking on a payphone and I and I heard her and she was kind of laughing and she said, Okay mom, and she's talking to her mother. So I kind of slowed down and listen to her and she says, okay, all right, well I will go now. I love you, mama. Love you. And I thought, man, isn't that nice? I love your mother. Huh? Yeah. See, the devil doesn't want you to communicate to your children that you love them. And that's how he destroys relationships. Remember what it says in Malachi, the last two verses of Malachi, when Elijah comes in the end days, it said he's going to turn the children to their fathers and the fathers to the children. Remember when it talks about Lot? Remember what happened to his family? Remember the destruction? Why? Because the devil's going to do everything he can to destroy you and your relationship with your children, and he's going to do what he can. And he's going to do it through inflation and influence. How? By bringing into your family and into your home the world's philosophies. The way the world thinks. For instance, when I even when I I you know I I I was a teenager during the uh 50s And I would I think this is true throughout history maybe, uh up until the forties, maybe, maybe earlier than that, I don't know, but the the the concept of marriage was this. You met You fell in love, you got married, you had sex. Then it went, you met You fell in love, had sex, got married. Now you meet, have sex, hope you fall in love. Maybe you won't, maybe you will, maybe you get married, maybe you won't, and maybe if you get married, you don't get married, you stay marr Where'd that come from? Where did immorality and adultery and fornication? W wh why is it the films are filled with this idea that a young man, young women, w women meet And then next thing you know they're in bed together. Where'd that all come from? Where do you think that came from? Came from the world. Well, our ch impressionable children, they pick up on that, they see that, they understand that, and they watch what's going on. They may not understand all the intricate things that you would know, but they do. You know that that person is not married to that person. See the devil has influenced and come into our homes through our televisions and through our friends and through the public school and through any other influences of the devil And they are now learning a philosophy of a marriage that's not even close to the Bible. And we allow it We lie. And we also we promote we promote dating. We promote boyfriend-girlfriend relationship. In fact, still many, many Christian parents still believe in dating. Well I can find that in the Bible Am I again no, I I think courtship might be the way to go, but I'm saying that just for some girl to all of a sudden she's thirteen or fourteen, she decides that she has she's got her boyfriend. She she really likes him And she's gonna go with him and she's gonna go steady with him. And mom's and dads are okay with that. Huh? You notice on television now the dancing now is in eight, nine, ten-year-old kids dancing together, slow dancing Huh? Why? Because the world philosophy is bad when it comes to the morality of the philosophy of love and marriage and so on. But Dad, mom, listen to me, where do they get it? You say, Well, I can't keep it off from them. You can do a whole lot better maybe than what you're doing. Because the devil wants to come in and destroy our homes I thought about this. We're a philosophy about sex and marriage. Also, how about money and possessions? Get all you can get, put it in a can and sit on the can. And life is made out of getting. Things, things, things, money, position, power. And they have a the world has a value system. You know what the value system of the world is? You young people listen to this. You know what it is You. It's all about you. You have your rights. You deserve this. You're entitled to this. You're entitled. You have your rights. Your parents don't they can't tell you what to do. You're a person. You have your rights. Who are they to tell you what to do? Where do you think that comes from? What do you think our children, where do you think that philosophy comes from the world? Huh? I uh you know uh you we used to believe in spanking kids in America. Yeah, now you say that, oh my, you are some kind of criminal. You I mean I'm telling you, you wow, you ought to be put in prison if you believe in spanking your kids. Well take it up with God. But the world the world sees the devil's philosophy is, oh no, no, no. You know they have this thing, they they start this thing, time out So what you do when you go timeout, you get the kids to stop doing what they're doing because they're destroying something, you move them from another area to destroy. And so you, oh, you're destroying that time out! No, no, no. You move them on this area, let them destroy that area. See? And the kids are never corrected. You don't want to hurt their personal self-worth, do you? Huh? And besides, it's child beating, you know. And so what? Parents are afraid. So parents now have listened to world's philosophy and they don't. I got I heard about this preacher's wife. She said, I'm I'm I'm I'm going to discipline my kids. So she told her kids. She said, if we're in a store somewhere and you don't behave yourself All I'm going to say to you is time out. When I say timeout, that means you're getting a whooping when you get in the car or when you get home. Say, she said, I you are not going to misbehave. She didn't say time out so she could just, you know, not correct him and you know just m m d direct him to a new area of destruction. She says, time out, she was saying, those kids knew. Well mama said time out, it means you got it. You done, you went too far. You're getting a whippin'. See? You do believe that, don't you? You do believe it's spanking, don't you, Mom? You do believe in spanking, don't you, Dad? Huh? Well daddy never spanked me. Well maybe he should have. Maybe you're not as good as you think you are. Maybe you are a little spoiled. God's program is better than your program. But see, the devil has come in with his philosophy, and if you're not careful, you're going to follow the devil's philosophy. And you're going to raise your kid according to what the world thinks and according to the psychologists think. Well why don't you follow Joyce Brothers? She's a great person to give you uh a woman psychologist, give you information. She said it's good for a marriage if a woman has affair once in a while. Huh? How'd you like that, Daddy? Huh? No. See, it's the world. The devil's coming in. He's going to do everything he can. He's going to do what he can to destroy your lives because he has a value system, and that is, it's all about you. You have your rights. You deserve better. You should not have to put up with that woman. I'd tell that old boy, I'd tell you, I'd get rid of him. I'd divorce him, boy. I tell you what You don't have to put up. You have your rights. You need your space. I just got to get my space. You know. You just have to, I'm sorry, honey, I've I'm just sick and tired. I'm going to leave you because I got to have my space. Where did you get that? Where'd that come from? Come from the devil, that's why. You can't find that in the Bible. But if we're not careful, we'll find out the devil's broken into our home. And the devil's starting to destroy our lives by feeding us these lines. You know, I thought about just modesty, morals and modesty. Huh? You can't even you can't watch anyway, you can't go anywhere, except a good independent fundamental Baptist church that's got some sense, where you don't have to look at women dressed like harlots. I've seen so much cleavage in churches. I'm sick. I'm sick. I'm just sick of it. Why does a red-blooded man who loves God have to go to church with a bunch of women who have to bear their bodies Split their skirts up and show off their thighs. I was in a church one time, I was in a church, a good church, but the church didn't have any standards. And uh this woman trapped me after service and she's talking to me and she's dressed in these designer jeans and she's a she's in her thirties, she's a very attractive young woman, and she's standing there talking to me, and I got my eyes locked in out of her eyes because she's showing me more here than any man other than her husband ought to see. And I'm kinda mad. I'm smiling talking to him and I say, why do I have to why do I have to go to church? Why do I have to have some woman come up to me dressed like this? In pretense of being a Christian, look talking to me about God. What is this? What in the world? Where does she get this? So I'm kind of half mad. About that time the door opened to the auditorium because we were in the foyer. And and just because there's movement, we both looked. And I looked, and the preacher's wife came out and she had a long skirt on But she had a spread that came up up. I'm telling you that high. And when she stepped, I saw her I saw her whole leg all the way up to her thigh, but her upper thigh And I went whoop. And then I got mad. I didn't want to slap her, slap her, slap the preacher. I didn't want to do. I said, Why? Why in God's name to a godly Christian woman? Why would she do that? Why would she dress like that? Where did she get that? Why is it okay? I'll tell you why, because it came off the television, it came off the world's philosophy, and we have followed it, and we have allowed our women, our young ladies are dressed like that. Didn't come from God. The Bible says they dress, see, modesty, you know how you know modesty? The Bible says dress modest as women professing godliness. I'll tell you how to tell whether it's godly or not, or modest. Is it godly? Can you stand in front of the mirror and look at it and say, this is godly? I have a godly testimony. That's what modesty is all about. But you know the devil? Devil stepped into our homes. Mothers are letting their daughters dress like harlots, dress just about any way they want. Well, because they got to be like Hannah Banana. Huh? We've been duped to the devil. And we're just letting it happen. All because I I I think I think it's because the devil somehow has worked to where he's attacked the parents with fear. So parents now, because they don't know how to say no. No. No. I like the story I heard uh was it a pr I guess our pastor told it He told about Bill Rice the Third, or Bill Rice, Bill Rice it was, I think, was raising his boys, and I think it was Bill Rice uh the third told the story. He said that he threw a rock and it broke a window And a house there on the property. And uh when they found out who it was, he said to Bill Rice III, he said, Don't rice don't throw rocks That's kind of interesting, isn't it? But he said, but he thought he said, I thought my heart, but I just did. So rices do. No, what he is saying is no, if you're a rice, you don't live like that. If you're a rice, you don't throw rocks. Rice is respect people's property. They don't throw rocks. That's what he's saying. And I want to tell you something God's people need to respect God and women need to respect God and they need to dress modestly. God's people, holy women, do not dress immodest. Period. Period. They don't let their daughters dress immodest. Period. See? But we can justify it, and when we do, what do we do? We justify it because why? Where'd it come from? Didn't get it from the Bible. We've let the devil influence us. The devil attacks us through our fear of parents. We're afraid to say no. There's two reasons. See There are four kinds of parents, and four types. There's the authoritative, the authoritarian, the neglectful, and the submissive The submissive is high on love, low on discipline. Submissive parents, high on love, low on discipline. The neglectful is low on love and low on discipline. The authoritarian is high on discipline, low on love. He's the one who says, Buscan, sit there, don't you move, I'll tell you what, you've got to get it when you've got a run, run, run, run, run, run, shoot, put their thumb on him High on discipline, low on love. The authoritative is high on love and high on discipline. But you know why we are one parent or a kind of parent? Fear. Fear of failure. Well, if I tell my precious little daughter, no, she can't wear that, she'll get upset and she won't be happy. You know, our goal is our daughter needs to be happy. We want her to be happy. And so I I we tell her no, she can't have that, can't go there, can't wear that. Then she won't be happy. And she might not get a boyfriend She won't be popular. What do we get that? So parents are and the Christian parent, who, by the way, the separated Christian parents Are they authoritarian if they're not careful? Bless God, you better not move and you're not going to embarrass me. Bless God, you're going to do what's right. Why? Because they're gonna make them they're gonna control them no matter what because their goal is that those kids do what's right no matter what. But there's no heart to it There's no love to it. Kids grow up being under rule, thinking their parents don't love them, all they want to do is slay a bunch of rules on them. They're a little bit different, see But the authoritative said no, we don't go there, we don't do that, you don't wear that. I'm sorry, love you, but you're not going to it. No And his fear is doing wrong according to the Bible and sin against God and not biblically doing biblical principles in his child raising and so on. He's more afraid of failing God and God's principles than he is failing quote quote his children See the devil stepped in. He's doing everything he can to keep us from raising our children, doing what God says. See, I think also parents are now compromising and live life of inconsistency They compromise. The devil's got them to compromise. You watch things on television, you know you shouldn't be watching that You're reading things, you know you shouldn't be reading that. You're acting a certain way, you know you're not supposed to be acting that way. You know that's not Christian how you talk to your son. You know it's not Christian how you how you how you hollering and screaming at your kids all the time. Holler There's no, I'm telling you, there is no justification for a screaming woman. And a hollering father. No, no justification. Sorry, there is none Who told you that's the way you get kids to do what they're supposed to do? Holler and scream at them all the time? That's the devil. Oh, that's the devil. Got you sold on what you think is the best way to handle the kids. So he's got you to compromise. He's got you to be inconsistent. He's got between you, see, he's he's doing everything he can to build a poor relationship between you and your children He wants an eight in eight your children. That's why when Elijah when Elijah comes before the coming of the Lord, he said he's going to turn the hearts of the fathers to their sons and the hearts of the sons of the father. Why? Because there's no love there. There's division there in the home. The parents do not have a loving relationship with the children. And they think by loving and giving them and submitting to them and giving everything they want, that's loving them. But the Bible says if you don't chastise your son, you hate him. You don't love him. That's what the Bible says. See? So we're not we have to be careful. The devil's doing everything he can to step into our homes and destroy our lives and destroy our children. Something else. The devil said now here notice go back to Matthew 12 and verse 29 And it says, or else, how can he enter into a strongman's house and spoil his good, except he first binds the strongman? Who's the strongman in the house? Daddy. Daddy, he's the spiritual leader. He's the one who's supposed to be the strong one. And he's the one the devil's trying to bind. Now you better be careful, Mama, that you don't be used of God, I mean used of the devil to bind your husband by not letting him be the head of the house. And now cooperating together and working together and disciplining children. See? Too many fathers have been already bound by the devil, so they don't leave the family altar. They don't go to church faithfully. They don't lead by example. See? They kind of they don't do what's wrong, so they think because they don't do anything that's necessarily wrong that that's enough. But the children grow up, that's what they see, and so that's what they are. So when your children grow up and they're just okay, but they're not loving God and walking with God and serving God, just look at your own example and realize the devil got you as a strongman of the house. He bounds you up. He kept you from being what you're supposed to be in front of your family in front of your kids. I know I'm like a blunt axe I know that this is tough to take, but I'm telling you, we need to really look at what the devil's doing in our homes and our families and our churches He'll keep you from taking the spiritual leadership of the house. You and I, I'm going to stand before God Almighty. For my children and raising my children, I'm going to answer to God. I'm going to look the Lord right in the face, and He's going to say, I'm going to talk to you about your children. I'm going to answer to God. And I can't say, well, my wife this or my wife that. Well, you know, no, no, no. You're the head of the house. You're responsible. See, the Bible says in Psalms 127 that a mighty man, mighty man, said he had his children were like arrows in a mighty man's quibber. Talking about that, and it talks about Deuteronomy. Husbands are to teach. As from me and my house will serve the Lord, said Joshua. Who's taking the spiritual leadership? So how what's the devil going to do? He's going to try and bind the strong man in the house, that's daddy, you see. And how's he going to do that? I think he's going to do it by temptation. A lot of temptation out here. We need to keep our minds pure, men. There's an essential, ungodly, whorish, adulterous society out here. Everywhere you look, nudity, everywhere you look, prodigy, everywhere you look essential, everywhere is permissiveness, everywhere is immorality, everywhere, everyw The way you look You can't even go to the mall without walking by Frederick's or uh or Victoria's Secret. Victoria doesn't have any secrets, ladies. We gotta put up with that. Everywhere we go, we're being in bombarded everywhere. We must keep our minds and hearts clear and pure before God Almighty, because the devil's gonna come and try and tempt us. I think the devil also tried to get a strong man by bringing in us bringing up his past failures all the time. Trying to defeat him, discourage him, trying to kinda get him to to kinda just kinda put up with the besetting sins Just don't make a big deal of them. By the way, it says besetting sins that so doth easily beset us. Sins that so doth easily beset us. Besetting sins are sins that you fall into easily. So the devil's going to try and get you into your besetting sins. He's going to do everything he gets you to keep you from shirk, get you to shirk your responsibilities. When I was a young pastor, young father, uh I got on conviction about family order. I didn't I didn't know what family order was when I got I when I got saved, I didn't know uh you know I got saved when I was twenty-two years old, I couldn't even find the book of Genesis I really couldn't. Everything I learned was new. I started pastoring when I was five years old in the Lord or four years old in the Lord. I got saved in 61, started pastoring in 64. I honestly I I I couldn't hardly preach a message on the home. I was so ignorant. I started learning, started finding out about the home and what I was supposed to do and my responsibilities and so on And uh and then I started, man, family altered. And I asked a preacher one time, I said, What do you what do you what do you what do you do for family alter I had to get that settled. I said, well, wait a minute now. Why? I'm going to go do family order just because uh the evangelists hollered and screamed about it. No, I maybe I better find out Why am I? So I started studying. I started to think about and praying. I started finding out what the Bible says about husbands, I mean fathers teaching their children. And so on. And I started waiting. Well wh what do I want my children? I want my children to start over every day with God in the Bible and prayer See, I want them to realize that first. So I start to have a family altar, bring my children down, and read the Bible and prayed with them. Why? Because I want them to say, Daddy, Mama, we don't start our day without God No Bible, no breakfast. We want our day to be started out by having time with God in prayer, and then we think that's very important. So we're going to do it as a family. So my children grew up believing that it was what we're supposed to do, start the day out with God in Bible reading and prayer See? And I had this I had to come to a conviction about that. I had to make up my mind. Wait a minute, this is important. My wife and I get up, read the Bible. She reads, she gets up, like she never sleeps She's up by three o'clock just about every morning. Four o'clock or latest and she'll read and study and I'll get up. I'm a little later getting up and I'll read my Bible. We'll read and pray and I mean talk and everything and share what we've met and then we pray together And we talk to God. Well, I prayed with my family. I believe in family altar. Do you pray with your wife? Do you pray with your children? Why not? Boys, the devil deceived you, thinking you can raise your children and have a happy marriage without God. I'm not trying to be blunt and mean. I'm just saying, wake up, wake up! The devil's trying to destroy our homes and our lives and our marriage. And we go week after week and nothing ever changes. I think also The devil's trying to do everything again. See, I was interested in that Psalm 127 says their children are like arrows in a mighty man's hand. That man, that that father took time with each of his children, personal attention. Took the responsibility for them. They're in his hand. They're in his hand. Psalms 127. And then I think the devil was going to do everything he can to get between you and God Keep you from spending time with God, walking with God. Keep you from praying. Keep you from reading the Bible. Not just to read it to get through it. Thank God for reading the Bible through. But if that's all you do and you never get anything out of it, then you you really have missed something. Because God wants you to spend time with Him. He wants to fellowship with you. He wants you to fellowship with Him. He wants you to pour you out to Him. He wants you to worship And praise him. He wants you to have time to spend time with him. He wants you to love him and know him. That's what he wants. And that's what every wife needs is a husband who walks with God. That's what every child needs is a daddy who walks with God and loves God supremely. And has a personal walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. But the devil doesn't want that. And he's going to do everything he can to keep us from doing that. And then lastly, I think he's going to try and keep us from establishing priorities, proper priorities. What are your priorities? Making a living? Sorry. Like I said this morning, you could be a prayer forlegic before tomorrow morning. You never work another day and may earn another dollar. God didn't leave you here to make a living. Though you should work and make a living, if you don't work, you don't eat. The Bible is very clear about that, right? But is that why He left you here? Just to be a provider? I think it'd be more that the kids would rather probably eat beans and have a loving father than eat steak and never see their father. And rather than have all the toys, it'd be better if they had a daddy and a mama who loved them and did things together with them and spent time with them and prayed with them. And went to church with them and had laughing times and family games around the table and family time. It seemed like that would be more important to a child than having everything given to him Because what's the most important thing? Family. Is there anything like a family? Is there anything greater than a family? My children are scattered. My my son's pastoring in Arkansas. My son-in-law and oldest daughter, he's a pastor in Florida. My daughter married to a Christian businessman in Indiana. We have Ten I have ten grandchildren. She has three, that's thirteen. We have ten great grandchildren. I don't get to see them much. They're so far away. We do everything we can to get to see them. But her f a lot of her family live right there I just made up my mind they're going to become my family too and I love them like their own my own. And I marvel and I'm always telling her, call you call down and tell Lois, come on over and have dinner with us Hey, call Cindy and Amber. Come down, we'll play some games or something. I want my family around me. Because that's important. And I want to be happy and I want to laugh together and pray together and have fun together and everything. I want to go to vacations and I want to see them and we laugh and sit around and laugh and I want to know that my children love me and I love them And man, I'm glad to know that they're in church serving the Lord. But see, the devil doesn't want that He don't want you to have a happy marriage. Sorry. You want to do everything you can to destroy your home Do you believe that sometimes God will lay a heart, a message on the heart of your pastor that's just for you to listen to and to be warned about? If you don't, you're missing something. But I believe, I believe that this message that I God gave me, I never preached this message before, have I? God gave me to this about three or four days ago. I sat down, God just started writing it down and everything And God opened that scripture to me, brought it to my mind. In fact I wouldn't even read Matthew and he brought it to my mind and went to that. And I know God gave it to me tonight Could it be a warning? Could it be something that God's dealing with you about? So you really have a decision to make right now. Shrug it off. Go on back to same old, same old. Or As I've said so many times and said for forty years, Pastoring, if God spoke to you, you come and talk to God about what He talked to you about. That's what the invitation is all about You talking to God about what he talked to you about. And if God spoke to you and put his finger on an area of your life, he wants you to deal with it. And it's time to take the bull by the horns, make some decisions that last beyond the front door of the church. Changes the life. It's made with resolution and vows and commitment to God Almighty. I'm changing. I'm going to be praying I'm gonna go home and I will talk to my wife and we're gonna pray together every morning. I'm gonna get my kids around a family altar. We're gonna start family altar And we're going to pray together, and we're going to spend some time together in the morning before they go to school. Or late at night around the table at suppertime. Whatever. Do it. Whatever. Do it. It's a good time in the morning. But do it. Make a commitment and do it. Otherwise, and then ask God to unbind you from the snare of the devil. Because he's got into your home and he bound you And he's weakened you. And he's going to steal the most valuable thing you have in your life. Let's stand to our feet, please. Bow our heads. Father in heaven. Oh, I'm mad at the devil tonight