All right. We're really my wife and I have been really praying about the this conference. And we both really, really want to be a blessing. I want to be a blessing. Uh the Lord has dealt with me here. I was all ready to preach a message and preacher that the Lord change that message and so I'm gonna preach something I didn't plan on preaching but I really believe it's of the Lord, especially because of the scripture verse that you That you uh uh quoted had us read out Joshua where it says, uh As for me and my house we will serve the Lord. And uh so the messy built around that servant or servant added to him and This is what Ms. Schindler does, dresses on every day. She does. So uh if you have your Bibles, I want you to take your Bible and go to First Kings twenty two. First Kings and you Well, at first you're going to say, Where is he going? What's that got to do with home and marriage and all that? But if you'll stick with me, I believe you'll see the importance of the scriptures that God has allowed me to to start off with, alright? But it's 1 Kings 22, that's in the Old Testament. It's a big part of your Bible to the left. Alright? 1 Kings 22, starting at verse number 29. 1 Kings 22, verse 29. Look to your left, look to your right. Make sure everybody has a Bible. They see on the Bible. Would you do that? It says, So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went up to Rameth Gilead. The king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and enter into the battle But put thou on thy robes, and the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. But the king of Syria Syria ca commanded his thirty and two captains that had rule over his chariot, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel. And it came to pass when the captains uh of the chariot, Saul Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the King of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him And Jehoshaphat crying out, cried out. And it came to pass when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him. Now watch this, and a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness, wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand and carry me out of the host, for I am wounded I want to just draw your attention just for a moment and uh for right here on that verse 34 where it said a certain man drew a bow at a venture. In other words, he put a b put an arrow on his bow and just pulled it back and just kind of just shot it like a venture, just let it go. And uh of course that arrow, if you follow his flight, and the scriptures that say that it went And it hit the king of Israel and the harness, and it actually found a joint between the harness and penetrated and killed that king. And uh and uh so it the implication here to me is that that that Arrow really became a servant of God. God put his hand on that. There's nothing but chance. And that arrow was guided by hand and uh and killed that king. And uh so I want to talk to you a little bit about that arrow. Now I know it doesn't sound like we're going to talk about the home, but we are, and if you follow me, alright Now I'll tell you what Elizabeth Taylor told her ninth husband, I'll not keep you long. Okay? So let's pray. Father, bless please this time in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, I want you you ever think about the fact that you know these are these uh soldiers they go into battle and uh they take their bows and arrows And uh some some say that they have as high as seventy arrows in their quiver. Did you ever think about thousands and thousands of bowmen? That's thousands and thousands and thousands of arrows. Where those arrows come from? How did that bowman get that arrow? Look in Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49. And look if we if you would please at verse number 2. Isaiah 49, verse number 2. And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand hath he hid me. Now watch this, and made me a polished shaft. In his quiver hath he hid me. Here Isaiah says that God made him a polished shaft, an arrow. He made him, an arrow, made him, I'd say, Ty and it was the verse in uh 1 Kings, made him a servant of God, and put him in his quiver. Now, I don't know where the arrow came from. I don't know where where that's that Bowman, but I know this, the Bowman knew exactly what he needed for an arrow. Now you remember the arrow is going to be a picture of you and I as the servants of God. Alright? So I want you to use a little sanctified imagination, if you would, for a few minutes. And I want you to go with a bowman, and he's going to go out into the woods, and he's going to be looking around, looking around the sticks and branches and so on. And uh all of a sudden he sees this stick over here and he goes over and looks at it, picks it up. And it doesn't look like much, it's all crooked and out of shape and everything. And nobody ever guesses that that what that guy sees in that arrow. They they never guessed. But see that that bowman he knows exactly what he needs. And he looks at that old crooked stick and he sees in that stick something probably nobody else can see. And so he takes that stick home with him and he builds himself a fire. And he gets the fire going real good. Then he takes his knife out. And he takes that stick, that branch, and he begins to take the knife to that branch. He begins to knock the little uh knots off of it and and take the bark off of it and begins to work on it. Then he put that stick down in the fire He knew just exactly how long to keep that stick in that fire. He'd pull that stick out, and then he'd pulled on it, straightened on it, bend it, then he'd take the knife, and he'd begin to work on that Begin to work on that. And he's stripping it and stripping it and cutting it down to size and cleaning it up. Put it back in the fire. And he'd leave it there just exactly the right time and pull it out. And he'd begin to straighten it out and work on it And then he reached over and got a little oil in his hands and began to give it a hand polished and he began to work on that Next thing you know, that thing started to form into something, a beautiful shaft. And he'd take his knife and he'd see little places in it, and he'd work on that, and then he'd put it back in the fire. He'd bring it back up and he'd work on it some more and he'd get some more oil, and by his hand he would shake that. Finally he'd have that shaft. And he take that shaft, he put his feathers on it, and then he put the the uh the uh arrow head on it, and then he put it in his quiver. He was ready. That's kind of what happened when you know July 2nd, 1961, in a little uh elementary school building up in Nankin Township, a little church was meeting. Called Newburgh Baptist Church. It had about 35 people. Brand new church. The church had been started by a missionary evangelist. And uh there's a young man that came to that service that morning and sat down with his young wife And uh heard for the first time the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that young man got saved. That young man was me. That was going to be fifty four years ago in July. See, when I when I went when I went to high school, I was telling the young lad here, uh Zane And I was the shortest, I was always the youngest and shortest I was not the youngest, but the shortest fellow in class. Even in a in a senior class, I finally outgrew W. Neely by a quarter of an inch. So I was not the shortest guy in my class. I was the skinniest. In fact, when I got married at 22 or 21 years old, I only weighed 106 pounds. Soak and wet full of banana. Carn six pound. I so skinny had to tease the hair of my legs, keep my socks up And uh so on. So w when when my when my high school high school uh uh peers would uh did the um what do you call it the yearbook they put under my picture as a senior, little demons are scarce, take good care of me. That's what they thought. They thought it was a little demon. But you know what? God walked out, if you please, into my life, and he saw Fred Schiller, just an old crooked stick Didn't see nobody else saw much in that old crooked stick, but you know God saw something in that stick that even I myself could not see. And God saved me And God began to then take the knife of his word, the sword of his word, if you please. He began to work on my life and trim my life and and then he'd put me into discipline and trials and tribulations and he'd straighten me out a little bit more. And he kept working on me. Sunday school teachers and preachers and revivals and missionary conferences. Then I went to Bible college and that all those all the Word of God was beginning to work in my heart and work in my heart And then in uh nineteen sixty-five I stepped out by faith and started the Open Bible Baptist Church, and God took that arrow out of the quiver and shot me, if you please, into the ministry And I began a 40-year uh journey of pastoring the church. And uh and of course my wife and I, as young Christians, we had three children, we were raising our children. And so as a first generation Christian As a first generation Christian, God, if you please, took me out of the quiver and let me go, if you please, into the ministry. And uh and and really the real truth is if you're how many are first when I say first generation I'm talking about seeing in uh in in my wife, Bonnie and I's life I had nobody on my mother's or father's side. I couldn't find one person on my mother's side or my father's side anywhere even went to church. Anyway, I I couldn't find anyone in church that alone was saved. And on my wife's side, Bonnie's side, there was nobody on that side except one teenage girl that went to the First Baptist Church of Wayne, and we believed she was saved Other than that, we couldn't even find anybody who went to church. So when I got saved and Bonnie got saved, guess what? We were the first ones saved. in the ho both families, in both sides of the family. And uh so nobody is saved. In other words what I'm saying, my mother and father were not Christians and her mother and father were not Christians But how about you? How many can raise their hands and say that uh in my house in my life I my my mother and father were not Christian, my wife's mother and father were not Christian, so I'm a first generation Christian Okay, hold your hand up. That's pretty good. So the rest of you then were you all are raised in Christian homes? You're all raised by godly parents who are born again and saved. You're very fortunate, very, very, very wonderfully blessed to have that happen. See? But I want to talk to you a little bit about this matter, about the poly shaft. I want to talk to you about it. What I want you to do is go over to Psalms 127. Psalms 127 And look if you would please at verse number three. Psalms 127, verse number three. Lo, children are the heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children of thy youth. So God said here that our children. Now when I got saved, uh my my wife and I had our little daughter Holly. She was seven months old when I got saved. Later Scott came and then Jessica came. So now we have three children. Now, God had already found us, as we please, on the road of life. God had already saved us, and we were born again, and we knew the Lord, and had surrendered our lives to live for the Lord And we were we were active in our church and serving the Lord. But now all of a sudden we have these three wonderful, beautiful children that God had given to us. And God says, now I want you to raise them. See, because God says that these arrows, these are arrows, and the quiver is my home. In other words, for my children, our home became the quiver for the children or the arrows that God had given to us. So as a husband and wife You have a home, you're saved, you're born again, you love the Lord, you're going to church, and God has given to you the responsibility of arrows, children. He's put them in your quiver. 'Cause one day, like on uh when Holly, my oldest daughter, she um we were going to Mexico uh on an old bus with Carlos Demers. You know you remember did you know the Carlos Demers? With Baron Christmas Seed. Now he'd take trips to Mexico and we'd go on a buses with him, you know, whole groups of us. And so our children went. So Holly, she was uh eighteen years old. She went with us. She got on the bus and she was sitting uh in the front seat right behind the driver's uh seat. I was sitting on the other side in front of the door where they where they come on uh when the people come on. And so I'm sitting there and we're waiting at people people were coming and getting on the bus. And this young man, his name was Aaron Turner. He gets on the bus and he turns around, looks at me, and said, Hi, my name's Aaron Turner. He said, what's your name? I said, I'm Pastor Schindler. I said, this is my daughter Holly. He looked at Holly. Holly looked at him. I looked at him. I looked at her and I went, oh no. It happened just like that. Next thing I know they're writing back and forth. He lived in Ohio and everything. And then one day he came and asked me for her hand in marriage. I said, You can't have her hand, you have to take her off Take all of it. Take Dennisville with it. I mean everything. And they got married and then and he was going to Bible college. And then God, when he graduated, he went off into a m uh to be assistant pastor and youth director in a church, and I saw, if you please, our arrow being launched into the life of faith that God had intended for My boy and I were on a we went to Mexico on another trip and uh my boy was up in the front and they were using the mic on the bus to give testimonies and everything And I'm in the back of the bus and uh he uh he gets on the bus. He said, I want I want everybody here to know something, but I want my dad to know first. He said, I want my dad to know I just got called to preach Poor that God man, I like to tore that bus up trying to get up hug his neck. And so uh we saw our children, all of them, if you please, God took them out of our quiver. and sent 'em off onto the venture of faith. But I remember when Holly or when Jessica, our youngest, left, Jesse and David, they c they got married and and so on and they came by our house the next morning after their wedding night and they were getting ready to leave on their honeymoon. And so my wife and I gave him a hug and said goodbye to him, stood on a front porch and watched him drive off, tears run down our face, and said, She's gone, I can't believe it. Yes, glory to God. And all three of our children went off onto their own lives to serve God, to live for God. And I thank God that I can say now, of my three children, ten grandchildren and fourteen great grandchildren, as far as I know, they're all in church every time the doors are open in their lives now. See, because see God God wants us to recognize that He has given us His children. See that arrow is kind of a unique picture because see you know that an arrow has no power of its own. It can't you I if I go out hunting and I'm sitting sitting down uh maybe on my spot or something where I sit and I'm sitting there and I got my bow and I pull my bow up, I get this arrow, and I take that arrow and I set it down beside me and I sit there, wait for it to get daylight. And finally I heard you know that you for you hunters know what it is. You hear that and you hear that deer coming. You start straining looking 'cause it's not yet light enough. And you're looking and looking. And you're looking. And And then all of a sudden, there it is. And you can't even believe he's 25 yards away. How could he get there without it? It's almost like magic. Poof. There they are. So I'm sitting there saying, wow, that's a 10-point buck. Get him, Arrow Come on, Earl's going to miss the opportunity. Come on. Oh man. It don't work that doesn't work that way. You know it doesn't. You gotta put that in there and you gotta you know. Well, that's kinda like what happens with your children You know, they they the God has a plan for life and God wants to be the one who empowers their life and blesses their life and uses their life. And so something else about that arrow, that arrow uh is uh is only has one flight. We only get one crack at this of raising our children, folks. Only have one crack, one time. Once they're gone, they're gone. They don't come back and say, Mom and Dad, uh I I don't want to make any more decisions so the rest of my life I want you to make a decision. They don't do that They're all wise now. We know everything now. So on. And so sometimes that arrow, we need to recognize those children that God has given to us. God has given those children to us because God wants to come into their life and God has a plan and a program for their life. Now when I was in the Boharrow and I got out of it I used to put a w we didn't have the actual animals in paper and and we put 'em on a bale of straw out somewhere and then, you know, we go somewhere and we shoot at barrels or bales of hay with animals on it. We always just use the target You know? Kind of like that big circle up there. If you could use a little sanctified imagination, turn that into a target up there, that wreath. And we'd put some circles in there and then with a bullseye. Okay. So uh what I'd do is I'd I'd go out and I'd I'd get twenty-five yards from that and of course uh that time you got compound bowls, you got the four sights and everything. So you sight in that and your goal was to put those arrows right in the bullseye. That was what you want. So you kind of knew exactly what you wanted to do, because you knew you were going to be out in the woods, you wanted to be able to shoot a deer if it's at 25 yards. Then you'd go back to 35 yards and maybe 50 yards. and you'd set those sights. So the the goal was to put that right there in that bullseye. And so I kinda asked myself What is the finished product that parents are looking for? What's the bullseye that you are after when you're raising your children? What do you want them to be? How do you want them to live? What do you want them to do? I know that there are uh many five many times in my church preacher, I think a lot of people were just kind of happy if they could hit the just hit the target. You know, and if their kids just kind of grew up to be good people and didn't go to jail or get into drugs, they were happy. Some said, No, no, no, no, I want a little more of that So you go in the next circle on the inside and said, Oh, I want them to go to church and I want them to raise our grandchildren if they have any, I want them to raise them in church and go to church. See? And then say, no, no, no, I want and they go to the next circle and say, I want them to teach Sunday school, be in a busman, I want them active in church. Then that bullseye. What's that bullseye? That bullseye is what the scripture is that the preacher read today. As for me and my house, we'll serve the Lord. In other words, they're going to do the perfect will of God. And our goal in raising our children, because see, they're not our children, they're arrows in God's quiver. Your home is your is God's quiver God wants you and I to raise them to do the perfect will of God, to surrender their life to the will of God and do the will of God. See. And so therefore I would think that God would want you and I to do what God did with us when He found us. He'd want us to get him in church, get him in Sunday school, have family altar, get the Word of God into their life, teach them the Word of God, get them to memorize the Word of God, get them to obey the Word of God, get them assimilate into their life and live for the Lord See, and that ought to be our goal. That ought to be, if you please, the bullseye that we're raising our children. In um In a town called Dearborn, Michigan, which is down near Detroit, you're they still have the factory, I believe, there, but they used to have the factory where you could go and they made Mustangs. And uh and it was kinda a unique place to go because what they did is that they took the i you could g go out to the Detroit River and you watch them unload the iron ingots off of the ships. And then you could follow 'em into the steel mills and they would then work on the steel and you could watch them as they pressed that steel and made the steel so they can make the bodies and parts for that car. And then you could go into the assembly line. In that particular place, I remember there was five lines. They had five assembly lines. And uh they all were making Mustang cars. And the real fact is it's kind of interesting because you could walk alongside of the workers and everything alongside and watch them put those cars together. You can't do that now, but they could back then. And uh and I've watched them come. It was something really interesting I noticed. It said uh and I saw that uh overhead For instance, here's the assembly line. And the here comes a here comes a I'll just use a uh a color, it's not exactly like this for for exact uh for illustration. Here come a chassis with wheels on it. They've got black wheels on it And uh and it's going along, and the very first thing on this assembly line are black seats. And they put those black seats. And they go along a little bit further, and the next thing you know, here's black uh body. And they Bring that body over, drop it on there. And I noticed and then the next car came along, had green wheels on it. It didn't have green, but you know what to mean. And they come along, and the next thing you know, right there behind the black was this green seats And I said, wow, as far back as you could see, those parts are lined up, and they always came and fit exactly into the plan to make this car. And I thought, you know, somebody had a finished product Somebody knew what they wanted to make. They knew. In fact, you follow that follow it at the end, they'd get in and drive it off. They'd drive off this brand new uh Mustang car. See. And uh I noticed that as they're as they're as they're going along putting those parts on, they didn't stop and say, hold it, wait a minute, we've got to save some money. Go to the junkyard and see if you can find a starter for this car. They didn't do that They didn't say hold a stop, go go GM and get them get get a new motor for this guy. They probably should have done that. But they didn't they didn't they didn't go to GM and put a GM part or jeep part, they didn't put a use part They knew exactly everything they put on there was for one particular reason that they had a finished product in mind. So let me ask you something, mom and dad, what's your finished product? What kind of home do you have? What are you trying to do? What are you trying to do to raise your children? What's your goal? What's your bullseye? Where are you going? See? Because your home, that's what you're doing. If you have children, you are raising those children. They're God's arrows. They don't even belong to us. They heritage of the Lord belong to us And God wants to reach into your home, and he wants to take that child, if you please, as an arrow. And he wants it prepared just like he prepared you. See, it says that the arrows are in the hand of a mighty man. Daddy in that home, in those scriptures, Psalm 127, is a mighty man. That means he's the he's the champion. He's the beater of all uh uh comers. And uh and I I was thinking about that one time with Red, I said, I wonder if my boy said you know would be one of those boys who said, My dad better than your dad. Huh? Yeah. And he's a chief, he's the head of the clan, he's the head of the house. Huh? Or is he I was teasing somebody before service but learned how to say yes dear. Huh? I I I'm holding classes if you want to after services how to say yes dear. But see you gotta learn how to say it right. Isn't it yes dear? It's yes dear. Yes, dear. Yes, dear. Huh? Who's the head who's the head of the clan in your home? See? He's the strong man He's a strong man. He's a valiant man. He's fearless. He's strong in convictions. He's strong in faith. He's strong in love. He is the leader of that home. He is the example at home. And mom and dad are raising their children to be servants of God. that God one day is going to reach into their home and take those young people and use them for the glory of God. See? And so those arrows those arrows belong to God. That home they have belongs to God. It's really not your home. You and I need to recognize that God has given us this home. God has given us this family, and God wants to bless it God wants to bless our home. That's why it's so hu so uh important that you and Dad get along. It's so important that you and Dad love the Lord. It's so important that you and Dad uh go to church and take your children and those children can sit there so God can take if you please the word of God and work in their hearts and deal with their lives and help them to grow in Christ to become the servants of God that God wants See? Now see what that puts it all in a different different kind of a uh viewpoint. Because now your home, this home that God has, becomes the the the motive and direction for your life I noticed that when they were putting these cars together, they didn't come and put old junk parts in it. They didn't put used parts in it. They put all brand new. They put all that was according to the plan of the one who had in mind the finished product. That's why it's important what your children are doing and where they're going, who they're running with, what what uh what are they watching on television, what they're doing with their computers, where they're going, who they're running with. It's important why See, God wants you and I to protect them because God wants us to raise them, if you please. That's why it's important. You know what, when you talk about discipline. God disciplined us. He's the one. Used to say as a uh as a Christian years ago preachers say, Well, I don't want God took me out, take me out to the woodshed. We don't hear that much anymore Christians don't seem to even think about the fact that they their actions or attitude may put them out in the woodshed with Dad or the Heavenly Father. But the real truth is what the discipline's all about. We're supposed to be teaching our children right from wrong and to obey and do what mom and dad say. And if we do that in our home It's that become the lifestyle by which they say, Yes, Lord, I'll do that. Yes, Lord, I'll go. Yes, Lord, I'll be. Yes, Lord, I won't do that. Yes, yes, yes, Lord. And uh and they learned that because why? We have it in the semi line of our home If you take your life right now, mom and dad, look at your life together, especially if you have children Look at your home and say, what kind of semuline do I have going? What am I going to turn out? What's going to be the finished product? We don't we di we they they did not start that assembly of God and say, Oh, I hope this works. They didn't they didn't you know have all these parts come and say, Well maybe it won't do I I don't won't put that part on it Can't we do something else? And you want to change the change the design. They didn't do that. God has given us design for our children, how to raise our children. God has given us design in that book, the Bible See? And so what is God let me ask you a question. Right now, I want you to think, especially if you have children, Mama Dad, I want you to think about I don't care if they're teenagers like this. What is the finished product? What when they leave your nest and they go out into their own life, they may get married and or go to college or whatever, when they start making decisions on their own. And they don't ask you about them anyway. And they make decisions. Because we we tell our children, we still tell Linda's married daughters that live near us, said it's all about choices. It's all about choices. What will their choices be? What will they decide? Will you will you find them if you please going to church and loving the Lord and serving the Lord and marrying Christian mates that love God and love the Bible and love serving the Lord Huh? Or they're gonna marry and they're never gonna go to church and they're not gonna be interested in things of God. What do you think they're gonna get that? They've got to get it out of our homes and out of our lives. See, message from the head reaches the head. Message from the heart reaches the heart. But a message from the life reaches the life. Reaches the life. And children watch our life. We're the example. And really, what our lives ought to be the finished product as well as their life. See if we are the finished product. And we know, hey, I know I know one thing in my life. I love the Lord. I know one thing in my life. I'd rather die than miss God's will. I know one thing, I want to be obedient to the Lord in all things. I know one thing, I ought to walk with God. God is so good and God is so wonderful. Boy, that's what I want. That's the finished product. That's what every preacher wants for his people. What the pastor, that's his finished product. He wants you on your own free will to say, I want to serve Jesus and live for him and love him and I'm going to do whatever he wants me to do. Well that's what I wanted from my children That's what I wanted from my children. I wanted from my grandchildren. I wanted for my grandchildren. I'm still Poppy, Poppy Schindler. I'm still Poppy. I was telling somebody before the service I had a granddaughter and a grand uh actually is granddaughter from one family and granddaughter from an from another of my children and they were on Facebook. And they got in this discussion, and I said, this is sick. What in the world kind of talk is this? So I commented on their wall. And I said, Boy, I let 'em know real quick what Poppy thought about that. Blink it was gone. Three days later I got this from my granddaughter who I had reproved. She says, I hate it when people step on my Christian liberty. So I got a granddaughter I'm going to see in about three months. We're going to sit down and talk about Christian liberty. What is Christian liberty and what does that mean? Huh? Because see I ain't done yet. I'm still a part of their assembly line. I'm still a part that every once in a while they bring in to the home. And papy and grandma get to be a little bit of influence to help 'em. That's what we're supposed to do, because we're supposed to be helping them, the children, raise their children, raise our grandchildren and our great grandchildren. See. So let me ask you something. How's your quiver? How's your home? How you doing? See you gotta dig you gotta make up your mind. Like the Lord, and he went out. Thank God he found me alongside the road. Didn't look like much. If you just saw me and said, Oh, can't believe Fred Schindler got faith, oh no, no, no, he didn't know. There ain't no way Fred Schindler could be saved Then he got cold to freeze. Oh, no way. Fred Shimmer get cold to freeze. Never, never, never. Yeah, he did. He did. I got called of God and one day he said, I want to use you. And I went out and started the Open Bible Baptist Church, became a pastor. Huh? So let me ask you something. What's your finished product? What's your personal finished product? Are you what you ought to be? Say, well, I know I'm not. Well when are you going to be? We believe the Lord's coming. When are we going to make the decisions? Why do we keep procrastinating? As for me and my house, we'll serve the Lord. That's her favorite verse, I think. She got it up around the house and everything. As for me and my house, we'll serve the Lord. It's the only thing I want to do. It's only thing I think about. It's all my desire. Serve the Lord. It's all I want for my children. We pray for our children. I've got I've got three children. Each of them have a boy called a priest and the oldest daughter of one of the children, her husband's already called ordained. So I got four. preachers in in the family. They're Joel, Jared, Jonathan, and Johnny. All start with Jay. We pray for 'em almost every day. God make them independent, fundamental, temperamental, Baptist preachers that love God and walk with God and serve the Lord, win souls, and preach. Because we're not done reasonably. We're not done influencing. So let me ask you a question. We got to maintain the status quo Or do you think maybe it's time we start making some real heartfelt decisions in these last days? And we're going to do what's right. And we're going to serve the Lord. And we're going to begin to influence our children. To live for God. We're going to be faithful to God. We're going to serve God as for me and my house will serve the Lord. Might start out with getting saved. You might be here this morning not saved. I had the great privilege of going to the foreign field probably around 65 times in 15 countries in the last 40-some years. And you know what? The two words are the saddest word in any language. Not saved. Not saved. Sad. You're not saved. When are you gonna get saved? Why don't you get saved this morning? Why don't you turn your heart over to the Lord Jesus? Why don't you come and trust the Lord as your Savior? Let God pick you up. Begin to work in your life. Serve the Lord. Let Him change your life. Why don't you do that? Let's stand to our feet and bow our heads. Father in heaven. I don't think I did too good, but I try to be obedient. Preach this. I pray, dear God, that you would work in hearts. Working this invitation. Here's what I'd like to do. If every head's bowed and eyes closed, in a moment I'm going to point to the pianist and she's going to start playing. And here's the challenge I'd like to leave with you, leave with you. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, would you trust this church and trust this pastor? And come and let them take a Bible and show you how you can know that you know that you know that you're going to heaven when you die. If you're here and you're a mom and a dad, Maybe just a husband and wife, maybe we don't have children. Why don't you come and make a commitment to God Almighty that you're going to have your home turned into a quiver for God? And you're going to serve the Lord. And you're going to live for the Lord. And you're going to ask God to work miracles in your home and your life. Maybe you're here and you got children. And you got your eyes off that assembly line, or maybe you've been putting things in that assembly line. You know, gotta change, you gotta change. Why don't you come and ask God to help you to make those changes that turn your home into a godly quiver for God. Maybe you're here this morning, God's dealing with about preaching, full-time service, dedicating your life. Maybe your heart's a little cold. You need to come and rededicate your life to the Lord and say to God, Lord. As for me and my house, we're going to serve you. We're going to serve the Lord. We're making a decision. Change our life. Change our lifestyle. Child. Every head bow now, every eye closed, I'm gonna ask the piano to start playing. She starts playing, you come. Come on, slip out of your seat, come roll fast. That's it. Come on, God bless you. Come on, that's it. Come on. That's it.