There. Um I heard about how many folks um are going have some New Year's resolutions you're going to work on? Anybody at all? About five people in the crowd. Uh I think New Year's resolutions are good. I got some I'm working on and things uh I'm gonna talk about it tonight. By the way, we have a really interesting service this evening. I hope you'll be back tonight 6 o'clock. We're moved our evening service up an hour. And we got some neat things planned for this evening. So I hope you'll be here. But I do want to talk this evening about resolutions. making New Year's resolutions. How many people ever get up in the morning and you think about or you plan uh your day, what you want to accomplish that day, I want to get this job done, I want to do this, I want to see that. How many people do that on a daily basis Sure. There's nothing wrong with doing that on a yearly basis. The beginning of the year, say this is what I like to see happen. This is uh uh goals I want to accomplish, and uh New Year's resolutions. They usually last till about January 3rd, but um It's good nevertheless to uh uh set them. I read about uh a boy that um called up a young man called his family up on New Year's Day And uh wish them Happy New Year's. They got talking. And uh he said, Dad, what's your New Year's resolution? And Dad said this, my New Year's resolution is to treat your mother like a princess all year long How many ladies like that? Yeah. Then uh he said um then later the son was talking to his mother and she said, Mom, what's your New Year's resolution? She said, My New Year's resolution is to make sure your father keeps his New Year's resolution. So we'll see how that works out. Psalm chapter one I'd like for us to read the first three verses together in unison. Good passage to finish up old year and start off a new year. Psalms chapter 1. We're going to begin reading in verse one. We're going to read verse two and three, all together in unison. Does everybody have it there? Here we go. Let's read with me. Ready? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. I want to speak this morning for a little bit on the blessed man The Blessed Man. Let's pray. Father, I thank you, Lord, for a good service so far this morning. The singing has been a tremendous blessing to me. The fellowship has been great encouragement. Just thankful for folks that came out. Lord, we know there's a lot of folks homeset, and uh no doubt many are listening in uh on the air. And so we pray that you would bless them at home and stir our hearts, Lord, as we finish out this year and look forward to this coming year. I ask that you would challenge us and direct us. And I pray that your will would be done, not just in us as a church, but every one of our individual lives. At the end of the year, we would know that we've trusted you and followed your directions. I present my body now to you, Lord anew. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me in this message. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The book of Psalms is a favorite book of the Bible for millions of people for thousands of years. I enjoy the book of Psalms. I try to lead it read through the book of Psalms sometimes two or three times a year. It's a tremendous passage. It's a trend tremendous portion of the Bible And it's a great place to go to in times of trial, in times of blessing, in times of happiness. It seems like the book of Psalm touches all the experiences of life Tremendous book. Just a little background. I thought I'd give you a little information about Psalms, the word itself. Anyone want to take a guess? We're a small crowd this morning Anybody want to take a guess? What does the word psalm itself mean? Anybody want to take a shot at that? The word psalm, what's it mean? A song. And actually the word itself, the literal base, raw definition of the word, means this to twang. Twang. Uh what are those things, uh uh uh uh juice harp? Twang, twang, twang. Anybody fin you folks from West Virginia know what I'm talking about, right? A mouth heart. Or you have a little banjo or something and you twang, twing. That's what the word itself means. It means to pluck or to twang something. to pick at something. That's the original where it came from. And then over time the word was used to address just music in general song, uh just music in general. Then it began to uh develop into psalms using for songs. Then the biblical definition came. And God uses it to describe any form or expression, psalm, some of them are prayers, but a song of something that brings praise to God. That exalts the Lord. And so the book of Psalms, any song or any expression of praise is the biblical definition of it. But I thought that was interesting. You could write in your margin Bible between Psalms, just put clang. And there might help you remember a little bit. But that's what the word means. There's 150 Psalms recorded, preserved for us in Scripture, given by inspiration of God. and preserved for us here today. There's various authors. They were written over an extended period of time. Moses is actually the pen. Actually there's one author, God. Let me uh rephrase that. There's one author, God is the author, but there's various penmen. That God used to record these down. Moses actually penned a number of Psalms very early on in history And then they go through there, Moses, the last psalm, as best we can tell, was penned at some point after Israel returned from captivity in Babylon. So you have a very extended period of time that these things are being recorded and that they're being uh introduced to the nation of Israel and then through scriptures to us. Authors. Moses was an author. Anybody want to take a guess who another author of some of the Psalms is? I mean Pendman, I should say. And David, he's the first one we think of. In fact, a lot of people in their mind assume David penned all of them. He did not David penned some of them, Moses penned some of them. There's two that it implies that Solomon was actually the penman of two and there. There's several guys, uh Asaph uh recorded a bunch of them. The sons of Korah recorded a bunch of them. Then there's a slew of them. We have no idea who the human human penman was for the book of Psalms. We just don't know. We're not told And uh the important thing to keep in mind though is this. God is the author of Psalms. When I open my Bible, And I'm reading a psalm, it's as if God is speaking directly to me. Actually, the whole Bible's that way But this is God's word. And we read Psalm chapter 1. This is God speaking to you and I from his word. So God is the author. If we look at Psalm chapter 1, there's no title given for that chapter of the Bible. Psalm chapter 1, no title given. We don't know who the penman was. We don't know any history behind it. We don't know any circumstances around Psalm chapter 1 being recorded But nevertheless, it is God's will. And I thought as we finish out this year and we begin a new year, uh praying and seeking the Lord what to preach this morning, the Lord seemed to direct me to this passage, and I think it's incredibly appropriate. That we consider going into a new year that we look at Psalm chapter 1. He says, blessed is the man. The word blessed, the simple definition, and maybe the world would define the term blessed as simply this, happy. Just a happy God. The fact of the matter is when the Bible uses the term blessed, it means a whole lot more than simply being happy. Happy in a lot of ways is dependent upon my circumstances. You know, oh things are going great, I got a raise at work, I'm happy. Oh no, we got layoffs at work, I'm not happy. When the Bible talks about blessedness, it's a whole lot more than just happy. It has this idea: a full and genuine joy. That begins in my heart and soul. It is a joy, a contentment, a fulfillment That is not dependent upon any circumstance or any situation I find myself in. In other words, when God says a man or a woman is blessed of God. They can have joy, they can have contentment, they have fulfillment regardless of how anybody else is treating me. Regardless of what my financial standing is, regardless of what my health may or may not be, we can be blessed. We can be blessed. Joyful fulfillment, joyful contentment. In fact, I got studying the word blessed and how it's used different places and I have a number of dictionaries I go to, Hebrew and Greek dictionaries, and one of them had this idea behind the word blessed, and this idea to be so joyful To be so content and so fulfilled in my life to the point that others see it and are envious Of the joy and fulfillment and contentment that is in my life. Isn't that interesting? God says that He can and will bless certain people. To the point that other people see what God is doing in their life, other people see the presence of God, the presence of the joy of the Lord, the presence of fulfillment and contentment and confidence, they'll see that to the point that they'll say, I want that. I desire that in my life. And God says, blessed is the man. Blessed is the man. Again, I think this passage is appropriate as we look at a new year. He mentions two different folks in this chapter. Chapter one. He talks about the righteous and he talks about the unrighteous. The righteous and the unrighteous. And you and I have the opportunity. In the next twelve months, we can choose To either live a righteous life or an unrighteous life. Either I can choose to live a life that trusts God And trust God and follow his instructions. Simply, Lord, I believe you, I trust you. You tell me what to do, and I will do that. You direct me, you instruct me, and I will trust you and I will follow those instructions in my life. In other words, when God says I'm going to trust God. And God says, listen, I'm warning you. You need to avoid these certain things in your life. It says, Alright, Lord, I trust you. I have faith in you. I will teed that warning. I will avoid those things in my life God says, listen, I love you. I'm wise. I know what's best for you. You need to do this. You need to make sure these things are in place in your life And I, as a righteous man, say, Lord, I believe that. I trust you. What you're instructing me. I will take heed to that, and I will make sure these things are true in my life. It simply means trusting God and following his instructions. Trusting God, heeding his warnings. Claiming his promises, following his instructions, is a righteous life. And God says that the righteous man will experience these blessings. The man or the woman that trusts God, follows his instructions, does what God says, avoids what God says to avoid, claims what God promises will be true. God says that man will be blessed. So I can choose to do that. Or he says the unrighteous are not so. He says the unrighteous are like chaff. They don't have any blessing. They don't have this peace and joy that's regardless of what circumstances are, this contentment, this presence of God in my life, he says the unrighteous don't do that. What are the unrighteous? The unrighteous would be people that say a lot like Solomon is doing in our study of Ecclesiastes. He says, you know, God's fine, God has his place, God's up there, but he's not going to dictate to me how I should live my life. God's not going to tell me what I should or should not do. I got a brain. I got reasoning. I'm going to lean on my own understanding. I'm going to run my life the way I think it should be run. I'm going to do things the way I think they should be done. I'm going to um uh I'm gonna run my life. I'm my own man. I'm the master of my destiny, I make my own choices And God says that person is unrighteous. And he says that person will not experience the blessings of God. My wife and I were talking last evening about some different situations and just the mentality of the world and how it has crept into the church. And we were talking a little bit. I said, you know what I think would help us help solve our flawed thinking? If we would see God as He really is, as our Creator. He created us. He made us. We are his creation. We're not our own. And as his creation, him being the creator, him being the owner, him being God. If I see that and say, all right, my responsibility as the created being is to trust my creator and follow his instruction. I am created for him. I'm not an independent self-created being. You follow what I'm trying to say? And I think we forget that. And we say, My life is my own And my my my this is my body, this is my life, I make my own decisions, I'll go my own way. We completely forget we're created beings. By the way, I know I say this so often, but I'm going to keep saying it. As long as the world keeps lying, I'm going to keep refuting that lie. We did not evolve from animals. We are created by God. And down inside every heart and soul, every single person knows in their heart and soul that we are more than just flesh and blood. We are spiritual beings created in the image of our God. And we answer to Him. We are owned by Him. We are His. And the righteous man says, I recognize that. And this God that made me, this God that gave me life, this God that gave me my life. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to follow his instruction. I'm going to let him lead me and let him direct me in my life. And God says, the man that will do that, I will bless that man. My presence will be there. My joy, my fulfillment, the contentment that only I can give will be there on the life of that man. I don't know about how you feel, but I desperately want God to bless me. I want 2018 for Dennis Leatherman. I want it to be blessed of God. Now that does not necessarily mean financial prosperity. These liars on TV that equate the blessing of God with materialism, that is as unscriptural as you can get. I want peace regardless of what happens outwardly. Regardless of what happens to my physical body. I want God's presence and God's blessings on my life. Anyone else feel that way for 2008? That means we've got to trust God. That means we've got to lay aside our own understanding. We need to let the Lord lead us and let the Lord direct us from His Word. So, this matter of blessing, two distinct classes of people: the righteous who are blessed of God. And the unrighteous, who are like the chaff of the wind, just empty, no substance to their spiritual well-being, just empty. Two classes of people, and we have the choice. I choose. Which of those two do I want to be? Every single person I'm talking to this morning, you choose. To be the kind of person you are, I choose to be at the living at the spiritual level I'm living at. I can't blame my spouse. I can't blame my community. It is my decision. We had a fellow in the church I was at in Indianapolis, and we'd have testimonies there Sunday nights much similar to what we do here. And and all the time the guy would stand up and he'd say, Oh, I'm such a terrible Christian, I'm all of this, and all and he'd go on and on about what a terrible Christian he was. And I knew him a little bit and he was telling the truth And I don't mean to be judgmental there, but it was true. And finally it got to the point, and I and I thought, you know, you don't have to be that way. You could live a righteous life. You could live a victorious life. You could have the blessings of God on your life. It all comes down to the decisions I make. Am I going to trust God? Am I going to exercise faith in God? God says this, all right, Lord, I trust you. I will follow that direction. Blessed is the man. Blessed is the man. Let's look at this a little bit. Let me give you my outline I came up with with the first few verses of this passage. First of all, I want us to consider the character of the blessed man. The character of the blessed man. And what I all I want to do under this thought is this, the word man. Blessed is the man. I think it's interesting to notice he does not say blessed is the king. Oh, if you were king, boy, then you could be blessed You had all that authority and power, all these resources. Of course, you could have whatever you want. You could just people would do whatever you say. Oh, if you were a king, that would be blessed. He doesn't say blessed is the king He says, blessed is the what? Man. Just an ordinary, plain, old, everyday man. Doesn't say, blessed is the prophet. Blessed is the priest. Ah, somebody super spiritual guy, some super uh spiritual man called of God, you know, if he holds the office of prophet, surely God would bless him. Good, great, and uh he's in that position. No, he doesn't say any of that. He says, blessed is the man. You know, I got studying that word man. Anyone would have guessed what the word man means there? Just an ordinary, everyday guy. Guy that drives a truck for a living. Guy that sits behind a desk and pushes a pencil for a living. Guy that hammers nails. Well they don't even hammer nails, a bunch of sissies usually electric things. Don't tell uh you hammer nails. What a there's a real man right there, I'll tell you. Don't tell Mark and Ronnie I said that or Randy Just an ordinary guy and works for works and works hard for his living and and and applies to ladies and for ladies. Just uh just a dear sweet lady Maybe she works an office job. Maybe she stays home and takes care of kids. He's not referring to some super hyper-spiritual gifted called person And what I take away from this, when he says, Blessed is the man, what I take away from that is every single one of us can know the joy and the blessing and the fulfillment and the presence of God in our lives. to such a degree that other people see it and say, man, I'd like to have what she has. Blessed is the man. Just an ordinary guy. Just an ordinary person, male or female. Just an ordinary person that has a sinful nature just like everybody else Blessed is the man, the man that struggles with temptation like anybody else. The man that maybe struggles with a temper and get mad and throw things and say things and whatnot He struggles with that just like anybody else. He doesn't say a man that doesn't have a sinful nature. He doesn't say some person that doesn't ever face temptation. It's just an ordinary person. You say, preacher, I struggle with temptation. I struggle with such a simple nature. I can never be this person. No. You're the one he's talking about. Sinful nature, person that has struggles in life and insecurities maybe of themselves in life. Person maybe that's trying to do everything they can just to pay the bills, living uh hand to mouth, so to speak. That person can be blessed. Maybe there's physical ailments and deal with pain and deal with discouragement. That person can be blessed. Whatever this thing may be, it's just an ordinary person. But This man trusts. And he lets God lead him and he depends on the Lord's instructions. And I think I lost sound, didn't I? Alright. I'll try to stay right behind here. All right. Even the guy that's gets mad at the sound equipment and wants to throw it in the baptistry. Follow what I'm trying to say. I I just try that look at a bit less than that is pretty small. Lord, right? The character. Blessed is the man. Blessed is the man. That encouraged my heart. You know what that tells me? That tells me that I can experience I can experience God's blessing. That tells me that Dennis Leatherman, with all his faults, all his weaknesses, all his struggles, I can know God's blessing on my life. And that means you, teenager, young person, senior citizen, you say, preacher, you don't know my besetting sins. No, and I don't want to know. God knows, and God says, listen, if you'll bring that to me, if you'll trust me, if you'll follow what I say, do what I say, I can pour out my blessing on you. That encouraged my heart. Just an ordinary man that trusts God and trusts God to lead me and direct me in the decisions I make and my behavior. So I had the character of the blessed man. I put this down, number two. I notice the caution that he gives to the blessed man. The caution. He tells us here that if we want God's blessings on our lives, there's some things we cannot do. If I want God to bless me, If I want God's blessings on my life, there are some things I cannot do. There are some places I must not go. There are some people, hey, there are some people I must avoid. Blessed is the man. Now look what he says here. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. If I want to be that man that God blesses, I want to be that woman that God blesses, I must be very, very careful, heed God's caution, that some of these people I must avoid, some of these places I must not go. There is a teaching in the Bible that I call the most neglected teaching in Scripture, and that is this, personal separation. God says that you and I as a child, how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. As a saved person The Bible teaches me that there are some things I must not do. I must separate myself from some activities, some places, and even some people. That I must separate myself from. It does not say I should be unkind to them. It does not say I should be whole, view myself holier than them. I'm not. But I cannot allow myself to be influenced by those people. I cannot allow myself to be influenced by these places. I cannot engage in this. I must separate from them. One of the most neglected doctrines in Scripture is the doctrine of personal separation. Um there are s hey listen, I'm just trying to tell you, in 2018, if you want God's blessings on your life, there's some places you can't go. You just can't do it. They're going to hurt you. They're going to displease God. There are some things I cannot do. If I want God's blessings on my life. There are some people who do not share my values. There are some people who do not share my priorities. There are some people who do not share my love and my desire for the Lord. And if I allow myself to be unduly influenced by them, they will draw me away from what God wants for me, and I will miss that blessing. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. I want us to notice some of the people that we must avoid if we're going to have God's blessings. Number one, those with bad advice Those with bad advice. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. That simply means this, to go along with their sinful reasoning. To go along with their sinful priorities. How many folks have noticed this world does not share the same priorities that the child of God does? What this world considers high priority, as far as God's concerned, is very low priority. And vice versa. Go along with the sinful reasoning, sinful priority, sinful values. Let me ask you a question. Who are you listening to? Who's advising you? Who has your ear? Whose advice are you taking? You need to be very, very careful about that. If it is unscriptural, if it is ungodly, the Bible says stay, don't walk with them. Don't walk with them. Stay away from that. Can I throw this out? You ought to be very careful what music we listen to. That's music, those songs are advising us, advising us. They're preaching values, they're preaching priorities. Again, my wife and I were talking last night about some songs that we heard. And they were so unscriptural and they were so ungodly The message that was being carried in that music. You know what that is? That's advice. They're advising us. The movies we watch The things we read, it's all affecting us. We need to be very, very careful. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. If we want God's blessing, we must be very careful who we allow to influence our thinking. Who are you listening to? So I need to avoid those who have bad advice. Number two, I need to avoid those who are bad associates. Look again at verse number one. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the godly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. The word stand there is interesting and has this idea to embrace, to hold on to And sinners are simply those living outside of the will of God. Simply those that are living outside of the perimeters God has set up for us. The person that stands in the way of sinners is the one that's in sync with this ungodly world. They hold this world's values. Listen. If I want God's blessing on my home, if I want God's blessing on my marriage, if I want God's blessing on my children, I cannot embrace the values of this world I need to embrace the values of God. I need to hold to the values of God. Somebody I used to tell the young people when I was youth pastor, I used to tell the young people, if you want to know what kind of person you are, and this is true for all ages If you want to know what kind of person you are, look at your friends. Because who I choose to be with, who I choose to associate with, who I choose to stand with, are exactly what I am or what I'm becoming. And so I have to look at the people around. I've tried very, very hard when I've gone into ministry as pastor, I've tried very, very hard. to be careful who I allow to influence me as far as pastors are concerned. Most of my mentors and people I look to are much older than I am. They've been in the ministry for many, many years. and I look and they've been faithful to the Lord, I want those kinds of people to influence me. How many people follow what I'm saying? You with me? And so he says, if you want God's blessing, you want God's presence, enjoy in your life, do not allow those ungodly, do not embrace the ungodly. And then number three, I notice those with bad attitudes. How many people know somebody has a stinky attitude? Do not look around anywhere. How many people hear you know it when you have a stinky attitude? I'm not going to ask how many have one right now, because I don't want to know. We'll have an altar call in a minute for that But my Bible says, I need to watch out for those that have stinky attitudes. Look how he puts it. Nor sitteth in the seat of the what? Scornful. Scornful. Here's what the scornful is. Somebody that has no regard for what God says. Has no regard for what God's will is. Has no regard for God's directions, God's instructions. I don't care what that is. I'm going to do my thing. I'm pushing that out. And he says, he says, nor sitteth in the seat of storm, for don't allow yourself to adopt their attitudes. How many people you have ever found yourself here in a pretty good mood? You got around a bunch of people that were stinky attitudes, and before you knew it, you had a stinky attitude. It's contagious. Did you ever notice that anger is contagious? You can be happy as can be. Somebody walks in mad. Next thing you know, you're mad And you don't know why they're mad. You're just mad because they're mad. It's contagious. And you don't even know why you're mad. You're just mad. Anybody does that make anybody mad? No time for the Bible. They have no time for righteousness. No no time I just want to do what I want. I just want to enjoy myself. I just want to have big time. I have no regard for what God says is right and wrong. No regard for what the Lord says. Says, I'm just going to do my thing. God says, you better watch out for that. Better watch out for that. I've seen so many Christians. Listen, I've been doing this a little while. I've seen so many Christians that got around the wrong crowd, and before you knew it, they were drawn away. And they had a bad attitude about the things of God, bad attitude about the Lord. We need to watch our attitude. And one way to protect my attitude is to avoid people who are scorners. Void people that that disregard the things of God. They don't care what God says. We live in a world that does not care what God says. This world is no friend of grace. This world is no friend of you and I having God's blessings And we have to be very, very careful. We are not unkind to anybody. And we cannot isolate ourselves from the world. We have to interact. But he says, if I want God's blessings, if I want my life to be righteous and be what God intends for it to be, I must be very, very cautious. On the kind of people I round, people with bad advice, people with bad attitudes, people with that are bad associates, their actions. I must be very careful. I was thinking this past week, And I hate this. I absolutely hate it. When I was down in Bible college in Chattanooga we had a bus route and I worked for a number of years. We ran a bus route. We had an afternoon Sunday school. The mor they ran all the buses in the morning, 42 buses in the morning. Pack the place out. The buses take the kids home. They came back to church. We loaded up with another set of workers. That would have been us. We headed out into the city for the afternoon. Ran the buses again. Brought in 18 uh uh uh no uh we brought in probably about 800, I should say, kids, children, brought them in the afternoon, did an afternoon Sunday school for them, sent them home. I did an afternoon route for a number of years. They asked me, and they had enough kids. We divided them up into three different assemblies, we called it. And each one had several hundred kids. So I had the C assembly. It was all the inner city projects. I don't know why they gave that to me. But um I mean just rough kids. One of our kids that rode the bus, we sent them off to camp. for free junior camp. They called up and sent him back. They said, you need to come and get this kid. He had a sold-off shotgun in his luggage when he showed up at camp. I said, again So that's the that's the clientele we had. And we go in there and we pick those kids up and we love on them. And we we get them saved and we'd work with them and did we we just did everything we could. I'd run back in the projects with the car Sunday night, Wednesday night, bring them in in the car. I just wanted to make a difference There was one fellow that worked with us on the bus, and I'll not give his name. Called the preach, he said. Uh worked on the bus very faithfully, went out every Saturday visiting the route with us without fail. Worked with the kids, helped teach a class. We graduated, we kind of went out there, I kind of lost touch with them, and here I come to find out, and about a couple three years ago, this fella that had so much potential, And that had seemed to have such a heart for God, had gotten in with the wrong crowd. And now he is living about the most perverse life you can possibly imagine I found him on Facebook and looked him up and looked at his stuff on there and absolutely perverse sodomy Everything that goes with that type of lifestyle left his wife and children for another man, just incomprehensible. You say, how does that happen? How does that happen? I tell you this, it doesn't happen overnight. It was a slow progression of a series of compromises. and foolish decisions and disregarding God's warnings. And now you can't say he has God's blessings on his life living like that. And that's something else I notice here in verse number one is the progression of sin. Not just the people we're to avoid. But did you catch that? Did you notice when we read there? There's three words, very important words in verse 1. The first one says, he that walketh. What's the next one? Anyone take a guess look at it? He that walketh, then next is what? Standeth. And then what's the third one? Siddh. Did you catch the progression? Oh, he's walking. I I'm just walking with him. Ah, just you know, I'm not committed to this. We're just walking. Next thing you know, he's standing there hanging out with them. And then the next thing you know, he's sitting in the seat with them. Sin has a progressive nature to it. This is a strong warning to those of us that know the Lord as Savior. This is a strong warning that it is very possible and very easy to drift. Away from God's will for our lives. It is very easy for that wrong attitude, that stinky attitude, that bitterness, that anger, that lust. It is very easy to that for that just to creep into our lives. Oh, I'm not hanging out with them. I'm not sitting down with them. I just walk over there and check things out a little bit. I just swing by that website a little bit. I just watch that show a little bit. I'm not committed to it. If you're not careful, next thing you know, you're standing there with them. And it ends up sitting down in the seat with them. You follow what I'm trying to say? Very seldom does anybody dive headfirst suddenly into a life of sin. It always begins with a series of small compromises here and here and here. We're all familiar with the story of Adam and Eve. Think about Eve. How did she end up, and Adam along with her, how did they end up plunging humanity into such a sinful state They didn't just go barging over there and grab that fruit and I'm eating it. I don't care what God said. It's not how it started. It started out with a little advice in the ear. Yea, hath God said? And then it ended up engaging that discussion. Well, God said this, and ended up sitting down and eating it. You see the progression there? Listen to me. God's warnings must be taken seriously. Can I suggest this when the preacher preaches? And the Spirit of God speaks to your heart about some area of my life that needs attention. Can I encourage you to be sensitive to that and submit to the Spirit of God when he uses the Word of God to challenge us and say, yes, Lord, I'm not going to wait until this is some serious thing. I'm going to make it right now. I'm going to respond on this now. And that's what he's telling us. There's a progressive nature to this, a series of compromises. And so, one, we notice, first of all, the character of this blessed man. He's just an ordinary guy, same struggle as anybody else. And then we notice the caution God gives to him, and this blessed man heeds those cautions. He's very, very careful what he allows to influence us. He understands the progressive nature of sin, that it begins very innocently, it begins very subtly, but it always leads to destruction. And then he understands that there must be cravings of the blessed man. And I get that from verse 2. The cravings. Look at verse 2 with me. But his delight Is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. The word delight means to have great pleasure in something. To have a great longing for. He desires it. I found that there is an inseparable link between the blessings of God and the Word of God. I cannot have God's blessings if I am not being influenced by God's Word. There is an inseparable link between living a righteous life and the Word of God. The blessed man, he avoids the wrong, the bad, and he's attracted to the good, to the Bible. The word meditate there, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate. The word meditate, I like telling this, I've told it many, many times over the years. The word meditate means to utter something over and over in your mind. Just keep muttering it over and over. I read, blessed is the man that walk not in the counseling. All during the day, I'm meditating on it, walking not in the counseling ungodly, standeth away of sinners, doesn't sin in the sea of the scornful. And just keep that in my mind. Keep that in the forefront of my mind If I want to be blessed of God, I saturate my heart and mind with the Word of God and I keep it in front of me. Keep it in front of me. It's one of the reasons we try to memorize a verse at least one a month. Keep that word of God in our hearts and minds. Then God can lead me, God can speak to me, God can direct me. Um the word meditate is very similar, and this is what I like to illustrate it with, is a cow chewing its cud. How many people are familiar with the chap cow chewing its cud? It goes out there in the meadow crops off all that grass, swallows it whole. And um reminds me of my boys growing up when they'd eat just Swallows that grass hole. I mean it's down there in one of its stomachs. Hole just blades of grass just under. They don't go lay down under an old shade tree And he'll sit down and you'll drive by and you ever drive by, see that old cow laying under there. What's he doing? So where's he chewing? What has he got bubblegum or something? No. You know what he does? He takes that grass that he swallowed earlier in the day whole and he regurgitates it back up. Now that's a fancy word for vomit. And um He vomits it back up into his mouth. And I thought I'd share with you right before we go to lunch this little story. But he vomits it back up in his mouth and he chews it. It's his cud, and he r he He chews it over and over and over and over and over throughout the day. That's the idea of this word. Joshua chapter one says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein, chew it over and over and over. Day and night, day and night. I'm talking to some people. You are struggling spiritually. You are in a mess spiritually, and the reason is you're neglecting the Word of God. You've pushed aside of the Word of God. You've not found time for the Word of God. When somebody sits in my office and they say, Pastor, I'm struggling with a sin. Pastor, this isn't right. Pastor, this isn't right, one of the first things I ask them is, Are you reading your Bible every day? And you know what the answer is? Without fail. You know what the answer is? No. Not like I should be. I've neglected it. And I have found that one of the beginning stages of getting away from the will of God, of losing God's blessings on my heart and life, is when I begin to neglect my daily Bible time. Spending time in the Word of God. We push that so hard here. And my prayer is that myself and for all of us, night 2018, we discipline ourselves that we spend some time every day in the Word of God. It is so important. His delight is in the law of the Lord. It takes time, it takes discipline, it takes thought. But I've got to spend time in the Word of God. And then last of all, I notice the concept of the blessed man. And I get this from verse 3, and I'm just, I'm not going to spend time on it. But what I would rec what I suggest, take the word blessed in verse 1, circle it And draw a line down to verse number three. And I believe verse number three gives us the definition of what God means by blessed Look at verse 3. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. Now you look at a tree planted by the rivers of water, it doesn't matter whether it's raining or not. There's rivers of water there. That tree is stable. That tree is fixed. That tree is established. One of the most important things in a Christian life is just being established, being consistent. You say, oh, I can't be a good Christian. My job's going terrible. No, if you're blessed of God, doesn't matter what the job is, you're still consistent. You're right there. So it has the idea of being fixed. And then he says this, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. That's fruitful. That's fruitful. One of the blessings of God on the life of a Christian is they're bearing fruit. Love, joy, peace, fruit of the Holy Spirit, but also they're winning other people to Christ. Let me ask you a question. If you've got an apple tree, what kind of fruit does that apple tree bear? Apples. What kind of fruit does a peach tree bear? What kind of fruit does a banana plant bear. Bananas. What kind of fruit does a Christian tree bear? Christians, Christians. You want to know one of the evidences of the blessing of God? It's for seeing other people saved, reproducing myself, others coming to Christ. So the blessings of God means I'm established, I'm consistent, I'm not up and down, on and off, in and out, hot and cold. No, I'm fixed, I'm established, stay consistent. Two, I'm fruitful. And then number three, I'm flourishing. Look at the last part. And whatsoever he do it shall prosper. One of the few times, I think there's only twice in the Bible, the word prosper is used. And both times it's associated with spending time in the Word of God, loving the Word of God, meditating on the Word of God. God blesses his word. And where God's word is read, God's blessings are there. Where God's word is obeyed, God's blessings are there. Where God's word is shared and preached, God's blessings are As pastor, and I would imagine as members of this church, my concern is that God blesses Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. How many people share that concern with me? Sure we do. You know what we need to make sure we do? We keep this thing the very center of everything we do. The Word of God. This is where God's blessings are. We heed this book. We claim its promises. We heed its warnings. We follow its instructions. And God says, that's the one that I will bless. I'll make them consistent. I'll make them fruitful, and I'll make them flourish. And whatsoever they do shall prosper. Whatsoever they do shall prosper. All this is a result of decisions I make. I read about in uh February uh Lewis Howe, our missionary in New Zealand, has arranged for me to come down. I'm going to preach for him and about four or five other preachers there on New Zealand, the North and South Island. But he worked in this year, and uh unbeknownst to me ahead of time. But he has two meetings over in Australia. So we're going to be able to preach for two missionaries in Sydney, Australia, and then go over to New Zealand. So I appreciate your prayers for that. I'm a little anxious about it. But please pray that God will bless that. But I was reading about Australia, and I came across a fellow by the name of Carl Radbetter. Forty-seven years old, he had a he had a four point seven million dollar fortune. In 47 years, he is so successful he had 4. 7 million dollars, and he was absolutely miserable And his life was empty, and it was frustrating, and he was angry, and he was miserable. And Carl made the decision, I'm going to give away all that money. And he did. 4. 7 million dollars, gave it away. He set up charities and the existing charities, he gave it all to them. And he said the biggest shock in his life. Was when he realized how that money stuff had stolen from him peace Now he's no kind of Christian, he doesn't claim to be a Christian, but he realized that there are things more important than life. Then money, then pleasure, then stuff. And I'm suggesting to you that Carl was wise in this aspect, He realized that he was not what he should be. And he made significant decisions and significant changes to get things the way he thought they should be. And I think you and I as Christians can learn from that. I'm talking to some Christians that are living pretty sorry Christian lives. I'm talking to some Christian, it's pretty empty. It's just going through the motions. There's nothing real there. You can't honestly say, boy, God's presence and joy is on my life. You can't honestly say that. There's frustration. There's emptiness, and I'm here to tell you, we can learn from Carl. We say, you know, I need to make some changes. If I'm going to have God's blessings, there's some decisions need to be made. There's some alterations need to take place. I need to learn to trust God and follow his instructions. He made significant decisions to alter his life for an improvement. And this year, I want to challenge us to make some decisions. I don't know what God's dealing with your heart about. I'm pretty confident the Spirit of God is touching some hearts this morning and saying, you know, you really need to address this. You really need to heed this. You need to follow these instructions. And I want to urge you with all my heart, follow God's leading. Follow God's instructions. Trust Him and obey Him. And we can be that blessed man. You can be that blessed person. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd use these thoughts this morning to challenge us and help us in this coming year to have the blessings of God. I pray, Lord, you give us the grace to make the hard decisions, to make things maybe that are not what they ought to be, and make the decisions to get them to be what they ought to be, to claim your promises. To live a life of blessing and fulfillment that only you can give us. I ask you to help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. But you say, preacher, my Christian life isn't all it ought to be. And I know that the Lord has more for me than what I'm experiencing. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I would exercise faith in God When he leads me and directs me from his word, that I will just trust him. Make whatever changes need to be made. Make whatever decisions need to make. Maybe there's some sin that needs to be repented of. Maybe there's some actions that need to be taken. Get involved in. I don't know. It's between you and God. But you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I know there are. God's dealing with my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know God's spirit's dealing with me. How about it? God bless you, hands all around. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I know what the Lord's saying. I know what my creator's telling me. I need to trust and obey him. How about it? Any others? Is God dealing with your heart? Don't be insensitive. Let the Lord have his way. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I can't honestly say that I know my sins are forgiven, that I have a home in heaven, that Christ is in my life. You say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I need to be saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that I have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Preacher, pray for me. Any at all? Now Father in heaven help us Lord to claim your promises. Help us to follow your instructions. Help us to heed your warnings so that you can bless us. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitations.