Chapter five verse I want to begin reading verse one. How many people are disappointed your preacher didn't say? How many people are really glad your preacher didn't say? Alright, verse one. And seeing the multitudes, Matthew chapter five, seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught I'm just going to read down to tonight's Beatitude. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Now we spent a couple messages on that one. That's a key verse. Now we get to verse seven and the next Beatitude, the fifth one I believe. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. And uh just I just want to speak on this. Blessed are the merciful. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study in your word. I thank you for bringing us here together in the middle of the week, as we already mentioned. I ask that you would open our hearts and minds to your word, and I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me and teach us your word, I pray, Lord, through my lips and uh Lord I pray you'd help me Lord make me and all of us to be merciful I pray we would be a church that is merciful Merciful as you instruct us here. And so help us to understand what it is, what it means, and then how to implement it. And so we're looking to you for that tonight, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. I believe it's important to understand that Christianity is not something that I do. Follow what I'm saying, it's not something, it's not an external uh uh um formality that I go through. Christianity is not something I do. Christianity is something that I am. You follow what I'm saying in this? It's It's not something, well, I'm gonna become a Christian, so I'm gonna start doing this, this, and this and this, and then that'll make me a Christian. That's not what makes me a Christian. That may make me religious, but it doesn't make me a Christian in the biblical sense of the word. Christianity is not something I do, as I said. It's something that I am. How many folks are familiar with 2 Corinthians chapter 2 5 verse 17. 2 Corinthians 5, 17. If any man be in Christ, he what's the next word? Is a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. That verse very clearly is teaching us that when when I'm in Christ, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, it's not something I start doing It's something I am now. I am a new creature. I'm a different person. I'm a new man is a term the Bible uses. And uh I believe man many most Most if not all of us that we've accepted Christ Savior, we understand what that means. We've experienced that new birth, and we are a different person now in many ways than what we were before we were saved can I get a witness on that? I'm different now. And so um uh being a new creature you say well you know if you're if you're saved you behave a different way Sure, being a new creature produces new conduct. But changing my conduct doesn't make me a new creature. You have to get the order Right. A dog barks because he's a dog. Barking doesn't make him a dog. Being a dog makes him bark. See what I'm saying? And that's the way it is with us. So Paul put it this way in Galatians chapter two and verse twenty. I think that verse captures what Christianity is as well as any verse in the Bible. He says, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Now get this. Yet not I, but what? Christ. Christ in me. Christ liveth in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. What is Paul saying? Paul is saying, Jesus Christ came and my Christian Christianity consists of Jesus Christ living his life through me. It is him living this Christian life, and uh it's not I anymore. So uh Christianity Is not something that's on the surface. It is something that's down within my soul. It's a new nature that produces from within a changed behavior. Now I said all that to say this, and I want to emphasize this the beatitudes are not a plan of salvation. God is not saying here And you'll see why I'm emphasizing it with this verse in a moment. God is not saying here, if you do these things, if you are poor in spirit and you're meek and if you hunger and thirst after righteousness And if you're merciful, then you will become a Christian. That's not it. It's getting the cart before the horse. What he's saying here is if I'm genuinely born again, if the spirit Spirit of God dwells within me, if I'm a new creature, then these will be characteristic of my life. Then these attitudes, beatitudes, will be true in my life And so we need to be real, real careful. So as we look at these Beatitudes, if you'll notice the first ones, the ones we've already looked at, uh have a lot to do with uh with my internal or has to do with my relationship with the Lord. Look at verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Alright, that's internal. That's focusing on my condition. Blessed are they that Mourn. Blessed are the meek, my attitude before the Lord. Blessed hunger and thirsty and righteousness. Then you get to verse seven, and it's kind of a transition now. And verse seven through twelve Is more external. It has to do with my interaction with other people. Look at verse 7. Blessed are the merciful. Now, verse 7 Verse 8 is a bit of an exception here. Blessed are the pure in heart. That's internal, and that's my standing with God. But then he picks it back up again in verse 9. Blessed are the peacemakers. That's my interaction with Verse 10. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Again, that's interaction with others. Blessed are ye, verse 11, when men shall revile you and persecute you. Again. To do with my interaction with others. So there's a bit of a transition taking place here. Is going from my attitudes in my relationship with the Lord now to my attitudes in my relationship with the Lord Now, I said all that. Now let's look at this verse. Verse 7. Blessed are the merciful. I want to begin. My first point tonight is The definition of mercy. The definition of mercy. It is very important in studying this beatitude. If this attitude is going to be true in my life, Then I really need to understand what he means by the merciful. Do you ever hear anybody make this statement? I don't think that word means what you think it means. Anybody ever hear that statement? Somebody's saying something and it doesn't make sense. It's very important that we understand what he means by this word mercy. So I'm going to take several aspects. And I want us to get very clear in our mind what the Lord means when he says, blessed are the merciful. I want to be merciful. He says that those people that are merciful are blessed, and they shall obtain mercy. I want to be merciful if for no other reasons I need to be merciful And so I want to understand what this means. Literally the word, if you'll get it out and look up the dictionary definitions, the Greek dictionary definitions And all those types of things. Look them out. It simply means this. The word mercy in this passage means to show compassion. Or to be very compassionate. That is the literal definition. Now I'm going to come back to that in a minute. But there's more to it. Whenever I'm studying the Bible. Whenever I'm studying the Bible, I need to do three things. If I'm doing a thorough study, number one, I need to know what words mean. Look up the look the depth Definition of the word. But that isn't always complete. Sometimes we use a word in a sense different than what its literal definition is, right? And so I need to look number two I need to look at the context. What is the context? How is it used in the context? It may be used in a way different than what the literal definition means. I know what it literally means, but I see it's being used that way, so that gives me a little more insight into it. But there's a third step I need to take, and that is I need to compare that passage With other passages of scripture. This is where cults really are able to twist the scriptures. They will take a verse out of context Or they will take it, but they will ignore other passages of Scripture that address that same subject. And so we need to do these three things. So that's what we want to do here. Be very, very thorough in my understanding of what it means to be merciful. Literally, the literal definition for this word here, and there's several other words translated mercy in the Bible that have little different shades of meanings, this one literally means to show compassion to someone or to be compassionate. Now historically, let's Let's take this word out of the biblical context and see how it was used back in the day when it was written here. How did the people in Rome and Israel and in the Greek world How did they use that? I thought this was interesting. Back in the day, outside of the biblical context, the term mercy was considered a term of weakness. The Romans despised the concept of showing mercy. If someone was merciful, well they were very weak. They were very um Uh they were ha uh they were soft. Uh the concept in the world at that day was uh you know you're not merciful, you conquer them, somebody does you wrong, they pay sevenfold. And uh you know there's no mercy shown. And if someone is merciful, they're a very weak person. They don't they uh um uh They don't have much of a um uh a constitution to them. That's not the word I want. But uh that was the concept for the Romans. Uh one one Roman philosopher said Said he called mercy the disease of the soul. I mean, that's how they hated that idea. So the Lord comes along and he says, Bless you Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. So the word the word used here literally means to show compassion or be compassionate. Context of the Roman world, it's a despised concept. It's weak, it's uh inadequate, it's um somebody that gets run over. Um uh theologically Now how is it used in use in other passages of scripture and in the total teaching of scripture? It means the word mercy means to withhold judgment. Or even more accurately, to withhold retribution. Somebody did me wrong and they owe me. If I'm going to show mercy, Mercy to them, I write off that debt. I said, all right, you owe me that, you owe me, but I'm not going to make you pay. Uh somebody breaks the law, and the law requires that they be punished. But the judge shows mercy and he says, all right, I'm going to withhold that punishment. You are not going to get the negative uh consequences. I'm going to withhold that from you. And so the idea is this not getting a judgment I do deserve. Um the verse here in verse 7 and also it's used this word for mercy is used one other time I thought this was interesting in Hebrews and we're going to go to that Lord will if we have time in a minute we'll get to it I'm sure by 930-10. And uh so we'll be there in a little bit. But um it's slightly different. The word mercy here is slightly different than than the idea of withholding judgment. We've often said this. Mercy is not getting what I do deserve, and grace is getting something that I do not deserve. Now that's very simplistic definition. I think it's accurate, but it's very simplistic. There's a little twist to that definition in the word how it's used here. This has more of a practical aspect to it, how it's carried out. How that is how that's lived out. It actually has the idea of being very compassionate to someone, whether they've done anything wrong or not. but to show compassion to him. Take your Bible. I want to illustrate it. Turn to Luke chapter 10. And here we have a pretty good example of What the Lord Jesus is talking about when he says, Blessed are the merciful. It's a little different twist than that. And I think m Luke chapter ten, beginning in verse thirty, is a good illustration of what What the Lord means by the word merciful here. Luke 10, verse 30. This is a familiar event story for all of us. And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down From Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now question, did this certain man, did he do anything wrong? No. Don't say. Uh is he is he deserving of any sort of retribution or judgment? No, he's been the recipient of being done wrong. So keep that in mind. Verse 31. By chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him What'd he do? Cast on the other side. He's coming down. He sees this guy all beat up and stripped and left for dead. He goes on the other side. He was not Merciful. Alright? Uh and likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, alright, he uh it's a little different than what the first guy did. He actually comes over and checks them out. And he passed by on the other side. Verse 33. But a certain Samaritan, how the Jews and the Samaritans get along? They hate each other. The Jews especially hated the Samaritans. The hatred was pretty much targeted more from the Jews than the Samaritans, although the Samaritans uh hated them also. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him he had what? Compassion on him. I circled that. He had compassion on him. And look what he does. And he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine and set him on his own beast and brought him to an end And took care of him. He's showing compassion. The term used in verse 33 is that he's showing compassion to him. Read on. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again, I will repay thee. Alright, so here we have this event. The man that is beat up, the Jew that's been robbed left for dead, um has he done anything against against the Samaritan in this context here. No. In fact there there's no relationship between the two at all. Other than this the Jew is in desperate And the Samaritan comes by and he has the ability to meet that need. He has the ability, the means to do And so the Bible says he shows compassion on him and he does something. He's not obligated. between the two uh uh nationalities and and uh but he does something for them. Now look down that this is where it gets interesting I think. Verse 36. Which of these Free, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves. And the Lord's having this conversation with this self-righteous guy. And look what he says. He that showed what? Ah. He showed mercy on him. Then said, Jesus unto him, go down and do likewise. In other words, they use the term mercy. Not to describe a legal action of withholding retribution or judgment on someone that did wrong. Here the term mercy is used in simply showing kindness and compassion. It's a little different twist on what we normally think of mercy. I'm not God deserved I deserve to die and go to hell and God in his mercy doesn't send me there. He forgives my sin. That's the legal aspect. This is a little different twist on that, where I am expressing compassion others, not necessarily a dumb Wrong, or they owe me anything, or I want to get back at them, but they're in need. They have they're they're they're uh in dire straits, and I have the ability to help them. Now that is the word in Matthew chapter 5 verse 7 what he's talking about. Blessed are the merciful. Merciful. To show kindness or pity or compassion to someone. To someone that's undeserving. Uh, that Samaritan, was he ever going to get paid back for this? Most likely not. He's not anticipating. He doesn't leave a bill. Uh he's not going to to be rewarded for this in any way, shape, or form. In fact, there's a very real possibility that Jew will never know who it was that did this for him. But he showed mercy to him. He was merciful. So when the Lord says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 7, that blessed are the merciful, I believe he's referencing those who not only deliberately withhold retribution against someone who deserves it, somebody did you wrong, somebody stole something from me, somebody hurt you. And boy, you have the way to get back at them and you have the way to make them pay. And you say, you know, I'm not going to do that. I want to be merciful. I'll forgive you for that. I'll absorb the debt. I'm not going to take it. It not only means that but it also has the idea of deliberately showing kindness to someone who cannot reward me. Kindness to someone who cannot Repay me. And so this concept of mercy is a lot bigger than sometimes we get in our minds. It's not a new concept. When the Lord Jesus said to his disciples, now remember he's preaching, this is the introduction to the Sermon on the Mount. He's got thousands of people out there listening to him. They knew this was a new concept. God had been merciful to Israel all through their existence. You read through the Psalms for His mercy endureth forever. His mercy endureth forever. His mercy endureth forever. I mean, he just goes overboard in emphasizing that God is merciful. Various places throughout. So it wasn't a new concept, but it was perhaps a new emphasis for the Jews in that God was saying, listen, this mercy that God has shown you and I, this compassion, this uh pity that God has shown you Shown on us. You need to take that now and express that to others. You need to translate what you have experienced from God. And now incorporate into your life as part of your lifestyle in being merciful. So that's the definition of the word. Number two, my second thought is this: the dis Distortion of mercy. The distortion. This concept has been distorted, particularly in this verse here, back at Matthew. Now notice the wording here. Now this is what throws people. Blessed are the merciful. Now look at the next statement. For they shall obtain mercy Now what does that sound like? Right. It sounds on the just the surface reading without Giving it much thought or comparing scripture with scripture, and this is what people do, and they come to this conclusion. If I want God to be merciful to me and forgive my sin and save me From hell to take me to heaven, then I have to be merciful to others. And that's how it's distorted. And that's how it's presented in a lot of churches and a lot of Christians. Take that and read through and well I can't ever get to heaven unless I forgive. I had a person tell me this one time, a number of years ago. And they said they mentioned the situation and they said, I can never go to heaven. Heaven, because I will never be able to forgive that person for what they did. And I have to forgive them, show them mercy, if God will ever forgive me and show me mercy. Distortion of biblical teaching. Now, question: Should we be forgive others? Sure. But my salvation is not dependent upon me Forgiving others. God being merciful to me is not dependent upon me being merciful to others. Rather, we need to reverse that. I am Am to be merciful to others because God has been merciful to me. I am to forgive others not so that God will forgive me. But I'm to forgive others because God has forgiven me. Follow what I'm saying? And so the distortion of this is I have to be merciful. If God's going to be merciful to me, I've got to forgive those who have sinned against me if God's going to forgive my sin. Now there's a problem with that. You say, but I read that and it looks that way. Okay. All right. Right? But there's a problem with that. When we take that verse and we compare it with other scriptures, we find out that that can't be what it's teaching. Because of that That's what it was teaching then number one, no one could ever be forgiven. Because we are constantly being sinned against none of us perfectly forgive everybody That's ever done something against us. None of us are perfectly merciful. And if my God being merciful to me is dependent upon me being merciful, I have got to be perfectly merciful In every situation where I'll never have God. You see what I'm saying? If my salvation is dependent upon my c conduct, my behavior, my interaction with others Then I'll never be saved because I am a sinful man and I am going to fall short every single time. Follow what I'm saying? And so if that is true, if What they're saying is this is a condition for salvation, then nobody's going to be saved because nobody can live up to that perfectly. We fail to fully express mercy. And number two, if that was true, then That means that we would be saved by works. Which violates the entire Bible teaching. The Bible from Genesis to Revelation Teaches us that we are saved by grace. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By faith. It is God's grace, it is God's mercy that saves us, not my actions. And so we have to be very careful. We must interpret Scripture with Scripture. Scripture. And um I gave you the formula, the definition of the word, the context, and then compare it to other scriptures. And when I do that, I find out that this passage Is not talking about the mercy of salvation. Now I'll tell you what I think. There could be various, this is the way I understand. And studying this, I pray And said, Lord, I want to be accurate, I want to know exactly what this means. I think this is what the Lord is telling us. Because it's a little different twist on the definition and more of an emphasis on the mercy Of compassion and showing pity. And I believe this is what he's saying. He's saying, those believers, those of us that know Christ are new creatures, Christ is in us, when we try Treat others mercifully, compassionately, with pity, we will be treated mercifully. And passionately will tend to be treated that way. Notice what it doesn't say. Now I I may have missed this. I looked at this and looked at this. But this is what I notice it doesn't say. Blessed are the merciful It doesn't say this, for they shall obtain mercy from God. It doesn't say where the mercy they're obtaining is coming from. I think, I think he's saying here that if I'm kind and compassionate and merciful to other people, they're going to tend to be kind and compassionate. and merciful to me. How many folks find it's easier to be friendly to people who are friendly to you? How many folks find if there's a guy at work or at the office or a family member that everything you do, he finds fault, he criticizes, he holds that over your head. It's very hard to be nice and kind and compassionate back to him. See what I'm saying? I think there's a principle at play here. It's the same one as in Proverbs. He that hath friends must show himself friendly. He that wants to be treated compassionately and have people show pity and mercy to him, then show compassion. Show pity, show mercy, and you will obtain mercy. Um, I I think that's what the Lord is uh is teaching us here that people who tend people tend to be more compassionate to those who are uh compassionate. That's not a hard and fast rule. Did you ever have anybody who were real nice to them and they were mean back? Yeah. So it's not a hard and fast rule rule. We still live in a sinful world. But blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Now let's go on. Let's see a display. We know what it means. We know it doesn't mean salvation. No, not a condition for salvation. We know what the word means, the concept is, being uh kind to people, can't do anything back, showing mercy to them How's that play out? How is that displayed? That's my third point. What's the display of the mercy here? There are tremendous examples in scripture. Of people being merciful. I think the Good Samaritan here was a classic example. Let me ask you this. Do you think that Jew, when he got well, if he ever found out, and I don't know this this, but if you ever found out who that Samaritan was, you think he had a little different attitude towards him than he did before? Sure, you think maybe that Samaritan obtained some mercy from the guy he showed mercy to? I mean we're speculating, but I would venture to say it's a good chance. So how's that played out? Well, go to Acts with me if you would Acts chapter seven. And uh chapter seven. Chapter seven is an eat uh chapter in the book of Acts. Stephen is uh preaching to the Pharisees and the Jews there, and he's preaching Christ. He goes to through the history of the of uh Israel and he recaps and they're all paying attention to him and they're mad at him because he's preaching Christ but they pay attention to him as he's the speech He's rehearsing Israel's history. And uh he gets down to verse 51. Let's back up and get the context here. He's just going on, you know, the Lord did this and the Jews. And he goes all through this. Verse 48, howbeit the Most High dwelleth not in temples. So he's Stephen's here. All these Pharisees, Jews around him, they hate him. They want to kill him. He's preaching this. He's saying And listen, fellas, you've been this way. Then look at verse 51. Good night. You talk about how to wind up a message. Ye stiff neck and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you do always resist the whole Holy Ghost, as your fathers did, so do ye. Well, what a way to end a message, huh? Imagine if I'm preaching Sunday morning, you bunch of stiff-necked rebels. That's what he does. Prophets have your not your fathers persecuted, and they have slain them which showed before the and he's right. He's going through. Then verse 54, look at this. When they, the crowd, heard these things They were cut to the heart. What's that mean? They're convicted. They know he's right. Now there's one or two things we can do when we're convicted. I can either submit and say, Lord, you're right, I'm wrong, I want to go, I want to do what's right. Or I can what? Or invite the preacher, yeah. I was I say I I was thinking s what is it? Fight the preacher. Yeah, it's never happened to me yet, but um uh but yeah or I can stiffen my neck up and get mad And uh Kathy's touched on something. I've had times over the years where people got mad at me. I mean just curious at me for simple Bible truth we thought. And they I think they got convicted. Uh we I have a person I'm praying for every single day. I pray they get saved. And I mean they have fought against us and said horrible things against us and I'm convinced the more they do that, the more they're under conviction I think it's a reaction to conviction. So that's what happens here. And they gnashed on him with their teeth. So they're biting the preacher. That would be a great sermon title. Now this is what I'm trying to get to. Would you agree with me he's being mistreated? I would say so. But he, or the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly Fast the heavens, saw the glory of God, Jesus stand on the right hand of us, and said, Behold, I see the heavens open, the Son of Man descending, standing on the right hand of God. And they cried out with a loud voice, Stop their ear And ran upon him with one accord, cast him out of the city, and stoned him. The witnesses laid down their clothes at the young man's feet, whose name was Saul. Now look at this. I mean, they are He's done nothing wrong. He's told them the truth. And they are killing him. Big rocks are hitting him, thrusting his head open, bleeding, broken bones, nose is mashed in. He's there. I mean, it's It's ugly. And look what he says. They stoned Stephen, calling upon God, saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And he kneeled down. And cried with a loud voice. This is his last prayer. Lord, lay not this sin to their child. Wow. What's he doing? Being merciful. They are doing him wrong. And he says, God, don't charge them. Don't charge God I'm asking. He doesn't go and explain, we understand we understand though that Stephen understands that they don't understand what they're doing. They're missing it. They're blinded by the devil. And what a merciful man Stephen was. Um now I I I I'm the same boat you are, but man, I see these videos of them killing these Christians over in the Middle East. Isn't that horrendous? And my my initial reaction is and and I've my initial reaction is we need to blow them all to kingdom come. I mean just wipe them out. And I think there's a point. We defend ourselves and all of that But Stephen had a little difference. God don't lay their blinded. Here's the point. The people that do us wrong are not the enemy. They're the victims of our enemy. The dead Follow what I'm saying? Um Jesus, I we won't take time. I wanted to go there, but man, Jesus is the greatest example of being merciful that ever lived. He's on the cross in Luke chapter 23 verse 34. We don't have time to turn there. But he's on the cross cross and all that they did to him, unjust from the get-go, completely unjust. Even even Pilate says, I don't find anything wrong with this On the cross, Jesus looks down and struggles with every breath and And he says, what? Father, what? Forgive them. For they know not what they do. They're blinded. Soldiers were not Jesus' enemy. It was The devil behind all of them. Um in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 17, he's called uh he he's a high priest and he's merciful unto us. I think it's interesting. You read through the gospels, and people came, they were blind, their children were demon possessed, their child Died. They had some awful sickness. And you know what they would say? What would they ask for? They would say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy. On me. Show me compassion. Show me pity. Do something for me. I could never repay you back. There's no Be merciful to me. And so what a display. Mercy. Now don't misunderstand. There's another distortion. I I missed the point of what mercy is not. Mercy is not indifference. Mercy doesn't say, well, I'm just gonna ask act like they didn't do anything wrong. It's not mercy. Mercy doesn't say, well, we'll just pretend it didn't happen. Does God ever pretend that somebody didn't sin. No, he deals with it. And part of his mercy sometimes is chastening us and correcting us. You don't just let us go on. I'm telling you this If a person claims to be a Christian and they can live in sin, week after week, month after month, year after year, just live in sin, there's no chastisement, there's no confrontation by God about that sin. Something ain't right. God is very merciful. And when we're saved, we know the Lord is our Savior. In His mercy, He corrects us. Remember when David committed a Adultery and Nathan comes a year later, confronts him. There's a little story about the lamb and the guy, and he says, Thou art the you know what that was? That was the mercy of God stepping in and getting the understanding David's background track. So mercy is not just ignoring the sin. It's not just saying, well, I'm going to be merciless. I'm going to act like it never has. They stole $500,000 I'll just pretend it never happened. That's not mercy. Mercy confronts it and deals with it, but does it in a compassionate way and works within the same, you know, and sometimes Listen, you know, just forget. We're going to start new, we're going to get back on our feet and go on. And then I want to end with this the dynamite of mercy. I think this concept In verse number seven is one of the most powerful concepts in all scripture. Listen, blessed are the merciful. Now we looked at that word blessed pretty thoroughly as we started this series, and I came back and looked at it again. And I went down through, I got all my definitions that different people gave in different contents uh context and everything. And one thing that I hadn't noticed before, one aspect of being blessed, this was the definition, and I think it's in Strong's Concord, you see it down the list. They give a list of definitions And one of them was this, to be well off. Now what does it mean if you see someone and say, see that guy over there? Man, that guy's well off. What do we mean by that? He doesn't need anything. He's in good shape. And that's that's one of the things I put down. Has few, if any, needs. He's prosperous. That guy's well off. The Lord is saying, blessed, when we get this attitude of merciful, compassionate and show him pity. Not to get gain or get anything out of it, but simply to be gracious and merciful and forgiving in case where it's necessary. off. He's blessed. He's in uh I I put this down. When somebody's well off, they're in good shape. He's well boy he's in good shape. He's well off. He's he's got it Say. And that's what the Lord says is true about us if we are merciful. That we're well off. God states that the one who has learned to be merciful is is blessed, is well off. It is not sin that destroys a marriage. It is is mercilessness that destroys a marriage. If sin destroyed a marriage, there would be no marriages intact. Right? There's nobody who lived has not sinned against their spouse in one degree or another. Right or wrong? Right. Um you can talk about your other. Look at your spouse. husband say yeah that's right no I want to suggest to you sin is not what destroys the marriage it is mercilessness not merciless Showing mercy that destroys. And you know what I thought of? I thought of Hosea, the Old Testament. What a powerful story Hosea is. The man of God. Marries a gal and he doesn't cheat on him once. He doesn't cheat on him twice. He cheats on him over and over and over. Over, over. And that is one of the most heart-wrenching things in the world. Have your spouse unfaithfully out and then die again And again and again. Then she shows up and says, by the way, two kids are not war. Here's a young man had dreams of serving God. You know, according to the law, Hosea had every right in the world to walk away from that. Paul gave him that option. But Hosea was in mercy. We're forgiver and we're going to work this thing out. We're going to make it right And this thing's gonna last. Very few marriages have been through what Hosea went through. But mercy Kept that thing together. And God used Hosea's action as an example to all of Israel to say, hey, that's the way I am. That's the way God is with us. He breaks his heart so badly, it shows mercy. And what a powerful thing. Mercy can salvage even the worst marriage. Mercy, it's not sin that destroys that splits and destroys the church. It's sin destroy the church, there wouldn't be a church in existence today. Did you know what a church is made up of? A bunch of sinners. Seriously. You know what makes a good, strong church? It's not that they're sinless, it's that they're merciful, kind, and compassionate and tender-hearted and patient. Work with each other and help each other. Follow what I'm saying? Uh marriages, ministries, churches, friendships. George Riddell was down, some of you know preach he's a friend of ours, he's preaching he's pastors in uh New Jersey. And uh I was listening no, he wasn't at the meeting, I was listening to his CD coming back from the sword coffee. He had an assistant who was his best friend in the world. He said we are our relationship was such that if I was at his house and I wanted to drink something to drink, I'd just go to the refridge and So if he was our house, we were just that's how close we were. He said, My friend, my assistant, he's running church fifteen hundred people. My assistant turned on me. Took over half the church. We said, we went from 1,500 one month. A month later, I'm running three, four hundred people. And went out and took a group and went out Started some church and they went liberal. He said there was such anger and such hurt, and he said things were said that should not have been said that were said Things were done that were just sinful, and he said it was devastating. And he said, God stirred my heart. And he said, I knew what his favorite food was food was and he said every Christmas I would go and I'd buy a big thing of whatever it didn't say what it was his favorite food and I would mail it to him anonymously with a birth with a a Christmas party I'd type it, I went right, and I'd send it from a different post office each year. He said, for fifteen years, I tried to show mercy to this man. did me so wrong. He said one one fall he got a phone call and this fella had a heart attack. But I'm gonna go visit him. First time he'd see him along We went up and visited him. The guy said, Preacher, thank you for coming. We talked a little bit, we visited, I had prayer with him. Uh something happened again. He went to He said we started to restore that friendship. He said that next Christmas I sent him the same thing I had for 15 years, but this time I signed my name to it. I got a phone call on Christmas Day. They said, we want you to come over. We've got something for you. So I went over to his house and the the fellow's wife, the assistant pastor's wife, said, Pastor Riddell, I knew it was you, I knew it was you, I knew it was you the whole time. And he said, I love you, God. I want us to be right. And he says, you know what? That guy, the church that he had just started, he said, that thing went so liberal. He said he ended up coming back And being a part of his church again. And the relationship was restored and it was healed. Now he didn't ever have the position he had before. But he said said when he died, we were friends again. Isn't that something? You know what that is? That's mercy. Mercy. It's not sin that really Father in heaven, Lord, you challenge my heart from this passage. And I hope you challenge us, dear Lord, as a church. And we would be merciful, compassionate, kind, pitiful. Not ignoring what's wrong, dealing with it, but doing it in a Gracious, kind, spirit-filled way. Help us to be that way, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, you know, I've got a little grudge down in my heart. Now that's between you and God, huh? But you'd say, preacher, it's there. And I see what the Lord's telling us here, and I really want to conform my heart and soul to what What the Lord is teaching us. When you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can be a merciful Christian. That would be a characteristic of me as a child Of God. And I need the Lord to do that for me. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Now we need the Lord to help us. Isn't so This is something we put on a facade. This is something that comes from within. And God has to do that. And as we yield to the Lord and let Him have His way and live His life to us, then this becomes true. And so let's ask the Lord tonight to help us. And mold us and make us that we can be this type of person and have this beatitude part of our life. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. Help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand in the name.