Elizabeth Taylor said to her first husband, I'll not keep you long. I'm telling probably half the crowd don't even know who Elizabeth Taylor is anymore, you know? But uh Acts chapter four. I went down to uh any anybody is anybody aware that I mentioned I went to Australia, New Zealand, Berlin. And we went down there, we held uh quite a few uh conferences, meetings, uh promoting soul winning And are urging uh pastors to get their churches stirred up, trying to get pastors stirred up, and then their churches stirred up about winning souls And it wasn't really evangelistic meetings. I think I mentioned this morning. We weren't down evangelistic meetings, although we saw a number of people say it. Um it was to stir the churches up, stir the pastors up, to go back into their communities and reach their communities. And uh so we prayed, Brother Fox and I prayed so much and Brother Howe and we said, God use us to stir these up. You know what I found happened? I come out, I came back stirred up about winning souls And uh and I think Ed and I were talking about it earlier in the year. We're looking at the new year. We really want to see more people saved. I do personally. I want to be able to see more people saved And I'm praying for our church, that we as a church would see more people say, walk the island, trust Christ. How many folks will pray with me that we'll see people this year walk the island, trust Christ? I won't I hunger for that. And uh on our ministries, out into our community, see people, and I'm not talking about just say a prayer. I want to see people born again. Right? I want to see people transformed, their lives change, and God do a word. And so I come back stirred up and I want to speak tonight on the blessings of soul winning. The blessings are waiting. I'm just going to give you a kind of a bullet list. And not long. I'm not going to use a lot of illustrations. I just want to kind of go down. And so I want to encourage maybe to jot these down. Maybe the Lord will use this tonight to stir your heart. And we can make a concerted effort and really focus in on the thing that God has called us to do, and that is to take the gospel to every single creature. And uh whether they're in Puerto Rico or Australia or Mountain Lake or Krellin or wherever, getting the gospel to everybody. Let uh let me pray and then we'll get right into it. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now A little bit of time we have to consider this matter. Lord, you know what you've done in my heart, and I just feel like I have so far to go in improving and growing in this area. And that so you would help us. Please fill me with your spirit. Lord, I present my body anew to you. As best I can, I yield my will to yours. And I pray that you would speak through me and challenge us and help us. And Lord, maybe in the coming weeks and months, we'd see some folks saved from hell. and and on their way to heaven have a whole new nature. Maybe some old drunkards get sobered up through the power of the power of God and and uh just folks that need you so badly. We want you to use us. Do what you need to do in our hearts So that we would be one willing and we would be usable to you. So I'm asking this in Jesus' name. Amen. Number one, the blessings of soul winning. When uh this is the first one. Write this down if you're taking notes, write this down. We are rebelling against Satan. I like that thought. Rebelling against Satan. I'll give you our verse here in a minute. But when we win souls, we are rebelling against Satan. Do you know that everybody is rebelling against either God or the devil? Think about that. We're either in rebellion against God or we're in rebellion against the devil. Does Satan have a will for your life and my life? Does he have a specific plan, a specific will for our lives? I don't think so I think as long as we don't do God's will, Satan's happy. Follow what I'm saying? Uh it's not God's will it's not Satan's will necessarily for everybody a drunkard. You don't care if a person's a drunkard or not or whatever, as long as they're not saved You don't care if a Christian goes to church and all that, as long as we don't do what God says. Look at Acts chapter 4 and verse number 18. The church is being persecuted. They're being threatened by the authorities uh concerning their soul winning efforts, their their outreach, their impact they're having for the with the gospel. And verse number 18 They call the disciples in, and it's Peter and John here, and the authorities call them in, and they say this, and they called them, and look at this, commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. Commanded them not to speak at all or teach in the name of Jesus. Let me ask you a question. Who's behind that God or the devil? That's the devil. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's great commission. What is God's great commission? Go into all the world and preach the gospel. What's Satan's great commission? Don't preach the gospel. Don't go out there and tell anybody about Christ. Don't try and win any any uh any others to Christ. And when you and I make a decision, hey, I'm gonna do everything I can to try and share the gospel with people trying to encourage people to trust Christ as Savior, put their genuine faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I am rebelling against what Satan wants me to do. I can tell you one thing. What does Satan want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to do this week? What does Satan want us to do? I can tell you one thing he wants us to do is not share the gospel with anybody. And when we do that, we're in rebellion against Satan. All right, here's number two. How many people are impressed? That first one went quick. Well. Number two, see, I can do it if I want to. Number two, put this down. When we go soul winning, the blessings of soul winning, when we go soul winning like God tells us to, people end up going to heaven. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter 10. We looked at this a little bit this morning. Romans 10. And this passage has been on my heart. It was the theme for our conferences down under, and it has been on my heart the last several months as I've been looking at it. Romans 10. We preached on this this morning, but look what it says. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. I'm sorry, look at verse 13. Come over to verse 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How many folks are grateful for that promise I know I called in the name of the Lord, May 7, 1979, 1030 on a Monday night. I know I called in the name of the Lord. God said, whoever does that, that person will be saved. Saved from what? What are we saved from? Saved from hell, saved from sin. And we have a home in heaven. Look at the next verse. How then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? Is someone going to put their trust in someone they don't believe? No. How can they call on him of whom they not believe? How can they believe, uh, how should they believe in him of whom they've not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings. of good things. When people get saved, they're saved from sin, they're saved from hell, and they have a home in heaven. And when we obey God, when we uh do what God says and we get out into our neighborhoods and get to the doors and marketplace, wherever And uh we we share the gospel with people. People get saved. We have the blessing of seeing people saved from sin and go to hell. Or go to heaven, I'm sorry, and escape hell. And so people end up in heaven. Number three, put this one down How many people are impressed? That one. Yeah, two already. I only have seventy-nine, so w it won't be bad. Number three, uh I like this one. Number three, put this down. We are being wise. We are being wise. Anybody want to guess where I'm going, what verse I'm going to with that one? Proverbs 11. 30. Come on back there with me, would you? Proverbs 11. 30. I tell you, I really enjoy reading a chapter of Proverbs a day that lines up with the date. And I want to encourage you to do that. I know I say that often, but that is a blessing. Proverbs 11 And verse number 30, I have this verse underlined in my Bible. I have it bracketed. I have a circle around it, and I have it highlighted with yellow highlighter. So when I open my Bible to that passage, that verse stands out. Look what it says. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. Read that last phrase with me, would you? And he that winneth souls is Wise. When we share the gospel with people and we get people saved and urge them to come and trust Christ, we are being wise. We are acting wisely. I mentioned this a little bit this morning, but how how many people would agree with me? If you go along and you see an accident and somebody's laying there hurt And you go and get some help for them. You go and get an EMT, you call the uh 911, get them help. How many people agree with me? That's a wise thing to do. How many people say it would be foolish just to leave them lay there and sick and die? That would be foolish. Nobody would respect that. Uh uh people would look down. We were reading in the news about that shooting. That's so awful. And uh I can't make judgment. I don't know I read is what's in the paper uh on the news, but apparently there was folks that knew what was going on, didn't go in and help 'em. And boy, people are very upset about that. Now, what about people who are lost and on their way to hell? And we don't do anything. We don't do anything to share the gospel. We don't make no effort To try and get them to trust Christ. But when we do that, we're acting wisely. We're acting wisely. Let me give you a fourth one. Number four, we are obeying God. When we go soul winning, we're obeying God. Now let me just give you the verses. We won't turn to these because I think you know them pretty well. But Mark 16, 15, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That is not a suggestion God's not saying, oh, it's a pretty good idea. If you have time, if you get a chance and you get around to it, try and go and preach the gospel of people. No, that is a command that He has given to us Uh jot this verse down, Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teach them to observe all things. What's the Ever I've commended you. And lo, I'm with you all the way, even unto the end of the earth. And so uh we're obeying God. Acts 1. 8, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria unto the othermost part of the earth. That's a command of God. And um uh how many folks, when you were young, if you did what dad told you to do, you were proud of yourself? Yeah, some of you guys don't know what I'm talking about and it doesn't register. But oh hey, I did I did what I was supposed to do. And there's a fulfillment there, there's a blessing there. And what a joy it is To know that I'm doing what God has told me to do. I think every one of us here, if we know the Lord Jesus Savior, every one of us, if we know what God wants us to do, we want to do it, right? That's what my God wants me to do. And when we win souls, we are obeying God. We have the blessing of doing exactly what God tells us to do. And what a blessing that is. Number five, write this one down. Uh uh right at uh number five. We uh God honors soul winning. God honors soul winning Now I'm trying to reverse this. Come to 1 Corinthians 15 with me 1 Corinthians 15. I tell you, it's not hard to find verses about soul winning. The Bible's full of it. 1 Corinthians 15. And I want us to notice verse number 34. What do we know about the church at Corinth? What a mess. I wouldn't want to go to that church, would you? You were on vacation and you went and visited a church and uh it was like the church at Corinth. You come out of there you say, We ain't never going to that church again. Good night. They get drunk at Lord's Supper, they're fighting, they got they got all kinds of wicked Sin going on in the church. But Paul loved him. And uh he wrote to him, and God turned that thing around. And notice in verse fifth in chapter 15 and verse number 34, look what he says to them He says, awake to righteousness and sin not. Now, what's the sin he's talking about? He says this, for some have not the knowledge of God. He's saying to the church, hey, wake up, wake up, church. Don't sin. Some people around you do not have the knowledge of God There's people around you that don't know how to be saved. There's people around you that don't know the gospel. There's people around don't know what understand what it means that Christ died on a cross. And look at the last phrase, the last statement he makes in that verse. I speak this to your what? He says, you ought to be ashamed of yourself that there are people in your community that do not have the knowledge of God. Now, what's the opposite of shame? Honor, right? So if we are obeying God, and let's imagine that God could say to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist church, he could say to us, every single person in your community, every single person in Garrett County, surrounding areas, every single person understands and has the knowledge of what God did for them in Jesus dying on the cross, being buried and rose again. Wouldn't that be something? God would say every single person, you got it to every single person. That is honor. That is honor. And I believe that God honors those That go and win souls and go after others. Those that don't, and people don't know about Christ. He says that's a shame. Let me give you another one. I got two more. Number uh, what's number next? Six. Write this down. We're following the New Testament pattern. When we win souls, we're following the New Testament pattern. I challenge you to study the book of Acts and come to any other conclusion than this. They were obsessed with getting the gospel to every single person. I mean, that New Testament church was absolutely on fire for winning others to Christ, and they just kept expanding out farther and out, farther, and out, farther, and out, farther. I've been witnessing this happening down in these New Zealand churches firsthand going down there, and you uh through me uh uh no doubt have been seeing it. But Brother Lewis Howe showed up down there And he got stirred up about winning souls to Christ. And he started giving out gospel tracts. He got this track month concept that we've been doing here, and he took it down there, and they have just saturated their area with the gospel. He told me down there, he said that in the eight years that he's been down there, 1. 5 million tracks have been distributed throughout New Zealand since he's been down there through that little church, just a little talk about numbers. They just got a handful of folks, 20 people at the most. 1. 5 million tracks him through other churches. He gets it in, gets the other churches stirred up. And so he had me come down there the other year, four years ago, and do and he said, I want you to preach to us and stir us up uh about this matter getting tracks out and stuff. I invited other churches and people came from all over, drove four hours come into that thing. Now they've got stirred up. Now they're doing this up in uh up in Auckland. Then a guy down in Wellington got stirred up and they're doing it down in Wellington. Then down in Christchurch. Now this year, over in last year, some guys from Australia came heard about it. They came over. They're all stirred up. They're getting tracks by the hundreds of thousands. And they had meetings. Now next year they're working on going up in the Philippines and up into Fiji. There was a pastor from Fiji. He goes, I want to take this back to my country. We want to have soul-winning revivals here and get our people stirred up about it. What is happening? It's a New Testament pattern. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the earth And when we get stirred up about soul winning and reaching others, we're following that pattern. We're following that pattern. There's a great preacher years ago, his name slips in mind, Brother Jimmy, you might know. But he made this statement. He was talking about foreign missions And he says, the light that shines the farthest abroad shines the brightest at home. Now you catch what he's saying. We ought to be sending missionaries out all around the world. But that light that's shining way out to the end of the earth, it ought to be shining so bright right here in our own community. And we ought to be doing what we're anticipate our missionaries doing. And when we do that, we have a New Testament pattern. This is the statement you've been waiting to hear, the last one. The last one. Number seven, am I right? The Lord will reward us. The Lord will reward us. Go with me if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Now, by reward, I think we all understand this. By reward, I'm not talking about saving us. Salvation is not a reward. Amen? Hello? Salvation's not a reward. Salvation is a what? Gift that we simply receive by faith. And then the Lord says, if you do what I say, I'll reward you. What a God we serve. You talk about a deal, I'll save you for free. Then if you respond in faith and if you respond in obedience and do what I say, I'll give you some rewards. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 10. He says this, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body. according to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now look at this. You say, all right, he's talking about living for God and and uh you know being honest and uh paying your bills and and uh not stealing stuff and uh you know he's talking about but look what the verse next verse says look at the context knowing therefore the terror of the Lord the terror of the Lord is this judgment I'm not to stand before God and give an account of myself of things I've done, whether they be good or bad. He says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we what? Persuade men. What's he talking about? He's talking about persuading men to trust Christ. And Paul says, listen, I know one day I'm going to stand before my Savior Not to judge whether I'm saved or not, that was settled when I trusted Christ. For Paul, it was on the Damascus Road. For me, it was in the attic of my house For you it may be wherever you trust in Christ. That's already settled. But he says, I'm going to stand before my Savior, the judgment seat of Christ, and give an account of how I live for him. He says, knowing that, knowing that I'm going to forgive account Man, I'm out there trying to persuade men to trust Christ. I'm out there trying to persuade men to get saved. And the Bible says God will reward that. God will honor that. The soul winner's crown. Now here's the thing. How many of us would be witnessing, how many soul winners would there be if the person wasn't saved? If the soul winner wasn't saved, we wouldn't be winning souls, right? And so really, every time we see someone saved, uh last Wednesday, and um down in children's church, and a number of folks, that Indian boy I was talking about this morning in Sydney that trusted Christ Every time one of those people gets saved, it's really Christ saving them. It's God working through us. How many people notice when I pray before I bring a message, almost every time I'll ask God to do this, God speak. Through me. That's what soul winning is. It's God working through us. And then at the judgment seat of Christ, he says, I'm going to give you a crown. You won souls, you witness, you're a faithful witness to me I'm going to give you a crown. And Revelation tells us, what are we going to do with those crowns? Are we going to put them on our head and strut around heaven? Yeah, I got the soul winner's crown. Look at me. Are we going to do that? No, what are we going to do? Or cast them at Christ's feet. We'll say, Lord, you did it all. You did it all. What God is looking for is availability. All he needs is some Christians, young, young people, middle-aged, senior sisters. We had an 80-year-old lady, Helen and you were talking, there's an 80-old lady down there, a Filipino lady. She is just getting after it, trying to win souls And um she she started following me on Facebook and um she's flooding my thing on Facebook, but uh uh oh we witnessed here, we witnessed there, and I mean she stirred up. And all ages, all God's looking for is somebody, whatever age, that is just a willing and available, say, God, I'll be that witness. God, I'll do everything I can to try and win people to Christ. Try and win people to Christ. I've used this before. It's kind of an old illustration, but it fits here If you're going to hammer a nail, I think I did just recently actually, but if you're going to hammer a nail in the wall, you generally use a hammer. Now I mentioned the cheaters that use the air guns. That's cheating, old sissies. And uh but you generally use a hammer. But if you don't have a hammer, you can use you'll use whatever is available Right? Heel of a shoe, you know, uh a brick. You'll find something and hammer that nail. You know what God's looking for? Just somebody that says, yeah, I'll be a soul winner. I'll give I'll do everything I can to try and win ours. And God will use you. You know what the highlight of this evening to me was hearing Brother Jimmy's a blessing, the report, all these testimonies But I tell you what stirred my heart, and I'm going to be thinking about when I lay down tonight, is little Rissa leading her little classmate to Christ. That is exactly what the Bible's talking about. And she can do it, and you can do it, and I can do it, if we just will. And God says, I'll bless you, I'll reward you for that. Now we're going to give the glory to Him But it's a pretty cool thought that God rewards me. God rewards me for something. Winning souls. Amen? Let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to make us soul winners. Father, we do want this. It's my heart. And uh I pray that it wouldn't just be talk on my end. It wouldn't just be saying amen on our end. Lord, I pray that this truth would translate into action in our lives and a lifestyle of witnessing and winning souls. And we pray that in the coming months Lord, if you would please use us, if you would just please use us to bring others to Christ, we don't want the glory, we're not looking for name or recognition, we just want to be what we're supposed to be, and we want you to bless us, Lord. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many of us tonight would, with me, you would say, preacher, my prayer tonight is that God would make me a soul winner That I would be active, proactive soul winner and winning others. Is there any like that that share that burden? That's our prayer. God, I want you to use me and make me a soul winner. Fear is always an issue. Pride is an issue. A lot of things But God can overcome all of that. And if we're simply willing and say, yes, I'll do it, I'll go, I'll be, I'll get active about this, I'm telling you, God will use us. Father, there's a lot of hands raised. I see hands. God, you know our hearts. And I do ask that you would make this, this great activity, this great endeavor of reaching others for Christ, make this a part of our life And we really want to see souls say, bless our invitation. As we finish out this Lord's day, make it a sweet time, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation songs. And let's just make this, let's just finish out the