Matthew Five. I am the special I I am s I didn't say I was singing a special, I said I am special. So there's a difference. I know. I might break out in song before the message is over. My dad's down and I was studying this afternoon and always I always had the radio on just low in the background while I'm studying and the little songs would come on and I'd just start singing along with it and I noticed Dad looked up and said, What's that awful sound I'm hearing? Matthew chapter five, we're looking at the Beatitudes. We've already looked at the first two. Oh, did anybody know today, Brother Ken, today is left hander's day. How about that? You have your own official day, left-handed. Left hand day. How many folks are left-handed? Alright, look at that. We'll pray for you. And uh I saw that in the news, left handers day. Uh uh did I tell this? I can't remember. Um Did I tell about the boy and his girlfriend watching the cow out in the meadow with his little calf? Tell it again. Tell it again. Ed didn't hear it And they were nuzzling noses and rubbing up against and he looked at his girlfriend and said, Watch them do that. Makes me want to do that. She said, Go right head, it's your cow. And so that one was worth hearing twice, wasn't it Verse 5, Matthew chapter 5. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are the meek. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this little statement you gave many years ago. It's preserved in your word here for us. I ask that you would challenge us with this, help us to grow. I pray, Lord, that we would not just be satisfied with being saved, but Lord, you'd put a desire in our hearts to grow and mature and be strong spiritual Christians. And I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord. I present my body again anew to you and ask that As I said, Lord, that you would fill me and speak through me. I yield my will to you. Lord, I acknowledge to you and to everyone assembled here that in and of myself I have little or nothing to offer But God, your word has everything we need. And so speak your word through me to our hearts. That's my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed are the meek. How many people recognize the name Donald Trump? In the financial world, in the business world, most people would agree that Donald Trump was very, very successful. I've heard him interviewed a number of times. I never heard Donald Trump suggest that the way to success in the business world is through being meek. In fact, he would say the exact opposite. I never saw a self-help book advertised that the way to get to the top is by being meek. Boy, if you're meek in the political world, you'll be successful. And if you're meek in the business world, if you're meek in the military, if you're meek, boy, you'll really be successful. That is not the way the world thinks The world doesn't operate that way. The beatitudes here, and we looked at the first two, and we'll touch on them here in a second, the beatitudes are given to us by God It's given to us as people who are not a part of this world. But he presents these beatitudes to us. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, because in God's mind, and really should be true in our mind also, we are not part of this world system We have been saved out of that. We are now part of a kingdom, a heavenly kingdom, a spiritual kingdom that lives by completely different standards, completely different values than what this world goes by. And so the world would pay no attention to this passage. This verse here would mean nothing to the world. They might even ridicule it and scoff the idea that blessed are the meek. Jesus, in this time frame when he's preaching this sermon here on the mount as we know it, he was preaching to Jews primarily, and the book of Matthew is addressed primarily to the Jews. He's preaching to Jews who are very religious. But they were very materialistic. Now, this is where it might uh touch on Christianity today. Their mentality was materialistic Everything in their life and even in their worship of Jehovah revolved around the external, the physical. There was little or no spirituality to the religion. Now there was many people within the Jewish community that knew the Lord and understood this. But for the most part, they were very materialistic. Everything they lived for, everything that dominated their life was material. The amount of time what they invested their time in, what they invested their energies in, was material. And the spiritual was Out of focus. And so the Lord has given them Beatitudes and He's trying to realign their thinking. In fact, the Jews even were militaristic. In their thinking. They were anticipating a coming Messiah, and the Messiah was going to overthrow, overthrow the Roman Empire, which was dominating them And they were looking for this Messiah, this superhero hero, so to speak, that was going to come in and rally the troops and lead them against Rome and conquer Rome with a great military and set up uh the kingdom that God had promised. They completely missed the spiritual side of the relationship with God. And so it was all physical, it was all material. And the Lord's correcting this in the Beatitudes here. And actually this whole three-chapter sermon, what we call Sermon on the Mound, from chapter 5 through Chapter 7 The whole thing is realigning their thinking. The whole thing is getting them to understand that God is concerned with the heart of man. That's where he begins. our spiritual relationship with the Lord. In fact, now keep your place here, but go back to Matthew 7. Just a few more chapters. Matthew chapter 7 and verse number 28. This is the end of his sermon The Beatitudes are the introduction to the sermon. Matthew 7, verse 28 is the end of his sermon. He finishes up in verse 2. Make sure I got the right reference here. Yeah, Matthew 27, he uh uh Matthew chapter seven and verse number twenty-seven, he finishes up his sermon. Now look at verse 28 how the people responded to this sermon. And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were what? Astonished at his doctrine. I mean they are flabbergasted He absolutely, and that word astonished, I got looking it up. It's a fascinating meaning. I enjoy looking up the meanings of the words. It's fascinating. It has this idea of being hit with something unexpectedly. Uh how many people ever heard this statement or you made it? You could have hit me on the side of the head with a two by four and I wouldn't have been more surprised. Anybody ever hear something like that along those lines? That's the idea of the word astonish. This is absolutely not what they expected to come out of the words of Jesus Christ. This is their Messiah. This is the promised Messiah. He's going to lead them and to conquer Rome and set up the kingdom. What's he talking about being meek? What's he talking about all this stuff? And they are absolutely astonished. It means to take a blow to the body or suddenly be amazed. I mean he he shocked their socks off of them. With these statements, this is absolutely not what they expected. And so he's changing their thinking. He's realigning their thinking to get, hey, wait a minute, God is concerned about you and I having a personal relationship with him a spiritually shift, a new heart, a new values to live by, new new principles to live by. We're not like this world. We don't think like this world. We don't we don't uh we don't uh live like this world. We Have a whole different standard we live by And that's what he's trying to drill into them here. Now, the beatitudes are here. We begin in verse 3. Verse 2, he opened his mouth, called what I'm saying. Blessed, blessed, blessed. He comes on down through here and he gives a list of these blessings or beatitudes. And I want to remind you they are given in a very specific chronological order I do not believe that the order they're given here is haphazard or just coincidental. I think they are given in a very specific order. For this purpose, each beatitude builds on the one before. In other words, the beatitude, the first beatitude mentioned in verse 3, must be in place if the second beatitude in verse 4 is going to be true. And the first beatitude stays in place. That mentality, blessed are the poor in spirit, that attitude, that frame of mind, stays in place, and then added to that are blessed the other two more. Then blessed are those who are meek. And then he goes on through, and they're like building blocks. And so the idea of this, uh the first Beatitude, if you remember, blessed are the poor in spirit. uh has the idea of be ha of uh uh understanding my poverty of righteousness when i stand before god As an individual, I have absolutely no righteousness to offer God. I am poor in spirit. Regardless of how poor I am or may not be in wallet, we are all poor in spirit. And so we stand before God and we understand I have absolutely no righteousness to offer to God. And God says, when you understand that, you realize that Boy, then you're blessed. And he says there that for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Nobody gets into the kingdom of heaven thinking they're good enough to earn it. Nobody does. Poor in spirit. And we touched on that. Then you add to that, once I understand that, that I have absolutely no righteousness to offer to God, if I would die and stand before God and He would say Uh, you know, what w why should I let you into my heaven? I I would have to say, Lord, I have nothing to offer you. There's nothing in and of me that I've done or that I am that makes me deserve to go to heaven. I deserve to go to hell. If I get to heaven, it's simply because you are very gracious and merciful to me you make that available. Follow what I'm saying? Poor in spirit. That's poverty of righteousness. Then the second beatitude, as we looked, was that not just do I have a poverty of righteousness, but there's a presence of sinfulness. Blessed are they that mourn. The idea here was mourning over my own sinfulness. Not only do I not have anything righteous to offer to God to make me acceptable to Him, I've got all this baggage that brings His wrath on me. I've got all these things I've said and done that violate his holiness, and uh I see that and I mourn over that. Paul put it this way. In Romans chapter 7, oh wretched man that I am. You know what he was doing? He was mourning. Over his sinfulness. He said, the things I don't want to do, I end up doing. Things I do when I do, I don't do. And he mourns Over the fact that he is a sinful man. Oh wretched man that I am. He says, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. And then the very next verse in Romans chapter 7 there, Paul says uh oh who shall deliver me from this body of death then God comforts him and he says uh the Lord Jesus Christ And so we have this poverty of righteousness, and then you have this presence of sinfulness. And when I realize I have absolutely no righteousness, I realize I've got all this sinfulness, the natural result of that is it produces a meekness. I realize what I am and nevertheless God still loves me and God will save me through faith in him and God uh and dwells within me and it produces a meekness. And so we get to the third Beatitude here. Blessed are the meek. So let's look at this idea of meekness, real quick. Number one, my outline is real simple tonight. Number one, I have a definition of meekness. The definition of meekness. Now I could ask the question, what does it mean to be meek? We get maybe maybe a lot of different answers. The original, I was reading one fellow writing about the term meekness, and it was originally considered a derogatory term by the world. The world called somebody meek. What they meant was they were spineless. They wouldn't defend themselves. They wouldn't stand up for themselves. Generally, the word in the world is considered is associated with being weak or being fearful, being cowardly. Somebody who won't somebody who won't stand up for their rights, somebody who won't step out and defend their integrity or defend this, that, or the other. The word meet, that's the way the world originally viewed it. Now Jesus kind of, I don't know if there's a world, nobilized the world, the word made it noble. But that was the original idea. Meekness is not to be confused with laziness. Well that guy's meek. He just lays around and doesn't do much. Just a meek guy. No, he might not be meek. He might be lazy. Right? Uh it's not to be confused with simply easygoing. Some people have an easygoing personality. They're just kind of laid back and they just uh They're just a trucking, just passing through, laid back. You know what I mean? That's not what he's talking about. Don't confuse that with meekness. Meekness is not compromise. Sometimes we think, well, you know, I I'm kind of meek, so I'm just gonna go along to get along, and peace at any price. That is not meekness. We're going to look at some people in the Bible who God said were meek, not one of them compromised So we need to understand what meekness is not. It's not laziness, it's not spinelessness, it's not cowardice, it's not weakness, it's not compromise. The word itself simply means this, to be gentle, has the idea it's used sometimes outside of Scripture to have a wild animal to make that wild animal tame. This idea of domesticating an animal, you're making it meek, is kind of how it's used outside of Scripture. It has this idea, and this is what fits in, I think, and we'll elaborate on this, it has the idea of being self-controlled. Not easily provoked. The word is closely associated in Scripture with the term humility. And so the word itself, it's a very common word in New Testament times outside of Scripture. The one um uh fellow that does word studies and whatnot, he suggested that the word meek outside of scripture was a very common word. When he used the word meat, the people knew exactly what he was talking about. It was often um told it was often used to refer to a type of medicine That is a sedative type of medicine. A medicine that would uh be very soothing. In other words, if somebody had a rash, they got in poison ivy or something, man, their skin's all inflamed And it's irritating them and it's driving them crazy, and it's just taking over the and it and it's and it's just so upsetting to them. You have this certain medicine and you put it on And it soothes that irritation, it soothes that that uh that um uh itchiness And it's making it meek. It is a meek medicine. It soothes it. It brings that. Or the idea was this of have someone that's very, very restless. Oh, you know, and they're all restless and they can take this certain kind of medicine, whatever it was, and would act like a sedative and would calm them down and um you know just kind of settle them down. They would use the term meek to describe the effects of that medicine on the person. So it gives you a little idea. When the Lord said, Blessed are the meek, gives us a little word picture in our mind what he's talking about. Uh the word meek, uh meekness is referred to various ways throughout scripture. In fact, there are scores of passages. I just picked two out, and I want you to turn to one of them in particular Keep your place here. We're going to look at this a little more, but come back to Proverbs. And we're going to look at a good number of verses this evening. So keep your Bibles handy. Proverbs chapter 16 Here's a verse I think that really captures what he means by being meek. Blessed are the meek. Proverbs 16 And verse thirty-two. Proverbs sixteen thirty-two, or as they say in Ireland, thirty-two. Look what he says. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. And he, look at this, he that ruleth his spirit. Than he that taketh a city. I believe he's describing here the response of a meek person. In other words, he's slow to anger. Somebody says or does something That upsets him, something says or does something that is wrong, that sins against this person, uh, violates his right or whatever. And rather than reacting and blowing up and rah He's a meek man, and thus he's very slow to anger. Do you see they have the picture with the rash and the medicine brings that irritation down and comes down? Well, rather than exploding His meek character keeps him from get being quick to anger. Then it says, and he that ruleth his spirit, he's meek. He doesn't get out of control. He doesn't react. In Romans chapter 12, verse 21, we won't turn there, but it's referred to this way: that we overcome evil with what? Good. Now what's the world's approach? You cut me off at the intersection, I'm going to do what? I'll cut you off, I'll cuss you out, I'll stop, and we'll make a big scene and we'll have road rage The world says, you better react. You better not let him get away with that. You better face it. You better. But the Bible says that you and I live by a different standard. And that we overcome evil not with a response of evil, an equal or greater response, we overcome evil with a completely opposite response. We overcome evil with what? Good. That's meekness. The natural reaction is, oh yeah. But the meek man, the kingdom of God, I'm living, I'm a child of God now. I'm not of this world. I'm living by another world's values And as evil, I'm not going to react to evil with evil, I'm going to overcome it with good. Meek. To be under control. By the way, meekness is always applied. No, let me back up. Meekness is never applied when I'm wrong. Meekness is never applied to a person. If I do something or I do something against Derek here, I'd say or do something and he and uh I realize that and I'm convicted about it, boy I come and say, man, I was wrong, I shouldn't have did that, I shouldn't have said that, whatever. I come. That's not meekness. That might be shame, it might be guilt, it might be repentance, but it's not meekness. Meekness is never referred to when the person that is in the wrong responds, never referred to being meek. Meekness is always when I'm in the right and I don't react against the wrong that was done. There is where the meekness fits. You follow what I'm saying? It is never when I've done something wrong how I respond to it, it's always somebody does me wrong and I respond correctly, I respond properly, I respond spiritually. That is where the meekness comes in. So The definition of meekness, it's not easy to define. In fact, my second point is this, the display of meekness. It's a whole lot easier to illustrate what meekness is than it is to define what meekness is. Let's say this. Alright, we're gonna talk about the display right. Alright, you're sitting here tonight and you say, Pra Pastor Leatherman, I'm saved. Jesus saved me. I want to live for him. I want my life to be everything God intends for me. I want God to be pleased with me. And he says, blessed are the meek. He wants me to be meek. How do I do that? How do I go about doing that? How does that display itself? Well, let me say this first of all, it begins in the heart Turn with me now. We're all going to go to another passage. Peter. 1 Peter chapter 3. Say, oh, somebody did me wrong. Alright, you might be right. They might have done you wrong. But as a child of God How am I going to respond? Well, I want to respond the way God wants me to. God says, be meek. Alright, how do I go about doing it? Well, it starts in my heart. 1 Peter chapter 3. It's interesting. Let me just throw this out while you're finding 1 Peter 3 there. I would not associate the term meekness with what I picture Peter in the Gospels. Right? Peter was anything but meek in the Gospels. And it's fascinating, as I was studying the this term meekness, how many times Peter referenced meekness, not directly at the word necessarily, but just In his teaching. This is what I'm saying. Peter learned what it means to be meek. He got a hold of it. And according to his writings here, under the inspiration of God, he was living and teaching meekness. Look at 1 Peter 3 verse 1. Now this is addressing the wives, and all the men are going to be happy on the first verse. Alright, all the husbands are going to be happy on the first verse. Then we'll come down and um then it'll get all of us Look at verse 1, 1 Peter 3. Likewise, ye wise, be in subjection to your own husbands. I probably should read that again, maybe. Maybe not. That if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wise. Alright, what's he saying here? Ladies, insurgents your husbands, if he's not saved What's he saying? Put it in their own words. What's he telling them there? Your husband's not saved. Look what it says. Let me read again. That they also may be uh If any obey not the word, that's their unsay, they're not forgotten, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wife. Yeah. It saying, ladies, if you got an unsaved husband Don't nag him to death about getting saved. You live a good, godly life in front of him, and as he sees what God is doing in your life and how you change, you're going to have a powerful effect on him. You may win him to Christ That's what he's saying. That word conversation here isn't necessarily just what I how I talk. It's talking about my whole lifestyle. And so that's the context. Now he goes down and he elaborates on this, but we're getting to something here, so bear with me. Verse 2 he says, while they, your unsaved husband, behold, speaking to the wives, while they, your unsaved husband, behold your chaste conversation, Coupled with fear, fear of God, I want to please God, and very chaste, very modest and and humble, whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting of the hair and wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. Now, let's stop there. Is he saying that it's wrong for a lady to fix her hair up or wear earrings or wear nice clothing? Is he saying that's wrong? No In fact, we prefer ladies to fix themselves up a little bit. Amen? How do you ladies like it when your husband smells good and he doesn't stink? Amen. That's preferable. You wouldn't know you've never experienced that. Oh let's say well Uh well that that's what he's saying. So he's not saying it's wrong for ladies to fix themselves up, look nice. He's just saying you don't depend on that. That's not what's going to change somebody's life. Now let's go on But let it be the hidden man of the heart. Important phrase there. The hidden man of the heart. That's what you really are. That's your core being, your core values of your life. The hidden man of the heart. Let it be the hidden man of the heart in that which is not corruptible. Look at this. Even the ornament of a what? Meek and quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is a great price. Now the context, he's addressing the ladies trying to win their unsaved husband to Christ without nagging. Just, you know, fix yourself up, but that's not what's going to change his life. You have a humble, meek, and quiet spirit, and God values that so much. But this is the point I'm trying to make for all of us, men and women, young and old, meekness begins in the hidden man of the heart. That's where it's at. It is um meekness is not something I can just put on or work up It has to come from what I am. My very character of my being is where this meekness has to come from. Um did you ever have someone that they're not very nice and they're trying to put on, trying to be nice, and they're really not very nice, and it's so obvious they're putting on. Anybody know what I'm talking about You know, and I'm glad I would rather have somebody that's not nice try to be nice than just be not nice. But he's saying if you're going to be meek, if it's genuine, it's got to come from our heart. So my point is this. If we're going to display meekness, if it's going to be in my life, as God is saying, it's not just some act I put on. It has to be what I am, what God has done in my heart. Now, another aspect on this is in Galatians chapter 6, you won't turn there, verse 23, tells us that meekness is a fruit of the Spirit. It's not even something I can manufacture. It's something God does in me I have some I have the weirdest thing. I've got tomato plants I've planted out back. I just enjoy got some tomato plants, some green beans, and some uh peppers My tomato plants, I grew 'em from seeds. I mean I bought a pack of seeds, put them in back in February in the house, and uh they're about this big before it was even no frost I can get them out. My tomato plants, aren't they dad? They are seven feet tall. They're huge. They're all full of tomatoes. I cannot manufacture a tomato. I can't do it. I can't make one. I don't know what the materials would be. I don't know what the process would be to manufacture a tomato. I can't do that. Um but That tomato seed I can nurture that plant. And I can keep the weeds out and I'll fertilize it and make sure it has water. And I'll do all these different things to enhance that plant doing what it naturally does and bear the tomato. And that's what the Holy Spirit is in us. I cannot manufacture meekness. I can't make it. Not biblical meekness. I can't work it up. I can't come up with it But it is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit bears that fruit in my life. Now I can't manufacture it But I can put some things in place so that the Holy Spirit has free reign and that Holy Spirit can bear that fruit in my life. Maybe there's some sinful weeds I've got to get out so that the Holy Spirit isn't grieved or quenched. And maybe there's some attitudes I need to change. And maybe there's some habits I need to correct. And maybe there's some things I need to do and some things I need to stop doing so that the Holy Spirit is not quenched, the Holy Spirit is not grieved, and He can bear that fruit in my life, but I can't work it up It is a fruit of the Spirit. And that's why it's so important for you and I to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit as God shows us things in His Word and warns us and instructs us that we trust God and obey Him. And follow those instructions so that the Holy Spirit can bear that fruit in my life and I can have God's blessings and I can experience what God wants to do for me But we try and force it ourselves, and it doesn't work. And so we need to understand that meekness comes from the inner man of the heart And it is a fruit of the Spirit that the Holy Spirit bears within my life. And as I die to self, as I humble myself to the Lord, I yield my will to God's will, I wait on God, I trust him and obey him. That meekness is nurtured in my life and it becomes part of my very character. And it happens. Meekness is easier to point out than it is to define. And so I think about Abraham. Abraham had to nurture that meekness. He wasn't naturally meek, I don't think, especially when he's lying about his wife down in Egypt and he's not trusting God and he's going to Egypt rather than staying there. And Abraham goes through a period of failure, tragic failure, great victory. He leaves Early Chaldees, he trusts God, he heads out. But man, he messed up. But by the time you find Abraham and Lot standing on the side of the mount And off to the south, I believe, is the plains of Sodom and Gomorrah, we find Abraham a very meek man. And rather than reacting to Lot's selfishness and there's strife going on between their servants and there not enough fields for their cattle and Rather than Abraham saying, listen, you weren't even supposed to come with me in the first place. You're going to have to go find your own place. He very meekly trusts God. And he says, Lot, listen, you take a choice. Which do you want? And he defes to Lot. And Lot, of course, makes a horrendous choice. And destroys him's family and his life and testimony and everything. But I thought that was tremendous on Abraham's part that he wasn't in react. He didn't get upset with the strife and all that. He just trusted God and deferred to Lot and let him choose. Abraham. Abraham learned that God would take care of him. He didn't have to get worked up. He didn't have to take things in his own control. He could meekly trust God. Let God have his way. I thought about Joseph. What a tremendously meek man. Just think of all the injustices done against Joseph. I was thinking when I was preparing this up, may we take Let people uh come up with all the injustices that Joseph experienced. We're on time for that. But he went through them And he patiently endured one after another after another. So many of these would have broken you and I, yet he just patiently endured. He believed that God was in control and God would work things out if he would just humbly and meekly trust God. And when you get to Genesis chapter 50, he tells his brothers who are still lying to him He goes, listen, guys, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for what? Good. You know what that statement was? That statement of faith and of meekness. If anybody could have dished out vengeance at that point, Joseph could have. He could have had them lined up and slaughtered, like they're doing over in Iraq now. He could have just took care of them, been done with it But he trusted God, and he knew that God was good, and he knew that God was in control, and he knew that God had a plan, and he meekly Trusted the Lord and didn't react. Um Write this down, we don't have time to go to it. First Peter chapter two, nineteen through twenty-three talks about being meek. and that when I'm uh if I do something wrong and I suffer for it, that's nothing to brag about. But if I do something right and I suffer for it, that is meekness. Now I'm summarizing what those verses say. 1 Peter 2, 19 to 23. Good passage to read. It illustrates what Joseph did beautifully. He suffered injustice and he trusted God and he was very meek through all of it. I think about Moses in Numbers chapter 12 and verse 3. He's called the meekest man on earth above any other man. He was humble. He conducted himself humbly under duress. Now here's my problem, and I realized I was studying this, that I've made some mistakes. in my preaching and teaching on Moses, I have a tendency to focus on Moses' temper. And you see that throughout. He definitely struggled with temper. But the Bible says he was meek man above any other man on the earth. And I thought, well, that doesn't really fit my picture of Moses. And then I got looking at it and think about it. Think about this. He had over a million people trying to get him to go against the will of God, and he just kept doing what God says. Wow. I have a rough time if five people are giving me a hard time. Imagine several million people griping about him, calling on names, threatening him. And of course, he is human. He had his ups and downs, but he just stayed the course. Just stayed the course. Just stayed the course. And God says, man, there's a guy that humbly has himself under control. And with few exceptions, he didn't react. David's reaction to Saul. Remember when Saul's chasing David all over the countryside? And David finds Saul sleeping in a cave. And Dave's in the cave, Dave, I call him Dave. He's in the cave. And there's Saul and his fellow with him says, here's your chance. Kill them. Overcome evil with evil. Vengeance is yours. Go ahead and repay. David says, I can't do that. That's God's anointed. In fact, he just cut the hem of his garment and he got convicted about that. You know what that is? It's meekness. It's meekness. I'm going to trust God. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to keep my natural reactions, my natural instincts, I'm going to keep them under control. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to trust God. David's reaction. I saw a picture years ago, and I've used this on a few occasions as illustration. I saw a picture years ago, it was national, some show, national geographic or something, but it was a lioness. Now I understand I've never really studied them, but I understand lionesses are very, very strong. Right? I mean they're the ones that go out and kill the stuff. They go out and chase the antelope down and they kill the hippopotamus and they kill all these things. And then the lion the not the lioness the Lion, the male lion, then he comes in and eats it. And a lioness does all the work. So they're powerfully strong. And I saw this picture of a lioness. And she had her little cubs there. They were just tiny little cubs, just born. And the picture was she had those powerful teeth. Sharp and those jaws were just she could see the muscles. And she very gently just had the nap of that little cub's neck. And holding it. I thought, good heavens. That thing, if it would sneeze, it would Right? And that I thought there is a beautiful picture of meekness. That Linus could just crush that thing without even thinking. But it had all that power under control. And held back. I want to suggest to you being meek is not being weak. Being meek is very, very powerful It is having the ability to react. It is having the maybe even the justification to do wrong to somebody, to take vengeance, and holding it back and saying, no, I'm not going to do that So not be pleased with the Lord. That is not the values I live by as a child of God. And so we have the display, the definition is hard to define. It's Strength under control. It's displayed here in the lives of these men. I think in the Linus, and let me end real quickly. What are the dividends of meekness? You say, Brother Leatherman, uh brother, Brother Leatherman. Um If I do that, if I don't, if man, if I don't if I'm at work and I don't push and shove and and take advantage, man, I'm going to be left behind. What in the world? I've got to stand up for myself and I've got to defend. It's dog-eat dog. Lord says, I don't know. Come back to Matthew 5. Blessed are the meek, and the world would say, yeah, they'll be devoured. Blessed are the meek. Yeah, right, they'll be left behind in the dust. Blessed are the meek. They won't get that position. They're going to be burned. Nah, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Whoa. That's more than Donald Trump has. Right? They'll inherit the earth. It doesn't say they blessed are the meek, and they'll avoid problems. And live, look at that list of names I used in the Old Testament. Their life they had all kinds of problems. But their meekness enabled them to overcome their problems and bring glory to God and end up on top side. Doesn't say blessed are the meek, for they shall be popular. Now, those one real popular a lot of times. Joseph won very popular down that prison. Blessed are the meek. Don't say this. Blessed are the meek, for they shall conquer the earth. Nope. Hey, listen, you and I ain't taking over no countries. We're not conquering nothing. Lesser and meek they shall what? Inherit the earth. Inherit is inheritance is something That somebody else worked for and earned and put up, and I receive it. Yes. And yet they give it to me. That person worked and put it up, saved it, and they I receive it from them. I accept it from them. They're given to them. And it's also an inheritance is something that I receive upon the death. Of the one that did it. So, how in the world, if we're going to be meek in this world that is the opposite of meek? How are we going to inherit the earth? Through the Lord Jesus Christ. We will inherit the earth. We're inheriting it from Jesus Christ. He died for it. He's his in the first place. And he gives it. Ah, you say, well, all right, big deal. I'll be real nice and I'll be meek and all this here. And uh someday, million years from now, uh we'll we'll run this earth. Well yeah, that's a pretty good deal But I don't think it's just a million years from now. I think there's a presence present truth to this statement. Now we don't possess the physical earth at this point But you know what we have that this people that do run this world now don't have? We have a peace and a contentment in our heart that they know nothing about. Big shots running Washington ruling this, big shots running here, and have all the power of movers and shakers in the world. They've got this and they've worked their way. I tell you what, little kid that came in on the bus Sunday that knows Jesus as Savior is living for God has more peace in his heart than those big shots do. There's an inheritance here and now. Yeah, we've got something this old earth they know nothing about. And this world can never, never give them. So there is a present truth to this issue, the blessings we have here on this pleasant earth, but there's a prophetic sense. And I want us to keep this in mind. I think we're missing the point here on something, and I want to try and emphasize it more and more This world is not our home. This is temporary. We're just here for a little while. And we're not careful. We as Christians forget that and we think this is everything. And this is not everything. This is just temporary. One day this old world is going to be gone. There'll be a new heaven, a new earth. And we're going to be there for eternity. Let's not lose perspective here. And if we trust God and we allow Him to produce this meekness and we nurture the whole the fruit of the Holy Spirit in our lives and just let Him produce this in our lives. The world's not going to understand. They'll try and take advantage of it. And they mistreat us and they'll mock us and they'll be hateful to us. And that's all right because God's in control. And when after they're long gone, we'll still be with Christ. Because we have eternal life. The greater, I think, as I was studying this, I thought, the greater our faith in some Mission to God is now. I'm getting the impression the greater our privilege in eternity is going to be. The more I trust God and submit to Him and let Him have His way, in eternity, the greater privilege God will give me. He says that some of you are going to rule cities, you're going to rule towns, you're going to have responsibilities, you're going to judge angels. I was reading about anybody recognize the name Victor Hugo? What did he write? Anybody remember? Punchback in Notre Dame. Back in the late 1700s. He also wrote another book people don't know much about. It's called 93. It's the name of his novel. Some people say it was his best novel he ever wrote. It's about the French Revolution. It's like a historical novel based on historical facts, but it's it's fictional in a lot of it And in there he has uh an event that takes place. Now well I don't know that this ever actually happened, but the one of the battleships was at sea. And a storm blows up, and everybody's up and they're doing their jobs keeping the ship afloat. And the captain hears this horrendous sound down in the the Belly of the ship. What would you call that navy guys? They don't know. Belly of the ship. The belly of the ship. The what? The builds down in the bottom. He hears this horrendous sound. Bang! That ship is being tossed in the storms. And he hears this bang! Slam! Smash! And they go and look, and lo and behold, there's this huge cannon that had not been secured. And that thing is slamming side to side, tearing everything up down stairs. And smashing up against the walls of that ship. The ship is in danger of being ruptured and going down and everybody killed. Because somebody did not secure that huge cannon. Finally a soldier, one of the sailors, says, I'll go down. He's risking his life. He goes, I'll go down and I'll get that thing secured before it destroys everything. And sure enough, in the story, he goes down there, risking his life, that thing slamming around, and somehow he gets that thing secured And the ship is safe. And they ride out the storm, and there's no damage done, and everybody lives. Now, the story goes on. Just I thought this was interesting. When they all settle down, the storm's over, he calls everybody on deck and he gives an award to the sailor for risking his life and going down there and securing the t-tanning. And as soon as he gives them the reward, he has them executed because he's the soldier who didn't secure it in the first place and put the whole ship in danger in the first place. Now, that's an aside, this is what I thought. Meekness is having the canon in my heart and soul secured. If I'm not meet, my own sinful pride and my own sinful flesh is just wreaking havoc In my life. Reacting to every little thing. Slamminess. And if I don't learn to be meek as a Christian, it will destroy my life, my pride, my self-will, my self-confidence. My disobedience to God, this old sinful heart will ruin me if I don't, as a believer, secure And become me, and you have the strength enough to get myself under control. Now the Holy Spirit has to do that. Proverbs chapter 4 says this: keep thy heart with all diligence. And the idea of that verse is keeping that heart in prison. Keeping it under control, and that is what meekness is: letting the Holy Spirit of God control my sinful nature I can go through life like Joseph did, like David did much of the time, Moses much of the time, and just doing right and trusting God and not reacting. To everything that happens in life. Isn't that good? Let's ask God to help us be meek. Let's do what we need to to nurture the Holy Spirit of God to produce that meekness in us. Father in heaven, Lord, I've been challenged by this passage. Lord, I would like to be a meek Christian from my heart and the inner man. Lord, I need your Holy Spirit to bear that fruit. I can't do it. And show me, Lord, show us the areas that we can nurture the spirit, the weeds that need to be pulled, the soil that needs to be fertilized. Water that needs to be out, whatever it is in our lives that needs to be done so that your Holy Spirit can just have free reign, dying to self, and letting the Holy Spirit have his way. Help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, there's some areas in my Christian life That I really need to give attention to so the Holy Spirit can have his way and bear fruit in my life. And there's some things that really I know are grieving to the Spirit, and some areas I need to put in That it would free the Holy Spirit up. You know what I'm talking about? How many people would say, Preacher, there are some areas like that? I know the Spirit of God is dealt with my heart. God bless you. Hands all around