Sunday filling in for me. I appreciate that so much. And uh I was uh we were out some somewhere, I was talking to somebody, and I said, I'm kinda getting the impression it goes better when I'm not here than when I am here. But uh appreciate everyone that filled in and and helped out. It seemed like everything went without a hitch. Somebody said, if you think you're so important that God can't can't get along without you, what you should do is take your hand, stick it in a bucket of water. And then when you pull it out, the hole that's left is how God gets along without you, you know. It just fills right in. Um so it's probably the case. Matthew chapter 5. We're looking at the ninth beat uh the ninth verse, the seventh Beatitude. Um I think we got started on this. several weeks ago. And I want to review that and uh pick up and try and make some applications here. I'm going to begin reading in verse two. I want to read down verse two through nine just to get the context, refresh our mind what we're talking about. Of course Just a brief reminder, this is the uh beginning of the Sermon on the Mound. I'm calling it the introduction to the Sermon on the Mound. Uh probably the uh well in my mind, without a doubt, the greatest sermon ever preached by the Lord Jesus Christ. And he makes these powerful statements. The Beatitudes are a series of statements the Lord makes about the Christian life. And um uh I think I mean all scripture is is significant and God uses all scripture but these This section here, I think Jesus, right from the start, is challenging us as to what kind of person I am as a Christian. He's talking more than what the things I do. We're preaching James. James is very practical. Do this, do that, wisdom, do this, that, and do this, this and don't do that, and this, that, and the other. The Beatitudes aren't talking about so much what I do, but it's talking more about what I am as a Christian, as a spirit-filled Christian. And that is really what it's all about. So let's look here, look at this And see what he says. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be fed. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Now here we are at our text for tonight. Blessed are the peacemakers For they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are the peacemakers. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I ask now that you would speak to our hearts And we thank you that you love us enough to confront us and challenge us in our spiritual life. We ask God that you would use this passage tonight To help us understand a little bit more about ourselves, a little bit more about what we need to be, and I pray your Holy Spirit would convict and encourage and challenge us. I present my body anew, Lord. I yield my will to yours. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit and that you'd speak through me. Thank you for your goodness, Lord. Thank you for your blessings. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, the Beatitudes here, they challenge us as the kind of person I am. What kind of person am I as a Christian? And then along with that, this is the kind of person that God blesses This is the kind of person that God's going to put his hand a blessing on. You know, it's different than what the world says. In fact, look at verse 3 there. Blessed are the poor in spirit. The world wouldn't say that The world would say, blessed are those that are rich in wallet. You know? Blessed are those that have houses and lands and possessions. Boy, that's blessed. Jesus says, now blessed are those that are poor in spirit, those that realize how badly they need God. How desperate they are. And so he's challenging us here, our spiritual character, everything that the Pharisees had taught, everything the disciples believed Jesus is just uh confronting them and absolutely turning them upside down. Uh they had the idea. Uh remember when Jesus said it's easier to put a camel through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to be saved? Anybody remember what was what was Peter's response to that? Anyone remember how Peter responded? He said, who then can be saved? His thinking was, Jesus said, it's easier for a camel go through a needle than a rich man to be saved. Peter's thinking was, if a rich man can't be saved, Then who in the world can be saved? What does that tell us about Peter's frame of mind? What what he was thinking? He equated material prosperity with God's blessings, with being a relationship with God. Man, they're so rich, they have all that, God's done all that to them, they must be saved. And Jesus said The financial aspect, the the the possessions have absolutely nothing to do with my standing before God. We've emphas emphasized this a lot around here Um whether I have money in my pocket or not has absolutely nothing to do with whether I'm saved or not, or even if I'm a good Christian or not. And so this whole aspect here is just confronting the world's thinking about God, about Christianity, it had infected the Pharisees. and uh even the disciples there. He's emphasizing, he's clarifying to them, as we said before, that his kingdom is a spiritual kingdom at this point. He's not coming to set up his physical kingdom. He is coming to win people to himself and see people saved. So here is the statement that we're looking at. Blessed are the peacemakers. Now I asked this question before, just a reminder for us. Why is there war? What is it that causes contention and war between nations, between people? What is it that causes that? Sin. Exactly right. The world doesn't see that. But it is the fact that we have sinful hearts. Proverbs 13:10 makes it very clear. Only by pride Cometh what? Contention. The only source of contention, which is what war is, fighting is contention, the only source of that is pride, is a sinful heart, is the flesh Um and so if Jesus says here, Blessed are the peacemakers, if we're going to be peacemakers, uh then we've got to understand why there's war in the first place, and there's war in the first place whether you're talking about national scale wars or in a home between a husband and wife, between individuals, co-workers, whatever that conflict is, the source of that is sin. So if I'm going to be a peacemaker I've got to be able to deal with the cause of war. Does that make sense? And so that's what we need to understand. So the formula for peace Is not appeasement. Well we need to negotiate and appease that. And uh that's what that's what the the um oh the big uh what's the big organization just slipped my mind uh not NATO, uh the United Nations. Before that the League of Nations. Their whole concept of peace is we have to appease one another. And so you have uh, you know, appeasement always leads, uh always leads to compromising justice. It always leads to that. And so um so uh the the solution to war, the the answer to war and uh and the to bring about peace is not appeasement, is not compromising what is the truth But uh it is dealing with the source of conflict and that's sin. And the only way we do that is to see transformed arts After the lesson, after we take the offering, do the announcements, when it's time to go to prayer, I'm going to slip out. I'm hoping some other folks have come down. We're going to teach a class on how to win souls. And really, if you want to take that down to the very heart of it, winning souls is simply getting people to get their hearts transformed, get a new heart, new life, and that I believe will eventually lead to peace. Now until Christ comes, obviously we have sin, you're going to have conflict. But that is the answer, that is the solution. Now let's look what we said so far. Last week or several weeks ago, we pointed out That uh if we're going to be a peacemaker, first of all, we want to understand the peacemaker. And I made this statement under that. The peacemaker has a biblical view of himself or a correct view of himself. If I'm my life, if I'm going to be a kind of person that that extinguishes conflict, if I'm going to be the kind of person that influences peace Then I've got to see myself correctly. The natural view of self, the unsaved man's view of self, and even the carnal Christian's view of self, is that he's the center of the universe Everything revolves around me. What does the world say? You've got to look out for number one. And what do they mean by that? You've got to put yourself first. I've got to put myself first. It is me, and that's what I speak. That is an unbiblical view of myself. That is the way if I'm putting myself first and Helen is putting herself first and Ken is putting his self first, inevitably what's going to eventually happen There's going to be conflict because myself doesn't want to please herself or his self. Myself wants to please myself and their self wants to please their self. And thus you have conflict. And as long as I've got this idea, listen, as long as I've got this idea that I am the most important person in the world, everything is valued by how it pleases or displeases me. I'm never going to be a peacemaker. Paul put it this way: we've got to die to self. And I'm telling you, there's a power in that truth. Of dying to self. Dr. Lee Robertson emphasized that so much. You've got to die to self. You've got to die to self. What's he saying? He's saying get a biblical view of yourself. You are not the center of the universe. I had a years ago, we weren't here for real long, but there was a uh lady visiting and different things and and they attended actually attended for a quite a while. But anyway, she made this statement to me. She goes Uh our church is so divided. And to be honest with you, I didn't see it. Um I thought they were we were getting along pretty good and God was blessing this in the early days and the church was growing and And I said, I I don't see it. And she goes, well, it just is. And uh I got looking and paying attention a little bit, and I think I found that I think I found the solution to the problem The problem was, and I presented this in a message, the solution to a divided church, if it is, or a home or whatever it may be, ministry, whatever society The problem is that uh every person is living for themselves. And when I die to self, I'll try and illustrate this here quickly, but if I die to self and I say, you know, I'm not going to live for myself, it's not going to be dance leather many or I'm going to yield my will. I'm going to deny myself. And I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. And Jesus is moved on. So I'm not doing my own thing anymore. I'm yielded to the Lord and I'm become a follower of Jesus Christ. And then Helen gets that same idea. And she goes, you know, I'm going to die to self, I'm going to deny myself. Take off my clothes. I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. So she starts following Jesus Christ And then Ken decides to do the same thing. And Jesus is moving along through life, and we're following him, trying to serve him, we're yielding, denying ourselves, and yielding all to Christ. What's happening to us? We're coming together. Peace is being produced. You see what I'm saying? And so I must understand a biblical view of myself is to humble myself. And to realize I'm a sinner, I've got a very proud heart, I've got a very sinful nature. And uh so a peacemaker understands uh uh has a biblical or correct view of themselves, but they also have a correct view of their neighbor. And uh they have a biblical view of their neighbor. Um my name I made this statement before, my neighbor is not my enemy. We think of it that way. We think of that person is my enemy. But that biblically is not true. We have one enemy, and that's Satan. And all other mankind are being held captive by Satan. He is the ultimate enemy. And so if I want to be a peacemaker, as the Lord says, bless here, I've got to die to self. I've got to realize it's not me, it's Christ. It's no longer I that liveth, it's Christ, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ This person here is trying to uh bring about uh go to war with me, so to speak. He's trying to bring this conflict, he's agitating me, he's uh uh uh opposing me, is antagonizing me I've got to stop and say, wait a minute, that guy's not the enemy. Behind him is Satan who is trying to stir this up. You follow what I'm saying? And so I have to have a biblical view of himself. And I I like this. This has helped me over the years. Anybody here ever have anyone that just really got under your skin? Anybody? Anybody known? Don't say you're looking at him right now, all right? Uh but there's just somebody I jokingly I should be careful, but I jokingly say this, yeah I like the guy, but sometimes I'd like to choke him You know? Anybody ever feel that way? And uh you know what helps us, and there's some people I'd be honest with you have a very hard time liking And that's maybe a shock, but there's some people. Nobody in this room, but some people. Um you know what's helped me to to remember that Jesus Christ thought that guy Was worth dying on a cross and suffering hell for. And if Jesus Christ can have that attitude towards that person who was so difficult, surely I can die to self and say, you know Jesus loved them that much. Jesus thought they were that valuable. I can die to self and I can view them that way also. See what I'm saying? And I tell you that helps a lot of problems in the marriage. We look at that in the marriage. Hey, my spouse, Jesus loved them enough, they were worth dying and suffering hell for. Who am I to be hateful to them? Who am I to have an attitude towards them? I get a die to self And uh I tell you that'll solve a lot of problems. He says, Blessed are the peacemakers. A peacemaker, first of all, has a biblical understanding of themselves and a biblical understanding of their neighbor Second thought I have on this about becoming a peacemaker, I put this down, not just understanding the peacemaker, but attaining a peacemaker. And what I mean by that is becoming a peacemaker. Say preacher, it just seems like everywhere I go there's conflict. Just seems like everywhere I go, it ends up a big fuss and all of that. How can I become a person that influences an atmosphere or or relationships to be what God wants them to be. Instead of there being strife and conflict and and hard feelings, I want to be a peacemaker. And I think that every genuine biblical, and every genuine Christian in their heart somewhere wants to be a peacemaker I want to influence people to help them be what Christ wants them to be. How do I do that? Well, I think there's some practical ways. And let me offer these as suggestion. Number one How to become a peacemaker. Number one, speak sparingly. That's good advice in any situation, huh? Speak sparly. The Bible talks a lot about the damage our tongues do. Right or wrong? The Navy picked up on that. Loose lips. Now that's a different application, but the principle is the same. Our tongues can get us into trouble And if we want to be peacemakers, we want to avoid conflict, we've got to speak sparingly. I tell you, that flesh gets angry and the tongue starts running. Before you know it, there is war broke out in the kitchen. There's war broke out in the church house. There's war broke out in the office. War broke out in the garage or wherever it may be, wherever two people are, that flesh gets angry, and that tongue starts running, and brother, peace is gone. And if we can get to the point where we are able to discipline ourselves to speak sparingly. Now we're going to talk about this in James. He goes to great length, talking about how difficult that is to control the tongue. But when we get to that point, brother, we're going to see a lot less conflict in our lives. We're going to see a lot less uh uh strife going on in our in our relationships when I can get to the point where I speak sparingly. Somebody says I had a guy years ago said this to me. He goes, Well preacher, I just tell it the way I think it He said, yeah, we all know that. Anyone near you knows that. Um, do you really believe that's a good idea? To just spout out what I think about it, I just let it out. I don't think that's a good idea. And I'll tell you, God doesn't think that's a good idea. Take your Bible with me. I want you to see this. Turn to Proverbs chapter 29. And it amazes me, I should, and I've been studying this long enough, but every time it amazes me how much Proverbs Deals with wisdom and the tongue, how those two are so closely related. Proverbs 29, and look with me at verse number 11. I want to challenge you early in the month. Read a chapter of Proverbs corresponding to each day that month. I'm telling you, that will be a blessing to you. It'll encourage you. Proverbs 29, what did I say? Verse 11. This is the Lord talking, alright? Look at the language the Lord uses here. A what? Fool! Wow, that's tough. A fool uttereth all his what? What's that mean? A fool utters all his mind. What's that mean? He just whatever's in the head comes out the mouth. I put in the margin of my Bible, I put this down, he gives his opinion about everything. You know this I I can't I've I tried so hard not to inject this, but this stuff going on in Ferguson around the world, you know what most of that is? Fools uttering all their mind. Nobody's stopping thinking it through and what they're saying. I'm on both sides, no doubt. But uh a fool uttereth always mine. But look at the rest of the verse. But a what? A wise man keepeth it in till afterward. Now, that is a powerful verse there. A full somebody says or does something, man, the flesh gets flared up. Now, Galatians 5, I don't have time to go there tonight, but Galatians 5 tells me that anger and wrath and all that is from the flesh, it's not from the Holy Spirit. And so when I'm getting angry, when I'm getting, boy, I'm worked up, I'm man, that just gets my good. That is not the Holy Spirit, that is my flesh. And uh that is where this comes out. And I get angry and I start running my mouth and all that just starts coming out. Uh I am not being a peacemaker. Now this is what caught my attention. A fool uttereth all his mind, but a wise man keepeth it in. And but he adds a little couple statements at the end there. Keepeth it in till what? Till afterwards. And I got looking here, till afterwards what? And uh I jotted a few things. Doesn't say right there, but I jotted a few things down. I put this down. A full utter is always mine. But a wise man keeps it in till afterward. I put this, till after my emotions have calmed down. I think a whole lot clearer. There's an old saying folks used to say, count the ten. You know? That principle's not bad. I would suggest count to about a hundred and ten thousand. Might be a little better. Uh keep it in until the emotions have come down. Uh here's another one. Uh and I wrote this down before the Ferguson thing blew up. But it applies. Uh uh keep it until afterward when the situation is clear. You know, when after it's all uh anybody here get mad about something and later on you found out wasn't even what you thought it was We don't never admit that. You know, I hate admitting when I was wrong. And you just keep arguing, even though about halfway through the argument you realize, wow, I wasn't correct. You keep arguing anyway and say face somehow, it just gets worse. But a wise man keeps it in until he's a and the set the third thought goes along with it, keep it in until after all the facts are known. And then I can think this thing through and I can find a solution, a biblical solution to this whole issue going on. But don't just run your mouth. Keep the word sparingly. Speak sparingly A lot of fights start over words. Right? And bar fights. Um, you know, I don't know this from experience, but the deacons have been telling me that um But isn't that true? What'd you say? Oh yeah? I don't even know what they're fighting about. But somebody said do you ever get I shouldn't ask this, but do you ever get in an argument with your spouse or somebody, a brother or sister, and after it's all said and done, you are steamed, not because what you originally started arguing about, but because of what was said during the argument. Huh? The Bible addresses that, he says fools do that. That's what fools do. Wise men keeps it in. He thinks it through till its emotions are calmed down. All the facts are there. I have time to come up with a biblical solution to this, a biblical, godly, spiritual response And we can deal with this in a mature, godly Christian way. And that's what peacemakers are. So I've got to speak sparingly. After I was reviewing my notes this afternoon, I I thought I'd add this thought along with that one, and that's this, not just what I say, but sometimes how I say it. You know? And I think sometimes even we don't mean it, but our tune of voice comes in such a way that it just grates. You know what I'm saying? And so we have to be careful, and I think I have a tendency to do this. I'll say something, and I'll say it in a way I don't mean it to be harsh or whatever. But it just kind of comes out that way. And so I have to very be very, very careful trying think things through. And I think that's where he says, keep it in till afterwards, kind of think about not just what I'm going to say, how I'm going to do it, but how I'm going to go about that And I think watching the tone of voice. So I wrote this one down. Speak sparingly. Number two, I put this down as far as becoming a peacemaker. Think scripturally. Think scripturally. And what I mean by that is this. Let's try and view every situation in light of the gospel I don't have the reference here in front of me, but uh I think it's in Romans, I'm pretty confident. But Paul made this statement. He says that God shall judge us by the gospel. I think it's in Romans 12, I want to say. And that suggests to me that every situation I'm in, every time something there's potential conflict, there's potential strife First, I want to keep my words very minimal. I want to think this thing through. I want to wait until afterward. But I also want to view it scripturally. I want to view it in light of the gospel. What would be the biblical response to that? What's the biblical solution to this situation? Paul, I believe, did this. He viewed every situation. Asking himself, how will this affect the gospel? How will this affect the body of Christ, the advancement of the gospel? I believe it's in Philippians, and I should have written these references down, but I believe it's in Philippians. And he said he said some people are preaching the gospel out of sincerity. He said some people are preaching it um uh I'm trying to remember the word he used, uh uh in pretense. In other words, they're just mocking what I'm saying. They're doing the gospel, and um uh whether in pretense or in truth, he said, I rejoice the gospel's being preached Now he could have got mad and went out there and went to war with those people. But he didn't. He says, wait a minute, just keep your mouth shut. Man, the name of Christ is getting out there. And there's some, you know, you know how I feel about contemporary music and contemporary Christianity. I just, I believe it's a mistake But uh and I'm gonna I give you my word, I am committed to do everything I can to keep this church from going that direction. But I tell you one thing I'm not going to do. I'm not going to go out to war with another church over that. I'm not going to go to church across town, they've got drums and they're rocking out. I'm not going to go to war with them I'm going to teach and preach and hold my standard where it is. And you know what? If somebody gets saved in that, I say praise the Lord. I'm glad a soul was snatched out of hell. But I'm not going to go to war with them about that. You see what I'm saying? If it's false doctrine, if it's going to keep people out of hell, you know, I'm going to preach against that. I'm going to preach against any violation of scripture as I understand it But what I'm trying to say is Paul had this attitude. You know, they're preaching the gospel out of pretense. They're have false motives. Their their reasoning is wrong. But he says the name of Christ is getting out and says, hey, I can rejoice in that And so think scripturally. How does this affect the gospel? How does this affect the body of Christ? And I put this one down, number three. Number one, I said, speak sparingly. Number two, think scripturally. And number three down, and this is so important. Act graciously. Act graciously. I'm telling you, grace is a wonderful, wonderful thing. How many folks here are glad God extends grace to you and I? That's what removes the enmity between us and Christ. Us and God's holiness. Is the grace of God. Now listen, don't you think the grace that God shows me would be a good thing for me to show that same grace to others? Be gracious. It doesn't mean compromise. It doesn't mean lower my convictions or my standards, but it does mean just be gracious, even when phones go off in the middle of the sermon. Don't draw attention to it and make a big deal about it. Just be gracious and go on. Amen. Act graciously. Isn't this good stuff? I think this is good stuff. Look for a way to remove the contention. As much as is possibly, live peaceably with all men. Look for some way, how can I remove this contention? without compromising my convictions, without violating Scripture, without displeasing the Lord, how can I remove this contention? How can I actively resolve this situation? Um turn with me to Romans if you would. I got a couple minutes left. Romans chapter twelve Romans twelve. This is a I think I've been trying to quote these passages throughout the message. Romans twelve. And verse 18 I have written down here. Yeah, this is where I was just trying to quote I have this underlined in my Bible. If it be possible, so much as lieth in you Live what? Peaceably with whom? Omen. Now I take that first couple statements. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, I take that to mean. Give every effort you can to this. Man, just do everything you possibly can To remove contention, to resolve the situation, as much as is possible, as much as lieth, if it be possible, as much lieth in you. He's saying, give every effort to this Do all I can. And the other thought I get from this passage, well, let's read down there, verse 18, then verse 19. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. But rather give place unto Wrath. In other words, put wrath away, put a distance between you and Wrath. Um But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, the Lord's speaking. I will repay, saith the Lord. You don't need to take vengeance. I don't need to go to war On that with that person. Let God do the warring. I found God's a whole lot better warrior than I am. Let him do it. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink. Well, you're not treating him much like an enemy. It's because I'm not viewing him as an enemy. For in so doing thou shalt keep heap coals of fire on his head. And I like this last verse here, verse 21. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with what? good. Overcome you look good. This past s I think it was this past summer, I had another preacher who I thought was a friend of mine. I didn't really know him that well, but if somebody would ask me, I'd say, yes, my friend And I mean he absolutely turned on me this summer uh uh for I don't know what. And uh a statement I had put on, I think it was Facebook, just a little joke I put, and he absolutely sent me stuff and Man, I mean, turn me upside down. I thought, what in the world? And my you know what my first response was I am writing back. And uh it was a Sunday afternoon. I came and preached that night, and the Lord convicted me. I hate it when God convicts you while you're preaching. You think it's hard to be down there and get convicted? Try it up here sometime. And um I tried contacting him and uh I was different things. So finally I just the Lord uh this is the Lord leading me, I believe. Uh I got a gift card to Sonic And there was a sonic not far from where he lived. I got a gift card uh and uh about twenty-five, thirty bucks and put it in a letter and I said, Dear brother so and so Just want you to know I prayed for you today. I'm asking God to bless you. Take your wife. I said his wife's name. Take her out for a little pleasant treat on me. God bless you. And the whole reason I did, and by the way, I never heard back. But um, the whole reason I did that was this verse here. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with what? Good. Tell you what, you wouldn't be a peacemaker. Every time somebody tries to ignite something, respond back in something kind. Respond back with something good. I tell you what, that'll put that war out pretty quick. That'll put it out pretty quick. 1 Peter 2, we don't have time to turn there. 1 Peter 2, 19 to 23. He says, you know, if uh if you suffer because you did wrong and you take it patiently, what good is that? But if you do right and somebody mistreats you and you take that patiently, ah, now you're being like Christ. And of course I'm not wording it the way it is in the Bible. But now you're becoming a peacemaker. You're dying to self. I'm going to overcome evil with good. So we have the understanding of a peacemaker. I need to understand I'm a sinner, I gotta die to self, I can't let that flesh get in this, my neighbor. He's someone Jesus Christ thought was worth dying for, suffered hell for that person, that one that's maybe is the agitator. I need to keep my word sparingly, I need to think scripturally, and I need to act graciously. And then last of all, my last thought, and I'll just give this to you, the identification of a peacemaker. And we come back to Matthew 5, he said, They shall be called the what? Is it children or sons of God? Children of God. Let me get back there and make sure I quote it correctly. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. He says they're going to be called that. Now, the assumption here, we're beginning with the assumption he's talking to saved people who are children of God. But these are people who are going to be called children of God. In other words, they're going to be identified as one of God's children. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. You'll be identified as one of my disciples. They'll call you. Hey, that's one of his disciples. By this shall they know all men know that you're my disciples, if they have what? Love one towards another. They're at peace. And I think what the Lord's saying here is, Blessed are the peacemakers, because they're going to be called the children of God. They're going to be called, they're going to be identified. As one of God's children. That is an identification mark. A peacemaker is someone who's like their heavenly father. We were out, of course, with with Sam and he's my son. And Kathy made a statement. We're driving back. And uh you want to have some great conversation. Drive 14 hours in a car with your wife. You talk about everything. You talk about uh you can ask her about that, uh the little incident there on the way. But anyway. Um We're driving away. We're driving back and Kathy said this. She's oh I had called my dad. I was talking to my dad on the road on the speakerphone in the car. When we hung up, she says, um I can see your dad in you. The things you say, the way you say them, the way you guys talk back and forth, because I could tell that was father-son We got talking about that a little bit and she goes, When you were out there with Sam, she said, I could see you and Sam. Just the way he said things and different things he did and whatnot. Now that's kind of a scary thought. I think that's what Jesus is saying here. When I'm a mature Christian, I'm gracious. I don't fly off, not in the flesh. I think things through, I respond biblically, die to self. I think Jesus is saying, ah, people are going to say, oh, I can see his heavenly father in him. I can see he's like his daddy. And peacemakers will be identified as the children of God, biblical peacemakers. Isn't that good? I would love for people to come up and it's happened and uh I'm sure it's happened for many of you, but people come up and say this. You're total strangers, you're somewhere away, and they walk up and they say this. Are you a Christian? Anybody ever have a hem? Don't you like that? That's good. I think that's what he's saying here. And I'm asking God to help me be a peacemaker. I'm asking God to help me die to self, to think things through, keep my words sparse, and um be very, very gracious. I'm telling you, you can have the highest standards in the world and still be nice. Amen? We can be tight as can be on the Bible, on what we believe in. I think we should be. But at the same time, we can be very, very nice and very, very gracious. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be peacemakers, Lord. Help me and all of us to understand that we're not the center of the universe. You are, that we need to die to self. Help us, Lord, to be very careful in our words, gracious, scriptural in our thinking. And Lord, we want it to be clear before we ever open our mouth, even sometimes, Lord, that people see Christ in us. They see our Heavenly Father working in our lives and some characteristics there. And we need you to help us do that, God. We can't produce this on our own. We need you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How we would say Preacher, what you described tonight from this passage is the kind of Christian I want to be. I want to be a peacemaker. And I'm asking the Lord to help me. And maybe there's some specific areas as we went through this that the Spirit of God touched the heart. And say, all right, if that's the case, then this needs to change. This needs to be dealt with. This needs to be addressed. And maybe there's something there tonight. You say the Spirit of God spoke to my heart And some of these areas I need to incorporate. Is there any like that? Any at all like that tonight? God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you, old-fashioned altar is an excellent place. To respond when God speaks to our heart and say, Lord, this is what I need you to do. God, I want you to help me. And you showed me this. And Lord, I'm yielding this area and I'm asking you for your direction here. And God will do it. God will do it. Father, bless our invitation. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's playing a few verses of imitation. Maybe