I want us to walk out of this auditorium tonight with our spirits lifted high, energetic about Jesus. Not about a sermon, not about a tear, not about some movement, not about I want us to walk out bragging on Jesus tonight. That's what I want. And we're going to do it coming from the Word of God tonight. Psalm 108, brand new message. We're going to look at this passage of scripture. I want you to see this. This This passage of scripture blows my mind. And it's so good. As a matter of fact, I had a hard time today going through this, trying to decide what I wanted, what God wanted me to talk about, and what I wanted to talk about. And so hopefully we we do what God wants me to talk about, not what I want. I want you to see this Psalm 108. My pages flipped here. Psalm 108. Look if you would, or excuse me, 103. I'm sorry, that's why. Couldn't even read my own writing. Psalm 103. Psalm 103. Let's start in verse number 1. Psalm 103, verse number 1. Here's what God's Word says to us. God speaking through King David says this, bless the Lord, O my soul. What does that even mean? What does it mean? You ever heard someone say, oh, bless their heart? What does that mean? What does it mean to bless something? We're not Catholic. We're not, you know, bless you my God. We're not, and I'm not knocking that. I'm just simply saying that's not us. What does it mean when David says, bless the Lord, O my soul? And he goes on, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. What does that even mean? I know I read those things and we we say well bless you and you know someone sneezes we say bless you what what do we even mean when God says bless the Lord O my soul here's what this means to me Here's how I, and I know there's a technical definition in the Hebrew of what the word blessed means. Here's how I relate that in my life. Bless the Lord simply means brag on, exalt, lift up the name of Jesus Christ. I want God to get glory and honor. I I don't want glory and honor. I know as soon as I get a pat on the back, there's gonna be a knife in the next hand. So it's gonna happen. The same voice that says thank you, sometimes the same voice that chews you out. But here Paul uh David says this, I want to spend my life. Lifting up the name of Jesus Christ. I want people when they see Kirk Copeland, when they see my life, when they see what God's using me to do. I want people not to say, Wow, what a great service. I want people to say, Wow, what a great God. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. I want Christ to be lifted up. That's what this whole chapter is about lifting up Christ. So how does David do it? Well, let's read. I'll try not to interrupt myself again Bless the Lord, verse 2. Bless the Lord, oh my. He says it like three times. I just interrupt myself again, sorry. And forget not all of his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases. I got to interrupt myself, sorry. You know, the healing that God gives sometimes isn't always on this side? That's a tough one, isn't it? 2010 I cut contracted malaria. I was on a missions trip in Thailand. I got the lucky mosquito The only way you can contract malaria is by the mosquito bite. And I got the lucky mosquito that was infected, and I contracted malaria. Came back home, got deathly ill. And uh February of 2010, I ended up spending six or seven days in in in the intensive care unit. On the infectious disease hallway of Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee. On the way there in the ambulance, they told my wife, he's gonna die They didn't quite say it that way. They said to her, prepare yourself, his organs are shutting down. He's not going to make it. My wife on that 30-minute what's supposed to be a 30-minute drive took about 15 minutes in the ambulance Got us there to the hospital. And here I am. By the way, don't worry, you can't get malaria from me unless I shake your hand. You're safe otherwise. And uh Just kidding, you can't get it from me. You know what the doctor told me about six months later? He said this. He said, Kurt, that malaria is going to be in your system for the rest of your life. He said, chances are, unless you die of unnatural causes, malaria is going to be the cause of your death one day. I said, thanks, Doc. You're an encouragement. No cure. I'm walking with the disease in my body, and you're saying it's going to take my life someday. I said, Doc, when's that going to be? He said, I don't know. But one day it's going to happen. He says, I'm going to get a new doctor. I don't like you anymore Hey, can I tell you God? God's not healed me of disease and malaria. But one day he will. One day that malaria may take my life, but guess what? It's not taking my life. God's transported me from this life to that life, and I'll spend all eternity kicking up gold dust. I'm not worried. He heals all my diseases I'm not working. Okay, I'll stop interrupt myself. I think. Verse 3: who forgiveth all I already read that one. Verse 4. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies Who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. I love that Sorry, verse 7. He made known his ways unto Moses and his acts to the children of Israel. Verse 8, my text. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. He will not always shide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He have not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame, he remembers that we are but dust. As for man, his days are as grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone. And the place thereof shall know it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. upon them that fear him and his righteousness unto the child unto the children's children. I I read this passage of Scripture. I'm going to stop there. I read this passage of Scripture and I'm overwhelmed with how good God is I know life can be troubling. I know there's things that go on in life that that bother us. I know there's there's uh uh Job says man that is born of woman is full of trouble, and I can't remember the verse. I should have studied more We all have trouble. We all have problems. We all have negative in our life. But I stop and when I take my eyes off of the negative circumstances of my life And I put my eyes back up on Jesus, I stop to think about how good God has been in my life. God's been good. I don't deserve the goodness of God, but God has been so good to us. You know, in the sports world, it all uh revolves around what have you done for me lately? A guy could win the MVP last year and get cut this year. Why? Because last year he did great. This year he stays What have you done for me lately? Can I tell you that mentality is not God's mentality? God loves us. God loves us. God loves us. He loves every one of us here tonight. If you know him as your heavenly father, you are his child, and God absolutely loves and adores you That's amazing to me because I know what a stinker I am. My mentality is I I I love I love to laugh. I have a good time in life. I really do. And my wife is she is so much for she's an amazing lady. Most of you know her. She's been here many times. But uh my wife is very uh jumpy Very easy, very skittish. And uh we are the only two at home. Our daughters are older, they both moved out, and so it's just her and I, the house, and a little tiny Yorkie. I mean a little ankle binder, a little small little rat And uh we call her a dog, but she's a rat. And we've got it's just the two of us. And I can be the only one in the house with my wife, and I can walk around the corner, and my wife's trying to say, Hey honey, she says, I mean she just starts, honey, it's just me. So I enjoy playing off that. I know I shouldn't. I have on more than one occasion been driving down the road in evangelism with my wife sitting in the car right next to me. And and she might start dozing off. She doesn't doze off in my driving anymore. I don't understand that. But she used to. And she started dozing off and going to sleep. Honey, just relax, go to sleep. I've got this And she finally starts to doze off. And I did this with teenagers when I was driving a bus with the teenagers. I've done it in my car with my wife. I look for tow trucks. You know those big tow trucks that are semi-tow trucks? I mean the oversized tow truck. And I love it when that tow truck picks up another tow truck, or uh uh uh a semi And when they when a tow truck pulls a semi, typically, if it doesn't have its cat if it's just the cab, they'll turn it around backwards. And they'll raise up the back end of it. And so driving down the interstate, there's the headlights of the semi facing right at me. And I pulled in right in behind that semi. I've gotten right up close behind where those headlights are right, I mean literally right there. And then I go, ah, and I hit the brakes. And my wife breaks up I love having fun. By the way, I get a black eye, a broken arm, fat lip, all that kind of. And most people say, you deserve that too. And you're right. You're I just I know it's coming. I know how to push buttons. I'm good. I'm the youngest sibling. I know how to push buttons. I'm good at it I know how to tease. Hey, you know what I love? I love having a good time bragging on God. And God looks down at Kurt Copeland, and God doesn't say, Kurt, you just failed me here again. God looks down at me as a heavenly father and says, Kurt, I love you. Wipe that dirt off of you and get back up. Keep on serving. There's a couple things in this passage of Scripture. That I look at, by the way, Lamentations says it, Lamentations chapter 3, verses 22 and 23, the Bible says this, it is of the Lord's mercies. That we are not consumed. Because as compassion faileth not, they are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. What an amazing verse. Or two verses. We wrote down a couple points out of this passage of scripture I wrote down number one, how could I brag on God's night? I can brag on God because of his mercy and graciousness. I know we hit it just a little bit in the youth conference, but I won't hit it again. God's mercy. Look if you would please at verse number 8. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. I know we read a verse like that, we're like, oh, that's good. Move on to the next one. Stop and think about what God just said. God is merciful and gracious, He's slow to anger. Plenty, plenty of us in mercy. I remember as a kid growing up, I had a job sometimes my dad would work on the car. We had a 1971 Ford Pinto. And a 1972 Ford Pinto. We had two cars. The one car sat in the driveway on blocks. The 72 model was the parts car, and the 71 was the one we drove. And if something broke down on the 71, we pulled off the 72, put it on the 71, and we keep right on rolling. We had our own junkyard in the front yard. And we were from Illinois then. We weren't even rednecks. Now we're rednecks. We don't do that. I remember my dad would say, hey Kurt. Let's go outside. We're going to work on the car. I don't know why it seems that every time we worked on the car, it was like ten o'clock at night in a in a blizzard or rainstorm and we had to work outside. And my job, I didn't have a real technical job. You know what my job was? Hold the flashlight. That was my job. I've got ADHD. I I've never been diagnosed. My wife tells me I have it. But I as a kid I had it. I I just I couldn't stay focused on anything. I remember I'd go out to the car and my dad'd say, All right. He said, hold the flashlight right here. So I put the flashlight, put it right on what he was working on. I didn't know what he was working on, but I had the flashlight. Some of y'all know what I'm talking about. I held the flashlight there. And in about three or four minutes, my ADHD had kicked in and I'm like looking at other parts of the engine. And the lights went up the side. My dad was backhand right in the ooh And he'd say this, you dumb cluck. I have no idea what a dumb cluck is, but I'm a dumb cluck I was called that many times. You done clock? Put the light right here. Put it right here. Yes, sir. I put the light right back there. And 30 seconds later, I'm looking at the stars. And the light goes up to the stars. And the backhand came again. You dumb clutch. Put the light right here. I am so thankful for magnetic lights that have little stretchy little cords. Now it I'd get backhanded anymore. I'm thankful for it. Hey, you know what God says? Did you ever irritate someone in your life? The Bible says God is slow to anger. Plenty of mercy. Don't you love mercy? No, really, don't you love uh how many of y'all have ever looked in your rearview mirror and saw the blue lights behind you? How many of you ever you're willing to testify? I saw the blue lights behind me? I I was preaching in Arkansas. This has been Ten, twelve years ago. I was preaching in Arkansas at a camp in uh John Bishop's camp down in in Rosebud, Arkansas, Triple S and we got to the Thursday night service and And at the camp I uh this there's no cell phone service out there. Literally. Doesn't matter if you have a cell phone or not, it's not gonna work out there. It's in the middle of nowhere And uh and the camp phone rang right before the closing Thursday night service of camp. I was the one doing the preaching. My wife called. My daughters were just little My wife called and she was screaming on the line. Not not screaming at me, but screaming because of fear. And she said, Kurt, Kurt, I need you. And then they called me and had me come to the phone. I got the phone. She said, Kurt, I need you to come home. There's police all over the place. They're chasing someone. They can't I'm like, what? Okay, slow down. Slow down. Tell me what's going on. She started she's crying. There's someone in there. The police were chasing them all over. We live on it. You've been to my house, we live on a cul-de-sac. There's six houses on our cul-de-sac. There's nowhere to run. But the police, there were like ten police cars chasing this car through our subdivision. This dummy Pulled into our sub uh onto our street, which is a cul-de-sac. And he realized he couldn't get out, so he pulled in our driveway. Not slow. I mean he's Sliding through and then our our he couldn't get back out behind our house, so he cut through the middle of our yard. Down through our yard, down through the ditch, ran over our bushes, knocked, tore them all out Went out in the back back of the yard again, took off around. Police are chasing them everywhere. I mean it was it was chaotic. My wife's on the phone. They angels went through our yard. Help, help, come home. I'm six and a half hours away. I said, honey, by the time I get there, you're dead. I can't get there in time. Let the police do their job. I told Brother Bishop, said, Brother Bishop, I don't know what to do. He said, you need to leave now. He said, I really want you to preach. So well my wife's gonna think it's gonna take me six and a half hours anyway. If I preach short enough, I can speed to get home and I'll make it in the same time it would have been anyway. So I told her Brother Bishop, she'll never know, I'll just say and preach. She found out though. I got in the car after preaching the message and started home. We were on these old back roads of Arkansas. I mean country roads. I mean it was it was it there was nothing to be seen anywhere and I hammered down I mean, it was an emergency. I put the pedal, the metal. I was in a 30-mile-an-hour speed zone doing 75. I'm not bragging about this. It was an emergency. And I I was going. And I came around the court around the little bin, I looked off the side, and there he was. That that county officer was sitting on the side of the road, his lights came on. I'm like, oh, do I try and outrun him? Thought, no, I better not do that. He pulled out and came in. He caught up to me real quick. He was the one speeding. He caught up to me. I got off the side of the road and he he got up there and he come walking there. Sir, what in the world is your problem? What do you think you're doing? I said sir. I said I I I'm a preacher. He said, sure you are. I said, no, I promise I'm a preacher. I just preached in rosebud. He said, you know where rosebuds are at. No one knows where rosebuds at. I said, yes, sir, I preached in Triple S Christian Race in Roadsville, Arkansas. My wife calls. She has the emergency at home. I'm trying to and I'm he said, sir, slow down. You're talking as fast as you were driving. Slow down. I said, I gotta hurry. He I told him the story. He said this. He said, Hey son. I've got this thing about spitting, I don't know. He said, son, get back in your car and get home and take care of your wife. But be careful. I said, you're letting me go? He said, yes, go. Took off again. I'm not making this up. Five minutes later. I was in another county. Going 75 and another this was a 45 zone. Lights come on behind me, pulls me over. Literally five minutes later The guy comes up, what in the world are you doing? I had to arrest you, sir, sir. I've done it. I've done it. Before that conversation is over, he said this to me. He said, son, go home and take care of your pretty little wife. He never even met my wife Good old country folk. He said, hurry on home. I said, yes, sir. Jump off again. And again, five minutes later. Different county, third police officer I was praying every time, Lord, please, please have mercy. That last guy said, Hey, you hurry home, take care of your wife. I said, could you just radio ahead to all the other officers so they know I'm coming? We all love mercy. You know the first thing you do when you see that police officer behind you? First thing you do, let off the gas. And then start praying. By the way, you may not even be going over the speed limit. Our natural reaction when we see a police officer is let off the By the way, I thank God. Tonight I've got a blue rip-blue band on my ring. Why? Because I love our police. I thank God for our police. Let me say it one more time. I thank God for our police. No, we don't need to defund our police. We need to give them a big old fat pay raise, is what we need to do. They put their life you say, well there are some dishonest police officers out there. Sure there are. And there's also some dishonest uh preachers out there too. I just say that I'm sorry. There's some dishonest factory workers, there's some dishonest bankers, there's some dishonest teachers, there's some dis there's dishonest people in every walk of life, but yet we want to defund the people who are protecting us? That makes no sense. I thank God for a police, but I'm I'll be the first one. Tomorrow we'll be in the air. There's probably going to be some police officer in the air chasing us down because he's speeding. We get, hey, well the first thing we do, the first thing we do, we see blue light, we let off the gas. And then if we do see the blue lights, dear God, please help him to show mercy. We love mercy. We love mercy, and I'm here tonight to tell you, God is merciful. He's gracious. When God looks at your life, I'm telling you, I am an utter failure I mess up every day. And I don't know why God puts up with me except for this He's merciful and gracious. Slow to anger, plentious in mercy. God, thank you for your mercy. God, thank you for your grace. God, thank you for not treating me how I deserve to be treated. God, thank you. Hey teenagers, thank God for his mercy. For his grace, for his goodness. I just had a teenager stick their tongue out at me. Because I told them to make faces at me and they did. Hey, can I tell you honestly, God's merciful to us. Isn't that awesome? Isn't that awesome? God's mercies are amazing. I just want to brag on God's side. I see, secondly, in this passage of Scripture, is his mercy and grace, but I see also God's forgiveness Or excuse me, number two, he's slow to anger. Slow to anger. Speaks of God's justice and his holiness. Verse eight The Bible says slow to anger. Verse number nine, he will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. You ever made someone upset and they won't forget let you forget about it? Don't point. Husbands and wives, sometimes we're that way, aren't we? Well, I remember when you did that. When my wife married me, can I tell you, I didn't have a belly like I have now. Amen. When my wife married me, I could do a hundred push-ups in a setting. I I loved it. I'd get down and do push-ups I if I get 25 out in one setting now, it's a miracle. And then I lay there like I'm dying, like, ah, give me some oxygen. When you married that that man, he was your knight in shining armor, wasn't he? Now he's your rusty bucket of bolts. You married him, you stood at that altar, and you said, for richer for poor, for better for worse, and sickness and health, until death do us part. And he swept you off your feet. Do you remember that when you held hands there at the altar? And you said you're just some of you look at me like stop and remember just for a few moments, reminisce on that first, sir. Reminisce of that first time after you were married that you gave her that big old sloppy kiss. Uh-huh. Some of you like, this is really awkward. No, it does us all good. I stood at the altar with my wife. Her dad did the ceremony for us. I held her hands. We got to that part that every young man cannot wait for. You know, puck her up, let her go. You may now kiss your bride. My father-in-law said, you may now shake her hand. Like, no! No sir, no, I didn't argue with him like that. And then he said, I'm just kidding. You may kiss your bride. And I I laid her over. I did. You said that's not appropriate. It's my wedding And she's now my wife. I gave her a big old sloppy case. And you know, we all that love and excitement and joy, and now all it takes is a burnt piece of toast. And you're mad. Why can't woman? Why can't you fix anything right? By the way, no one said anything to me. So if I'm saying something and you're like, did you talk to him? No one did. Can I tell you, we let the littlest things set us off. Well, I went to church this Sunday and Pastor walked right by me and didn't even shake my hand. He didn't even shake my hand. Well, did you ever stop to think that maybe he might just have had something major going on that he had to deal with? I I don't I I know you know this. He's bearing the burden of the entire church. You say, well that's that's what we pay him for. Can I tell you there's no price tag you can put on that? Well, Mark said you were at the hospital all morning that day. Well, that's why we pay him. No, no, no. He's not there just to sit there because it's fun to sit in the hospital. He's there because he's helping bear burdens He's helping care. He's helping love. Aren't you glad that you have someone who cares enough to be there, to uplift you, to support you, to care, to pray for? I I'm just telling you, we let something little tiny. Well he He said everyone else's name when he was telling everyone that we'll thank God for this person. And he didn't say my name. I understand those kind of things hurt, but stop and understand. There's a whole lot going on in that brain over there. I'm thankful God's slow to anger. Remember when you held your child for the first time? I'm sorry, I'm doing a whole lot of reminiscence. This was supposed to be a short message. Do you remember when you held your child for the first time in your arms? I remember I held my oldest daughter's name is Angel. She's she'll turn twenty-seven in just a few weeks. So I'm not holding her my arms like that anymore. But I remember the first time I did. In the delivery room. The nurse, the doctor who delivered my my first my my children, both children. Remember she was holding angels. People who say babies are beautiful, I'm just telling you they're liars. I looked over when I saw my dog and I said, Ah! What is that? It's not even human! I literally said, put it back! That's not mine! They got this oxygen tube, you know, you know, they're an astronaut. J where are my arms? And I thought this, I literally thought this. This child's going to be the best child ever. We're naming her Angel. She will never disappoint us. Hey, children have that knack. Can I ask you, Dad, mom, are you slow to anger? God is. How many times have I let God down? And when I deserve that swift kick in the seat of the britches from God, when I deserve that He's slow to anger. He's merciful. And then thirdly, his forgiveness is real. I talked about it this morning. I won't dwell on it. I just can't help but thank God for his forgiveness. You ever had s done someone wrong and they keep bringing it up? I I I already started to mention that on the last point too. God forgives. When God forgives, he forgives. I know we don't humanly have that capability. People say, well, you just gotta learn to forgive and forget. You just gotta learn to forgive and forget. Hey, can I tell you, humanly speaking, you can't. I'm just being real. Some of you have you've borne some hurt so deep that you will never forget that till the day you take your last breath. And that that hurt is there and that anger and every time that person's name is mentioned, those those feelings of anger and hurt just keep resurfacing. You all know what I'm talking about. You're looking at me like you don't know. You know what I'm talking about And that person's there, or that that thought's there, and it just keeps coming up. The Bible says God, when He forgives us, He removes our sin. In this passage, as far as the East is from the West Never to be remembered again. It's gone. G-O-N-E gone. God forgives and God forgives Hey, humanly, I can't forget. That's why I I love this. I say this all the time. Forgiveness is not forgetting. Forgiveness is remembering that you have forgiven. That person that did you wrong? Forgive. Now I look at this passage of scripture and why does God, why does David brag on God in this passage of Scripture? What does all this mean to me? It's not just thank you, God, although that's the bulk of it. But how can I take this and put it in my life? Here it is. I want to be merciful and gracious. I want to live. I want to be slow to anger. I want to be forgiving. Ephesians 4:32. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. So Psalm 103 is not just a picture of who God is. It's an example of how Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be. Well, I'm just a grumpy person. That's just the way God made me. No, that's an excuse. I know all of our personalities are not the same. Some people are eeyers, some people are tiggers. And Tiggers get on Eeyore's nerves, and Eeyore gets on Tigger's nerves. I see someone who's like, well, I don't know. You know what I do? I all the time, I just start saying something fun. I just start bragging on something. And I, well, that may be fun for you, but it's no fun for me. Well, God sure is good. Well, sometimes. Boy, it's beautiful out today, isn't it? Oh, it's a little hot. And I just start talking about good things, honestly, on purpose. In our home we had a rule. If one of our daughters, if one of our daughters said something negative, Then they had to come back and say five. I can't remember if it's three or five. I can't count either. It's either three or five things. They had to come back and say Five positive things about that saying. Well our teacher, you know what she did today and they said something negative? All right. Five positive things about that teacher. And it was it'd be silence. Alright, six. Uh seven. Uh uh they're not here right now. That one doesn't count. Hey, I want to be a Psalm 103 person. I want a mirror. God in the way I live my life. Can I ask you then, sir, ma'am, teenager? When the people around you see your life, do they see someone who's merciful and gracious, slow to anger, forgiving? Well you don't know what I have to put up with. You're right, I don't. But I know what God has to put up with with us. I want to be a Psalm 103 person tonight. I want to say, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that's within me. Bless his holy name. He is so good to us. Instead of griping and complaining, why don't we mirror what God's done for us to this world? Can I tell you Oakland, Maryland? Needs to see at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church people who are merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and forgiving. What a difference this community would have if every one of us, including this preacher, lived Psalm 103. How about it tonight? Let's bless God and let's adopt that life in our own. Lord, I thank you for your word. God, I thank you for your goodness in our lives. We are so undeserving. God, I'm so thankful. So, so very thankful. Lord, I know it was just going through this simple passage. But God, this simple passage. In my mind just brags on you so much. And God, I want to be known for bragging on God. So help me, God, to do it every day. And Lord, I pray that these attributes that you have in your uh character, Lord, I pray they would be true in my life as well. Lord, I pray for the great Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Lord, this church is not a building. It's not property. This church is people. And God may this church be known as a church that blesses God, that praises God, that exalts God. Not just on Sunday in services or Sunday night or Wednesday night or on soul-winning times, but may this church be known as a church that in the workplace they brag on God, they lift up God That in the neighborhood they brag on God, they lift up God. Lord, that in every area of life, whether it's at a ballpark or a walking park, Lord, we lift up the name of Christ. That we exalt who Jesus is, and that we love and have compassion for a community for the cause of Christ. May you truly use these dear people to make a difference. In this community. Lord, we love you. We need you. And Lord's night, maybe just some families would gather together at the altar. Mom and dad together with children Maybe grandma and grandpa with some grandchildren, and just brag on you. May we have a time of revival in our hearts of who you are, of your majesty, of your greatness. Lord, thank you for loving us. Thank you for saving us. We do not deserve even an ounce of your goodness. But God, we praise you for being so good to us. Bless this invitation time. Give us revival, God, please. In Jesus' name I pray, with every head bowed, every eye closed, as the piano begins to play.