And then we have to end them. We're going to keep studying. We're not going to finish this this passage tonight. And uh I think what we're going to do is whenever we do finish this section, I'm just going to keep keep plowing forward through the Sermon on the Mount. The Beatitudes, as I keep emphasizing, are just the introductory statements really in the greatest sermon that has ever been preached, the Lord's Sermon on the Sermon on what we call the Sermon on the Mount. And um So we're just going to keep plowing away. I want to read, beginning in verse 2, I'm going to read down through the entire list of the Beatitudes. I'm going to try and point out a few things as we go through, and then we'll pray. Verse 2, Matthew 5, he says, And he opened his mouth, of course, the Lord Jesus, and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Now look at this last statement. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Keep that in mind. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Now look at verse 10. Now, I suggest that this is the last Beatitude. Some people break up verse 10 and verse 11. I think verse ten, eleven, and twelve are all one But look what it says here. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Now look at this. For theirs is what? That's exact same thing as verse number three said, the very first one said. Bless are they that mourn, for theirs is So to me it's kind of like the Lord is coming back around and he's kind of winding these opening statements up, the Beatitudes. He opened with that statement And he's closing with that statement. In verse 11, he kind of comes back, I think, and he elaborates on what he said in verse number 10. Verse 10 he says, Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And it kind of elaborates. He said, Blessed. Now notice a difference here. We'll do a little study just to get started. Look at verse 11. Blessed are what's it say? No, verse 10. I'm sorry, verse 10. Blessed are They which are persecuted, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now look at verse eleven. Blessed are Ye, when men shall per revile you and persecute you, and say shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. What happened there in verse 10 to verse 11 and 12? There's a change in the statement. It goes from they to ye. I think what's happening, and I'm just throwing this out, I think what's happening, the Lord's just given these general principle statements out here. Blessed are they which are persecuted. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Then in my mind's eye, I kind of see the Lord looking over to his disciples. And he's bringing it down and making it personal. He says, Blessed are ye, fellas When men shall revile you and persecute you. He's bringing it down. He's making it much more personal. And so we're going to look at this. We started last week. Blessed are the persecuted. Let's pray together. Father, pray you bless now our study in your word. Pray it would be more than just facts about words you used and statements you made. But Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge us tonight from the truths that are presented here. You'd open our hearts and minds. I pray, Lord, that we uh would be righteous, dear God. Regardless of the cost, I pray, Lord, you'd help us to have these attitudes and this spirit would be a part of uh our thinking Fill me, I ask with all my heart that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and be our teacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, I began last week asking, what's the kind what kind of Christian does God bless And the answer is given us to us here in these twelve verses, blessed are ye, blessed are they, blessed are this. He goes down, he's describing the kind of Christian that God wants us to be He's given us here the kind of Christian God wants to bless. This is the Christian that has this attitude and this behavior. That is the Christian that is really blessed. And uh he goes through here. I reiterate again, this is not a plan of salvation. He's talking to people who are saved. He's talking to people who are wanting to follow him and uh and wanting to uh be disciples. And he's laying it out here. He says, all right, this is the way it is, this is the person that I want to bless. How many folks here would like me, you say, I really, really, really want God to bless me? Sure. What kind of person wouldn't want that? I want to be blessed of God. I want to be blessed. Alright, then this passage is right for us. And we need to take these very, very seriously and say, alright, if I want God's blessing, if I want to be blessed of God, then I need to incorporate these principles, these truths into my light. We pointed out first of all, I'm going to look at verse 10, blessed are they which are persecuted. Uh first of all, what do we mean by persecution? Now I went back and as I often do and if you speak uh uh much, Brian I'm sure can probably relate to this, but uh if you speak after you're done you go back and you rehash that whole thing. You ever do that, Brian? And you go back and think that thing over, and I thought, well maybe I maybe I was too narrow in my definition of persecution. Because I tried to be uh very clear on what persecution is not Persecution is not somebody being unkind. Persecution is not somebody being rude. And over the years I've heard just about everything people say, well I'm being persecuted when all when all it was is they were just being selfish and they weren't getting their way There's a world of difference. And one of the reasons I want to be real s uh clear, at least in to some extent in our minds, what persecution is, is because if we start calling every little thing that we don't like, every little rudeness that somebody shows us, we start calling that persecution, we're going to miss the fact of what persecution really is. You follow what I'm saying? And uh if we think we're being persecuted because somebody makes an obscene gesture to us, if that's persecution, what in the world are we going to do when they start chopping our hands off if we don't submit? You see what I'm saying? And so we have to be very, very clear what we're talking about, what persecution is not. Now, there are different degrees of persecution. Somebody spitting on you or I because we're witnessing to them, that could be a very mild form of persecution, or it might just be that guy's very hateful You might spit on a lot of people for a lot of different reasons. You know what I'm saying? And so there's varying degrees of persecution Um it but uh my point is this it's more than b somebody being rude to me, it's more than somebody making fun of me. Uh I worked in the meat pack and plant. When I got saved, I mean to tell you, it just opened the gates of mockery And uh those guys just had a hoot tearing into me. Leatherman got religion and they just and uh be honest with you, some of the stuff they said was hilarious, you know, about me Uh but um you know but uh you know what I found out? The next guy that did something a little out of order or a little un un unnormal, they just laid into him also. So, you know, there's different degrees of persecution Nevertheless, as I pointed out, I thought this was fascinating. Our Congress has determined. That Christianity is the most persecuted group of people on planet Earth. And has been that way for a long time. So persecution is real Are we persecuted in America? By comparison, I want to say no. What people go through. Do we take heat for being a Christian in America? Sure. Do we are we my are our right rights sometime restricted simply because we're Christian? We're seeing that more and more all the time So uh it's not too it's not as too far of a too much of a stretch of the imagination to say, though we may not suffer puce persecution now as we see in some other countries, particularly in the Middle East Uh nevertheless, I can see it happening. I'll tell you what really alarmed me about a year ago, maybe two years ago, not in the not in a distant past, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention. And they are not known for being real fundamental And he made the statement. He's in his 70s, and he made this statement. He said, I fully expect to see open persecution of Christians in the United States in my lifetime. Now that's not some radical right-wing extremist out there, you know, paranoid, sensational. I mean that's kind of a middle-of-the-road guy in his seventies making that statement. That alarmed me And I'll tell you, we need to be prepared for it. Now, let's go on. So first of all, we wanted to clarify what persecution is. Now, second of all, I want us to notice an apparent contradiction that is made here. An apparent contradiction. Look at verse 10 with me again. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Look at that first phrase again. Blessed are they which are persecuted That does not sound like something you would put together. Persecution and blessedness. That initially in our natural minds we would say that's a contradiction. Being persecuted is not being blessed, and being blessed means I don't have to face persecution. How many of us have ever thought this if we didn't say it? Boy, God has blessed us so much we don't face any persecution here in the United States of America The Lord is making an opposite statement of that. He doesn't say, Blessed are those who are not persecuted. He says, Blessed are they which are persecuted. And to me, it's like that to me that's that's not something you would expect somebody to say. Um So I went back and I looked at the word blessed. It's the same word used all down through here. It's the exact same meaning for every one of these. And I just got digging into it again a little bit and kind of refreshing my mind. What does he mean by blessed? And I kind of put together my own definition. I may have done this before, it kind of might have fluctuated a little bit, but this is my definition from looking at it all again. To be blessed is a God-given and prolonged joy or happiness that flows from the inner man. And so I use those words very carefully. Blessed is something. What he's talking about here isn't something you and I can work up. It's something God does for us. Alright? It's more than just me getting myself to be happy. You know what probably I don't have no idea what the percentage is. Nice thing about percentages you can just make them up And um, but I don't know what 80% of the shows on TV are the unsaved, miserable world trying to be happy. And uh they put these stupid laugh tracks on stuff that isn't even funny, and it sounds like the people are rolling in the aisles laughing themselves to death. You know what I'm talking about? Uh the world's trying to be happy. That's not what the Lord's talking about here. Some superficial laughter that we somehow work up, somebody does something silly and it gets me laughing. No, no, no. This is something God puts in my heart This is an unworldly joy, a supernatural happiness. And I put this down, a God-given, prolonged The the when he's saying here, blessed are they which are persecuted, he's not referring to some sort of happiness that's temporary, it comes and goes, it's up and down, it's dependent on circumstances. The blessedness that God gives us, that God gives to us, is settled in. It's there. The world's happiness, the world's blessedness, it's completely dependent upon circumstances. Right? It's completely dependent if everything's going my way and I'm healthy and the bills are paid and the sun's out and everything's going my way. Oh, happy day But brother, go to the doctor and he gives a bad report, and you lose the job, or the bills are up, or this, that, and the other, and things go wrong. Oh, everything's terrible. That is not the blessedness that God gives. When God puts blessedness in my heart, when I am blessed of God, it is something it doesn't matter whether I have cancer or not. The size of the car I drive has absolutely no factor in how blessed I am, or even if I have a car. I say this often, but you know we're down, especially the first time we went to Dominican Republic, just uh unbelievable poverty there. And those people were so happy. Just sing their lunza. No lights, that little kerosene lamp up here, and they are singing. I wish I had a recording of it That little old cinder block church building packed full, and they are absolutely no no instruments, just singing the roof off of that thing Smiling and they have they don't have cars. They don't even have bikes, half of them. So it's it's a permanent, it's settled in. A God-given prolonged joy and happiness that flows from the inner man. I'm kind of being repetitious here a little bit, but it's not something that's dependent on outward circumstances. It has to be that type for this statement to be true. Because if persecution is coming from the outside, persecution comes from without. And if my happiness was dependent, my blessedness was dependent on external circumstances, then that would be impossible for this to be true. But the Lord's blessedness puts in our heart and soul. And so if the persecution is coming from without in my heart and soul that blessedness is there and flows out. You follow what he's saying here? And so the contradiction the world says that's ridiculous The world doesn't think this way. The world says that you're happy, you have a deep, settled joy if you're being persecuted, hunted down. Injured and and and sometimes killed because of your faith in Christ, and you say that's the joy, this blessedness coming up from within? What in the world? Uh the world doesn't think that way That's unnatural in this world, that type of thinking. What's the natural man's response to when persecution comes? Yeah, exactly. That's what I was thinking. Oh, woe is me. Oh, this is terrible. I'm I love God and I'm trying to do right, and they're being so mean to me That's the natural man's response. And the Lord throws this out there and he comes down, and then later on in the sermon, he comes back to this subject. And addresses it again. He says basically the same thing. Hey, be excited, rejoice, and be exceeding glad. What? Lord, I can see some of that. And then the Bible doesn't say this happened, so this is this is leathermanism. But uh I can see some people there, the Lord makes this statement, blessed are they which are persecuted and uh for righteousness, blessed are you when men revile you and Say all manner, rejoice and be exceeding glad. I can look at some of the men looking over at their wives saying, This guy's nuts. You know? What in the world he I can can I can see that reaction a little bit. Why? Because it seems to be contradictory. Now I tried writing things down. Why What a person who loves God is determined to live and trust Him and obey Him in every life, and in persecution comes upon them. I mean legitimate persecution. Why would that be a blessing? Why would they be blessed? What is it about that would bring about blessing? Now you might could come up with some of your own. I put a few down. Some are stated here real clearly, and I want to elaborate on another message, but um I put number one down. One reason we'd be blessed, uh people that are persecuted are blessed. One is because the reward is great Look at verse number 12. Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you, and say so all manner of evil against you. Verse 12, I'm sorry, rejoice and be exceeding glad. What? Why would I do that? For great is your reward in heaven. I'm convinced we have no comprehension how great the rewards of the Lord are. I'm convinced we have no comprehension how, and I'm using this word deliberately, how awesome, awe-inspiring It would be to hear God Almighty, Lord Jesus Christ, say to me, You did good. Wow, can you imagine that? What that what that reward it would be. Um You know the sword the Lord did a little article on our church here. People saw that. Ah, that blessed my heart. And I wrote Dr. Smith and thanked him for it. I said he's very gracious and appreciated that. I said I'd gotten response back all over the country. And um he wrote back and he said he made this statement. He said, You and your people have done a remarkable job up there on the mountains, in the mountains of Western Maryland To hear him say that just humbled me. And I thought, wow, what a blessing. Now, take that same feeling that you might have to hear someone of his caliber make a statement. And then magnify it 10,000 times. And I hear Jesus Christ say to me, God of all creation, say to me, Well done. Wow. You know what? If we really comprehended the awesomeness of that, I think we could go through some pretty ugly stuff How many people here ever did a job, you hated that job, but the pay was good? Anybody know? I can't stand this, but boy, it'll be nice when I get that. Uh I think that's kind of it here. In fact, you're almost gr you're grateful. You know, uh I was 16 years old. I got hired at a meat packing plant. I'll have to tell you about that sometime. But you know what my very first job was? I was in this work release program from school. and I'd leave at noon and I'd go over to the meatpacking plant and uh the ver sixteen years old I they were paying me a little a couple of bucks over minimum wage at that time was like three dollars or something, I don't remember But uh I mean it was great money. Anybody want to guess what my first job was? Cleaning up, but not cleaning up what you think it was cleaned up. I was out in the pens. And uh they didn't have any augers or anything. All they had was a beat up old dump truck and a shovel. And they were killing 300 head of cattle a day. So 300 head of cattle are going through these pens about the size uh half the size of this building, this auditorium. And my job was to clean that whole thing. And uh I'll put it this way, it was yucky. It was really yucky And uh, you know what? I was so happy to have that job because man, that pay was great. And so that's I I digress. Uh that is my thinking a little bit. Well, I was so blessed about persecution. Hey. When God allows us to go through persecution because of our faith in Christ, because of righteousness, that reward is so great. The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory that will be when we hear God reward us. Isn't that something? That stirred my heart. Um I put this one down uh because um we're following the heritage of great men Look again at verse 12. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. What? Yeah, for great is your reward in heaven. Look at this. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you Man, there's some great men in the Old Testament. I mean, amazing men that suffered severely. Read Hebrews 11. And he is saying, listen, you are sharing in that heritage, that lineage of men and women who suffered greatly for their faith in God And you have the privilege of being a part of that lineage. You have a privilege of being in that club, so to speak. And what an honor. Uh uh here in the world, people go through the most horrible humiliation and hazing, so they can be part of an exclusive club or they can get into this certain fraternity or whatever. And we don't have to try and go through this to get to heaven, but man, what an honor it is to say, yeah, you know I've got get to heaven. You've heard preachers say this, some great man will be there and he says, uh get to heaven, say, Let me see your scars. What scars? Scars for Christ, for living for Christ. Well, I don't got any. Let me show you mine, all beat up. You ever hear that? Preachers do that illustration? And um what a great thing it is. So what's so blessed about being persecuted? One, the reward is great. Two We're following in a heritage of great men. I put this one down. Number three, we leave a heritage for future generations. Wouldn't it be awful to have the future generations say, oh yeah, Dennis Leatherman, he took a little heat for his faith and he caved and gave in so he wouldn't have to suffer for it? What kind of name would that be left behind? And what a privilege it would be to say to say, yeah, my grandpa. So and so are my grandmothers stood for their faith, and boy, they paid a heavy price, but they were faithful to God. And that would stir the next generation to be faithful to God. I'm telling you, our kids are not going to live for God if we don't live for God. I mean it's not going to happen. And if we don't stand, we can't expect the next generation to stand And if we don't do right, how do we expect the next generation to do right? And so we leave behind a great uh heritage. Uh number four, I put this one down. I like this one. Uh we identify with Christ. When we are persecuted. Take your Bible. Turn with me to Acts chapter 9. Everybody doing all right out there? See, I feel like I'm being persecuted. Well, great is your reward. Acts nine, I love this. This is where Paul gets saved. Anytime you hear somebody reference Acts 9, just think Paul's salvation, because that's what that chapter is about. And one amazing thing it was And uh he's he's breathing out, verse one, he's breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. What's he doing? He's threatening them, he's breathing out slaughters, he's persecuting them. He is persecuting Christians. I mean legitimate persecution. He's not just being rude to him, he's persecuting them. And desired of him, uh the high priest, letters to Damascus. He's getting a he's getting authorization, authority to go to Damascus, uh to the synagogues. If he found any of this way, which way? a Christian way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. I mean he is going after them. He's giving them fetch. He's killing them, putting them in prison. As he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. And he fell the earth, and he heard a voice saying unto him, Now, some of y'all know the story here, who is this about to talk to Paul? It's Jesus Christ, the resurrected Christ. Let me ask you a question. Where was Jesus at the weeks and months leading up to this event? I mean, where is he this whole time leading up to this? Where is the Lord at? He's in heaven. He's already ascended to heaven. He's been crucified, he's been buried three days, three nights, he's resurrected. It's been 120 days on earth. He ascended to heaven. He's been there for a period of time. Now the Lord is speaking to Paul. Now that's significant. Look what the Lord says. He fell to the earth and heard a voice in heaven saying, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who's talking? When did Paul ever put Jesus in prison? He didn't. Jesus has been ascended to heaven for quite some time now. When did Paul ever kill Jesus? Hebin. Who was Paul persecuting Christians. But look what Jesus says. Paul, Paul, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou the Christians? He doesn't say that. Why are you persecuting the church? He doesn't say that. What does he say? Why are you persecuting me? What does that tell us about Christians who are facing going through persecution? The Lord identifies with them. If I am being persecuted for my faith, Jesus Christ is being persecuted for my faith. He identifies with us, and I identified with him. I want to submit to you that persecution for righteousness' sake. is an indicator that I'm close to Christ and that I'm walking with God. Now, if I'm being persecuted because I'm hateful, That's not an indicator. But for righteousness' sake, for Christ's sake, I think we fail to comprehend how corrupt humanity really is Um I was talking to somebody not long ago. They say I'm I'm about to lose my faith in humanity. I said, well don't do that, but it's pretty bad. Um and it's hard for us to comprehend how hateful How how much hatred there is in the world for Jesus Christ. And how it But these are three Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How in the world does somebody say they had the joy of Christ when they suffered like that? Yeah. Well when we're persecuted, Christ says it's like you're persecuting me. John fifteen I really wanted to turn there. We don't have time. John 15, jot these verses down. John 15, 18 through 21, where he says, the world hated me, they're going to hate you. Don't be surprised They persecuted me. They're going to persecute you. Now why I was thinking about that. What is it about Jesus Christ that makes the world hate him so much? He went about doing good. He healed people. He pointed people to God. He offered himself to be the sacrifice. I'll tell you what, it's the the corruption of man's heart is so corrupt that the Son of God, the pure sinless Son of God, comes and we as humanity hate him. And people say, well, we've gotten beyond that today. They won't crucify him. Are you nuts? Man of nature hasn't changed one bit. So, we identify with Christ. I'm going to give you these last two real quick. I think number five, persecution tends to strengthen our faith. You know what I you know when my faith wavers the most is when everything's gone my way. Everything's good and I don't have to pray, really don't have to pray about this, that and the other, then suddenly it's kind of my Christian But I'll tell you what, people start tell you what a couple years ago where it's heat from all over the world and emails and stuff and threats coming in. Tell you what, my my prayer life was revived You know? And uh my look into God was was revived. And so you know what we find, you know where you find the strongest Christians in countries that have the most intense persecution Without a doubt. When the when the wall came down and perestroika, remember that back when was it, eighty nine, back around there, ninety, when all that was going on? And um my pastor in Indianapolis went to Russia, one of the first American it uh independent Baptists went into a Russia, they did a tour. All the churches that were underground were now up And he said, the thing that struck me the most was their incredible love for and devotion to Jesus Christ. He said these people were real. There was no room for phony. You're gonna pay that price, it's gonna be real. Anybody that's phony would collapse because they wouldn't pay the price. And so another reason persecution can be blessed is um it strengthens our faith. Let me give you another one. Uh it draws others to Christ. This is an amazing thing. The more the world persecutes the Christian, the more people are attracted to Christianity. We see that through Acts. Have you ever heard this statement? The blood of martyrs is the what? Did you ever hear that statement? The blood of martyrs is the seed of the church. In other words, that's what makes the church grow. Bring persecution. You know where the fastest-growing church in the world is today? China, China, where there is incredible persecution, incredible restriction. The last one is this. I love this, and I know I I need a quick, but go to Acts 5. We're not far away. Come over to Acts 5. This every time I read this, and I've read it hundreds of times, every time I read this, it stirs my heart. Acts chapter 5. And verse number 41, the last two verses of the chapter. These guys have been bound, they've been beaten, they've been threatened, they've been persecuted. And look at verse 41. And they departed from the presence of the council. Look at this. rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Isn't that an amazing thing? Oh boy, God counted us worthy to be persecuted for the name of Jesus Christ. You know the way most of us think? We think I deserve to be treated better than this. I don't deserve this type of treatment. You know the way these guys were thinking? Wow, I'm not worthy to be treated like this. I'm not worthy to suffer shame for his name. Isn't that amazing? That tells me that to be persecuted is a great, great privilege. It's a privilege. That's the way they viewed it. Now, we don't have time to go through and finish the rest of this. There's so much about this. But I want to throw this in. We're going to look at this a little more in depth later. God is not suggesting, nor am I suggesting, that we go out and look for persecution. Alright? I mean, if we can, you know, if we can keep things free and we can function, you know, we're told in Timothy to pray that we can lead peaceable and quiet lives. So we have to go pray tonight, say, oh Lord, send persecution to me. We don't have to do that. But what we do need to do Is live right and do right and commit ourselves to Christ. And if persecution comes, God has a special promise to us that we will be blessed That we will be blessed. And so, boy, he goes on. He talks about this in other places. So we'll have to continue this. But my challenge to us tonight Is this. Let's re-examine our walk with God. Let's re-examine how righteous am I really in my practical living? Do I run counter to the world at all, or am I right in tune with the world? Am I just running fitting right in with this world? Something's wrong if I'm right with the world. I'm not rubbing things the wrong way. I like what Billy Sunday said. They said, Billy Sunday, you rubbed the cat the wrong way. He said, Well turn the cat around. And we're gonna run the wrong way of this world and we'll take some heat for it. You go out and give a track to someone tomorrow and they say they're rude to you, don't go, Oh, I'm so persecuted, you just say Praise the Lord, I had an opportunity to be a witness for Christ. And God will bless you, and He really will. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you challenge us. We really don't know what we're talking about here, Lord, not by experience. Anyway, we pray for our brothers and sisters around the world that are going through this, and we thank you for them, for their faith and their commitment, their courage We believe your word that you bless them, that they are blessed. And Lord, if you see fit to open the doors of persecution in our land, in our community, in our little world we live in. I pray you just give us grace to trust you and rejoice in you and be exceeding glad. Lord, we give you the glory. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, my walk with God really needs revival?