How many of you just absolutely love the Fourth of July? Like like there's Christmas and then there's Fourth of July. Like I just love it. I love it. I like watching stuff blow up. I was asking a couple of the guys this morning if anyone's dressed up like an Indian and thrown uh tea in Deep Creek Lake yet. Nobody has. Or or Broadford Lake. We don't have a harbor, so we gotta make do with what we got I guess. Right? I love the Fourth of July. I love I lo I love everything about it. Um if if you know me very well, um I guess I'm self-proclaimed, I guess, but I I consider myself a patriot. I love our country, I love our nation, um I love everything um that it was built on. Um I just God's been good to us, hasn't He? My goodness. Um I like history. I like studying history. I asked the Sunday school class this morning downstairs. How many of you Enjoy history. You enjoy reading history, you enjoy studying it. You find yourself watching documentaries that you didn't plan on watching. You find yourself reading biographies. uh reading them in biographies that you didn't plan on reading. Anyone else that are with me? I love history. How many of you are the exact opposite? I could care less about history. Hey, we have honest people. I love it. I love it. Um so this morning in Sunday school, I'm not going to uh reteach what I taught in Sunday school, but we talked a little bit about history, and it is important. Um we see that in the Bible as well. Oftentimes God would remind Israel of their history. He did that often. Remember he would remind them where they came from, remind them that he was their God even when they weren't acting like it and things like that. A lot of times we would see God would instruct memorials to be built so that uh future generations would remember uh Israel's history. So that's very important, I think. This morning we're going to read just one verse. We read it a little bit ago, but I want to read it again. Psalm 33, verse 12. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Obviously that verse if you study it's talking about the nation of Israel, people he has chosen for his inheritance. But I think there's a principle here that can be applied to every nation. I think I think nations across the globe um should read this and um apply it. And we're just going to focus on that first phrase. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for all you've done for us. Lord, you've been so good to us. individually. You've been good to us as a nation. You've blessed us greatly. Lord, I ask now that as we look at your word for a few moments this morning, I ask that you would be the one that teaches us this morning Lord, I just want to get completely out of the way and let you take over. If there's anything that I'm about to say, Lord, that's against your word, I ask that you would uh keep me from saying it. And likewise, if there's something that needs to be said, but I don't have it written down, I ask that you bring it to my mind. But what I'm asking is that you would just completely take over the service this morning. I yield my will to you the best way I know how, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So today is the 245th birthday. Happy Fourth of July, everyone. Isn't that exciting? I just love it. I love it. We um we were watching some fireworks back here last night, and there's just something satisfying about things exploding, isn't it? I just love it I don't know. Maybe that's just the the guy in me, I don't know. But um our nation is celebrating its two hundred and forty-fifth birthday, and uh and when we look at a passage like this That refers to a nation. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. As you read through that, you might find yourself asking the question, has our nation been blessed? Is the is the is the the Lord our God Has our nation been blessed? And I I I a very quick answer to that would be, well yes, it has been blessed. America has been very, very m much blessed in many ways. And we could spend a long time talking about individual blessings. Freedom, the the the freedoms that we've had, the liberties that we've had, if we just took the Bill of Rights and looked at each one, God has blessed us so much. He's been so good to us. It's prosperity. Uh God has uh made this nation very, very prosperous. Um and if you look back uh Towards the middle of our nation's history, especially the the the early eighteen hundreds there, um we were man, inventions were just coming out right and left. And um this was the this was the hub for commerce and God blessed us very, very much. Um there's a a game that I play sometimes uh with some of the uh guys in our youth group who've done this before And um we'll think of an invention, a modern invention, not a perfection of it, but just a modern invention. And we'll try to figure out where that came from. And most of the time it's here. Most of the time it's America. Telephone. Airplane, go on down the list. It's pretty cool. Washing machine, stoplight, it's America. So I mean it's fun. Try that sometime. Think of my the point is the point isn't necessarily to brag on us, but it's to brag on God because He's been so good to us. And um I I I I think that's obvious. And I don't need to spend too much time trying to convince anyone that God has blessed America in just phenomenal ways. And we're benefiting still today from blessings on those that have gone before us. We're still reaping the benefits of God's blessings. on our fathers, on our forefathers. And again, that's just so evident. We we are extremely rich compared to most of the world. Both monetarily, the possessions we have, things we have access to, knowledge we have access to. We're better off than most of the globe, that's for sure. And um I'm very, very grateful to our God for for blessing us so much. We could look at many different things about our nation that uh people would claim make our nation great. What is it that makes our nation so blessed? Obviously re-read this verse here And uh this says it better than anything else. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And I think the reason God has blessed us so much is because the Lord has been our God. And I believe that completely. People will attribute blessings to our Constitution. I love our Constitution. I think everyone should get one. I think everyone should read it. I think you should know it. It's a great document. And it was founded on biblical principles. God is all over the Constitution. He's all over the Declaration of Independence. Our founding fathers understood that God is the one that gives liberty. But our Constitution is not what has blessed us. That's a document created by man. Yes, they were godly men and they were trying to follow a biblical example, but the Constitution is not where we get our greatness from. It's not from our military. And I think we have the greatest military and I'm thankful for the the the many, many people that put on that uniform and volunteer to give their lives for us. Man, again, that is a blessing in and of itself that we have that many people That would sign up to put their lives on the line for our nation. But our greatness does not come from the military's strength Um it does not, although that we do have the greatest military. It doesn't come from our geography. We have a lot of natural resources America is rich in oil. We have wonderful mountain ranges. We have it all. From Alaska all the way down to Florida, Hawaii, we got some great geography I'd like to see it all, but I probably won't see it all. I hope I do. That'd be kind of cool. We should take a road trip. How are you going to take a road trip to Hawaii? Never mind. Drive the car up on a boat, right? Go over to boat. But that'd be cool to see everything, wouldn't it? I mean our our nation has been blessed with all these things, but that is not where we get our greatness from If I say the name Alexis de Toqueville, does anyone know who I'm talking about? Raise your hand if you ever heard the name. He's an historian that lived back in the late 1700s, early 1800s And he came to America, he came to the States, and this is a quote from Alexis de Tocqueville. He came to America to figure out where the greatness of America came from. And I'm just going to read this quote. He said, I sought for the greatness and the genius of America in her commodious harbors and her ample rivers, and it was not there. In her fertile fields and boundless forest, and it was not there. In her rich minds and in her vast world commerce, and it was not there. In her democratic Congress, and in her matchless constitution. And it was not there. Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power. See here's a man that's a historian that recognized that the greatness did not come from these things mentioned, but the greatness and the blessings of America came from God Himself. And I think the best way to sum it up is just to reread Psalm 33, 12. Blessed is the nation. Whose God is the Lord. Many nations throughout history have had different gods who study in school about the Greek mythology or the Roman gods Or there there's the Egyptians. Uh they had many gods as well. Many civilizations had that. Um the Norse uh the kingdoms had their um their gods. And um But no nation has been blessed like America has been blessed. Because I believe the reason for that, or the reason that is, is because our God has been the Lord. Our God has been the Lord. Our nation has been blessed because our nation's God was the Lord. And I think that's established. I think we would all agree with that. I think at least we should all agree with that. Our nation has been blessed because of God and because our founding fathers saw God as God. It put him first. It sought him on everything. But so then the qu the next question that arises, is our nation going to continue to be blessed? Well, I think the answer to that is maybe. Maybe. I want our nation to continue to be blessed. How many of you would agree? You want the nation to continue? Of course. Of course. Again, I asked this question again in Sunday school. uh this morning, how many of you are just itching to be um a subject in tyranny? You know, you're just itching to be a slave. No. No. We want freedom to continue to reign. We want God's blessings to continue to come. So is the nation going to continue to be blessed? I have three questions. That will answer that question. Is our nation going to continue to be blessed? Again, maybe. It depends. Is our God going to continue to be the Lord? Because if our God is the Lord, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. But if we reject the Lord, then we're rejecting his blessings as well. So I have three questions. First question is this, and again, this is an obvious one. Is the Lord God? Yes. Yes. Is the Lord God? I say yes, but let's forget about what I say. Let's look at some other things here. What makes our God different? Well, for one, he rose from the grave. That's kind of unique. Would you agree? That's um kind of sets him apart there. Um one of the most documented events in history was the resurrection And um we went to the Creation Museum. We t we we we we labored hard this past week. We went to camp and then left the kids and me and my wife went to the Creation Museum. Man, that was We had a vacation, not really. But uh we took the day there, me and me and uh me and Miss Courtney, we went to the Creation Museum and checked some things out. One of my favorite exhibits where I was going with that is it had um It showed how many historical documents and how many records there were for the resurrection of Christ versus other famous historical figures. We actually have more documentation, for example, the resurrection of Christ than we do for Julius Caesar. Things like that. So that's pretty cool, I think. That's pretty awesome. But regardless of all of that, we do have the greatest document and this records it. The Bible records it. So Our God is unique in that he rose from the dead. Our God is unique in that he wants to have a personal relationship with us. And our God is unique in that he is the only God that can't possibly be disproven. It's pretty cool And we could spend all day trying to prove the existence of God. That's not necessarily what I want to do. I think that's self-evident. But is the Lord God? I say yes. Is Jesus God? I say yes. He claimed to be, I am. So I and the Father are one. So i if you're if you believe in a God, I mean the the that's not gonna cut it. The devils believe and tremble, right? But is Jesus your God? There's a difference between believing in a God and believing in Jesus as your God So is the Lord your God? Is the Lord God? I say yes, and we can give lots of examples and lots of reasons for why the Lord is God. The Bible claims it resurrection proves it Um you have experienced it. I have experienced it. Colossians, I believe it's chapter one, says, For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether it be thrones or dominions or principalities, powers, all things were created by him and for him. He is before all things, and by him all things consist He is the creator. He is God. He is the sustainer. Psalm 3. 5 talks about that. And Jesus, God, is our authority, the Lord God. Jesus said in Matthew 28, 18, said he had all power in heaven and in earth. In Philippians 2, verses 10 and 11 talk about how one day we will all bow before him. Every person will. And that's why I think Peter said in Acts five twenty nine that we ought to obey God rather than man. You see, the Lord is God But again, I don't necessarily want to do that because you believe that he is. Because you're I believe that because you're here. You're here on a Sunday morning, and you believe the Lord is God, and that is awesome. It's self-evident, I believe. Now the second question, one is the Lord God, and we would say yes. Second question, is the Lord our nation's God? We're going to take a survey. You ready for this? How many of you would say right now the Lord is our nation's God? How many of you would say right now he's not Okay. I wanted it split. That's good. So so here here I'm gonna tell this is this is my opinion. I'm gonna preface this as my opinion, but then I'm gonna explain why. I believe he is And I know what people may be thinking, well, we sure are not acting like it. And again, I would agree with that. Now I would say that yes, the Lord is our God. Our nation was founded on God's word, with God's help. Um I think right now America is just not living like it. Now, remember the Old Testament in the book of Judges, we would see this cycle over and over again. Israel would forsake God God would bring judgment on them. He would take their freedoms away, bring judgment on them from one of the surrounding nations. Then they would cry back to God. Then God would deliver them, raise up a judge and deliver them, then there'd be peace, and then that cycle would uh continue over and over again. Something very interesting. I was doing some studying on it yesterday. Um They still claimed him as God even when they forsook him. God still claimed that he was their God, even when he forsook them. In um in Judges chapter six, uh God refers to himself as their God. In Judges 10, 10, they call Israel calls him their God. The children of Israel, their God was God, even when they were not worshiping him as God. And I think that's exactly where we're at as America. We have claimed him. We were built on God's word. You go to the Capitol, you see God's Word everywhere. You see it inscribed on the walls, you see it in paintings, you see it everywhere. You see it on your money. And I believe that our nation's God is God, but we have forsaken him. We have turned our back on him as a nation. Now, of course, there are individuals who have not, and praise the Lord for those that have not turned their back on him. But as a nation, I think we are at the spot that Israel was in in one of their cycles. Where they understood God was their God, and they would claim that, but in practice God was not. Does that make sense? The way they lived was that God was not in their God, but they claimed him, and he claimed them. We'll say in God We Trust. We'll we'll um on the 4th of July we'll sing patriotic hymns. And I'm talking about it as a society, as a nation. I'm not talking about just us here today. They'll still put their hand on God's word when they swear into office. But in practice, we have forsaken him. In practice, we have forsaken him. We'll say that we that we are one nation under God But then take God out of the school. We'll have judges swear on God's word when they're sworn in as judge. But then take God's word out of their judgment. We'll have those elected into office say, so help me God. And then go against God in their political fields, whatever that may be. Now, there seems to be a a verse that I remember. From the Ten Commandments, it says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. And it bothers me when I see that. When I see people using God's name as a curse word, that bothers me. It should bother you. But it I think that's exactly what's going on when people say, in God we trust, but then go against God. When people say, so help me, God. And then everything they do is against God. When they place their hand on his word and s and swear in on the Bible, only to completely go against the Bible. There are things that judges are for that the Bible's against. There are things that those in office are for that the Bible is against. And the Bible has become a token. God's name has become a token that has been used, but it's been used in vain. The name of God has become meaningless when it has been used. Just like when you hear someone use God's name as a curse word and it's it's it bothers you, it's meaningless. Just the same saying, so help me God when they swear in has become meaningless. Now we're picking on politicians, but at the same time a nation is made up of individuals. Correct? So we get upset because of the practice of those in offices. We say, oh, they're going against God, and they are. But how can we get upset that someone else for taking the Lord's name in vain when we take the Lord's name in vain? And I'm not just talking about using his name as a curse word. I'm talking about taking Jesus' name with you. And then making it of none effect. That's what the word vain means, empty, meaningless. You claim you're a Christian, you claim you believe in God, but then you live your life in a way that's against it Why should we be s be surprised when our elected officials do the same, when judges do the same, when the school systems do the same? Is the Lord our nation's God? I would say yes. But I think we are at the point that Israel is at when even though he is our God, and we would say that we are not living as if he was. We are not practicing as if he was. The Lord was Israel's God, even though Israel didn't act like it, and America is very much in that cycle. So I want to ask you this question before I get to my next question. What could we do about that? I think we should make the Lord God. Well, we know he is, and we claim he is, but I think we should start living like he is in practice, decisions we make. So, anyway, last question. Well, before I get to my next four questions. Those are shorter. Is okay, we s first off we said, is the Lord God? Yes. Is the Lord this nation's God? I believe he is. I believe he is. We're just not acting like it as a nation. Third question, is the Lord your God? I hope so. I hope there was a time, and I hope you remember that. When you ask Christ to save you, and you trusted Him as your Savior. And if I were to if I were to ask you if you know the Lord as your Savior, no doubt hands would go up. Is the Lord your God? Let me I said this a minute ago. People are what make up a nation, and we complain about those that are in authority, but we do not make The Lord our God. Now, I'm not necessarily asking right now, are you saved? Because I trust most of you are. If not, we'll get to you in just a moment. But if you're saved and you claim to be a Christian, that's good. But are you making the Lord your God? Is he who you're worshiping? Is he who you're following after? Is he who you're chasing? Is he who you're striving to please? God is God and He is on the top because He's God. By Him all things consist, right? And He is the head of the body, the church, He is before all things. By Him all things consist. He is God. To make something else God, it breaks another one of the Ten Commandments. That's idolatry Is our nation going away from God? Yes, and it's a tragedy, but I think we can fix that. Because we as Christians are going away from God. We're getting involved in idolatry. We're putting our our our stuff before God. We're putting our families before God. We're putting our money before God. We're putting our boat before God, our car, whatever you fill it in. We're putting that that that rank, that position, and we are striving to please other people. We're striving to gain and obtain other things and follow after our other gods. And God is no longer God in our life. Of course he is God. Yes, he is God. He is in control. We're just not acting like it. Is he or God? Who are you striving to please most? Your spouse? Now you should just strive to please your spouse. Your kids? Or God, who who who is the ultimate authority in your life? A teacher? Co-worker? Whatever. You fill in the blank. I think I think um we get uh uh uh um I'm trying to think of the word here. We get comfortable complaining That our nation and our politicians and our officials are going away from God. Be honest, how many of you have complained in the past year about your elected officials? Oh yeah. Yeah. And and complaining is a sin. We'll we'll preach on that another time. Right? But here's the thing. We complain that They're going away from God, and they are. But at the same time, we are. I find that a double standard. Now we we quote this we quote this all the time, especially around uh patriotic holidays and and things like that. But God's word says if if my people which are called by my name Will humble themselves and pray, Seek my face. The emphasis is on the Christian, the believer. We get mad at non-believers for acting like non-believers. Then we as believers act like non-believers. If believers, if Christians would act like Christians, that might fix some things. Again, I I know I'm preaching to the choir more or less. I understand that. You're here on a Sunday morning, it's the 4th of July. You could easily be at the lake right now. I get it. And this is important to you when you're here But I think all of us need to make a conscious decision to let God be God. Let the Lord be God. People make up a nation. We look at our nation and say, Will our nation be blessed? I I I I can't read the future, but I do know that if Christians don't make the Lord their God, then our nation won't continue to be blessed. Flip that around. It it can be. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. So, conclusion. What can you do? What can you do? Number one, if you're not saved, that's the main thing. Our nation was built by Christians. We need more Christians. The way you become a Christian is by trusting Christ as your Savior. Pretty simple. It's profound, but it's simple. We're sinners. Because of sin, we deserve separation from God and hell. But because he loved us, he sent Christ to die for our sins, took that place for us. You trust in him, he'll save you You can be a Christian. And that is that will go a long way to restore our nation on the path of blessings. If you have not trusted Christ as your Savior, I encourage you to do so. If you are saved, but maybe you haven't been letting God have his position in your life. I would encourage you to put God back on the throne. Let God be your God. Make the Lord your God. Give him control. Not a long message this morning. I mentioned this this morning in the youth group Sunday school class. But um why is it that God gave us our freedoms? Just so we could have them and enjoy them? He wants us to enjoy them. Sure. But the reason God gave us our freedom and our liberty Is so that we could serve him with it. God gave us freedom of speech so we can tell others about him. We have freedom of the press so that we can hand out tracts. Put ads in the paper telling people how to be saved. So we can have the sword of the Lord. That's why God gave us these freedoms. If we don't use these freedoms for the correct thing, uh don't be surprised if he takes them. So, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Is the Lord God? Well yes, he is. Absolutely. Is the Lord this nation's God? I think so. In fact, I know so. We're just not living like it. But the good news is now we can. Let's make God our God and let's use these freedoms that He's given us for the reason He gave them to us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for a few minutes. Just a couple questions to ask. First question is this How many of you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior? I'm not even sure I'm a Christian And I if I died right now, I I don't know where I'd spend eternity. I don't know for sure that I'm saved, but I'm concerned about that. No one's looking around. If that's you, could you just raise your hand? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I'm very concerned about that. You just slip your hand up, Mark could see it. Alright, next question is this. How many would say, you know what? Pastor Matt, yes, I'm saved. I know I'm a Christian. I know beyond a shadow of a doubt I'm saved. But I haven't given God his position. And I'm concerned I'm concerned about that. The Lord's dealing with me on some things this morning. Could you slip your hand up? My hand's up. Man, you may put your hands down. How many would say, you know what, Pastor Matt? God spoke to my heart about something totally different. It wasn't even related to your message, but God's dealing with me about some things. Could you slip your hand up? Amen. Put your hands down. Just a second, we'll have invitation here. And uh I'll ask you to stand and she'll start uh playing the piano in just a moment here, but I would encourage you You're not saved. If you don't know the Lord is your Savior, there is nothing more important. Nations come and go, but your soul goes on forever. Everybody will go on and live forever somewhere. Please make sure it's the right place. Um and if God's dealt with you in another way, I encourage you to get get right with Him for the sake of yourselves, but also for the sake of our country, for the sake of our nation. You'd stand to your feet. Uh she's going to start playing the altars open.