Was like in some countries, I don't always wish this, but on this message I do. Wish that we could just sit down for about two hours And just preach through this message right from beginning to end. I think I'm going to do that tonight. But uh no, not really But the reason I do that, and it's not just and sometimes I'll say, boy, I really want to get all this in tonight, and the my reason for making that statement isn't because I want to get over with it, you know, and get it done and get it behind me. It's because I feel like it all fits together. If you just get a portion of it And then another portion, you don't get the impact of this verse is saying. When the Lord preached this, he didn't say, Blessed are the. Then a week later come back, pure in heart. Then a week later come back, for they shall see God. You know what I'm saying? He made the statement altogether because that's what how it's intended. That's where its impact is. But when we preach it, we tend to break it up. But we have to, and I understand that But what we said so far, if you recall, we pointed out, first of all, the priority of the heart. He said, Blessed are the pure in heart. And that's important to understand. He doesn't say blessed are the pure in head The pure in body, and of course that's all part of it, but he says, Blessed are the pure in heart. God always begins with the heart. When God changes a person, When God saves a man or a woman, he saves them from their heart. You know, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, confess to my Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God has saved them. That is God's raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So God always begins the heart. I cannot overemphasize that. From the Genesis to Revelation, God is showing us He works in the heart. He changes a life from the inside out. When God changes the heart, then the fit thinking is changed. When God changes the when the heart is purified, the mind is purified. When the heart is purified, the life is purified. What we have a tendency to do, even within our Bible-believing Independent Baptist movement, we try to change people from the outside. And you know there's a place for that, but God begins in the heart and get that change. So we saw the priority of the heart. If you remember, we pointed out that the heart One was the center of our person. It's who and what we are. It's the core of our being. We said the heart is the source of our problems. If we want to solve our problems, we've got to fix our heart We want to be pure in our life. We've got to be pure in our heart. So the heart is the source of the problem. Then we we talked about the priority of the heart. Then number two, we talked about the purity of the heart I think that's what we looked at last week. Um uh the w what we meant by purity, what does it mean to have a pure heart I offered some suggestions. One is to have a sincere heart. We talk about somebody having pure motives. In other words, they might be wrong, but their motives are pure. Their motives are sincere. Uh they mean well. And so part of having a pure heart is having a sincere heart, a genuine. It's just do you ever have some people, uh you just never know if that's what they really are or not You know, the what the persona they're giving is, is that what they really are? Then there's other people you often it's like you can see right through 'em. You know what I'm saying? Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's having a sincere heart. The Pharisees did not have pure hearts Jesus repeatedly accused them being of being hypocrites. They put up this show, but inwardly they were uh something completely different. Then we said it was a single heart. In other words, be fully focused. I referenced David said in Psalms 86, he said, Prayed the Lord, unite my heart. And what he's saying is, I don't want to have a divided heart. I want my heart to be single for Christ. Somebody asked Jesus, what is the greatest commandment? And he said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, body, strength. And so all of it single-minded. Jesus Christ should be the love of my life. Jesus Christ should be the purpose of my existence. A single heart And when our heart is single on Christ, everything else falls right into place where it ought to be. So uh a sincere heart, a single heart. Then of course what we think is a spotless heart. And we think of a heart without Sin, the core of my being, uh, a core of my soul, the core of my being, being spotless, being pure and holy and good and right And that's what he's getting at here, I think, is being absolutely pure. The perfect example, I believe, of someone who is pure in heart would absolutely be the Lord Jesus Christ. Single, sincere, without sin, spotless in every sense, the Lord Jesus Christ. So if I'm pure in heart, I want to be like Jesus. I'm going to be like Jesus. So the priority of the heart, the purity of the heart, now we're on new ground. We're going to look here is the perception of God. Now, this is where it gets a little dicey. Look what it says there. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall what? See God. They shall see God. What in the world does he mean when he says see God? Now there's a lot of passages that address this matter of man being able to see God. And so I read this, and I'm starting to study it, and I'm thinking, what does he mean that you shall see God? I mean, does he mean literally, with our eyeballs, physically see God The Bible addresses that. We'll look at some verses. So I thought before I even start looking anywhere else, I just want to look up the words here, look up the meanings, and see if there's some insight here What's he talking about? And I found out that the definition of the word she really doesn't help us a whole lot. Uh it's pretty much what you think it means to look at. To perceive something. Now that one little variation of meaning helps us a little bit. To look at something, but it also has the idea of perceiving something And so there's a little bit there, but it doesn't help us. I'll be honest with you right up front, it's difficult for me to say dogmatically exactly this is what the Lord means But I'll tell you, we'll look at some verses and we'll uh see if we can't figure this out. Let me ask you this question. Can man literally physically see God with his physical eyeball No, oh, so we got a consensus. Let's look at some verses. Keep your place here. We'll come back to this eventually in two or three hours. John chapter 5. John 5. Now this is Jesus talking to us. And it's not more inspired, but I think it's significant. John chapter 5 and verse 37. He's speaking here, he says, let's go to verse 36. But I have greater witness than that of John for the works which the Father hath given me to finish the same works that I do. Now look at this. And the Father Himself which hath sent me hath borne witness of me. Look at this. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. Now he's talking to that. You've not seen God. You've not seen his shape. Come over to chapter 6 and verse 46 of John. Now here's a pretty dogmatic statement John 6 and verse 46, he says, Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen the Father. Right here, he says, No man has seen the Father except the one that's sent from God. Who does he mean the one that's sent from God? Now let's get a little clearer. Come back. We're going to go to two other passages. We're going to look at a bunch, actually. John chapter 1. John one and verse eighteen Verse 17 says, For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Look at verse 18. I mean, this he's making a very clear statement here. No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. So what is this verse telling us? How many people have seen God at any time? None. Well the Lord Jesus. But he says here, no man hath seen God at any time. Only the Lord Jesus. One other passage, 1 John chapter 4. And then we're going to look at something that we have to think about a little bit. First John chapter four. And verse twelve. First John four twelve Verse 11 says, Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Then he makes a statement. He repeats verbatim what the Lord Jesus says. I'm thinking he heard the Lord say this initially. Of course it's all under inspiration to God. And he repeats it verbatim. No man hath seen God at any time. There's no exceptions in this He's saying no man has ever existed, has seen God at any time. One reason, somebody give me some ideas here, why would man not see God at any time? Because of our sin? Right. The Bible says that God does not have flesh and blood. God is a spirit. And we think of seeing things we think of with our physical eyes. Now, there's one passage of Scripture that gives us pause here a little bit. Come back to Exodus chapter 33. Now we have several very clear statements that no man has seen God at any time. Exodus 33. Now Moses is unique in a lot of ways. He was an amazing, amazing person. He's one of those folks that I would love to be able to sit down with and talk to or just meet or even just stand from a distance and watch and observe. He's an incredible man. God uh talked to him like he talked you talked to a friend And uh they were incr incredibly close. And uh in Exodus chapter 33 and uh verse number Let me get my spot here. I'm talking and not looking. Exodus 33 and verse number 20. Let's back up. I want to set the stage here. Come back to verse 11. It says the Lord spake to Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, young man, departed not out of tabernacle. Verse 13. Now therefore, this is Moses praying to God, speaking to God. Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I might find grace in thy sight. And the Lord says, My presence shall go with thee. Verse 14, I will give thee rest. And Moses says, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hither. And so he's in this conversation with the Lord. The Lord says, My present is going to be there. He says, I want you to be there. I don't want to go if you're not in it. Verse 18, Moses makes this request. And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. Now think, put yourself in Moses' shoes. He's here in this conversation with God. In a conversation like a man speaks face to face with his friend. And um Moses wants to see God. That makes sense. I can relate to that. He's talking to him, he's seeing these amazing things that God has done, these are miraculous things. God speaking to him like a friend, like a man, verse thing, like the Lord spake Moses face to face as a man speaking with his friend. And Moses is like, God, I just want to see you. Show me your glory. Verse 19, and he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, show mercy on whom I show mercy. And he said, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me, and what? Pretty pretty blunt statement there. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock. And it shall come to pass that while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in the cleft of the rock And will cover thee with my hand while I pass by. And I will take away my hand, and thou shalt see my back parts, but my face shall not be seen. Now we have several places where it said dogmatically, no man hath seen God at any time. And now we have this instance, we go back in time, and we have here where Moses is talking to God. God's doing amazing things. God says, I'm going to go with you. And Moses says, listen, if you don't go with me, we can't go up there. God assures him, I'm going to be with you. You're going to have my presence. And finally, Moses, I think this is just from the heart of Moses. He goes, God, I want to see you. Show me your blood. I just want to see you. And God says, All right, no man can see me and live. I'm going to put you in stuff. I'm going to go by. If I go by, I'll cover you with my hand. When I get past you, I'll take my hand off. You can see the back side of me. Now, what in the world's happening? Anybody want to take a shot? No man has seen God at any time, but here you have Moses apparently at least seeing the backside of God. Anybody want to take a guess? I know Brian's got thoughts on that. Probably several others. Can I tell you what I think? I think what's happening here. No, I'm sorry. That was I didn't want an answer on that one, but that was pretty good, Bill. Uh I believe what's taking place here in the Old Testament, this is a big theological. If you would come to the Bible Institute, you would know what this word means. This, I believe, we have is what's called a theophany. A theophany is a pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, by pre-incarnate, we mean what? Before he became flesh, before he was born in Bethlehem. Jesus, you know Jesus eternally existed. He didn't begin. So a theophany would be the pre-incarnate, pre-physical birth of Jesus Christ, and he He and Father are one. And I believe what we have taken place here is just the simplest explanation is that Jesus Christ, God is appearing as Jesus Christ in his glory. Now remember, there's no blood on the altar there and all that. There's a lot of factors involved here. And Jesus Christ goes by And I think he is seeing Jesus in a glorified state before he took on flesh. That's the simplest explanation. Remember, Jesus said, He that hath seen me hath seen what? The Father. He is the physical manifestation of God the Father. Now this is a little mind-boggling, some of this. But God is a spirit. He is everywhere all the time. You and I are continually in the omnipresence of God at all times. Then I see in Scripture that you have this omnipresence of God, but it seems like there's a sense in where you have the immediate presence of God sometimes, when his glory dwelt in the tabernacle. And uh to be honest with you, it's I I don't know that I fully grasp in my own mind how that that works. But um uh we know this. One thing is very clear in Scripture We cannot see God. Mankind cannot see God. And so we have Moses here, and this is what when I'm studying this beatitude It says, Blessed are pure in heart, for they shall see God. And I'm thinking Jesus said very clearly, first John says very clearly, no man has seen God at any time. Several times, the other statement, people say, I've seen God, I'm going to die And so then you have Moses here. So the the uh the simplest explanation on a passage like this, as I said, is a Theophany, Jesus Christ appearing. This happened several times throughout the Old Testament He's appearing, representing God. He's a physical manifestation of God. God is a spirit, and he's infinite. He cannot be seen. So that brings us back to our Beatitude. So what does the Lord mean here? When he says, Blessed are pure in heart, for they shall see God, he cannot mean they shall physically see God with their eyeballs. No man has done that. That cannot happen. And so uh what's he talking about? I believe it is similar to what Paul says in Hebrews 12, verse 14, he says, follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. Here he says, blessed are pure in heart, they shall see God. Hebrews he says, without holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. I think there's several I think there's two possible explanations to what the Lord means here when he says, Blessed are they which are pure in heart, for they shall see God. One, I think he means the pure in heart are the ones that are going to actually end up in the very pure Immediate presence of God. In other words, they're going to go to heaven. The pure in heart, this is describing the folks that are on their way to heaven, and we will dwell in the presence of God, and so shall we be with the Lord forever. I think that's one of the explanations. I think he's referencing folks that have been saved. God has purified their heart. But I think there's another turn to the meaning here. And that came back to the definition of the word see. Did anybody ever tell you about something you didn't understand it? And explained it a little further, and then you made this statement, oh, I see. Now what did you mean when you say I see? Did you literally see it with your eyeballs? No. You mean you understand it. You perceive now what they're talking about. You comprehend what's involved. And to be honest with you, I kind of like to lean towards that where the Lord is saying, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. They shall have an understanding Of who and what God is, better, clearer than those that do not have a pure heart. To have any kind of understanding of who God is and what he's like, we must be pure in heart. We must have holiness. When my heart is impure, when my heart is filled with sin My eyes are darkened. In fact, Corinthians says that Satan blinds the minds of those who are unbelievers. They don't see God. They don't understand. They don't comprehend. Did you ever witness to a lost person and he says something like this, let me tell you what God is like. Anybody ever hear that? Yeah. You know what I found out? They're always raw. They're not even close. They're beginning with a an unregenerate heart. They're beginning with a natural heart, and they don't have a clear perception of who and what God is. A godly, pure-hearted Christian has a clearer perception of who and what God is than an unsaved person does. And you'll even find Christians who, when they get out of fellowship with God, they get backslidden away from God, suddenly their understanding of who and what God is starts changing. It gets clouded And they start saying, oh yeah, God's okay with stuff that the Bible very clearly says God isn't okay with. And they'll start saying stuff like, oh, well, God doesn't expect Christians to do all of this when the Bible is very clear, God does expect Christians to do all this. Their understanding, their perception of God, what they see of God, becomes clouded. I think the Lord is telling us here, listen Pure in heart, you're pure in heart, you're single-hearted, it's sincere, you've dealt with sin and all that, and uh well then you have a clearer understanding of what the Bible is teaching us about what God is. Hebrews 1127 says this, that Moses, referring to Moses as seeing him who is invisible. And they're referencing perhaps this event where Moses in the cleft of the rock and the Lord goes by. He saw the physical manifestation of Jesus Christ representing God the Father, the glorified Christ. But it may be also referencing Moses saw God's hand in the events. God was invisible. But Moses saw God's hand in all those plagues that hit Egypt. He saw God in all of that, in crossing the Red Sea, and providing the manna and providing the quails and providing the water Moses saw God in all of that. He understood what God was doing. He perceived that this is God meeting our needs. This is God taking care of us. And what did the people? They constantly said, Oh, we got to go back. This is a terrible mistake. This is wrong. We go back to Egypt. And Moses kept saying, No, trust God, trust God. He had a clear perception of God. You see what I'm saying? So I believe what the Lord is suggesting to us here is that the pure in heart have a clearer understanding of the Lord. Even here and now, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 12 tells us That even you and I are trying to do right and trying to be pure and trying to keep the sin out of our life and be as pure-hearted as we can. Even now, the Bible says we see through a glass what Darkly. We don't fully comprehend what God is like. Now someday we're going to get heaven. All that sin, impurities, everything's going to be passed, not going to be something we're dealing with anymore Boy, we'll we'll see and understand and perceive who and what God is. We'll worship Jesus Christ. Does that make sense to you? So blessed are the pure in heart. This is what uh part of what I'm trying to say. Listen, if knowing the Lord and having a personal relationship with him is important to you and I, if that's important to me Then I want to have a pure heart. Because I can't fully see God. I really can't grasp him and know him with an impure heart. It's going to cloud that up. So my first thought was this, the priority of the heart. That's where God begins. Number two was what the purity of the heart. What does it mean to have a pure heart? Third was our perception of God. Well, my heart is pure and all that is in place where I can see God more clearly. I see his hand in my life. I understand. uh his goodness, his love, his holiness, his righteousness, I understand this a whole lot clearer than when I'm living in sin. But my fourth and final uh lesson, this is why I didn't want to leave this one off hanging and pick it up another week, is how do I get a pure heart? How do I accomplish that? You say, preacher, you know, I really do, I really do want to have the best possible walk with God I can. And to have that, I've got to have a pure heart. How do I get a pure heart? And so my fourth point is this, the production. of a pure heart. The priority of the heart, purity of the heart, the perception of God, the production of a pure heart. How do I get a pure heart? And then once I get my heart pure, how do I keep it that way? How do I develop a pure heart? How do I maintain that pure heart? Nearly every religion in the world deals with man having a corrupt heart and trying to get it pure. Nearly every religious world has some sort of ceremony, some sort of part of their worship that has to do with trying to deal with the corruption of man's heart and getting him pure. It may uh some of them include isolation. Uh the Catholic Church developed years ago monasteries. And the whole idea was to isolate myself from all the corruption in the world so that I could be totally pure and I'd simplify my life down to it's just Me meditating and just me doing that, and therefore my heart will be pure. There's no corruptions. But that doesn't work. You know why? Because the corruption doesn't come from the outside in, it comes from the inside out And so that didn't work. That doesn't eradicate the impure heart. Doesn't produce an impure heart. Doesn't keep it pure. Some have uh suggest uh self-affliction Over in the Philippines and different places, particularly at Easter time, they'll come and uh they know they're sinners and they know they said and done things they ought not to, and they'll afflict themselves and you may be seen it on the news and different videos where they'll have whips and chains and they'll just beat themselves bloody, trying to purify themselves and trying to get the purge this sinfulness out of them so they can be pure and and uh be acceptable to God and that doesn't work Um sometimes it's some sort of penance we have to do. Do this little ritual and this, that, and the other, and then uh that'll deal with your sin. All these I thought I got thinking about this, I think even to a degree, even atheists. Try to deal with the consequences of impure heart. Now they don't use these terms, but they see in mankind something's not right. People are murdering each other. There's uh you know they're hurting children, they're stealing, they're doing all these things, and even the atheists say we've got to deal with this, and their solution is gotta educate them more If we educate them right, then we won't have this corruption. Or if we uh provide a better environment for them, then they won't have uh uh this corruption. And so they're trying to deal with the consequences of an impure heart. They're trying to say, how can we get the heart pure? How can we get it where the sin isn't a factor, where it's not the all these consequences, they may use different terms. That's basically what they're trying to do There's only one way to get a pure heart. And it's not through education, it's not through isolation, it's not through affliction, it's not through any of these things. It is, let me make this statement, it is impossible for man to purify his own heart. That is impossible. Only God can purify the heart of a man. That's the only way. Now there's several factors involved in that. Let me give them to you real quick. Now we have a little bit of time, so I want to keep all this together. Number one, how do I you say somebody's here says preacher, how do I get a pure heart? I want to understand God. I want to know him. I want to have that walk with them. How do I get a pure heart? Number one, I put this down. Recognize how thoroughly corrupt my heart really is Before I ever get a pure heart, I need to realize how corrupt my heart is. When I realize how sinful my own heart really is, I stop justifying the sin in my life. When I realize how sinful I really am, I quit justifying the impurities that are in my life. Well, you know, it's the way I was raised. Well, you know, this, that, no, well, it's just that's just kind of the way I am. No, no, no. When I realize how sinful I am, I say No, this is wrong. Um when I realize how sinful my own heart really is, I stop excusing it or blaming others. Well, if you knew how if you knew who I had to live with, you know why I talk that way. Right? There's not a good time to look at your spouse right now. Just keep your eyes focused right up here. We quit blaming others when we realize how sinful our own heart is. We quit condemning others. It's amazing to me. I've read from this a few times we were in Indianapolis and we had that prison ministry. Doesn't matter how bad that guy was, there was always someone else in the prison worse than him. You know, it was just ridiculous. Well I only killed two, he killed five. But when we realize that we are simple, and I will not have a pure heart until I realize how impure my heart really is. Until I realize that. Um I was reading my devotions this last week in Daniel. And um Daniel is praying. I don't have the chapter in front of me, but he's praying and he's confessing the sins of his nation. And Israel had their issues, just like America does. They were pretty messed up But I thought it was interesting, I was reading in my devotions, when Daniel confessed the sins of his nations, he didn't use these terms. He didn't say stuff like Boy, our nation's so bad. God, this nation is so corrupt. Boy, those leaders of our nation are so wicked. And they were. But you know how he worded it? God, we have sinned against you. We have disobeyed. He included himself in it. And you know what that tells me? Daniel had a clear conception of the fact that his heart was just as sinful as everyone else's. And if I'm going to have a pure heart, I've got to realize how sinful my own heart is. Turn with me, if you would, to Psalms 51. What a chapter. Psalms 51. You don't talk about having a pure heart, you've got to go to Psalms 51. Now, most, many of you no doubt are familiar with Psalms 51. This is David's confession of his sin, his failure with Bathsheba. It's probably a year or so later, after the event took place, the baby's been born, illegitimate child, Uriah's dead, Bathsheba's husband, David had him killed. He's been living in this sin, unconfessed, unrepentant, for a year now. And God sends Nathan by. God loves David too much to let him go on in his sin. And God sends Nathan by and confronts him, and David breaks down and acknowledges his sin. And that's what Psalm 51 is. And David is dealing, doing what needs to be done to get a pure heart. Look in verse number one. I'll just start reading here. Have mercy upon me, O God. Now I want to point out: a plea for mercy is a confession of guilt. If he's not guilty, why would he need mercy? So he begins acknowledging the fact that I've got a problem, I've got an issue, I need God to be merciful. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. I acknowledge my my transgression and my sin is ever before me. You see what he's doing? He's recognizing the sinfulness of his own heart. He's recognizing this is the issue, this is a defilement here And we're never going to get a pure heart until we first stop and say, my heart is impure. By the way, nobody ever gets saved until they first acknowledge and realize they're unsaved. We're saved from sin. And so he acknowledged that. Then read on. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thy speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. What's he saying? God, if you judge me guilty, you're right. You're absolutely right, I'm guilty. Behold, I was shaped in iniquity and sinned and my mother conceive me. He's not saying that the act of conception was sin. He's saying that from the time of conception I was a sinner. He's born with a sinful nature. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward part. So David is uh well, let me read on down to verse ten. He says, Purge me with hysop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear the joy and gladness which the bones that thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sin and blot out all my iniquity. Look at verse ten. Create in me a what Clean heart could say pure heart. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me I don't know about you, but I read this and I feel like Dave is Dave is uh I feel like he's just exasperated I get in my mind, and I don't know that I'm real accurate with this, but in my mind I see where David is so overwhelmed with how sinful he is, and it's like he realizes I can't do anything I cannot get rid of this thing. God, have mercy on me. God, you have to watch me And he's acknowledging, first of all, how sinful his own heart is. There's nothing he can do about it. He cannot cleanse it. The hands that he's trying to use, so to speak, to wash his heart are as filthy as the heart. And he can't get it clean. And he's at the end of his rope. He says, God, you have to cleanse me. God, you have to purge me. I can't do it. And that's the first step, I believe, to have a pure heart. Second, uh, I believe is we need to re rely solely on Jesus and his blood atonement. Now I'm suggesting that for my initial salvation. Nobody gets saved apart from the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. I need to realize he died on that cross and took the judgment of my sin upon him, was buried and rose again. I accept that fact and I receive him as my Savior His blood cleanses me from sin. But as I live my life and sins crop up since I'm saved, it is the blood of Jesus Christ that keeps that sin cleansed. You follow what I'm saying? What's the song we sing? What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh precious is the flow, that makes me white as snow. No other foul I know. Nothing but the blood of Jesus Man, I I I need to end but I don't want to. First John chapter one. Come over there real quick. Everybody doing all right? 1 John 1. Now it's important to understand, 1 John is not written to unsaved people, it's written to saved people. And look what he says in verse 7 of 1 John chapter 1. He's not telling them how to get saved. He's talking to people who are already saved. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. Look at this. And the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin, purifies us From all sins. And if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. Talking to Christians. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just And he tells us two things will happen when we confess our sins. He is faithful and just to what? Forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's two different things. If we say we have not sinned, we make them a liar, and his word is not in us. So he's telling us here that the blood of Jesus cleanses us from sin. We confess that sin. That sin is cleansed, it's forgiven, and it's cleansed. To cleanse something, if you cleanse something, there's a ketchup on a shirt. And you put in the washing machine and you hit what put the soap and everything and it comes out and that ketchup is still there. You get it out and you say, well this thing isn't even clean. But you put it in and the washes come out and the ketchup's gone. You say, oh yeah, this shirt's clean. It was cleansed. Cleansing is the removal of that, of dirt. Forgiveness, forgiveness is the removal of judgment for sin God, if I confess my sins, He's faithful and just to forgive me. He'll remove the judgment from my sin. And not just remove the judgment from my sin, but to cleanse me From all unrighteousness. What's that? It's a removal of the sin. He gets that sin out of my life. Not just removes the consequence of sin, God's judgment on me, or God's chastisement for a Christian, I guess, would be. But he gets the sin out. Here's our problem. A lot of Christians want to be forgiven for their sin, but they don't want to be cleansed. I want to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, but I don't want God to judge me for it. That's not how it works. That's not a pure heart. That's as we confess our sin, he's saying just forgive us, remove the judgment, and cleanse us and get that sin out of our lives. Positionally, the moment I trust Jesus, my Savior, I'm completely and permanently cleansed. We talk about this often. Those of us that are saved, we stand before God. God sees us as pure and wholly pure-hearted as Jesus Christ. That's because we have accepted him and his righteousness is put to our account. Now down here, not so much. Down here we got a bunch of stuff. Positionally, I'm pure. Practically, this is a lifelong process So how to get a pure heart? Man, I've got to hurry. One, recognize how thoroughly wicked my heart is. Two, rely solely upon the blood of Jesus Christ. For the cleansing of my sin, positionally. And I put this one down last of all, to relinquish all control of my life to God Almighty. I take my hands off and say, God, you take it. Holy Spirit of God, you take it. Here's the Bible terms to describe that. Being filled with the Spirit. Where I take my hands off and God fills me with the Spirit and He works for me. Paul said, I die daily. Not my will. I die to self. I let the Spirit of God. He said he talks about dying himself. Galatians 2. 20, classic verse. For I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live I live by the faith of the Son of God. So pure heart. It's how we see and understand God. 1 John 3:3 says, Every man that hath this hope purifieth himself. Talking about the day will stand before God. And we'll see him, of course, in the person of Jesus Christ. We'll be in his very presence. We'll know as even as we're known. I told my wife, I asked her a question, I kind of tricked her a little. I said, what do you think is the most momentous, stupendous, overwhelming event in a person's life? What is that one epic event in the life that nothing else in life compares to it? It is so outstanding, so over the top I think it is. I think it's the day we stand before God Almighty. Now think with me about that. Every one of us here. We are going to stand before God and give an account ourselves. For those of us safe, it's going to be the judgment seat of Christ. If there's any unsat, be the great white throne, which is horrific. But stop and think about that. Suppose you knew that tomorrow at 12 noon you were going to have to stand before God Almighty. Give an account. You think you'd be a little nervous? Good night, I'd be scared to death. Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. And I think every moment we live, now it doesn't pan out like this, but I think ideally, every moment we live ought to be lived in light of the fact That there's a day coming when I'm going to have to stand before God and give an account of how I live my life as a Christian. He's talking about that. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. They shall see God. I can try to purify my own heart. But when I'm done, it's just as dirty as it was before. In fact, probably a little worse Just because I'm trusting, I am trusting the blood of Jesus, I'm surrendering myself over to the Holy Spirit to cleanse my life and purify my heart, and I want to be pure in heart, trusting God to work in me and do that, doesn't mean I don't have a part. I'm skipping around here, but James says, submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. He will flee from you. Then he makes this statement: purify your hearts. Cleanse your hands. Purify your hearts. So he says, we have a part in this. I need to cooperate with God and the Holy Spirit. When He does that process, He starts making those changes. I can't cleanse my own heart, but I can yield myself to the Holy Spirit, and He can. And I need to submit to God Resist the devil. Let God have his work. Let God have his way. And make those changes and purify my heart. Greatest moment in our lives is when we stand before God, the most outstanding. And everything in life pales before that one moment. Nothing in life compares to that moment we stand before God. Let me ask you, are you prepared for that moment? One, I gotta know I'm saved. If I'm lost and I end up at the judgment seat, I end up at the great white throne judgment, it is too late. I am doomed to the lake of fire. I've got to know I'm saved And number two, am I living for the Lord in light of that? Now, if I am saved, I'm going to be at the great judgment seat of Christ. And there I'd give an account of how I live my life. Am I living my life in light of the fact But I'm going to stand before God and I'll see him in a sense, in his presence. And my third question was this: am I helping other people? Be prepared for that day. Remember, we can't cleanse our hearts. God has to. And I need to help other people get to God so He can cleanse their hearts too. See what I'm saying? Let's pray. Lord, I went a little long, but I hope this truth here would grip our hearts. I pray that all of us, of course, would know that we're saved, that our sins have been forgiven. We stand before you in the righteousness of Christ. I pray that those that are those of us that know you, that we live every day Yielding to you, submitting ourselves to you, and letting you do what needs to be done in our lives so that our hearts can be pure. And Lord, help us to help others Help others come to Christ, understand the gospel, what God teaches, help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? But I really need to let the Lord have his way. There's some areas in my life where I really have to be honest, they're not yielded to the Lord. And I know he's wanting to change it and make it right. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would God would give me grace to let the Lord have his way. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, I know there's some areas there that are not pure in heart. And I need God to help me. And God bless you a bunch of hands around. The Bible says, ask and it shall be given unto you. There's someone here, say, preacher, I want God. I'd like to be able to help others. Come to know the Lord as their Savior. I'd like to be able to help others live for God. I'd like for God to use me. Now we need to be in shape, but You say, preacher, in my heart, that's that desire. Pray with me. God will help me be a soul winner, share others, uh share with others the gospel. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Amen. Hands all around. Of course we feel that way Father, bless us now, I ask, and uh I've been challenged by this, and I trust others also in Jesus' name. Amen.