Five. I've got the Amen pew right down front here in front of me. Praise the Lord. They've been so excited about coming up and being here. I could not wait. I know they're concerned about getting spit on. And we'll see what we can do. A couple things I want to mention before we get into our Beatitudes. Um One is um I don't know if you're familiar with this probably most of you many of you would be aware of the fact that uh Brother Ray Whitmer with um Countrywide Ministries provides a stack of uh miss of uh prison uh prisoners that have trusted Christ are going through the discipleship program that he has, the correspondence program And then w ladies in our church, a number of ladies, write to them just encouragement, send them uh different things. Actually I think there's fellows, Billy Cole, I think, and a couple others are involved also But just write to them, try and encourage them. These are folks that have professed faith in Christ and uh appear to be growing in their faith And uh so we've been writing these out for I don't know how long, a year or so, and we've every now and then we get some letters back, and you never know, you can tell that letter comes, you know it's from a prison, just the way it's addressed and everything. You just never know what's going to be inside there, what they're going to say. But I tell you, we've been getting some tremendous letters back. One came in the mail today. I just wanted to read a portion of it. This is a fellow, he's in prison in Stanley, Wisconsin. And he's trusted the Lord. He's in for ten and a half years, I think he says here. He's got four and a half to go. But uh he says this, I thought I'd read this. This is thank you for the nice note with edifying words that encouraged me I greatly appreciate your compassion. You have, and it says, dear Pastor Leatherman, it says you have people at your church that genuinely love others, and that reveals their love for Christ. Please send me more information about your church. Do you have a prayer list? I will certainly pray for them. I'm not seeking to gain anything, but to know that God is pleased in the efforts and work in others growing in a relationship with him. There's no greater joy than seeing sinners come to Jesus and their lives transformed. And he goes and tells a little bit about himself. He grew up in Harper's Ferry, was saved in 91, messed up, ended up in jail with this, don't know what it was. He's working on his bachelor's degree. He says, uh-da-da, I've been praying for different things. There was something here I wanted to mention. God is my guide, but I feel these co-laboring relationships are very necessary. Recently, a dear humble man named Ray Whitmer of Countrywide Prison Ministry spoke with my mother at Fellowship Bible Baptist Church in West Virginia. And as a result, I've been introduced to another Christian there, assistant, and it's been a great encouragement. But I just thought it was a neat letter from a prisoner. He's not asking for anything, and he's not Sometimes they'll give excuses and you know they're not there uh uh they're there not they're innocent is what I'm trying to say and all that. And uh I just thought that was a neat thing I wanted to share with us. So we appreciate those that write to these guys And uh it has an effect. It's real encouraging. Um in fact, one of the things the Lord says, I was in prison and you visited me. And this is one way we can do that. One other thing I want to touch on before um Uh we have our message. Um course so with it be in Halloween, is Halloween tomorrow night or Friday night? Friday night. Friday night. I've never made bones about this. In fact, I often over the years have preached messages on Halloween. If you do any study at all what Halloween is, it is a terrible, terrible holiday And if you study the history of it at all, it's horrendous. I have a little article here I come across. It's called A Night When Evil Is Celebrated And uh if it's something that Christians should be involved in. I'll make these available after the message because if I give them to you now, you'll read them or preach them. So But uh I heard the news today and this just reinforced my opinion about what Halloween is and how I don't want anything to do with it personally Um in I believe it was New York City there was a fella decapitated this woman. Uh he took her body, decapitated body, all bloody, he drug it out into the street. This was just yesterday I think it happened, you probably saw it in the news. And uh then he committed suicide. And the thing that caught my attention was the neighbors initially didn't do anything at all when he saw him dragging this bloody decapitated body down the street. Nobody did anything. You know why? They thought it was part of Halloween celebration. And my thought was, what in the world kind of holiday is celebrated in such a way that a decapitated bloody body is part of the celebration? You know, they just, oh, we just thought it was part of Halloween. I thought, well, what is it about Halloween that would make people think that way? Nobody on Christmas would see a decapitated bloody body in the street and think, oh, that's part of Christmas. No we think, oh, that's part of Easter. But there's something about Halloween that makes you think something that horrendous is part of it. And so that's my opinion for what it's worth. Uh I think I can give you a scriptural basis and and certainly historical reasons that a Christian ought to stay away from Halloween. But uh I have an article here and we'll make that available afterward, Ushers, and we'll give these out. I got them up front here. If you're interested, you can get that and look at that And uh so I just heard that on the news today. I was putting swords out in the boxes and I heard that and I thought, good heavens, what in the world kind of holiday is this That people would even think that way. Matthew chapter 5, and we're looking at the Beatitudes here. I'm going to go ahead and read through the Beatitudes, get down to verse number 8 is where we're lodged here for a week or so, a couple weeks. Verse 3, it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Now here's where our current beatitude veron is. Verse number eight Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. The pure in heart. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father I'm grateful for this portion that uh in your in the Bibles that we can study. I pray you'd stir our hearts, that we would be godly, mature, spiritual Christians, Lord, and we would be able to grow in our faith, be more effective in our witness. And Lord, our lives would please you. And now when it's all said and done, Lord, you'd be able to look at us and say, well done Lord, that's what we really want to hear. And so fill me with your spirit as my prayer. I yield myself to you. And Lord, I pray that you'd speak through me and challenge us in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember we pointed out that there's a progression to these beatitudes, they kind of build on each other and they relate to each other. I notice there verses three through five produced verse six, the poor in spirit mourn And the meek produced uh I hunger for hunger uh for uh uh hunger and thirsting after righteousness. When I hunger and thirsty after righteousness, then that's going to produce verses seven and nine. Merciful uh pure in heart and a peacemaker. If I'm merciful and I'm pure in my heart and a peacemaker in this old wicked world, that's going to produce verses 10 through twelve, persecution from the world. And people um in verse uh ten, they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, say all manner of evil against you for my sake. And so there's a progression going here. One set of beatitudes, when that's true in my life, will produce the next thing, and then that's true in my life, that produces the next. Now we're looking at verse 8. Blessed are the pure in heart. If you remember last week, I just want to quickly review, we noted the priority of our heart condition The priority of the heart. All through the Bible, God is concerned with the condition of our heart. What we are for real Uh Romans ten, verse nine and ten. It says, uh that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Acts 16, the Bible says the Lord opened the heart of Lydia that she would believe and be saved. Of course the Pharisees were an opposite. They could care less what they really were. All they were concerned about was putting on a show All they were concerned about was what people thought of them. If they thought they were good, they thought they were righteous. And the Lord severely rebuked them. He said, You're a bunch of hypocrites You're just like a dirty, uh just like a cup that's clean on the outside and inside it's filthy. And you're missing the point completely. The point is that we be pure and clean and right in our hearts, and when our heart is right, then our behavior, our outward uh actions will be what they ought to be. So the Lord is concerned about our heart Religion, as we pointed out, tends to focus on the external. If I look, how do I look to others? How is my conduct? How do other people think about my conduct? All these types of things Not to say that's not important, but that's not where it begins. Um the condition of man's heart is the focus of scripture. So I'm trying to brief uh go down through here What did we say about the heart? He says, Blessed are the pure in heart. What's he talking about, our heart? Well, obviously it's not the organ, the muscle in there beating away. That's not what he's talking about What he's talking about is um is our the very center of our being. I put two definitions down if you remember. We said it's the center of our person Uh the core of our being, it's my mind, my will, my emotions, it's what I am for real. Um not what people think I am, not the show I put on, it's what the my heart, it's my very innermost being, the center of our person. But we also said it's the source of our problems. The Lord says our hearts are wicked. Our hearts are are corrupt Our heart are the source of all our problems. The world says that society corrupts man When in reality it's man's sinful heart that corrupts society and the world has it wrong. They said if we can fix the outside, then the inside will be fine. God says, no, no, no. The inside's the problem. The heart's the problem. And when that gets fixed, then everything else will fall into place. So we talked about the priority of heart. Now that gets us to where I want to be tonight. Look at our verse again here with me, if you would. Blessed are the pure in heart. First is the priority of the heart. That's what God's concerned about. Second of all is the purity of our heart The purity of our heart. Now stop and think about it. I wish we could have preached these two sections together, because they tie very closely. But we pointed out last week, and I tried to be very thorough, the fact that our hearts are very, very sinful. There's nothing good, there is nothing righteous in our hearts And God says that to see God, this verse tells us that to see God, I must be pure in heart. So here's my condition. I'm not pure in heart. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mount sweet. He says, uh Jesus said, out of the heart proceed fornications, adulteries, drunkenness, murders, deceitfulness, lies. comes from my heart. But to see God, I have to have a pure heart. And so I've got a problem here. How can I, with an impure heart, make my heart pure? I can't. You can't take dirt to make dirt clean. Right? A sinful heart can't make a sinful heart clean. And I have to have a pure heart if I'm going to ever see God So that tells me this one verse tells me that I can't save myself. I need God to save me I need Jesus Christ to cleanse me and give me a pure heart and forgive me for my sin and cleanse me from all that. I cannot make myself a Christian God has to do that. I can say all the prayers I want, I can do all the ceremonies I want, I can get baptized a thousand times. That's not going to save me, it's not going to give me a pure heart. Only Jesus Christ will give me a pure heart. And so we cannot make ourselves a Christian. By the way, and I didn't think about this with the teens here, but it's true for all of us, our parents can't make us Christians I had a Christian daddy, the most godly best Christian I I've known in my life. To this day I consider him that. But my daddy could not make me a Christian. I'm telling you, if he could have, I'd have gotten saved a whole lot sooner, I'm sure. My dad can't make me a Christian. I can't make my children a Christian. Only God can make a person a Christian. Only God can save a soul. and give a new heart. By the way, our church can't make anybody a Christian. I'm always thrilled when folks come and they accept Jesus Christ as Savior through the ministries of our church. That stirs my heart But we're not the church doesn't save anybody. We can't give anybody a pure heart. Only God can do that. Did I tell you, I think I mentioned this Sunday night. Crack me up. But uh when I gave the invitation Sunday morning, Sarah was here in Denny, you know, and they're all excited, they're saved, and she's going through all her neighborhood, getting all her friends. You gotta come to church and She doesn't say you need to come to church be my guest. She says, Here come to church and get saved. She's just sort of so they're sitting there and uh the couple ladies and her and one guy uh the lady and her husband and the other ladies there with her and uh I gave the invitation. Not sure if you die now you go to heaven. Just you're concerned about it, why don't you raise your hand? Old Sarah reached over, grabbed her hand and raised it up. And uh reminded me anybody here b hear Bill Barons tell his salvation story when he got saved? He marched his family in, then he marched them all up front, they all had to get saved. So a church can't, what I'm trying to say is this. If a pure heart is what's necessary to see God Then Jesus has to be the one saving because I can't give myself a pure heart. I can't give anyone else. My parents could not give me a pure heart The church can't give anyone a pure heart. The only one that can cleanse a heart of the sin is Jesus Christ and his blood. So it's important. Now let's look at this. Blessed are the pure in heart. Well that word pure means what you would think it would mean. It means to be clean. It means to be free from impurities. Um the literal definition of the word, you ever hear somebody make reference to man? That ring is pure gold. Right? Anybody ever hear that? What do they mean by that? When they say the ring is pure gold, it means it's what? It's pure yeah. It's a hundred percent. It means there's no impurities in there. There's nothing artificial. It is the it is the real deal. It's genuine. There's uh no impurities in it at all. I want to give you some definitions, biblical definitions, of what it means to have a pure heart. Number one, a pure heart is a sincere heart It's sincere. There's nothing phony about it. Did you ever hear somebody make this statement about someone? They say, boy, you know, she's got pure motives. Her motives are pure. Do you ever hear that? What do they mean by that? When they say, well, their motives are pure. I mean they're sincere, yeah. It means they're they're genuine. They're they're sincere in what they're doing. They could be totally wrong. But they're sincere, their motives are pure. And that's the idea when the Lord says, blessed are the pure in heart, means we're sincere. The Pharisees were the exact opposite of sincerity. They were hypocritical. Again, I keep saying this, and I think this is what the Lord's addressing here is this matter of just putting on a show, some sort of religious show. And thinking that that's okay, that that's adequate. As long as I appear righteous, as long as I appear like I'm good, as long as it looks like I'm honest, as long as it looks like I'm spiritual, as long as that appearance is there, then everything must be fine. And the Lord's saying, no, no, no. You've got to have a heart that is sincere. It has to be genuine. The Pharisees didn't have that. They professed to love God. When in reality they love themselves. They put on a big show that they loved God, and boy, they'd say their prayers real loud and they'd fast and make sure everybody knew they were fasting And boy, they put on, you know, just put on the, we used to say, put on the dog, you know. When in reality, inside their hearts, they loved the world. They didn't love God. They loved themselves. They didn't care about God. They just wanted to put on a show. And the Lord says the pure heart is the exact opposite of that. A pure heart is a person that loves God genuinely and sincerely from their heart. It's not just a show they put on. It's not just a So when he says the pure in heart, he's talking about someone that has a sincere heart. I put this down also. Someone that has a single heart What does it mean to be single-hearted? Everybody want to take a shot at that. If somebody single-hearted I think one true love, that's a good way to put it. Anything else? It's someone single-hearted. Got any ideas down here? They're single-hearted. What does that mean? Uh how about a person that's double-hearted? Blue. What's that? They're being pulled two ways, exactly. Uh James talks about a double-minded man. The double-minded man is what? Unstable in all his ways. You know why? Because he's going one direction one time, he's going another direction another time He's not single-minded, he's not single-hearted. In other words, he's living one way with one crowd, he's living a completely different way with a different crowd. He's not single-minded, he's not single-hearted. It means to be single hearted means to be fully devoted to one thing. Joe kind of touched on that To be fully devoted to one thing. Now, if I'm pure in heart, spiritually speaking, if I'm pure in heart, that means I am fully devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no other loves involved. There's no division there. My whole heart, my whole devotion is to Jesus Christ. Somebody came to Jesus one time, a fellow came to Jesus one time, he asked him, he said, What's the greatest commandment of God? And God said, the greatest commandment is thou shalt what? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And then he goes down this list that encompasses our entire being. Your heart, your soul, your mind, your strength, your body. The second life unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. What does he say? He says, we've got to be single-minded. The Lord has all my devotions. Someone says, well, if I If I'm so totally singly divided devoted to the Lord, where is there room for devotion to my spouse or devotion to my children? A total devotion to the Lord does not compete with my devotion to my spouse. It stabilizes my devotion to my spouse. You follow what I'm saying? It's not competition. Uh uh when F. B. Meyer was I believe it was F. B. Meyer, when he was engaged to be married, before they got married, his wife came to him. She said, Is there anybody in the world that you love more than me? And without hesitation, again I believe it's Epimaier, without hesitation, Epimaier said, yes, I love the Lord Jesus Christ completely. And his wife to be said this. She goes, good, then we'll be just fine. And she understood that if he was totally devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ, his devotion to her would be stable. If he was completely and supremely saturated in such a way, saturated in his love for the Lord Jesus Christ, then his love for her was not going to be any problem at all Because he loves the Lord, he'd love his spouse. Because he's devoted to the Lord, he's devoted to his spouse. And so and to children and parents and the whole gamut. So when he says, Blessed are the pure in heart, he's talking about those that don't have a divided heart, it's not here, it's Not in love with the world and trying to be in love with the Lord and this, that, and the other and everything. No, no, no. It's focused on one thing, it's focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. You got your Bibles with you. Take them and turn with me. I'll look at a number of verses. Go with me. Keep your place here, but go with me to Psalms chapter 86. Psalms 86 is a Psalm of David. Now David had his ups and downs, but I think we can say overall, David had a pure heart. He had a single heart. He was in love with God. Now, like I said, he had his times, but generally speaking, and look what he says here in Psalms 86, verse number 11. This is David, the man after God's own heart, the uh the sweet psalmist of Israel. Look what he says, teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth. Now look at this next statement Unite my heart to fear thy name. He says, unite my heart, unite my heart. If somebody is wanting their heart to be united, what is that telling me about the current condition of their heart? If I'm asking the Lord to unite it, it must be what? Divided. To unite, the word unite there means to join together, to make one or make single. And David is saying, Lord, I think this is what David's praying. He's saying, Lord, I know my heart has a tendency to be divided. My heart is a tendency to be loyal to itself. My heart is a tendency to love the world. My heart is a tendency to be selfish. And Lord, I don't want that to be. I want my heart to be sold out to you, to be united, just one heart. completely in love with you without any other competition whatever. And that's what David is praying for. He's asking God for a pure heart And I'm convinced one of the biggest problems we have in our Christian lives, I'm telling you, the biggest problem we have in our Christian lives is being double-hearted. is being uh between the Lord and myself. Being in love and devoted to the Lord or to the world? And that is a battle that goes on in the Christian life. And David's saying, Lord, I don't want to be that way. I want my heart united, one. Uh to be with the Lord. Um years ago I heard, I have no idea who wrote this, a little ditty, it goes like this, only two choices on the shelf. Serving God or serving self. And what they're saying is, listen, we're going to be pure-hearted. We can't go back and forth between that. We need to make up our mind. It's one or the other And so Paul struggled with this. Come with me if you would now to Romans. And we've touched on this recently also, Romans chapter 7. Paul's a great Christian. May alive. Just before he died, he says, uh I've fought a good fight. I've finished, I've kept the faith, I've finished my course. Man alive, he just was faithful to God and stayed through. But we get an insight into the inner struggles of the Christian Paul in Romans chapter 7 and verse number 19. Look what it says. This is Paul speaking, and he's kind of opening his heart to these Roman Christians up in Rome. And he says to them, for the good that I would I do not. Now it's worded a little funny here, but for the good that I would, I do not. But the evil which I would not That I would do. Now if I do that what I would not, it is no longer I that do it, but sin doth me. I find in a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me I delight in the law of God and after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. What's he saying? He's saying there's a part of me that wants to do right so bad. And I end up not doing right and I do wrong. And I don't want to do wrong. And the things I do not want to do, I end up doing. And he's struggling. You know what he's struggling with? Divided heart. And this whole passage, I believe, is Paul saying, I want a united heart. I want my heart to be pure. Now look what he says, I love verse 24. He says, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? He says, it's tearing me up I want my heart to be pure. I want my heart to be right. I want my heart to be totally to the Lord and not for self and not these other things. That keep drawing away. Look what he says in verse 25. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord So, what does he mean by being pure heart? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Well, first of all, it means a sincere heart. It means I'm for real. My Christianity is not just some show I put on, but it's from my heart. God has saved me. It means to be single-hearted. A pure heart is a single heart, a single devotion. And as I said before, my, you say, if I just sell out, if I am totally devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ That's going to jeopardize my devotion to my family. No, no, no. It doesn't jeopardize it at all. It stabilizes it. What did Jesus say? He says, thou shalt, if a man does not hate his father and mother, his brother and sister, yea, in his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. What in the world? Hate my wife, hate my parents, hate my brother, brother, hate my sister. Um but uh I thought what in the world And you know what he's saying? He's saying, when I love the Lord like I should, I'm not going to have a problem loving my spouse and my family and others like I should. Well, I'm totally devoted to that. And so, a single heart, a pure heart is a sincere heart. A single heart, let me give you one more here, real quick. It's a spotless heart. A pure heart is a spotless heart. It means simply to be clean and pure. To be clean and pure. In the Bible, the opposite of being pure is the word the Bible uses is defiled. If it's not pure, it's defiled. Turn with your Bibles. I told you we're going to look at a bunch of verses. Turn to Revelation chapter 21. Here We're at the end of the tribulation, the new heaven, the new Jerusalem's coming down. He's talking basically about who gets into heaven. It's pretty much what he's addressing, just kind of summarizing it here. In Revelation 21. And all the way to the last verse of Revelation 21. Revelation 21 is the second last chapter in your Bible. And the last verse of that chapter, 21, is verse 27. It says this, and there shall in no wise enter into it, the New Jerusalem, heaven, basically, into it anything that what Defileth. Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. They which are written in the Lamb's book of life. People who enter heaven go to heaven with pure hearts Only God, I've said this before, but only God can make a sinful, corrupt heart pure. You can get baptized a thousand times. It is not going to change a person's heart. Now I believe you know we help people say a prayer when they call on the Lord. I think it's you know it's a helpful but simply going through emotions saying the words of a prayer doesn't cleanse my heart, doesn't make my heart pure Jesus Christ has to do that. And when I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, he cleanses my heart. Before I got saved, I know I reference this a lot, but Before I got saved, I can tell you this firsthand. I tried so hard to clean up my act. I tried so hard. I tried so hard to make my heart pure. Because I knew it was corrupt. And the more I read the Bible, the more I was going, I looked at myself and my life. The more I realized how thoroughly corrupt I was. And I'd try to make myself pure. I'd try and clean my act up. The harder I tried, the bigger mess I made. Until finally, at my absolute end of my rope, falling on my knees, Lord, you need to save me. You need to change me. And I'm telling you, when the Bible says whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, I'm telling you, that is true. And God changed my life. And then there's an ongoing process of growing. Perfect example of a pure heart is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the ultimate example of what it means to have a pure heart, to live a pure life. So to be pure in heart means to be like Jesus. To be like Jesus. Um we're in Colorado. Well two thoughts. Two I'll end with these two things. I have another Another sermon I'll preach that next week. But uh I was preaching on this passage in Revel in Revelation 21. And look at verse number 8. It says, but the fearful and unbelieving, the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, idolaters. And look at that next phrase. And all what? Liars. Shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. I preached that when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, shortly after I came there on staff. The p pastor had me preach on one Sunday night. I preached on hell. And I referenced that message. There was two young girls, probably about 14 years old, in the youth group. And we were just getting to know each other. I was brand new When I preached, and when I read that passage, that one girl, little Amy, she absolutely broke We gave the invitation. The altar was filled, but she just absolutely, you could not stop her. A football player couldn't have kept her back. Sobbing And the assistant pastor's wife took her out the side. We had a little counseling area out the side of the auditorium. And she came back in And she said, when I saw that, that all liars shall have their part in the lake which burnt fire and brimstone, she goes, I'm a liar. Jesus, I don't want to go to hell. I need Jesus to forgive me for being a liar And God saved her soul. Isn't that something? You know what? Her heart was sinful, and she realized that And the Lord needed to give her a new heart. Only God can give us a new heart. Only God can give us a pure heart. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I ask you to help us, Lord, first of all, to be for real, to be sincere in our walk with you. God, help us to put the mask aside and just be honest with you and with ourselves. About what kind of Christian we really are, and even if we are a Christian. Lord, I pray you'd help us to be single-minded, that our focus, our devotion Our dedication would be to the Lord Jesus Christ and Him alone. And convict us, Lord, I pray. And Lord, I pray that we would be clean, spotless, and pure. There's so much sin. God, we live in such a dirty world. Dirty television, dirty music, dirty language. I pray, O Holy Spirit, help us to be clean. Help us to be pure. We need you, Lord. I pray. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. And another message, we're going to look on how to have a pure heart and how to maintain a pure heart. But tonight maybe you'd say, preacher, you know, I've not really been honest with my true spiritual condition. Maybe you say I'm saved. But I just kind of put on the show and never really take serious my heart relationship with the Lord. And you say, preacher, tonight, I want to be for real. From my heart, I want to love God and live for Him and please Him. Is there any like that? Or the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I just want to be for real from my heart out. God bless you. Number of hands raised I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, if the truth were known, I've got a divided heart. This world has just seemed so attractive in so many ways, and my own self tends to take over. I feel like Paul sometimes, divided. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be single-minded, single-hearted, like David, that God would unite my heart. And just have that one thing and that one thing alone I live for, the Lord Jesus Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my heart And I just feel that struggle inside, and I feel that division, and I don't want it to be that way. God bless you about it. Others, sure. Now this is maybe a little more personal, but what about a clean heart, spotless? As I said in my prayer, we live in such a dirty, dirty world. Just the language and everything and it gets in our heads and it creeps down in our hearts. Before we know it, we're involved in things and we're I've got stuff going on that is absolutely dirty. And tonight we I want to be clean. As a Christian, I want to be clean and pure. Maybe by chance there's someone tonight say, preacher, my Christianity's been all a show. I know I've never been saved. Down in my heart, I know it's never been real. It's just been something I put on a show. You know if a lot of people die and go to hell putting on a show they're a Christian. You don't want to do that. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can get my salvation settled, clear, for real. I know in my heart. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I want my salvation to be settled in my heart and soul, genuinely Christian on my way to heaven. Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised for various things. Hear us now, Lord. We humble ourselves before you. We ask you, along with David and Paul and other great Christians, unite our hearts, purify them, help us, Lord. In Jesus' name of stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Cathy's gonna play a few verse of imitation. This is