We get your Bibles turned back there. 1 John chapter 5 be our text this morning. And I want to thank those that were praying for us, Brother James Smith and Tom Sharon and I. uh made a trip down to um Heritage Baptist Church in Woodbridge, Virginia yesterday and was able to preach at their wild game dinner. I know a number of you were praying for us. We praise the Lord for that. They had a great crowd. I'm guessing I don't know this No, it's a specific number, but to me look like about seven hundred Turn around and do it. It was wonderful, just this beautiful big building, and uh that would look beautiful right over there. And um but when we were done preaching, we invited folks to call on the Lord and trust in the Savior. And when we gave the invitation, 26 folks raised their hand. that they had called on the Lord to trust them as their Savior. So we're excited about that. And I learned something. Does anybody here know what a pirate's favorite gun is? A pirate's favorite gun. It's an AR-15. I know it's lame, but it's all I got this morning. First Corinthians chapter five, I'd like for us to read together uh verse number thirteen. First John, what did I say? 1 John chapter number 5 verse number 13 Brother Mark said this is one of his favorite verses, I have it underlined, I have it highlighted, I have a star beside it This is a tremendous verse in Scripture. And I'd like for us to read it together in unison. 1 John 5, verse number 13. If you have it there, read along with me. Here we go, all together. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may That you have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know That's the eternal life. I circled that word no and highlighted the word no. What I want to speak this morning on is blessed assurance. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven. Lord, I thank you again for a nice service we've had. Lord, my heart's been blessed. The singing has been especially a blessing. Lord, the warm building, the fellowship is uh we just rejoice in you, we just love Sundays, we love Sunday mornings, Sunday nights, and uh your presence being evident And now, Lord, as we have our Bibles open before us, I ask, Lord, that you would speak to every single one of our hearts. Challenge us, encourage, instruct us, Lord, help us to learn and grow And Lord, my prayer is that every one of us, not one exception, when we walk out that door here in a little bit, that we would have that blessed assurance of our salvation. And we not wonder or hope. So God, I can't do that. I have nothing in my uh own ability to give that assurance to anybody, but your word can, and your spirit can and will So, Father, I present my body anew to you this hour. I yield my will to you. And I pray that you would fill me. And again, Lord, speak through me And help us in understanding this. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We sang one of the great, in my mind, one of the great hymns of the faith here a few moments ago. It was written by Fanny Crosby And the song is Blessed Assurance. Jesus is mine. And I believe that song, Blessed Assurance, expresses what this verse here, along with many other verses through Scripture, is teaching. And that is this, that we can have a blessed assurance of our salvation We can have that. I found in studying Scripture and my years of walking with the Lord, I found that God deals in certainties. God's promises are certain. God doesn't deal with hope so or think so or maybe so. God says it is so. It is certain. It is definite. For instance, God has promised us that Jesus is coming again. How many people believe that's true? Nobody's going to preach a message that believes the Bible is going to preach a message Jesus might be coming again. We don't have that in it. Nobody says, well, I hope that Jesus will come again. Well, I think that maybe he will come again. What do we say? As Bible believers, we say what? Jesus is coming again. It's certain. We are assured of the fact. We have assurance that our Savior is coming back to earth again someday. How do we know that? Because we feel like he might come back No. Are we certain that the Lord Jesus Christ is coming back because grandma told us when we were a little kid Jesus is coming back? No, we're sure of that because God tells us in his word. And the certainty, the assurance of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is not based on our feelings or our thoughts or our reasoning. It's based upon the promises of the Word of God. Now that's an important thing to understand. For instance, the Bible says, and my point is this right here, is that God deals in certainties. God doesn't deal with hope-so's or think-so's or maybe-so's or I wonder-so's or we'll find out. God deals in certainties. The Bible tells me that God cares for me How many people are glad that God cares for you? God cares about us, casting all our care on him, for he careth for you. Now, the Bible doesn't even remotely suggest that God might care for us. Somebody says, does God care about you? Oh, I hope so. If I'm a Bible believer, I would never say that, right or wrong I won't say, well, I hope he cares for me. Well, I think he maybe he does. No. I can say with absolute certainty, absolute confidence, my Lord cares about me. I don't know about you, but I find great comfort in that. Anybody here ever go through a dark valley? Anybody here? Anybody here ever get discouraged a little bit? Anybody here get uh get down, get under a cloud. And I'm telling you, it is a tremendous blessing. It is a blessed assurance. If we have to look in my Bible and look up to heaven and say, the God that created me, the God that died on the cross for me and buried and rose again, that God cares for me. I don't have to hope so or think so or maybe so. He does And I'm glad for that. My point is God deals in certainties. God deals with assurance. God does, Jesus is coming again. God does care for us. And let me give you this one. Those who call on the Lord, Jesus does save. Romans 10, 13, a lot of you could probably quote that with me. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, what's the last statement? Shall be saved. I am thrilled that that verse does not say, Whosoever shall call upon the Lord might be saved. Doesn't say whosoever should call upon the name of the Lord. Uh hopefully will be saved. Or I think that they'll be saved No, no, no. It's assurance. It's certain. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. John 3. 16, would you say it with me? For God shall love the world. that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Did you pick up the certainty there? To pick up the assurance in that, whosoever believeth in him not might have ever dancing life, not could, or hopefully will, or maybe But shall have everlasting life, shall not perish. God deals in certainty. So I'm said all that to say this Biblical, genuine biblical salvation is a no-so salvation I can know it. Not I think so, not I hope so, not maybe I'm saved. But you and I, it is possible for a person to say, I know. That my sins are forgiven. I'm saved from hell. I have a home in heaven. We don't have to hope that. There's a lot of teaching out there. A lot of goes around saying, well, you can't know that. You can't know for sure. I get old time out knocking on doors Um I don't do it a whole lot when it's f 17 below zero, but um and when the weather's uh tolerable, get out and knock on doors, and I have people all the time, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Well, I hope so. Well, I think maybe, I think maybe. That is not biblical salvation. Biblical salvation is, yes, I know. Because of what God told me. Um yes, somebody, are you married? Well, maybe. What Uh you guys married? Well, I hope so. Uh I think we are. No, either you is or you ain't. Right? Uh so uh uh hey, uh is she expecting uh are you expecting you're gonna have a baby? Well, uh uh maybe What? I think so. No, either you are or you're not. There's no in-between there. There's no nothing cloud about that. Hey, uh are you alive? Well, maybe Sort of. I'm looking at the crowd and that sorta part is I think I am No, either you what is or you ain't. And that is true in salvation. Let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? Do you know for sure you're saved? Well, I think so. Well, I hope so. Well, maybe, sort of. I had a guy tell me one time out towards uh Swallow Falls. He says, well, uh, kind of. You're kind of saved. How does that work? No, either you is or you ain't. And every single person here, every single person on the sound of my voice, is either forgiven and saved and has eternal life, or they don't. It's one or the other. And my Bible says that I can know that. I've often said this, and this just disturbs me that people would think this way, but what kind of God Would say, all right, you can't know whether you're going to heaven or hell until it's too late to do anything about it. Say, well, we just have to wait until we get to die, and then we'll find out if we're going to heaven or hell. It's too late. There's nothing you can do about it. After death cometh a judgment. I can't I can't do anything. And so I I It does not fit in the character of God. It does not fit in the teaching of Scripture that I have to go through my life not sure, wondering, hoping, ho maybe, uh it might be, and then get to heaven and find out, nope. Man, that's terrible. Our God is a reasonable God, our God is a just God, and He says that we can know for sure our sins are forgiven, we're on our way to heaven, we can have assurance of that And not hope so and think so. Now let's take let's look at this verse. And I got two points from this verse here this morning. Verse 13. Notice what he says These things have I written unto you, unto who? That believe on the name of the Son of God The first thing I want us to notice is the recipients of this passage. Who is this being written to? Who is being addressed that he says you may know that you have eternal life? Who is it he's saying that to? Well, he says to those who are these aren't known to you that believe on the name of the Son of God. Now the question comes up, what does it mean to believe? What is the Bible talking about when it says, believe on the name of the Son of God? Well, the simplistic definition of that would be simply to acknowledge that something is true. A lot of people acknowledge that Jesus is the Son of God. They believe that. I say this often too, but I guarantee you there was folks sitting down at Long Branch Saloon last night or wherever. And if you ask them, is Jesus the Son of God, they would say this, yes, I believe that. I acknowledge it is true. That is not what he is talking about here, simply acknowledging that something is true. My Bible says that the devil himself believes that Jesus is the Son of God, and he's certainly not saved. Uh and so he said, Well I believe that. I believe that's true. That's not what he's talking about. Now I need to have the awareness and I need to acknowledge that Jesus is who he claims to be and that he did what he he uh the Bible says that I need to be aware of that. Acknowledge that is true, but this takes it another step. The word believe here means simply this, and it's what many of us are very familiar with. It simply means this: to trust in It's a world of difference believing something, mentally acknowledging something is so, and trusting in it, right? There's a whole nother stage. It means this. It means to have confidence in. It means to commit my trust to or fully rely upon. Now I overuse a lot of these illustrations, but they fit perfectly. And the the best way I know to illustrate, or one of the best ways I know to illustrate that word believe there, as it's used, is uh flying in an airplane. In a couple weeks I'm going to go down to uh with Brother Hal down in we're going to Australia, then over New Zealand, preaching uh the whole time. And so we're going to go up to um probably going to go up to Morgantown, get a little flight up to Pittsburgh. So I go up to Morgantown and I'm standing there and I get my tickets. I'm waiting, the plane comes up, and uh somebody says to you, Do you really believe that that plane can fly you to Pittsburgh? And uh I say, sure, yeah, I believe that. I acknowledge that's true. I'm I believe mentally believe that that is true. Um However, the word as it's used here means to go another step. I can stand there at that gate till the cows come home. Is that right? I don't know what that means, but um I can stand there till the cows come home or the goats go to somewhere. And believe that that plane can fly me to Pittsburgh. But I ain't getting to Pittsburgh until I do what? Until I trust it. I put my confidence in it, my faith in it, I depend in it. And so I say, yeah, I believe that plane can get me there. I believe the pilot's competent and experience is there and everything. I believe that's true. Okay? Now I'm going to get on that plane and I'm going to sit down and I am putting my confidence in, I'm relying on, I'm trusting in that plane to get me from point A to point B. And that is what the word here means to you. He is writing to people who believe That Jesus Christ is the Son of God. They put their reliance, they put their trust, their dependence on Jesus Christ for the salvation of the soul and the reception of eternal life. And that's who this is written to. That's who this is written to. Here's the interesting thing, and this is important to understand. Not all of the Bible was written to everybody. There's portions of the Bible, particularly the New Testament epistles, that are written to believers, written to save people. This verse does not say to an unsaved person, you know that you have eternal life. Only a believer can know that they have eternal life. You follow what I'm trying to say? The epistles were written to Christians, and neither every one of neither nearly every one of Paul's epistles, written under the Spirit of God, is written to Christians, believers, saved people, people who already trusted Christ. The unsaved, they have no claim on those promises. A person has never trusted Jesus Christ as the Savior, a person who's never believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, has never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ to save their soul, I cannot claim that. That person cannot claim that promise. It's not to them. In fact, I want to suggest to you much of the Bible is not written to the unsaved, but written to believers. If you're here this morning and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, have you never believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as defined here? You cannot claim this promise that you have, that you know you have eternal life. Only a believer can claim that promise. You with me? There's this teaching around, well, everybody will go to heaven. Oh yeah, I know. I had a guy one time said, uh, he says, Oh yeah, I know I'm going to heaven. How do you know? Well, God's going to take everybody to heaven That's not scriptural. Only those that believe on the name of the Son of God may know that they have eternal life. And so sometimes I think that's sometimes the reason why some uh unsaved people a lot of times have no interest in the Bible. It's not written to them. Or maybe they'll uh the portions of the Bible, I should say. It's not written to them. They don't understand the Bible. It's not a lot portions of the Bible. It's not for them It's kind of like reading another man's letter. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. This passage in this book of John is written for you. People that are saved. An unsaved person looks in, it's not to them. And so a lot of times it won't make sense. They don't know what we're talking about. It doesn't make any sense to them. It's not written to them. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here, but come with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Well, that Bible doesn't make a bit of sense to me. Well, you're probably reading portions that aren't to you. If you're unsaved, God's not addressing you. He's writing this to believers. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse number 14. You got it there? Notice what it says. But the natural man, question, when the Bible refers to the natural man, what is he talking about? An unsaved person. All they are is they're not spiritually alive. They're spiritually dead. They're just what is naturally born. They're physically alive. They do not have eternal life Look at this, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are what? Foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. An unsaved person, now they might be able to understand what God is talking about and some of that, but it's not going to have the impact on them because they're not saved. Now, question: Can God use any part of his Bible to speak to someone's heart? Sure. For I got saved on uh in January of nineteen seventy nine on New Year's Eve, going into seventy-nine, I I made a New Year's Eve resolution. I was gonna turn my life around, I was gonna turn over a new leaf, I needed to something needed to change, the direction I was going, it could not be. And of course that that didn't live up to that hardly at all. But I began reading my Bible. And I used a method that I do not recommend. And that is this. I would just late at night, it's usually very, very early in the morning, 2. 30, 3 o'clock in the morning, I get home under such conviction, God, I need you to help me. And I just let that Bible fall open. I just open the Bible And I begin reading. Now a lot of what I read was directed to believers, but God was able to use it to bring conviction to my life. So God can and will many times use portions of Scripture that aren't directed, maybe directed to that person, but He can apply it to their life. But generally speaking, an unsafe person is not going to uh uh understand much of the Bible. I was thinking, so I was preparing this, I was thinking of Bushrod Hardesty. What a testimony he had, how God transformed transformed his life. When we had the funeral for his brother Gary, who got saved also shortly after Bush Rod, uh we were sitting back in the fellowship hall there and I mentioned this before. We got talking and uh I s some somehow Ron Coddington came up. Oh brother. No. Ron Coddington came up. We got talking and Bushrod and Ron had worked together for a number of years. I guess knew each other pretty well back in the day. He says, Ron, uh Bushrod said to me, old Ron, boy, he was quite a cuss back in the day. Coming in rough and all of that. And he says, but uh something happened to him. Old Ron got saved. How many people are glad Ron got saved? I'd rather have a saved guy than an old cuss in my church. And Bush R was talking about the change that took place, and he said Ron would come in every day at lunch, he'd be reading his Bible and the lunch hour. And Bushrod said this to me, he says, I said to Ron one time, he says, you're reading that Bible, he said, um, I can't, this was his words exactly, he said, I can't make head nor tails out of that book. And Ron said to him, he said, if you get saved, it'll make sense. And then Bush Rod said to me, you know what? He was right. And Bush Rock got saved years later, and that made sense. And everywhere he went, before he died, everywhere he went, in the hospital, wherever the hospital is, he always had a Bible right there beside him. And he'd have markers in there. I'd preach when he was able to come out, he'd sit up here, boy, he'd be looking ahead of time. He wanted to find those verses. Now it made sense. You know why it didn't make sense before? It wasn't written to him before. To you that believe, to you that believe. And so the recipients of this letter are believers, are believers. Now, after we get saved, then all of a sudden, hey, this is to me. This passage is to me. These things, God says, have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God? Well, I believe I've trusted him as my Savior, that I may know that I have eternal life. Oh, that's God's promise to me How many people agree with me that if God wrote you personally, individually, God wrote you a letter, how many people, God, how many people would say, boy, that'd be pretty important. How many folks, regardless of what you think of them, I'm just the office, how many folks would say, uh boy, you got a letter, a personal letter directed to me from the President of the United States? How many people would think that's really something? Yeah. Listen, this ain't a letter from the President of the United States. This is a letter from the God of the universe. And he says, I'm writing to you. I'm writing to you. And um uh how many people agree we ought to read it? You got a letter from the president? What's it say? I don't know, I really don't have time to look at it. I don't have time to read it. What? You got a letter from God? Yeah! But uh I what's it say? I don't know. I just don't have time to read it much. Tell you what, if you're saved and you're not reading your Bible, you're a knucklehead I'm sorry. That's Greek. But every saved person ought to be reading God's letter. On a regular dote uh basis, ought to be diligently reading God's letter. These things have I written unto you That believe on the name of the Son of God. Now, by the way, some portions of Scripture are written directly to unsaved people. Did you know that? Turn with me to the Gospel of John in chapter number 20. Here he tells us that this portion of Scripture was written specifically for unsaved people so they would get saved. So that they would put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. John chapter 20, the Gospel of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, chapter 20, and verse number 31. John 20 and verse 31. He says, but these are written, the Gospel of John, but these are written that ye might what? believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name. Now he's telling us here the Gospel of John is written for folks that do not believe with the intention that they would believe They'd read this account of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. They'd read this inspired account about the Lord Jesus and the and what he did for us on the cross, buried rose again, and that by reading that They would say, hey, Jesus is the Son of God. He is the Savior of the world. I'm going to put my faith and trust and confidence in Him so that believing I can have life through His name. And so it unsay you say if you work with an unsafe person or you have an unsafe family member, friend, or neighbor, associate of some sort And they say, oh, what portion of the Bible should I read? If they're unsafe, I direct them to the Gospel of John Read that Gospel of John. Now, I would prefer to take my Bible and go step by step, show them how to be saved in other passages and get them to trust Christ. But if all they're going to do is read the Bible, they ought to read the Gospel of John Because that's the whole purpose of that book, is that you might believe, and that believing you have life through his name. And so, since uh 1 John here is written to believers and uh the epistles and huge portions of scripture We ought to be very familiar with it. We ought to be very diligent with it. We're not far into the new year. I want to challenge every single person that's been saved. I want to challenge you This coming year, set a goal to read your Bible every single day. Just set that down. Discipline yourself, put it on your schedule, and spend some time every day reading the Bible. God has written the directly to you Do not neglect to read your Bible. Amen? Every Christian ought to read your Bible. You say, preacher, you hound that all the time. And I'm going to keep hounding that until every Christian reads their Bible. It's so important, so vital. This is a letter to us from God. I like what Job said in chapter 23 and verse 12. He said, listen to this statement that Job made. This is incredible. He said, I have esteemed, speaking to God, I have esteemed the words of thy mouth. More than my necessary food. Now think about that. The word esteem means to respect, cherish, honor, uphold. I have esteemed, I have greater respect, I hold higher the words of thy mouth, the words of God, as we have in the Bible, more than, and notice what he doesn't say, he doesn't say more than my food. He says, more than my what? Necessary food. What does he mean by necessary food? Why didn't you just say, well, I like the Bible more than I like food? He says, my necessary food. In other words, necessary food is the least amount that I need to stay alive. That which is absolutely necessary to keep me alive. Do you catch what Job said? He valued the Word of God even more than he valued the least amount of food that he would need to stay alive. I'll often thought of it this way. If Job was going to be a stranded on an island And he had the option of either food to keep him alive or the word of God. His choice would be the word of God. Wow. Now that would never play out practically, but that tells us that Job understood the value of God speaking to you and I. Of God addressing us. And so I see here the recipients of this are to those that are believers, those who are saved. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, this promise is not for you. You need to first believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, then you can claim this. So the recipients of this passage now want us to look at the reason for this passage. Come back to 1 John 5, verse 13. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God. Okay, now we know who's writing to. Why are you writing this, John, under the inspiration of God? That ye may know that you have eternal life. And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. That ye may know. What does it mean to know something? Somebody help me out. That you may know. What does that mean? And you know it. Right? Be aware of, you understand it. The word know there has this idea. I like this definition, to have a clear understanding of. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may clearly understand that ye have eternal life. It has this idea to have a clear certainty of. I know that's true. It's not I think it is, I hope it is. I know it is. I know it is. And then he says that ye may know that ye have eternal life. If I have something, am I going to get it? No, I already have it. The word have means this, a present possession. And one of the definitions of the word have there is to grasp in my hand. I know, I have it, it's present possession, I have eternal life. It's mine. I grasp it. It's in my possession. These things are written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know, have full certainty of, that you have, you presently possess, eternal life. Now let me ask you this. If something is eternal, how long does it last? Huh? Forever. If something is eternal, and it's interesting, he says here, that you may know that you have eternal life. He doesn't say probationary life. If someone's on probation, what does that mean? They got out of jail and they're on probation. It means what? If they mess up, they're going back to jail, right? Probation. It's a trial time. Alright, if you if you l if if you're out of jail, if you don't live uh live it, you're gonna lose your freedom, you're going back to jail. You can't find that anywhere in Scripture. My Bible says over and over and over again, eternal life, eternal life, everlasting life, everlasting life, eternal life. That is life that lasts forever. So he says, I can know, I can have full certain assurance that I now possess, I have, I now possess life that is eternal. Now, if it would end at some point, I didn't have eternal life. If I would spiritually die, this life would end at some point, it would not be eternal. God says we can know that we have eternal life. John is writing to those who believe that they would clearly understand that they right now possess eternal life. I'm talking to one of four groups of people. Every one of us here falls into one of four categories. Either you're here this morning, you're unsaved, you're not saved, and you know you're not saved. By the way, that's not a bad position to be in. When an unsaved person realizes they're unsaved, maybe they'd be prompted to do something about it. So I'm talking to folks fall into one of four categories. Either you hear you're not saved, you're lost, you've never trusted Christ, and you know you're not saved, you know you're lost. However, there's another category. I may be talking to some folks who are unsaved. They don't know it. And they think they're saved. And uh I want to suggest to you that's the most dangerous position a person can possibly be in. Are you saved? Do you have eternal life? Yes. How do you know? Well, I'm a church member. I think they're they think they're saved, but they're really not. Uh you uh you know for sure you uh I told you about the guy out here off uh Kings run out that section and knock uh on his door. He came to the door, said, uh, introduced, talk, said, uh, let me ask you a question. You know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Absolutely, I know I go to heaven. How do you know? I keep the commandments Now my Bible says, one, that keeping the commandments isn't going to save you, and two, it also says that nobody keeps the commandments. And by the way, he could not name all ten of them, so I don't know how he knew that he was keeping the commandments. But here's the tragedy of that conversation. Here's the tragedy of that man's situation. He was certain he was going somewhere that he's not going. And that's it. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7, verse 21, he says, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord. I've done this and I've done that and I've lived this way and I lived that way and I served you and I gave you and I worked and I did all this They were absolutely certain they were going to heaven. They were trusting in what they were doing, their works, and how they live. And what did the Lord say? Depart from me, I never knew you. It wasn't that they had eternal life, they were saved and lost it. They never were saved in the first place. God forbid that there's anybody here under the sound of my voice that you think you're saved and you're really not. That would be a tragedy. That's a dangerous place to be. My Bible says we should examine ourselves and be sure that we're in the faith. We should never be afraid of questioning my faith. It ought to stand the test. Yes, I know I've trusted Christ. Yes, I know I've been born again. Yes, I know Jesus Christ has saved me. And so some folks are lost, they're unsaved, and they know it. Other folks are unsaved and they don't know it. I think there's a third category And that is this, I think there are some folks that got saved, but they don't know it. Now let me explain what I mean by that, and this is a little tenuous maybe, but It's this idea, they don't fully grasp what being saved fully means. I've met folks over the years that I believe genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And genuinely had put their faith and trust in the Son of God. But you would ask them something, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Well, I hope so. Well, I think so. I might be. How many folks remember Marvin Thomas? Remember Marvin here a member years ago? He was telling me one time there was a guy at work that he really believed was saved, genuinely saved, but he always thought he could lose his salvation. He never had assurance And Marvin would take the sword of the Lord papers to him, and one time he took one, there was an article in there from somebody about eternal security, assurance of salvation. And he said, a couple days later, that guy came to work and he said, Marvin, I got it now. I understand. I can know, I can know that my sins are forgiven. So I believe it's possible for a person to be genuinely saved, but because of wrong teaching or misunderstanding or wrong reasoning in their mind. They think, oh, they're not fully assured of that salvation. You follow what I'm trying to say? And then there are those folks, and this is what John is getting to here, those that are saved and absolutely know it Absolutely know it. You say that's kind of that's kind of a presumptuous preacher to say, oh yeah, I know I'm going to heaven, I know I'm saved. It's not presumptuous at all. It's simply a matter of taking God at His Word I don't deserve to go to heaven any more than anybody else. I'm just as bad a sinner as anyone else, maybe worse than some of you. Some of you are a little worse than me, I think, but But it's not us that saves us. Our assurance is the fact that Jesus is the Savior. Let me ask you a question. What does a farmer do? What does a farmer do? He farms, right? He's a farmer. He does farming. What does a baker do? He bakes. What does a roofer do? He roofs. What does a carpenter do? He carpens. What does a savior do? He saves. You see, it's Jesus that saves us, not us. We simply receive it. We simply, Lord, I'll let you say it. It's me getting on that plane. I could get on that plane, sit there on that little plane flying up to Pittsburgh And I get in there and I sit down and I start flattening my go like this. And the steward says, What in the world are you doing, Mr. Leatherman? I'm just trying to do my part, make sure we make it Geez, you're a knucklehead, aren't you? Just sit down and relax. Or suppose I get on there and I'm holding on. Jesus, what's the matter? I'll just hold on, make sure we make it She'd say, Mr. Leatherman, you can just relax. It's not up to you whether you get there or not. We are the plane and the pilot are the ones taking you there. And that's exactly what salvation is. It's not me being good enough. It's not me working hard enough, flat my wings and hanging on. It's me simply resting in Christ. It's simply me sitting down and putting my faith and trust and confidence in the Savior, the one that does the saving. And he gets me there. And he gets me there, that ye may know that you have eternal life, that ye may know. And so all these categories. I got saved on May 7, 1979 I had little or no awareness of a Bible. A little bit I got as a kid in Sunday school. And thank God for Sunday school teachers. Mrs. Thelma Felton in third grade, and she would drill in our heads, we need to be saved. And I got so far away from all of that. And when I finally accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, that night I knelt by my bed. I called out with all my heart that Jesus would come in my life and save me. And for whatever reason, God just dramatically and instantly changed my life. I mean, just like that, everything was different The lifestyle altered immediately in reading my Bible, going to church, all that was just instant. And I don't know why it worked out there, but for me that's the way it was. But for about two months, I knew I called on the Lord. I knew my life was changed. But for about two months, if someone would say to me, Dennis, do you know you're going to heaven? I couldn't have honestly said in my understanding, oh yeah, I know I'm going to heaven, I'm sure. I couldn't have said that because I didn't grasp that I would say, yeah, well I think so. I hope so. I know I called on the Lord. I know I did that. And I was reading a sermon by John R. Rice from this passage. And he went through and he was teaching that we can know our we can know that we're saved, that we know we're on our way to we won't hope so or think or wonder, we know And he referenced Romans 10, 13. Now that verse is very familiar to me and us now, but then it was brand new. And it says this, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And it hit me like a train. I know that I called on the name of the Lord. There's no doubt about it, with all my heart I call on the Lord. And that verse is telling me, God is telling me that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And this was my thinking, and this is what settled it. For all these years, I've never doubted it. If I don't end up in heaven, if I end up in hell, then God lied to me. Because he promised that whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I know I call in the name of the Lord. If I end up in hell, God lied to me. And you know what else I realized? God never lies. God cannot lie And for me, that settled it. I called the name of the Lord, I know I did. I shall be saved. Not might be, not could be, not hopefully will be, but definitely will be saved. Assurance is not essential for salvation. I think a person can be saved and not necessarily have assurance, but it is essential for a full Christian life. I believe, personally, I believe it's very difficult for a person to grow spiritually until they have assurance of their salvation. I believe it's very difficult to serve God effectively if I don't have assurance of my salvation. And so it's vitally important that you and I, as if as a believer, that we get this matter settled and we don't go through our life laying our head on our pillow at night hoping And if the old ticker quits during the night, hope that I'll go to heaven, hope that I'm accepted by God. No, no, no. I've got to get to the point where that's settled. And I know. And I know. Assurance of salvation is not based upon feelings. When I was on staff with Neighborhood Bible Time, the Evangelists would come. They're scared to death. They're going to travel. You know, they're coming in for training. They're going to travel for the summer all around the country preaching and they're coming in. They're trying to they want to be right with God. And a lot of times they get under conviction. And so many times I had a young man would s come to me and say, Pa uh Brother Leatherman, I need to talk to you. What is it? I'm not sure I'm saved. I said, What do you mean? Well, I know I trusted the Lord back on such a revival or whatever. I accepted Christ, but I don't know. And I ask them this, well what makes you think you're not saved? What are you basing your doubts on? They'd say something like this, well, I just feel like I'm not saved. Listen, feelings can be awfully deceiving. A saved person can feel like they're lost, and a lost person can feel like they're saved. But that's not the determining factor. The determining factor is I trust have I trusted Christ as Savior. Some days I don't feel much like a pastor. But that it's not my position is not based on my feelings. Some days uh how how many folks here some days you don't uh uh better not go down that road. Never mind. But it's not based on feeling. It's not based on our works. Works are the result of salvation, not the foundation, the assurance of salvation. The assurance is based on God's promise. A fellow came to D. L. Moody. How many people recognize that name? D. L. Moody. Great evangelists back in the late 1800s, early 1900s. A fellow came to Evangelist Diel Moody, tell Moody that he was worried because he didn't feel saved. Moody asked him, was Noah safe in the ark? And he says, absolutely, he was certainly safe. God sealed him in, God promised him he was okay. He says, well, what was it that made him safe? His feelings or the ark he was in? And the fellow said, well, it was being in the ark. That made him safe, that saved him from drowning in God's judgment. And then it dawned on the fella. He said, how foolish I've been It is not my feelings, but it is Christ who saves. I am in Christ, and I am safe, and I know it. Are you here this morning and you're unsaved and you know you're unsaved? You have the opportunity to settle that. The worst thing in the world that can happen to a person is to die in their sins. And be separated from God, unforgiven, for all eternity in hell in the lake of fire. That is the absolute worst thing in the world. By the way, I would be a remiss as a pastor if I didn't continually warn people of the coming judgment of God. and what it means to die in our sins. If you're here and you're saved, you know you're not saved, I plead with you, settle that today. If you're here this morning, maybe you're unsaved and you're unsaved and you think you're saved, but you're really lost. I want to suggest and challenge you to stop and examine yourself. Well, I got Christian parents, so I'm saved. Christian parents never saved a kid. And Christian parents didn't want to get you to heaven Well, my mom told me when I was a kid I said this prayer and so I'm trusting mom. Listen, trusting mom ain't gonna save you, it's trusting Jesus that saves you Examine yourself. If you're here this morning, you're saved and you have doubts, you say, I know it trusted Christ, but how can I be sure I'm going to heaven? Take God as His word and get that settled and just rest on Christ. promise. And if you're here this morning, you're saved and you know it. Let's get out and tell others about it. Let's share it. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would Stir our hearts in this matter of salvation. Lord, I pray that not one member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that's genuinely born again would have doubts or questions, but have that matter settled and know for sure Lord, if there's someone here that's unsaved, whether they're aware of it or not, I pray your Holy Spirit bring great conviction that they would come and settle that matter and make sure of their salvation. And Lord, perhaps there's some here that have genuinely trusted you, but there's no assurance there. That's not settled. I pray by grace that they would by faith take you at your word. And settle that and rest on your promise here. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. And I want to serve God effectively as a Christian that has assurance and be able to share that with others this coming year. Is there any like that, preacher? I know I'm saved. Now maybe some of us, God bless you, maybe some of us, there's areas in our life as a Christian, it's not all it ought to be. That's not the determining factor in our salvation, it's Christ. But we ought to live for Christ. He saves us and gives us assurance to serve him, to work for him and live for him, to result. So some of you this morning say, Preacher, I I know I trusted Christ, I know I trusted Christ, but I struggle with doubts. And these questions come up and that settled assurance in my heart is not there. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That I can get that settled. That I could just by faith take Christ at his word. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I know I'm saved. I know I call on the Lord, but these doubts just hound me, these questions. God bless you, a few hands around And it's simply a matter of just taking God at His word. We don't have to be afraid to say, yes, I know, because God promised me Let me ask this. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I know in my heart that I've never trusted Christ. And this morning, I need to get that settled. You'd say, pray for me, preacher. I can get my salvation settled. Any like that? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. I know I'm not. And I need to trust Christ as Savior. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know where we're at. You know our hearts. I saw hands raised for various things. And I pray your Holy Spirit would stir us and help us to grow in our faith and have this matter settled and then be able to effectively serve you.