Righteousness of my own. Uh back yonder, and and for many of you, you know exactly what I'm talking about, but back when I trusted Christ as Savior, back in nineteen seventy-nine, I knelt before God calling out to him for salvation. I was a sinner And I had no righteousness of my own. And nobody gets to heaven because they're good enough The only way we get to heaven is, first of all, we've got to recognize that we are sinners. We are spiritually bankrupt. We have broken God's law. And you know, if we're honest with ourselves, we know that's true. And uh did I all of a sudden get loud Or did my ears just unplug? Nobody gets to heaven close word enough. You know, I go out visiting and um I have people ask them this question, do you know for sure? That when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell. And uh people say something like this, well I hope so, well I think so. Do you know? And if I press them, you know what I find out? You know why they don't say, Oh yeah, I'm sure I'm going to heaven? Because they know down inside their heart they've not lived up to it. They don't earn it. They don't haven't deserved it. I'm not, you know, I've said some things I ought not to say. I've done some things I ought not to do. I've thought things I ought not to think. And down inside our heart we know we're poor in spirit. We know we're sinners. We know we've broken God's law. So people hesitate to say, oh yeah, I know I'm going to heaven. Because they know, you know, I'm really not I really haven't lived up to it. I'm not good enough And that's the way we get to heaven by acknowledging that our sin that we've sinned against God. We've broken his law. We are guilty sinners. The Bible puts it this way, there is none righteous, no, not one, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And so that's what he's saying there. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. When I realize I'm a sinner, I have nothing to offer God on my part Well then I'm I'm I'm on my way to heaven. Then I'm taking that step that's necessary. Then uh verse 40 says, Blessed are they that mourn. Uh they shall be comforted. And here the idea is mourning over my sin and grieving over the fact that I've broken God's law. I'm a sinner. It bothers me sometimes when I talk to people and they say, yeah, I know I'm a sinner, and I'll say something like this, does that concern you? You care whether you've broken God's law, you've taken God's name in vain? Does it does it bother you at all? You've committed adultery or whatever it might be? Does that bother you? And sometimes people say, well, yeah, I don't know. You know, I don't think it's that big of a deal. And they're not mourning over their sin. And the Lord's saying, blessed are they that mourn. And I've seen people, I've had people in my office just sobbing. Over the sin they've committed and the things that have taken place. And that's what God looks for, a broken and contrite heart, somebody that is I've sinned against God, I'm guilty. I have nothing offered to God. That person is uh uh what God's looking for. Then verse five, Blessed are the meat, for they shall inherit the earth And blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. A lot of people hungering and thirsting after fun and pleasure and happiness. God said that's not where it's at. Righteousness, you get saved. You accept Jesus as your personal Savior. And then he meets your needs and then he takes care. Here's the thing I'm trying to get at. There's only one way that we can know for sure that when we die, we go to heaven and not to hell. And that is through admitting to God that I'm a sinner. For all of sin, I've broken God's law, understanding that God's judgment on me is a sinner. is to spend eternity in hell separated from God. And then Jesus Christ suffered hell for me. He won that cross. He took all the judgment for my sins. He took upon himself. And suffered hell as my substitute was buried and he rose again. Now, just because Jesus died on a cross, was buried and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. God leaves that choice up to us if we will believe that he did that for me. And the Bible says in Romans 10. 13, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And that means Lord, I'm looking to you. I'm depending on you. I'm putting my trust in you for you to forgive me and for you to take me to heaven. I can't get myself there. I've sinned. I've sinned. I've broken your law. I'm already guilty And when we do that, we call on the Lord. The Bible says, you shall be saved. And um so that's uh the gist here. And the the beatitudes are not a plan of salvation, but they're touching on the person that is saved. A person that has this attitude and they understand that and they trust in Jesus Christ Savior. If you happen to be here tonight and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you say, well, you know, I hope I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell And uh you know, nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. The Bible says you and I can know for sure we're going to heaven if we'll accept Jesus Christ our personal Savior. Has nothing to do with joining the church, has nothing to do with getting baptized. Those are things for saved people, but to get saved, I need to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. So I hope you consider that. And uh if you don't have that settled, that is so, so important. Now, here we have the Beatitudes as we started, and uh the it's the introduction, as I said, to the Sermon on the Mount. You read through the Sermon on the Mount, and you find this sermon uh absolutely flies in the face of the Pharisees. The Sermon on the Mount is the exact opposite of what the Pharisees were saying. The Pharisees says, well if you look good on the outside and you put on a show, that's fine. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what you really are in your heart. And uh the Lord's just dealing with that and saying, no, what you are is more important than what you do. And you've got to be that person. And he deals with that all through there Another thing I think the Lord is doing in the Sermon on the Mount here, he's clarifying the fact that his kingdom that he's coming to establish is a spiritual kingdom, not a physical kingdom, not at this point. Someday he's going to come back and he'll set up the kingdom and fulfill the uh promises, the Davidic uh um uh promises and all of that. He'll he'll do that. But at this point he was coming. to set up he was dealing with the spiritual needs of the Israelites. And they thought, oh you're gonna come, you're gonna set up uh uh this uh you're gonna set up the kingdom, you're gonna run the Romans off, and you're gonna be our king and we're gonna be Peace and all these things And uh he's clarifying all of that and saying, no, no, no, it's not how it is. I didn't come to be king, I've come to be savior first time. Um he's pointing out here that God's values are different than the world's values Saturday we're going to go out and do our um our uh uh Great Commission Day. We've got this survey. Did I ever tell you about that survey? That thing is fantastic, isn't it, Ed? That thing's great. And uh we go down through there and one of the things we ask people is this. People love to give their opinion. Anybody ever noticed that? I don't want your opinion on it. I was just wondering. But uh people love to give their opinion. So we're not gonna and one of the questions is do you think, here's their opinion, do you think God's standards of right and wrong are different than the world's standards of right and wrong. And you know what the answer is? 100% across the board. Doesn't matter the guy sitting there, he's got beer cans all over and just sees a mess. And you know what his answer always is? Oh yeah, God's standards are higher than ours. And we know that. We know that And uh that's what the Lord's pointing at, and he's saying, listen, God's people live by different standards than the world lives by We live by different values than the world lives by. And so he's dealing with all that. As I said before, what I am precedes what I do Or what I know. I can know everything, I can know all these facts about the Bible, but if I'm not right with God, it doesn't do me much good. And he's saying these are, I like this, these are be attitudes, not do attitudes And he's talking about what we are and what we ought to be. I believe our world is in desperate need of some genuine spirit-filled Christians. And verse number nine, look at verse number nine. Blessed are the peacemakers. I'm going to suggest to you, our world desperately needs peacemakers. Desperately. I believe our churches could use some peacemakers. He would come in and make peace between both. Let me say this. I think our homes could use some peacemakers. Homes can get pretty rough. You know what I'm talking about? I mean, they can get pretty rough. And God says, Blessed are the peacemakers. Peacemakers. What do peacemakers do? They make peace. Where there's conflict, where there's division. Let me ask you a question. Alright, peacemakers make peace. There's war. quote unquote, so to speak, going on. There's a contention going on. The peacemaker is there. He makes peace. Now let me ask you this question. Why is there wars? Why are there wars between nations? Alright? That was nice. I was hoping to get some wrong answers first. But the basic reason there is war, the reason there's conflict in any uh between people is because of sin. And if I understand if I want to make peace, alright, I want to I want to be a peacemaker. The Bible says, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they'll be called the children of God. I want to be God, I want to be a good Christian, I want to be a strong Christian I want to be a peacemaker. Alright, if I want to be a peacemaker, um then I've got to find out what the cause of war is and remove that cause and if I can remove the cause of war then I'll be able to have peace. Does that make sense? What the world's trying to do, what the nations are trying to do, our president's over in Japan talking about something uh and the the nations all get together and they try, boy, they're gonna negotiate peace and they're gonna have peace and they're gonna have peace. The problem is they never address the cause of war And it's like having cancer. I have lung cancer, I need to get that tumor out, and I need the treatment, but rather than doing that, they put stuff so I can breathe a little easier. Well we'll put different air here and we'll have more higher air pressure. They're dealing with the symptoms and not getting to the problem. And that's why there's never peace in the world, they don't deal with the problem, which is sin And Proverbs 13:10, listen to this. It says, only by pride cometh contention. Only by pride cometh contention. You know why there's fussing? Because of pride. Pride is sin. It's the root of all sins. You know why husbands and wives fuss? Because of this verse says, only by pride cometh contention There's contention between a husband and wife. You know why that is? Pride. You know why little kids fight with each other? That's mine. No, it's mine. No, it isn't. You know what that is? It's pride, self, sin, uh, nations, all of it. Now we we're not gonna have time to go to all these, but if you would, I got a lot of verses to go to. Turn with me to the book of James. Keep your place here in Matthew, because we're gonna end up back here. But I want to try and lay the foundation. I think this is an important principle that God gives us here in this seventh Beatitude. James chapter 4. He addresses this, I mean, just directly. James chapter four, and we're going to preach on this here in our series going through James, probably being about four years till we get there. But um James chapter 4, verse number 1. Are you there? Look what it says. This is addressing our subject directly. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Good question. Why is all this fussing going on? Where does this come from? Come they not hence, even of your own what? Lust that wore in your members. The word lust had just simply means desires. It's basically talking about this. Selfishness You want this, you want it your way, it has to be my way, it has to please me, it has to do this, that, and the other for me. And uh ye lust and had not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. Ye fight and war And he leads into prayer, and yet you have not because you ask not, and he goes and talks about prayer. But he's laying as p principally here, he's saying, the cause of all the fussing and fighting and carrying on the wars and And uh the uh uh fightings among you, all of that is because of selfishness. It's because of sin. A lack of peace is the result of a sinful heart. A lack of peace is a result of a selfish heart. This is basically the way we are. Tell me if I see if you think I'm right or wrong. It's basically the way we are. I deserve to be treated better than this. Isn't that what it boils down to? Somebody doesn't do it the way we want it, somebody doesn't say it the way I say it, and uh, why are you looking that way? You d I deserve to be looked at better than that. Uh I deserve to be waited on quicker than this. I deserve to be treated with more respect than this. I deserve this. I deserve that I deserve to have better, a better house. I deserve to have a better this, that, and the other. I, I, I, I, I And James is telling us that that is the root of our problem. That is where this contention, this fighting, these wars come from, is we've got sinful hearts. We have a sinful nature. From the national level, between nations, where people are killed sometimes by the thousands. In fighting, down to communities and down to individuals. Wars, contention, fighting are all the result of a sinful, selfish heart So, blessed are the peacemakers. Alright, what causes if we're going to have peace, we've got to find out what causes war. And the cause of war is very obviously selfishness and pride So the formula for peace, if sin and pride and selfishness is what's causing the contention, then the formula for peace Would be what? Get rid of that sin. Remove that sin. Now what the world says is we need appeasement. Well, I'll tell you what, we'll just give in to them. And that was one of the big problems. Uh and I think if you study history a little bit, though one of the big problems with uh Nazi Germany building up is all of Europe was appeasing them, just appeasing them, giving it, well, if we just do this, then they won't do anything. Then we just do this and just appease them and just appease them That is not the source of peace. Peace at any price is that mentality is disaster. And it always leads to, it almost always leads to compromising what is right. And so the formula for peace is to remove the sin. Now, how do we do that? By a transformed heart. I need to have my heart changed. My heart is sinful, my heart is selfish, my heart is is proud. And if I'm going to be able to live in peace, if I'm going to be a peacemaker, we have to have that heart transformed. It needs to be, to use the Bible term, regenerated. My nature needs to be transformed. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. You know you trusted Christ there. How many folks, since you've trusted Christ, you've found a battle going on side your heart and soul. One side wants to do right and please God, and now I'm a Christian. Another side wants to go back and do stuff I know that God doesn't please. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the battle of the two natures. Doesn't take you long to be a Christian. Boy, I'm saved. Boy, I want to do right and I want to do this and I want to please God You got that old nature there still pulling back. And what we need is to have that new nature in control running where that sin is put aside. Now, let me uh real quickly, I want to give you at least my first point here under this. Come back to Matthew. And uh keep your place in James. We're gonna end up back there again, I think. Matthew 5, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. My first thought tonight is this: understanding the peacemaker. What is this person like? A person that's a peacemaker. If God says, blessed are the peacemakers, I want to be a peacemaker Don't you? If God says blessed are those that are peacemakers, then I want to be one, Lord. Well what is a peacemaker? We need to understand what it is. I put this down. I put two things down. Number one, a peacemaker has a biblical view of himself. Or I could say a correct view of self. Now, how do people generally look at themselves, the natural man, so to speak? How do they look at themselves, just your average person? The average person looks at themself as the center of the universe. Right or not? I mean basically everything ro revolves around me. There can be a tragedy. I think this illustrates several truths about human nature. But suppose there is a plane crash in in Mongolia and 125 people are killed. And it's on the news. And how do we respond to that? Oh that's too bad. Man, that's kind of sad. But if they say, uh, there's a plane crash uh in California and 125 people call, we'd look at, hmm, do I know anybody in California? I wonder if there's somebody there. Suddenly I'm a little more interested in it. Why? It's a little closer to me. Then they say there's a plane crash up in Pittsburgh and crashed and landed on a bunch of houses, hundreds some people killed. All of a sudden I'm paying attention to Pittsburgh, huh? Wow. Why? Because a little closer to me. Then they say there's a plane crash on Broadford's Road in Oakland. And uh all of a sudden I'm saying, whoa, that's close to my world. And you see what I'm saying? Suddenly it's very important to me and it's very concerning to me. You know why? Because our human nature reviv the whole world revolves around us. If it doesn't relate to me, if it doesn't bring pleasure to me, if it doesn't value me at all, well then it's not important Because the natural man views himself as the center of the universe. Everything and everyone is valued by how they please me, how they benefit me. James chapter 4 there again You f uh y you uh fight in war and consume it, uh because you're so self-centered. But a biblical view of myself, if I want to be a peacemaker I don't see myself that way as the being the center of the universe. A biblical view of myself is where Christ is the center of the universe. Everything that happens revolves around whether it's bringing glory to God or not. I am not a factor in it. It's called humility. It's called understanding that it's not, this world doesn't revolve around me. It's all to be done to the glory of God. It is my sinful flesh. that wants to strike out and go to war. It's my sinfulness, as we've been saying. But if I want to be a peacemaker, I've got to say, all right, I'm not the center of this. This doesn't this I'm not important Uh Christ is important. Take your Bible with me if you would. I don't know if I'm explaining this way I want to. John chapter 12. Turn over there with me. John 12. Again, this is the Lord Jesus speaking. And I want to begin reading in verse 24. Dr. Lee Robertson used to quote this verse often. John 12, verse 24. Did you find it? Look what it says. Verily, verily, this is Jesus speaking. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat, fall into the ground, and what? Die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. Now look at the next verse He that loveth his life shall what? Lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. What's the Lord saying? The Lord's saying if we're going to be the people God intends for us to be, we've got to die to self. He can't use us. He can't work with us whenever we're selfish, when it's all revolving around me. But when I die to self and I say like the Lord uh like Paul, it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ liveth in me, then I'm in a position where I can be a peacemaker. The problem When my world is revolving around me, and then I go and try and work with somebody else, and their world's revolving around them, what happens? Collision. But if I die to self, then God can work for me. I'd get myself out of the picture. Philippians chapter 2. Let's go ahead and turn there with me real quick. Here's a classic where the Lord Jesus Christ sets him up as the example for us. Philippians chapter 2. And I'll begin reading in verse 1. What is a peacemaker? A peacemaker is someone who has a biblical view of themselves. They see self out of the picture. Look at uh Philippians 2. Verse 1, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows and mercies. He's talking about if you're going to have peace in that situation, that study, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love of one accord, of one mind. Now look at this. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Here we go. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Now that word mind there simply means this attitude, this way of thinking. Have the same attitude about yourself that Jesus had about himself. Then he describes it. Who being in a form of God, thought it not robbery equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a what? Servant was made in likeness of man. Being found in fashion as a man, he look at this, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know what he's telling us here? If God is going to use me to help people find peace in their life, if I'm going to be a peacemaker, One thing I've got to do is I've got a biblical view of myself. I've got to die to self. I need to understand that if I'm running it, if I'm selfish will is all there. Then I'm not going to be able to help people. I have to push that aside, die to sell, and I need to humble myself before God. Get me out of the equation. Number two, I need to have a biblical view of my neighbors Again, Philippians 2, look at verse 3. It says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than selves. Look not every man on his own things. But every man also on the things of others. Here's the thing. Here's somebody, they're fussing, and they're giving me a hard time, and my flesh, I want to strike back, and I want to go to war with them But the Lord says, blessed are the peacemakers. You know, I don't want to go to war with them. God says he'll bless the blessed ones that make peace. I'm going to make peace with this guy. Now, how do I do that? Well, first of all, I died a self I get myself out of the picture. It's not self-will anymore. I don't necessarily appease him because I may have to compromise the biblical principle. So I'm not appeasing him. But I change my view of this person who I'm at war with, so to speak. I view them not as my enemy But as somebody who my enemy is destroyed, who is our enemy? Satan is the enemy It's not that guy giving me a hard time. It's not that guy at work cussing me out, making fun of me, and calling me names for being a Christian because I pray at lunch or whatever. It's not that guy that's trying to rip me off or whatever. He's not my enemy. He is a victim of my enemy. He is a sinner. He needs Christ. He needs what the Lord has done in my life. And so I've got to change my perspective. Rather than saying, here's a person that needs to be destroyed. Rather, I look at him as here's a person that's taken captive of the enemy, Satan. And he needs to be helped. He needs to be brought to Christ. Doesn't mean I don't defend myself I think the Bible teaches if I'm physically at harm, I I ought to be able to defend myself. God gives me that right to defend myself. Not to destroy the person, but to keep myself and my family safe. I believe nations have the obligation to defend their citizens. Have groups like ISIS out there and they're wanting to kill and destroy us. Our government has a responsibility to establish a standing army and defend the citizenship. So that's not what he's talking about peacemaking here. In fact, some kinds the stronger the army is, the more you'll have be at peace Oh, I'm saying just human speaking. So it doesn't mean that uh I do not defend myself, but it does mean I don't go to war. I don't go and attack that person. That's God's job. The Lord says, Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay And so if I'm going to be a peacemaker, one is I view myself biblically. My own heart is proud, my own heart is sinful, I need to die to self, put that aside Number two, this isn't my enemy. The devil is my enemy. This is a person that is taken captive of the devil. And I want to be at peace with this person. And I need to remember, I'll tell you, this has helped me a lot When there's somebody I have a hard time with. Anybody over here ever know anybody you have a hard time with? Don't look at them right now. But I've had people over the years I had a hard time. You know what's helped me a lot is to think about this Jesus Christ thought that person was worth dying for and suffering hell for. I can't even talk to them nicely. But Jesus Christ said, you know, I'm going to suffer hell for that person. And it helps me change my perspective a little bit and say, wait a minute. Am I better than Jesus Christ? Am I more, do I deserve to be treated better than Jesus? No And if Jesus Christ could love that person even when they were his enemy, according to Romans, and suffer hell for them, then surely I can have a perspective on them and say, wait a minute, this is somebody of great value to God This is someone the Lord Jesus loves very, very much. And I need to keep that in mind. So a peacemaker, the understanding of the peacemaker is uh is um number one I have a correct view of myself. My heart is proud and simple. I need to get it out of the equation. You know when I you know when I get into trouble? Is when I act according to my flesh Oh yeah? Boy then peace is gone. Am I right or wrong? When I get angry, peace is gone. When I and here's what's worse. You know what I found? When I get angry in my heart and then I open my mouth. Wow, that's a bad combination. And so the peacemaker, blessed are the peacemakers, all right, what is a peacemaker? Peacemaker is someone that has an under correct view of themselves Their heart's sinful, it's proud, it needs to be uh need to die to sell. And that other person is someone who the Lord loves very, very much, thought they were worth dying for, even though they're very difficult, they're very unkind, they're all of that But I want to have that perspective. They are somebody that Jesus would rather have with, would Jesus would rather suffer hell so that they could be with them in heaven than have them go to hell. And it helps me look at them from a whole different perspective. Now, we're going to quit there, but next week I want to look at how do I be uh how do I become a peacemaker? And this is what I was really wanting to get to I'll just give you the three thoughts real quick. One is I speak very sparingly. Number two, I think scripturally, and number three, I act graciously. And so we'll look at that next week. But understand Peacemaker. I don't know. When I was finished this message studying it, I just stopped and I said, God, I want you to help me to die to self. I want you to help me get my flesh and my pride and myself out of the equation and humble myself before you so that I can have an influence on people. And I asked the Lord this, and I'm way ahead of my message, but I asked the Lord to do this for me. God make me the kind of person that people are comfortable around And that they can find the peace of God through my influence, where it helps them. Their faith is stronger, and they find comfort in their soul. And you know, when I'm all worked up and I'm self and proud, I can't be that way. But when I die to self and understand how much the Lord Jesus Christ loves that person, It's a whole different perspective. Does that make sense? Now, I think some of us are thinking of someone in particular, and maybe the Holy Spirit speaking in your heart and say, you know, you're not being a peacemaker with that person And maybe tonight we need to say, Lord, I need you to do some changing in my heart. And it's not so much them, maybe it's me that I need the change. Let's pray, Father in heaven. I asked, dear Lord, that you would help us to be peacemakers. I don't feel, Lord, I did a real good job in communicating this, but Lord, maybe your Holy Spirit would help us to see the importance of dying to self. It's not all about us. It's about the Lord Jesus and him being glorified. And Lord, help us to see others the way you see them, Lord. And uh that you could use us to help others come to know Christ, to help others know the presence of God in their life. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Is there someone here tonight you say, preacher, God is speaking in my heart? There's a person I just have a hard time with. I just want to die to self and be the kind of Christian God wants me to be to that person. Or maybe there's a situation that's kind of volatile. And you'd say, preacher, I want God to make me a peacemaker. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I'm thinking of something in particular. God bless you. Or someone in particular. Bunch of hands raised. A bunch of hands raised Now, in James, he talks about wars and fightings, and then he brings it down to praying. Praying, ye have not because you ask not. So maybe we need to pray that God makes whatever changes need to be made in Mahar. Maybe we need to ask him to do that tonight. Maybe you're here tonight and you say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You'd say, I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know for sure that God has forgiven me all my sin. That heaven's my home and not hell. Is there anything like that? And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me Get that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me that I can get that settled. Anyone at all? Anyone at all, Father in Heaven, I ask now you bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed