So I was studying this, there is a kind of I don't know how to say this, and I hope you'll follow along with me, because I don't know. I'm going to try and convey something that I'm not sure I'm able to, but there's kind of a spiritual tension in the Christian life. And what I mean by that, um, on one hand, and I think we know this to be true, most of us, if we're saved, we need to know this to be true, is that on the one hand We as human beings are wretched sinners. I mean, you look at what the Bible says about the heart of man. And about what we are, and there's nothing pretty about it. We are, and I use that term wretched in its most raw form, we are wretched sinners. Um the song Amazing Grace. Um uh who John uh who wrote Amazing Grace? Um my mind just went blank. Brian, you know I'm putting you on the spot there. Amazing Grace. John Newton. John Newton. And he says in their amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. There's nothing pretty in the Bible about the human heart. Paul, listen to what Paul says about himself. This is the Apostle Paul. What a great Christian. And he says, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? He said, In me, that is in my flesh there dwelleth no good thing. 7 Timothy, he says, I am the chief of sinners. I mean, Paul did not view himself as some trophy moral righteous man. He saw himself as an awful sinner. Then there's that killer verse. Jeremiah 17, 9. For the heart is what? Deceitful. And then he doesn't stop there. And he doesn't say the heart is deceitful and wicked. He says the heart is deceitful in what? Desperately wicked. So on the one hand, here you have mankind. Absolutely nothing good. Read Romans chapter 1 For there's none righteous, no not one. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. You have nothing good said about the moral and spiritual condition of man. So you have that on one end, and we read the Bible and we see that to be true. And many of us before we got saved leading up to our salvation, we saw that so glaringly how sinful we really are. But then on the other hand, now this is the other, this is where the tension comes in kind of. On the other hand, God says The Bible teaches us that we are created in the image of God. That we are the highest, most honored Created be in all existence that God loves us so much And cherishes us and exalts us to such a high degree And you look at these two truths and you say, man, we're so wretched and we're so sinful and there's nothing good about us. And then on the other hand, we're created in the image of God. And God views us with such a high degree of honor. And they seem contradictory. And yet these two truths, both of these truths, are what make up Christianity. A wretched, sorry, wicked, desperately wicked sinner. And yet, a being in the image of God, highly loved, highly valued by God, it looks like it would be one or the other. But they're both true. Turn keep your place here, and I'm building up to some, but keep your place here. Turn with me to Hebrews, chapter number two Hebrews chapter 2, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 6, is actually a quote from Psalms chapter 8. And I think this verse kind of captures what I'm trying to convey here a little bit, um, this idea uh that there's a there's a dichotomy here, I guess you could say. On one hand, such a wretched sinner looks like God would just Annihilate us, get rid of us, send us to hell, forget about it. On the other hand, so highly exalted and so honored, how could some how could someone, uh how could a being created in the image of God, so valued, so precious to God, becomes so evil, become so corrupted Look at Hebrews chapter 2 and verse number 6. But one in a certain place testified. Now he's quoting from Psalms 8 here is the one in a certain place. Now look at the question: What is man? That thou art mindful of him. Now there's really not an answer to that question. That's kind of just, what is man? What is it about man that God Is so mindful of and gives him so much attention. What is man that thou art mindfulness? Or the son of man that thou visitest him. Now look at this. Thou madeest him a little lower than the angels Yet thou thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet For in that he put all in subjection under his feet, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him. Then he goes on and relates to the Lord Jesus Christ. But you see, he's there's a question here in the psalmist mind and and uh here in Hebrews is what in the world man It's so simple. He takes God's name in vain. He disobeys God. He blasphemes God. And yet you're so mindful of him. You value him. He's so important to you. What in the world? And um uh so you have these two opposing truths. And I thought, how do you reconcile these two? How do you have one God so mindful of them, so valuable, so such a high, exalted position God holds man in, yet so corrupt. You know where those two truths are reconciled? At the cross. And there the sinfulness of man and the glory of God meet. And God takes man's own sin on himself. And God takes responsibility of all man's corruption. And he pays that price and he brings the two together. And it's interesting when you get to the book of Revelation You find that man is exalted, save man. You have these twelve, you have the twelve elders are before the throne of God, and they represent the church in many ways. But here's the interesting thing, and I just noticed this. The angels are round about the altar, but these 12 uh um uh men are before the throne. And they actually hold a more privileged position than even the angels do. And God so highly exalts man And yet he's so sinful. God takes sinful, wretched man, and he exalts us to such a high estate It's an amazing, amazing thing. By the way, I was reading a little bit about uh environmentalists, and I'll just throw this out, but the modern radical environmentalist movement, they view man as a cancer on earth. And in some ways, they are correct in that man is corrupt. And man is so destructive and all that. In a sense, spiritually, they're correct. We are corrupt. But what they miss is the fact, but we're also created in the image of God. And God has placed us uh to have dominion on the earth and care for it. So anyway, that was just something coming up as we're in it. So let's look, let's come back to our Beatitude. So here we have this thing. We are so sinful on one hand, yet God loves us. and cherries us and exalts us on the other hand in such an amazing way. Then we come to this and we find contradictions, apparent contradictions through here. In fact, that's my first point in tonight's message is an apparent contradiction. Look at verse four with me. He said, Blessed are they that mourn Does anybody see two words in that phrase that are contradictory? Look at that. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed and mourn. You and I, the world does not associate those two as being something connected together. Blessed are they that mourn. In the world, they don't go together. The world would say, blessed are those that can avoid any sort of mourning. The world would see a statement like that and say, that's ridiculous. A carnal Christian would say, What are you talking about? Blessed. Happy are those who are sad. Is that what you're saying? Blessed are those that mourn. Happy are those that are that are unhappy? And the world says that's ridiculous. And carnal Christians say, hey, that's not how I'm living my life. The world would say, hey, I'm going to do everything I can to avoid Having to deal with mourning. I'm going to do everything I can to avoid being sad. I'm going to do everything I can to avoid unhappiness and unpleasantness. Now here's where reality sets in. The Christian, the child of God, we live in we have a very different perspective on life than what the unsaved have. God's kingdom and the world's kingdom are very, very different. Very, very different. For instance, for the Christian, our nature is different than the unsaved person's nature. We talked about this in uh on the first Beatitude. The Christian, our very nature, our very character is different than the world's character. What uh the things that we value, the things that is important to a Christian, that a Christian values, and the things that the non-Christian, the unsaved person values are two very different things. What the world considers very, very valuable. The child of God says, you know, that's temporary. That's of little or no value. And what the child of God considers to be extremely valuable, the Bible and the Word of God, and living for the Lord and pleasing God, is so important in my life. In the unsaved person's life, that's meaningless. The Bible is just another book. The Bible is a religious book that really has no relationship to my life. But for the Christian, the Word of God is the most precious thing I have. It's my manual, it's my guidelines. You follow what I'm saying? So there's a world of difference. The world says, blessed are they that mourn? But Jesus and the Christians says, yeah, blessed are they that mourn. We have different values. We have Whole different perspective on life. The saved person, the Christian, has different priorities than what the unsaved person has. The child of God says, you know, there are some things that are very, very important in my life. And there are some things that are not important. And the unsaved person says, you know, I've got some things that are very, very important in my life. There are some things that are very dear to me, high priority, but they're not the same as the Christians. The unsafe says the priority in my life is me, getting my way, doing what I want, having a big time, um, getting ahead. having finances, bigger houses, and more of this, that, and the other. The Christian says, you know, the highest priority in my life is seeking the kingdom of God. And so we are very different from the world. The Christian is very, very different in his very nature, his very makeup. He's different than the world, our values, our priorities. Hey, our whole world view. The whole way we perceive the world. We look at the world. The whole way we look at history The whole way we look at nations is different than the world looks at nations. You look at the nations of the world from a biblical perspective and you see needs for the gospel. As a Christian, right? When I see nations, when they talk about different countries in the world, different stuff, I see that and I think, I wonder if there's any missionaries in that country I wonder what this is. I wonder what that is. I wonder what the spiritual state is. I wonder what opportunities are for people to get saved, escape hell, and go to heaven. That's the Christian perspective. The world, they don't think of that at all. Our whole world perspective is different than the unsaved. Our world view. Our understanding of our origins is very different than the world. The world begins with the conclusion that there is no God. And so they look at our orange. We've got to come up with some theory, some process whereby everything exists from nothing without God in it. So they come up with these complicated theories and all this stuff. The Christian looks at the world and says, uh, everything came from nothing. Life came from life. God created this. It's very clear, very evident. Uh and I think I mentioned this recently, but the fossil evidence and all of that that the unsaved person has, and the fossil evidence and all of that that the saved person has, exact same evidence, just two different worldviews Two different means of interpreting what's there. Neither of us were there. And so this is my point. When Jesus said, blessed, blessed. Are they that mourn? He's saying something that does not fit in to world's thinking, to unsafe persons thinking. For the Christian, we see life, we see God, we see eternity, we see material things, we see finances in a completely different perspective the Christian does than what the unsaved person does. We are very, very different in our motives. Why do we do what we do? What is it that motivates us? What is it that would stir a person to take a middle of the week, stop their schedule, rush around after work, clean up a little bit, some of y'all did, and uh clean up a little bit and uh and rush off to church and go to prayer meeting And uh listen to Brother Letterman talk for half hour or so. Uh what would motivate somebody to do that? We have completely different motives The Christian does from the unsaved. You know what the world's philosophy is? It's not blessed are they that mourn. The world's philosophy is, hey, we've got to forget our troubles. We gotta put them out of our mind. We need to avoid them. That's why liquor is such a powerful force, because the whole world's wanting to avoid troubles. Just forget it. Just put it out If I can get if I can just get buzzed for a little while, I don't have to deal with all that stuff. Problem with it is just makes it worse. Amen or not? And so we have to be the whole world says, well, well forget the troubles. That's why it is so stupid they're legalizing pot. And it's such a tragedy. Just trying to forget troubles, just have a good time, get high, just put it out of your mind, just for a little while, just put it off. Connie was saying about she's getting shots in her knees, they're trying to put off the surgery as long as they can Your hips. And um trying to put that off. That's kind of the way the world's approach to trouble. I was trying to forget it. I just try and not deal with it. Avoid sorrow. I've done so many funerals over the years. I don't do as many as I did when I was with a hospice. It was all the time. But uh so many, and you know, I've had so many times where they have a viewing At the funeral home or sometimes it's at the church. They have the body there. Maybe Brian, you dealt with this. And so many times there's somebody who says, I'm not going in there I don't want to go in, I don't want to see, I don't I don't go I don't go look at the casket, I don't do that. It's only one reason they do that. I think they're not willing to face The reality of death. They don't want to deal with the sorrow. We've got to avoid that. Here's the world's philosophy: eat, drink, and what? Be married. For Tomorrow we die. Just put off the troubles. Put off the mourning. Get away from that. Just do whatever. Just have a big time. Have as much fun as you can. Just enjoy life. You only live once. Live it up. That's not that's the world's philosophy. That is not the Christian's philosophy. Um I read this poem, and I don't know anything about the fellow that wrote it. You may have heard it before I've heard it before, but not for a long time. I walked a mile with pleasure. She chatted all the way. But left me none the wiser for all she had to say. I walked a mile with sorrow. And she never s I walked a mile with sorrow and never a word said she. But all the things I learned from her when sorrow walked with me. Fact is The world wants to live in pleasure, wants to party time, just live it up big time, have fun time, and just go and do all that, and they're none the wiser for it. And Jesus Christ is saying, Blessed are they that mourn Blessed they don't understand. That's where learning comes. That's where wisdom comes from. So, number one, we have an apparent contradiction. Blessed are they that mourn. The world says that's ridiculous. Jesus says, no, no, no. It's true. It's true. The second thing I notice here, second point to my message, is there is authentic contrition. First is apparent contradiction, blessed and mourn. They don't go together. Yeah, they do, you'll see. When there is authentic contrition, that word more. It means basically what you would think it would mean. It means to lament something. It means to grieve. Over something. I looked it up how it's used to the Bible, and it's used uh with a few exceptions, it's used to people's response when someone dies, when a loved one dies. Physical mourning is associated with the death of a loved one, with the death of a dear one. The Bible talks about Rachel mourning for her children when um Uh Herod killed all the two-year-old down after the birth of Jesus Christ, and there was weeping. That's where the idea of mourning and grieving over somebody who was dear to me, and uh I lost them and I mourn and grieve over that. That's the physical mourning. But what he's talking about here, and we notice this in verse 3 with the first beatitude He's not talking about physical poverty in verse 3, and he's not talking about physical mourning in verse 4. This isn't, he's not saying blessed are they that have someone that died and they're grieving over that boy, they're so happy. That's not what he's saying He's talking about spiritual mourning. Verse 3, he was talking about spiritual poverty. Remember, we took a lengthy bit of the message last week and pointed out that How much money I have or do not have has nothing to do with my spirituality. And the mourning here is not a physical grieving over someone that has died, it's a spiritual mourning. The Lord's focus. Now get this. God's concern for you and I is first and foremost for our spiritual well-being. We have such an emphasis in much of Christianity today for the physical well-being of mankind, and that's fine, and God does care about that, but that is not his primary purpose God is more concerned that we be spiritually well than we be physically well. Now that's illustrated in his ill in his miracles he did through the gospels. How many times would they bring someone that was ill or paralyzed or had palsy? And as Jesus' first statement to them wasn't, be well physically, be healed. His first statement was, thy sins be forgiven thee. And then the Pharisees, of course, would raise their hackles and say, Oh, who can forgive sins but God only? And Jesus would respond, which is easier, to forgive a man's sin or tell him to rise up and walk? But that you might believe that the Son of Man has the power to forgive sins, I say unto thee, take up thy bed and walk, and the person gets up and walks. Doesn't mean that he didn't care about his physical well-being But the Lord understood that his spiritual well-being was most important. Listen, if God if I get my body made well, if I'm sick and my body is made well, and I'm not made well spiritually, my body's eventually going to sick and eventually die. And if I'm not well spiritually, I'm in bad shape. And so this element in quote-unquote Christianity that goes around emphasizes healing, healing, healing, healing, healing, that's fine. God can and does heal. But more important than physical healing is spiritual salvation. What's it good if a man has five years out of his life if he dies and goes to hell? And so this is what I'm trying to say is when the Lord says, Blessed are they that mourn, he's talking about spiritual mourning, our spiritual condition. That's where God's primary focus is. Let me ask you a question tonight. How's your spiritual health tonight? If you could have some sort of spiritual mirror and see your spiritual, your soul, the health and well-being of your spiritual being, would it be feeble and shriveled up and barely alive? Or would it be vivacious and helping and strong? The Lord's concerned with our spiritual being. Our spiritual well-being, our relationship with him. And so when he says here, blessed are they that mourn, again, he's not talking about being at the side of a casket crying over a loved one That's natural. That's that that should be that way. But what he's talking about is spiritual mourning. Now what does he mean by that? By that, I'm convinced. He is talking about us mourning over our sin, grieving over our shortcomings before God and our disobedience to God. Christian failures. Now I'm talking about myself here tonight included. Our failures as Christians are always spiritual failures. So he says, well, you know, if I had more money, I'd be a better Christian. Uh uh-uh. How much money I have has absolutely nothing to do with what whether I'm a good Christian or not. If I'm a good Christian, I'll handle that money in a way pleasing to God. Well, you know, if it was this, then uh if it was that, if we had uh uh a Christian's failures is always spiritual failures. Our faults are always spiritual faults. It comes to an inadequacy in our spiritual well-being. Our problem, this is what I'm trying to say, our problem is not a lack of funds. Our problem is not inferior buildings or inadequate programs. The church's problem is not that you say, well, you know, the church is such a sad state. You know why? Because we're spiritually not right with God. Let me just put it that way. Good night. Churches in America have better buildings they've ever had, and we're more anemic than we've ever been. Churches in America have bigger budgets money-wise than we've ever had. And we have as as less influence on our country than we've ever had. It's not that we don't have good programs. There's nothing wrong with budgets, there's nothing wrong with buildings, there's nothing wrong with programs. They have their place But that's not where the problem is. The problem is our own sinful hearts. Jesus said, Blessed are they that mourn. We have a lack of spiritual vitality. We have a lack of spiritual health. Notice what he says. Blessed are they that mourn. They that mourn spiritually. You know there was a day. There was a day when your gospel preaching churches, all of them, had what they called a mourner's bench. How many people have ever heard of a mourner's bench? What was the mourner's bench? Somebody talk to me. What what was that? The old mourner's bench. Anyone know? Ah, the mourner's bench was what we refer to as the altar. They referred to it as the mourner's bench. What were they mourning? The preacher would preach the Word of God, the preacher would preach the Bible, and the Holy Spirit of God would convict people about their sin And their disobedience and their and then their uh lack of seriousness of their walk with God and conviction would set in. And they come to the old-fashioned, oh, they come to the mourner's bench, and they would mourn Over their sins against God. They would mourn over their disobedience to God. And I'm telling you, back in the day, those old mourners' bench many times were soaked in tears, and people would be sobbing. Over their sins, over their sin against God. They grieve over their personal sins. And I'll tell you, church was a lot stronger when they had the old mourner's bench. Church was a lot stronger when the Christians would grieve over their disobedience against God. Those old Methodists, those old-time Methodists Man, Peter Cartwright, some of those old times Sam Dave uh Sam Thomas or Sam Thomas. Um uh who is the guy down south? Jones, Samuel Jones Man, these old Methodist evangelists would come into a town and they'd preach hellfire and brimstone, they'd preach against Sin and God's Holy Spirit would convict the people of God and there would be sobbing and they would cry over the sins. They'd hit that old altar and sobbing. And I'll tell you In every little community, you'll find a Methodist church from years ago, when that church was strong, they mourned over their sins, they grieved over their disobedience to God, and God came down and Comforted them and blessed them, and they had a fire for God that could not be put out. But when they quit mourning over their sin, When they started justifying and excusing and accepting and eventually enjoying and indulging their sin, fire went out. God's blessings came off. There was no more comfort. And now you go all over. Now I'm not trying to be judgmental, it's just a matter of fact. You go all over this country, especially the Appalachian Mountains, you know what you find? Empty Methodist church. Churches all over the place. Am I right or wrong, Brian? Absolutely. Old Mourner's Bench. And the Baptists, same way, down in South Carolina, down there, man, they would preach the word of God. And people grieved over their sin, they mourned over the justify and excuse it. Their worldliness would grieve them. Boy, it wasn't anything, it wasn't unusual. Have people that are just sobbing and crying, God forgive me, God have mercy on me And that is what Jesus is referring to. This authentic contrition over sin. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they that mourn. Now Now, churches have replaced the mourner's bench for a dance floor. They've replaced the old mourner's bench for rock concert and beach parties. I'm telling you what, some of these churches, and I'll tell you what really stirs me tonight, is I have a preacher that we were distant friends, acquaintances, that was a solid God Came out of Bobby Robertson's church, named his church after Bobby Robertson's church down in North Carolina, and now he has rock and roll concerts in that church. I mean it is full-blown rock and roll And don't tell me that that brings the blessings of God. You can't square that with Scripture and say that is God's blessings. That is what God Pleases God. No. My Bible says, blessed are they that mourn over their sins, not they that indulge in it. I tell you, it grieves my heart when a brother, independent fundamental Baptist brother That's going down that road. Today we've replaced the preaching against sin. We've replaced the righteous God of righteousness and holiness of God And we've just opened the doors and brought the sins of the world flooding into the church and into our homes Our churches have gotten louder in their celebration, but they've sure not gotten much deeper in their devotion, not much stronger in their holiness. We want God's blessings. There must be genuine contrition over our sin. I put it this way: there must be genuine contrition over sin before there will ever be genuine joy of the Lord. I got thinking of this. I was at my uncle's funeral the other week. I referenced that. While we were there, somebody had said they had a picture, they had seen a picture of Jesus, their imagination of what Jesus looked like And they said he was just belly laughing. And I just thought that was amazing, a picture of Jesus just belly laughing. Now, it's hard to argue from silence. But I don't, I can't find anywhere in the Bible where Jesus has Jesus laughing. Now that doesn't mean he never did. We don't know. It's not recorded. But my point is there's no record of Jesus laughing. You know what we find of Jesus? We find the Bible describes him as a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief. We find him on a hillside overlooking Jerusalem that had rejected his salvation. And he grieves over them and he says, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. We find him walking to the graveside of his friend Lazarus, and he sees everybody weeping in the Bible, the shortest verse in the Bible, John 11, 35, and Jesus wept. We find him grieving over man's sin. We find him sorrowing. We find Jesus, and I use this term. I don't mean to be irreverent on this. I can't imagine how God would be frustrated, but we get a sense of frustration on the part of Jesus Christ when his disciples would not exercise faith in him. He said, What? Have faith in God, he would say, and he rebuked them for a lack of faith. Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying. There's nothing wrong with laughter, there's nothing wrong with joy, there's nothing wrong with happiness. That is a fruit of salvation. But until we genuinely mourn and grieve over our sin. We're not going to be able to get into a position where God's going to be able to bless us. We must not Oh, why why I got to think of why would there be no record of Jesus laughing? Why do we not picture that in our mind? I'll tell you why Jesus Christ, they named him Jesus for he would save his people from their sin. He had set his face like a flint to go to Jerusalem. He came down with one thing and one thing only, and that was he was going to bear the sins of the world. And there's nothing about sin that brings laughter. There's nothing about sin that brings joy and happiness. Sin, the wages of sin is death. Lust, when it is conceived, bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. And Jesus Christ came To take sin head on and assume responsibility for every ungodly act and suffer hell for it. Not something we laugh about. He says, blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they that mourn. We must not allow ourselves to trivialize sin. I asked myself this question, I was preparing this. And I told I told you in the beginning, this has been a challenge preparing these. I asked myself as I was preparing this, when's the last time? And I hope you'll ask yourself this. When's the last time I've wept over my sin? Like a person standing beside the casket of their mother or father weeping. When's the last time I looked at my sin and wept before God? That's what he's talking about. When's the last time I mourned over my disobedience? I can't help when I prepare this, I can't help but think of the Old Testament book of Hosea. God takes a young preacher boy, a young prophet, he has got dreams and visions of living for God, no doubt he had in his mind he's going to find a good, godly wife that would be his prophet's wife And she'd care for him and pray for him and support him, help him, encourage him to be godly and pure, a man of God. And God instructs him to marry a woman of whoredoms, prostitute, who is unfaithful to him right from the back. And he loves her. And he stays faithful to her as she goes from man to man to man to man until there's nothing left of her except to be sold on a block a s a slave's block for half the price of what your average slave gets And Hosea buys her back and takes her in and forgives her and cares for her and helps her get her life straightened out. And God says, the reason I had Hosea do that Was I wanted Israel to know how badly their sin hurts their God And his point was this: just like Hosea's actions hurt, or Goma's actions hurt Hosea so badly, God was saying, that's what your sin does to me as your heavenly father. When you lie, when you indulge in that sinful pleasure, it grieves our Heavenly Father as deeply as a man is grieved by an unfaithful wife. And he says, when you grieve, when you mourn over your sin, there's a blessing that's there's a comfort that comes there. And I don't think it's mourning just over our own personal sins. I think there's a mourning over our national society sins. And this is something the Lord convicted me about. I watch the news and read the news articles and I see what's going on in our world and I get so disgusted. And sometimes it gets so angry. But you know, the Bible doesn't say, blessed are they that are disgusted and say, Blessed are they that are angry over their sin He says, Blessed are they that mourn? And this is what spoke to my heart about. When's the last time I've mourned when I see something going on in our nations doing something so sinful and so corrupt? When's the last time I got on my knees and cried and wept and said, Oh God I thought of Nehemiah he did that. When he heard that the walls of Jerusalem were knocked down, he swept and he prayed and said, God, and he doesn't say, God, they've sinned against you, he said, God, we have sinned against you. And he mourned over the sins of his nation. And he wept and was broken. And God blessed. And the walls were rebuilt, and the Jews came back, the temple was rebuilt. Grief and sorrow over our sin. Blessed are they that mourn. Now he adds this last one. This is my last thought real quick. There's assurance of comfort. You say, brother, that's a pretty dark message from the Lord. Blessed, happy are they that are mourning and grieving over their sin, but he's not done. Blessed are they that mourn, for they-I circled the next two words. What are they? For they shall be comforted. Not might be, God will. When we get to the point where we are grieved over our own personal sin, and it breaks our heart that I would sin in this way against my God Then God says they shall be comforted. The word comfort, I love this. And there wasn't any one definitive definition as I looked how it was used through scripture and I came to this and I like this definition that I came up with. I like most things I come up with, but I especially like this one. Comfort means it means for God to come closely beside me and strengthen me and lift me up. And the whole picture I have in my mind is: remember that incident where the Pharisees brought that woman taken in adultery to the Lord Jesus Christ? And they said, the law says stone her, what do you say? Jesus kind of ignored him. Finally says, you without sin, cast the first stone. Starting with the youngest up to the oldest, they all just walked off, and finally she's standing there. You talk about humiliated, you talk about broken, you talk about a woman that is absolutely poor in spirit Don't you love what Jesus says to her? Neither do I condemn thee. Don't sin no more. You know what he's doing? He's comforting her. He's encouraging her. She walked she I no doubt she thought, I'm a dead woman. I'm a dead woman. And the Lord in so many words says, I forgive you. Don't do it anymore. I don't condemn you. Don't do it anymore. anymore. God promises that when we see the sinful in our sin and we grieve deeply deeply over sin, we see how badly it hurts God and we humble ourselves God comes down and he comforts us. Boy, read Psalm 51. How David had sinned so badly against the God he loved. He tried to cover it up, he tried to justify it, excuse it, and all this stuff. It just kept getting worse and worse and worse. Finally, he mourned over it, Psalm 51. God comes down and comforts him. The Lord said to him, A broken and contrite heart God will not despise I see my own sin. It's broken. The Lord comes down. He says, there's Dennis Leatherman. He sins so bad. And he realized it, and it's broken him. He's mourning, and the Lord comes down. He picks you up. He says, now I'm going to bless you. Now I'm going to bless you. The comfort means that God comes closely beside me. He strengthens me and lifts me up. And the Bible says, in the presence of the Lord there is fullness of joy. Well, I'll tell you who understands the joy of the Lord: those who understand how awful their sin is. And how wonderful God's grace and mercy is. I wrote this final statement in my notes as I was studying this, and God was dealing with my heart. If my sin does not bother me, if I can sin against God and it doesn't bother me I need to get on my knees before God and beg Him to make things right in my heart and soul. Amen. If I can sin as a Christian and it against God and it doesn't bother me, it doesn't bring grief I need to get on my knees and say, God, something's not right. I need you to make things right. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. completely different view of the world. But it's God's view. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I know this wasn't message that The world would especially appreciate, I'm sure. But Lord, I believe before we ever see revival in our country, God, before we ever see revival in our church, in our own personal lives We have got to take our own sin, our personal sins, very seriously. We've got to see how badly they hurt you and how badly they hurt us. And give us a spirit of grief and sorrow over our sin that we would confess and forsake, and know your blessing and your comfort and your presence in our lives anew. We need that, Lord. We need that. Heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me with this? I need God to help me. That old brokenness over sin hasn't been there for a long time. Seriousness over what I know is wrong just hasn't bothered me for a long time. And I need that back. I need revival. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? All around. Number of hands. Maybe some tonight would say, God, I really need you to stir my heart anew I would take it very seriously, not just something I'd blow off, not just something in one ear, out the other, but God's something that grieves me until I get it right, until God comes down and changes things Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together. Our heads abound, our eyes are closed.