Pastor. Amen. Well, we have a good crowd and I thank you for coming. I appreciate it. Mm-hmm. That's my hearing aid I'm turning down. You know, uh I've already I've mentioned the other night that you're blessed to have a pastor like this, and there's a lot of folks perhaps that you're here and you don't have a church home And uh let me say that this is this is a place where one, if you come, uh people will love you. And uh two, you'll get the word of God. And you may not like it sometimes. Sometimes it's gonna step on your toes and and if it does, you ought to thank the Lord for it, because that's what the Bible's supposed to do. It's supposed to prick us help us get a a vision of ourselves so that we know how we can correct ourselves. And uh so uh allow God to correct us. And so uh this is a good place to to light. If you're one of those that uh just hasn't got a church and and you hit here and there, you oughta settle in, uh, this church right here. If you're in this area, you live in this area, this is the place where you oughta be. It's it's uh uh Bible preaching and and uh uh uh people loving church. Amen. All right, five chalk drawings. And how many of you how many like this and the best for the I'm telling you, a bear does it every time. That's the first time I've done that picture, so that's uh that's gonna be an original. Whoever gets that, I mean we're talking millions Talking to millions. I had a well, I won't be into that. Alright, take your Bible if you will and turn with me to the book of Mark Mark chapter ten, Mark chapter ten Okay, Mark chapter 10. We're going to start reading in verse 46. Mark chapter 10, verse 46, if you have your place. And they came to Jericho as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and way, boy, that was quick, wasn't it? He went into Jericho and then he went out of Jericho so fast. I mean just like that. Wasn't there very long. So they came to Jericho and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a a great number of people, uh blind Barnamaeus, the son of uh uh titamus, uh Timmy serious sat by the highwayside begging. When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee. And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered, and he said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? And the blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way, thy faith has made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus in the way. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we're we're thankful for the folks that have come out tonight. And I pray for that one that has walked through the doors tonight and come into the auditorium and feels kind of out of place perhaps. Not used to going to church maybe. But down deep in their heart they they know that there's a missing, something missing there. And I pray, Lord, that uh today they might find what that missing missing thing is. According to the scripture, Lord, we know what's missing. Missing the Lord Jesus Christ living within the heart. So we pray that they might trust you tonight, be born into the family of God. And I pray, Lord, that you'll just uh work in our midst. Maybe there's some Christians here tonight that needs uh some special touch. We don't know what that might be. But we know it's the Lord, Lord, we know that you are uh good at just meeting the need, whatever that need might be. So we pray that uh you'd Help us tonight. Bless the chalk drawn. We show it in a little bit. And especially, Lord, we pray for the invitation time. The invitation where people have an opportunity. to trust you as Savior where people can come to this old fashioned altar and lay down the burden that's that's got 'em all bogged down and And miserable. So Lord, do your work here today as only you can do it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I like this whole story, don't you? There's something there's always every story that where Jesus deals with an individual is just there's something special about it because it's his personal touch and on that particular situation. In this situation here, the Bible says that Jesus can't comes into Jericho and then he goes out of Jericho. And I find that unusual until I really f you know start thinking about it. Jericho, if you'll remember, is the cursed city. He's not going to stick around any place that's cursed anyway, is he? Cursed city. Remember back in Joshua's day when they, you know, marched around the the walls seven times and seven times again and walls came down? City was a cursed. And so Jesus walks through this accursed city. This is the time of the Passover. Passover's coming up. And Jesus has a destination, and that's Jerusalem, which is only about 15 miles away from Jericho. And he's not only trying to reach his destination, but he's also going to reach his destiny there in Jerusalem on a mount called Calvary. But as he walks through the city, you have to understand that the there's like 20,000 priests. that are assigned to the temple there in Jerusalem. Those 20,000 are are separated into groups. uh twenty-six different groups. And they alternate in their ministry in the temple. They, you know, doing the the uh the sacrifices and and all the the stuff that they do, the the ministering in within, you know, the show bread, make sure of that and and keeping the oil and the lamp and the fire and the you know, all that stuff. That was their job And being so close to Jerusalem, many of the uh priests would uh live in in the Jericho area. And it was not uh it was not uncommon for many, many people. I have crowds of people flowing through Jericho during the Passover time particularly because everyone twelve years and up, every male twelve years and up had to had to go to the temple uh during the Passover time. And so uh during this particular time there was tremendous crowds. And it was not uncommon for a well-known priest, as he's uh going through Jericho, for a crowd to accumulate around that individual, and as he walked along he would be teaching and and preaching. You know, laying out the law and so forth. And that was the situation we see here with Jesus. He's well known by this time. This is the end of his ministry, pretty much. Calvary just lays over the hill. And as he walks through the the city of Jericho with this crowd around him, and I'm satisfied every opportunity that, every time Jesus had a crowd, if he just had one or two It didn't make any difference how many there were. He was going to be preaching to them. That just I mean, that was it. That was the bottom line for his ministry. He was a great teacher, preacher, the whole whole smear, you know, he's everything So I see him as he walks along with the crowd around him and I can hear him, you know, giving out the gospel. I can almost hear the words, you know. Today is the day of salvation, now's the appointed time. But all these different verses were probably uh that he's repeated here in the scriptures. And all at once there's a cry. Jesus, thou son of David. And somebody says, Shh, shut him up. He's making a lot of you know, you don't want to bother the master. He's teaching. Listen to him. See what he has to say. Maybe he can help you. After all, he's just a beggar. Beggars kind of looked down upon back in those days. They uh I guess they're looked down upon just about everywhere. Sometimes not their fault. You know, some, you know, just like Barnabai, he's blind. Well, what can a blind man do? Well Nowadays, I mean back then they didn't they didn't get welfare, they didn't get any particular, you know, help from the government. It was just uh they sit along the roads and And uh they just hope for the people to to come by to have a little mercy on you and throw 'em a uh a little bit of money here and there so that they can they can survive and that was just about it. Had to have somebody to, you know, to bring 'em and take 'em and bring 'em and take 'em and you know provide and help 'em out. And this uh Barmaeus is there on the side of the road and he hears the crowd approaching and and some somewhere along the line somebody must have named said the name Jesus Somebody must have said something, because he called him out by name. He certainly probably didn't understand him, you know, who it was from his his voice, but he could have, and you know People who are blind uh have their senses uh energized, it seems, the other senses and they they hear and and can recognize people just voice. But I'm I'm not sure if that was the case. But whatever the situation was All at once, uh, as he's as he's passing by, Barnabas cries out. And when they try to shut him up, why he just got louder. You know Whenever a lost person finally recognizes their condition, and there's that desire inside to be saved, Somebody tries to shut 'em up, you know it's uh oh come on. I remember years ago when I was with the Carnation Milk Company back in Maysville, Kentucky, and and perhaps I've told this story, but I like to tell it. But there was a fellow that lived right across the street from us. Well, I could across the street. We lived out in the country and it was across the road. We had to go down the hill. cross the the road and back up the hill and he had a little cabin up there. This fellow named Elmer. And uh uh we used to watch him and And as he would come in and out of the house he was crippled. So he walked like this. And he was about maybe maybe in his four might have been forty, I don't know. Something like that But I found out he was an alcoholic and a drug addict. And the people that came in and out of his house, you know, were were the type that was constantly feeding him that stuff Until uh I can uh I can remember one night uh he was uh I felt burdened to go talk to him. So I got my Bible and I started down the hill and walked across the road and started up the hill. And uh w when I knocked on the door and he opened it, he said, uh, I knew you was coming. I don't know how he knew but he knew I was coming and uh apparently the Lord well I knew the Lord had prepared his heart because I'd been praying about it and Nan of course we all been praying about him And Elmer just uh we sat down at the kitchen table and took the Bible and just went through uh some verses of scripture and he just broke out in tears and got on his knees and asked the Lord to save him. Just that simple. Just like plucking the ripe fruit off of a tree. He he knew what his problem was. And he even knew what the answer was, but he didn't know anything about how to get it done. I think Barnabas, you know, he knew what his problem was. He was blind. And he he knew that that apart from a miracle of God, that there was not going to be there's no hope for him. He was going to die a blind man. And so there had to be something something special to take place. And when he heard the name Jesus Not just Jesus, but Jesus, son of David, that put him in a whole new category. The son of David was the anointed one. He was the Messiah. Messiah. Oh, he was going to heal the sick and cause the blind to see. David. Thou son of David when he tried to shut him up. He just got louder. Son of David And uh you know something? There's not many things that can stop Jesus, but the cry of the lost will stop him in his tracks. Did you notice what it said? And Jesus What was it? Stop. Stop still. Stop still. That's an un kind of unusual way to put those two words together, but What he wanted you to understand is he it it stopped him. As soon as there was this cry, Jesus stopped still and said You know, here's another thing. He said, call him over here to me. Wonder who he's speaking to. And I got to thinking about, I bet it's the same ones that was trying to shut him up. Jesus now said, You shut up, just call him over here. It's his way of correcting an error that these guys were making. Don't forbid people to come to Jesus. Let them come to me. You know, sometimes we have a tendency to to overlook certain certain groups and certain people and even sometimes children. Oh, a child can't get saved. Well, hey, they understand the difference between right and wrong. They're young enough to understand what sin is, or young enough or old enough to get saved. So never put down somebody who who wants to come to Jesus. I don't care how young they are, how old they are, or or what their condition is. If Just don't stop 'em, just let 'em come on. And let the Lord work out the details of the thing. So the uh it says, and when when he heard that uh it was Jesus of Nazareth He began to cry out and said, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him that he should Owed his peace, but he cried the more a great deal. Thou son of David, have mercy upon me. Jesus stood still And he can commanded him uh to be called. Spit in the hell. And uh And Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called, and they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of of good comfort, rise, and he called he calleth thee. And he casting away his garment rose and came to Jesus. I suppose it was a message just in that one verse. When he cast the when he when he hears Jesus call Let me ask you a question. Have you been cold? There's different kind of calls, you know, there's the call of the of the Holy Spirit uh through the just giving out the gospel That general gospel call that that goes out to everyone. And when you hear that call, the Holy Spirit speak in your heart saying you need to come to Jesus, you know, that where where he's been lifted up and he'll draw all men to you. That call there, that's just that's the the general call. And God would have everyone to be saved. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So he wants to save everyone. There's not a certain group that's going to be laid out and And uh those are the only ones going to get a chance. No, that's not it. Uh it's whosoever will may come and take the water of life freely. It's it's that that's the general call of salvation or the general call of the gospel Making it available to everyone so that there's no one exempted from it. But then there's that personal call where God is doing it literally with you. Where he's called you personally. You heard the gospel and you say, yes, I know that's what I need. But then there's that time when God touches your heart. When he speaks to you personally and he's and he he says you need to get saved. And you need to get saved tonight because Uh today's the day of salvation. Now's the appointment time. Today's the day of salvation, and this is your opportunity You know, Jesus is only going to pass through here one time. That's it. If he missed him today, it's over. He's destined for blindness the rest of his life and to die in that state. Tonight you have an opportunity to trust Christ as your Savior. The call is going out. Now the individual call begins, and that's where the Holy Spirit begins to speak to it each individual, dealing with the very need that you have. And I you know I believe God speaks to the heart, don't you? He spoke to my heart back in 1962 and convicted me and showed me that I was lost on my way to the devil's hell. And and when when that became personal to me, I understood that. That's when I responded to the call and walked the aisle and trusted Christ. And tonight you have that same opportunity. That's what he's doing tonight. He's calling on you. To obey the gospel, calling on you personally through the Holy Spirit. He's already called you through the Word of God. Now it's the Holy Spirit that's dealing with you. The question is, are you going to respond to it? So he cast away his garments. Hmm. Okay. What does those garments stand for? These are the beggar's garments These are the these are the beggar's garments and the cup that he holds. And the key that he walks around with. That's what he's talking about. Everything associated with him being a beggar. And I notice he didn't say he laid it aside. He cast it away. That's that's that's that element of faith Without faith it's impossible to please God. And he exercised faith by saying, listen, if he's calling me and I'm accepting it, I don't need this stuff anymore. You're here tonight and you've never been saved. Tonight with the gospel call, you can Jesus speaking to your heart and you're saying, yes, I need to receive him. I'm going to tell you, you can leave all those old garments of the beggarly elements. You can leave them behind. You can leave your liquor behind, your smokes behind, you can leave your drugs behind, you can leave all your sin behind. You can walk out of this thing clean as a baby See, God does a real work when he does a work on you. You can see that in his life Whenever he cast aside his garments, he came to Jesus, Jesus said, Well, what can I do for you? in the in our today's vernacular. And he said, that I might that I might receive my sight. He knew exactly what he needed And he knew that he could provide it. And so he just simply said, hey, I need my sight. And Jesus said, hey. Your face has made you whole and so what happened then? He gets up and uh uh follows Jesus. Well, gee, I didn't mean to say it that simple. Because it was a whole lot more complicated than that. He's leaving his friends behind, he's leaving his garments behind, he's leaving his cup behind Hey, how am I going to make a living? All of those things were of n uh none importance. Once you make a decision for Christ, he begins to make him uh making the decision for you. He begins to help you in the decisions you make. And so he can, you know, you can just leave it all behind. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. You know, old things are Cast away if I can use that. Behold all things become new. That's what that's what happens when a person receives Christ. And immediately he he follows him. Where's Jesus going anyhow? He's going to Jerusalem. What's going to take place here? He's going to be on the cross. Jesus knows that. And here's this blind Barnamaeus. He receives his sight for the first time. He looks around. He doesn't go back to try to see who his friends are or anything. First thing he sees is the face of Jesus Christ, Savior, the one who has healed him from his blindness. The one who's given him a new life, the one who who has is now going to provide all that he needs in this life. He's ready to follow him anywhere he goes. He's going to the cross, that's where he's going to follow him. He was probably in the crowd looking as they crucified him. Do you understand what this is a picture of for the Christian? You know, how can we as Christians, after he has given us sight, You know, we don't understand that the God of this world has blinded the minds of those who are lost. You're here tonight. You've never trusted Christ. And some of you may even be thinking that that old guy up here. Yeah, he's religion is for an old guy. Yeah. Hey it is. I'm glad, frankly. But I wish I'd got saved when I was younger. I was saved when I was twenty eight, twenty nine. And uh I wish I got saved when I was younger. I'd been a whole lot better husband, a whole lot better dad, having that foundation when I was young. But You know, God can take you where you are, right where you are, save you, make a new creature out of you and and give you a new life. And from that point on, it's you know, it's all downhill because he's helping you make the decisions. Are you saved tonight? Do you know, you know, like blind Barnamaeus? You know who Jesus is, because I've just told you he's the Son of God and He's a Savior and He'll save you if you'll come to Him And if you know that much, it's enough for you to get saved. Now here's the thing. Just like the there's a there was a poem. I I read that let me read this uh this little little poem. I don't even know who wrote it. But I just like the thought. So you think about it as I read it to you, it's real short. There is a line. By us unseen that crosses every path, the hidden boundary between God's patience and his wrath There is a line by us unseen that crosses every path The hidden boundary between God's patience and his wrath. You see, you have the opportunity tonight to trust Christ as your Savior. Just like Barnabas, he sat there. He he could have yelled out, Jesus, thou son of David, and the people said, Shut up. He's He's teaching, you shouldn't interrupt him. He could have kept his mouth shut, Jesus walked by, and he could his whole life would have been different than what he had when he trusted Christ. Tonight, your life can be different If you're willing to receive Christ as your Savior.