Second Peter chapter one, I'd like for us to look at verse number nine. The Bible says, But he that lacketh, and here's this little phrase again. We looked at this a few a week or so ago, a couple weeks ago But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins He's blind and he's forgetful. And it's possible, for according to this passage, it's possible for a Christian to become blind and forgetful. So let's stop, we'll pray, and then we'll look at this and see what Peter's talking about here. See how it applies to our lives. Father in heaven, I am grateful for a good day today. And Lord, you sure met with us this morning. Lord, this morning's services were good for me personally. And I pray now as we've assembled together tonight, we have our Bibles open. And I'm asking, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would use your word and speak to our hearts again And I pray you would prepare us for this week that lies ahead, or we don't know what we're going to face, or we don't know what is in store in the coming days, so we ask that you would prepare us I pray we grow in our faith, and I pray as individuals and as a church, we would be very strong in our commitment to you, our faith in you. And that we would um uh uh add these things to our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's two aspects, Peter's pointing out here, I believe, two aspects of the Christian life that are extremely important. One aspect of the Christian life, and we really need to learn to do this. We really need to work diligently at doing what I'm about to say, and that is this. We need to learn to claim the promises of God. Claim the promises of God. There are so many Christians that are struggling, that are frustrated, that are borderline angry, that are discouraged. And they haven't learned to claim the promises of God. Notice, if you would, there in verse number four, and we looked at this a month or so ago. But he says, the first part of four, he says, whereby are given unto us, now look at the wording here, exceeding great and precious promises. God has given us some tremendous promises, all through Scripture, and we need to learn to by faith simply take God at His Word. He promises something. Don't argue with it. Don't try and explain it away. Just take God at His Word. Here's a little helpful tip. God means what he says, and He says what He means. He gives us a promise. Claim that promise. Learn. To claim these great, exceeding great and precious promises. I believe it might change your disposition. I believe it might help you face trials and difficulties in life if I could just learn to claim the promises of God. I put this down, if I learn to claim the promises of God, it'll give me assurance in my life. And by that I mean this, assurance of salvation. Listen, I have no doubt in my mind. I am absolutely convinced That if I died tonight, God forbid, but if I died tonight, I am certain I would go to heaven. Not hell, heaven You say, well, who do you think you are? You think you're some super pious, self-righteous? No, no, no. You say, oh, you're a preacher. You think you go to heaven because you're a preacher. No. Uh I ain't going to heaven because I'm a preacher. I'm not going to heaven because I have any goodness of my own. I'm going to heaven because God promised. And I put my faith and trust in him, he'd forgive me of my sin, and he would assure me of a home in heaven. Now that's just a promise of God. Just take it. And it gives us assurance. I'm glad I can lay my head on my pillow tonight after I turn the radio down a little. And I'm glad I can lay my head on the pillow tonight and not have to worry about whether I'm going to heaven or hell. I can claim God's promise. Just take him as word. It gives me assurance of my salvation. It gives me assurance of God's acceptance of me. You know, there's a lot of religion out there. And a lot of that quote-unquote religion teaches us that we have to have a works-based acceptance. And what I mean by that is this. Well, I have to do this and do this and do this and do this so that God will accept me And I can't do this, and I can't do that, and I can't do this, and I can't do that, so that God will accept me. If I don't do this, God won't accept me. If I do these things, then God won't accept me. I'm telling you, that is not biblical at all God accepts me on the promise that when I trust Christ, I am in Christ. And He accepts me on the basis of who and what Christ is. Not on anything I may or may not be. I'm not rejected on the basis of my failures. I'm not accepted on the basis of any quote-unquote good thing I may or may not do. I'm accepted in Christ. That's a promise of God. Gives me assurance that my soul is saved. God accepts me. Gives me assurance of uh of my future Of my future. William Carey said, great statement. He said, the future is as bright as the promises of God. He had learned that important practice of taking God's promises at face value. If God promised it, then it's true. So claiming the promises of God, these exceeding great and precious promises, gives me assurance, gives me hope Anybody know Romans 8. 28? And we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. I'm going to claim that promise, and that gives me hope for the future. God's going to work things out. God's in charge. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? That's a promise of God that He can lead me and direct me in the days ahead. Gives me hope. Psalms 27:14: Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. What a promise. Joshua 1. 9. Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. I like what Laura said. I'm not alone even if I'm the only one in the room. These are promises of God. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. We just got to take God at His word, claim these promises. Gives me assurance, gives me hope, gives me confidence. That I can live this life, that I can, that I can have the joy of the Lord in a sin-sick world. And I don't have to be miserable and hateful and angry. It was such an angry world. Philippians 4 13 says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And if you look at the context, Paul is talking about whether I'm in uh uh uh abase, I have nothing, I'm in a prison, or whether I have all things, I can do all things for Christ, regardless of what my circumstances are. I can have the joy of the Lord I think if we just learn that one thing, learn to claim God's promises, take them at His Word. I think it'd make a world of difference in our Christian lives. So one aspect of the Christian life that's extremely important is claiming the promises of God. Just taking them at face value. I'm going to believe it. I'm going to stake my whole life and everything on the promises of God. Second aspect is we need to learn that we need to carry out our God-given responsibilities. God gives us all these tremendous promises. We praise the Lord for them. We take them. We claim them. We live our lives based upon these promises of God. But at the same time, we are given some, as believers, we're given some very specific responsibilities For instance, as a Christian, I've been given the responsibility that I'm to meditate in this book on a daily basis. God has given me the responsibility to study His Word and learn it and read it and meditate on it and ingest it into my mind and my heart and my thinking and my living We've been given the responsibility to pray for one another. As one of the most important ministries of the church, I know I say all this ministry is the most important but an important ministry of the church is us praying for one another. Lifting each other up in prayer. We're given a responsibility to die to self. Somebody says something that crosses me. Somebody does something that I could be offended by. But God gives me the responsibility that I'm to die to self and not take offense and not react. Every time somebody treats us unkindly, if someone's hateful to us, or they curse us, or they revile us, Jesus said that's an opportunity for you and I to be a disciple. He told us in the Sermon on the Mount: a disciple blesses those who curse them Does good to them that despitefully use them. Pray for those that revile them. Every time somebody says or does something, I have a responsibility. I can react as a disciple of Jesus Christ, or I can react as a worldly person of the world. And so we had responsibilities. We have these great and precious promises But we're also given numerous responsibilities on our part. We're responsible to live by faith, to love one another, and we can just go on and on. In verse number nine, he's addressing one of these areas of responsibility for us Notice what he says. He says, but he that lacketh these things. Now if you remember from a previous message, we noted that just about all of chapter 1, he keeps referencing these things, these things, these things. Here he does again. What are these things he's talking about that we uh he's addressing that we lack if we lack these things? Well, remember we said verse 5, 6, and 7, it's that list there Seven eight disciplines of the Christian life that we are, notice what he says in verse 5. Besides this, giving all diligence Add to your faith. That's our responsibility. Add to my faith, virtue, virtue, knowledge, knowledge, temperance, temperance, patience, patience, godliness, godliness, brotherly kindness, brotherly kindness, char And he says, He that lacketh these things. I looked up that word, lacketh. What's he mean here? It means this. These lists of eight Disciplines of the Christian life, faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity, these eight things listed, these things If I lack them, what he means by this is I do not have them in my possession. In other words, these, I'm not incorporating these disciplines into my life as a Christian. That word lactoth has the idea to let slip from my hand. I have them, I know what they are, I have them there, but I just let them slip from my hand. To not that they're not a part of my Christian life. The idea, I think, behind that word lack it there means to neglect. If I neglect adding to my faith virtue, then there's going to be some negative consequences. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. That means you have faith. You put your faith in Christ. You trust Him as your Savior. He says that I'm to add to that faith that saved my soul. I'm to add to that virtue, and then down the list If I neglect those things, if I lack these disciplines, if I just let them slip by, oh yeah, the preacher preached on them, I read them in the Bible, I know they're there. But I just let them go and don't address it and don't diligently add these to my faith. He says there's certain consequences. We have a responsibility in our spiritual development, in our spiritual growth. They don't just sit back and it just happens. Um I think one of the most important responsibilities I have as a Christian to is to invest diligently invest time, effort, and energy into my spiritual growth, into my spiritual development. Too often, we've seen it so often, somebody will get saved. They'll make a profession of faith. They'll trust Christ. And you know, if they're sincere, if they mean it when they call on the Lord, they get saved. Somebody asked me one time, they said, Preacher, you think all these people that are praying and calling on the Lord, you think they all got saved? I think everyone that meant it was serious about it. I think they got saved If they're just lying, just lipping it, of course, that's meaningless. But the problem is a lot of times they don't add to their faith these things. They don't grow. They don't pursue following the Lord and developing their Christian character And um I think that's one of the most important. You say, preacher, I've been saved for s 20, I've been saved for 43 years Wonderful, you still need to be working on growing. Amen. You just keep working at it, working at it. We're growing, growing. If I neglect these things, if I lack These things, if I neglect them, Peter tells us there's two results. And I'll end with this. I wanted to be brief tonight. I'm going to be brief every time I preach, seriously. If you knew my heart, but he that lacketh these things, now look what he says, number one, is blind and cannot see afar off. If I don't grow as a Christian, if I'm not diligently adding to my faith these disciplines here, these characteristics that he lists here that we looked at in depth. He says, I'll be blind. I cannot be afar off. That word blind air is interesting. It literally means to have your eyes clouded over. One of the definitions they use to illustrate what they were saying is like smoke coming across the front of your eyes. It's not the inability to see, it's the it's being it's having your sight blocked. Uh anybody here ever have cataracts? That film develops over the your eyes, develops over your eyes. And it happens slowly and you don't realize you are losing your eyesight. And that's kind of the idea here, a film or something comes in the way of my ability to see. In fact, the very next statement he kind of expands on what he means by blindness. He says they cannot see afar off. Um I had cataracts removed back in 2020. And um uh Uh uh I was talking to Helen yesterday about it as out there. One of the greatest things ever happened to me, besides my salvation and my marriage, was having my cataracts removed. I mean now it was like a whole new world. I wore glasses since I was thinking third grade. And I mean Coke bottle glasses. And uh in fact we there for a while in college, I didn't have any money, so I just cut the bottom of a Coke bottle off and wrapped wire around it. And um Man, they took that away and now I could see. I look at the last night I was looking. Anybody look at the sky last night? It was incredible. It was so crystal clear The blindness here is not the inner, it's not that the eye isn't functioning, it's that the eyesight has been Covered. There's a cloud there. I can't see through it. I think what he's saying, this is my understanding, is I Study this. I think he's saying that the Christian that lacks this spiritual development, virtue, knowledge, godliness, patience, temperance, he lacks all these things All he can he can't see afar off. All he sees is the here and now. I think King Solomon used this phrase to describe maybe what Peter's talking about. All he sees is what's under the sun. He just sees that which is temporal, just that which is material And because he hasn't developed in his faith, because he hasn't diligently added these virtues, these characteristics to his faith, he can't see beyond the material and the temporal. He doesn't see God, the God behind, beyond, that which is affecting me right now. He cannot see the eternal aspects of life. We live in a world that lives as if this life of 70, 80, 90 years, what God may give us, hundred maybe for some. We live in a world that can't see that beyond that is eternity. They live as if this is all there is. I only live once, go for all the gusto. I'm telling you, you might only live once, but you're going to spend eternity somewhere for a long time. And they're blind. They can't see beyond the here and now. Brother Dale kind of touched on it, but somebody, a loved one, dies. And of course our heart is broken. I'm not trying to minimize the grief that comes with it But I'm here to tell you if I'm growing a strong, mature Christian, I can see that death was not the end for that believer. I was we were down in Dominican and every evening I would that we were or where we stayed was right by the ocean and of the evenings we had services till about nine or so, nine thirty or we go back and before I went to bed I'd always walk out there. and the dark and out by the ocean. That sky was so incredible. And the ocean there. I think I'm gonna move back down there And one night, and and Bob Morgan had just passed away just as I had gotten down there. My heart was broken. I was in turmoil about what to do. I stood out there one night, I was looking up at their stars, and I looked towards the north. And it was just like God stirred my heart. And I thought, somewhere out there, it's my daddy. And Bob Morgan. They're out there somewhere. Listen, a person that doesn't grow, a Christian that doesn't grow and doesn't add these virtues, they're blind. They can't see beyond Just this life and what's here and now, and all their joy and happiness and all every their whole life is just based on what's happening here and now under the sun But as we grow, we're able to see beyond that. And I'm telling you, life is much bigger than the 70, 80 years we live here. And there's so much more to life than simply the physical and the material. There is a spiritual realm to our existence that far exceeds anything That this physical world can do for us. And we get so wrapped up in the temporal, and we get so wrapped up in the material. And we base all our joy and happiness and sorrow and anger. We base it all in the material. But we're blind and we can't see beyond that and see there's a whole spiritual realm. There's an almighty, all-wise God behind all of this. He said, He that lacketh these things, he that's not growing and not developing and diligently seeking to grow, he doesn't see that stuff. I always said that a definition of wisdom is be able to see beyond, to be able to see the consequences of my actions before I act. To be able to see, all right, if I make this decision, if I take this action, then this is going to be the consequences out there, and then I determine my action based upon what I know those consequences will be. That's being able to see afar off But an immature, undeveloped baby Christian, they don't see that. You see what this will do for me right now. And this will make me happy now, and this will get me what I want right now. And all they see is the here and now And they're unable to see beyond that and what the end result is of that. But a Christian that grows and develops and adds to their faith these disciplines here. They're able to say, hey, you know what? If I go down that road, I'm going to end up in that town. If I take this action, I'm going to end up with these consequences. And they're able to see beyond that Temporal and material things of life cloud out the spiritual and eternal realities of life And Peter says we need to diligently add these characteristics to us so that we do not become blind. We do not become narrow-minded. We do not allow the material, temporal things of this world to blind us to the spiritual, eternal realities. Then he says, forgetfulness. He that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. Now I know this this is obviously true, this is obviously a reality. Somebody can forget That God has forgiven them their sins. But I wonder how many people like me think, how in the world can that happen? I look at my life and I look back and I say, how in the world could I forget what God did for me? But it happens. And by the way, you and I do that. We forget. The word forget there, it doesn't mean they are ignorant that their sins are forgiven. It doesn't mean they didn't know that their sins were forgiven. Oh, they knew what God had done for them But this knowledge has been pushed out of the mind by other issues. Again, the temporal things, the things that are here and now I get so caught up in them that my knowledge of what God has done for me and how good He's been to me and the sins He's forgiven me, all that gets pushed aside by all the temporal here and now stuff. That's why I urge people be very, very careful about spending so much time worried about what's going on out in this stinking world. It's a hog pen. It is Sodom and Gomorrah. Jesus said the last days would be like Sodom and Gomorrah. They would be like the days of Noah. And we're all worked up because the world is like Sodom and Gomorrah and the days of Noah. And we ought to just stop and say, wait a minute, the Lord said it would be this way. Why don't we rejoice he's coming back again? And we let all that stuff cloud out and push out the spiritual realities and what the Lord has done for us. I tell you, just what the Lord uh let me just be personal here a little bit. Just what the Lord did for me on May 7, 1979 at 1039, that one thing he did for me is is makes everything else overshadows anything else that might happen in this world. God never did another thing for me. The fact he saved me from sin in hell, praise his name for all eternity. And we forget because we don't add to our faith knowledge or virtue. We don't add to our virtue knowledge. We're not working at growing in our understanding and doing right And being godly, being patient and disciplining ourselves, and disciplining our thinking And being kind to one another and loving people unconditionally. And we don't even think about that. We just push that all out, and we're all caught up in what we see and what's going on. And Peter said, you're blind and you're forgetting all that God has done for you. I read a newspaper account this week. About a fella, a young man, got married. He got married, guys. How about that? Someday. They don't look very excited This guy, a young fellow, got married. Listen to this. Apparently it's a true story. It's a newspaper account. If it's in the newspaper, it has to be true. This guy got married, they went off on their honeymoon, he came back, the day they got back, he went back to work the next day. His wife's at home. He doesn't get home from work three hours late. Dinner's burnt. She's furious. He forgot he got married. Went to his mom's place and went home. Forgot that he got married. How many people agree with me? That's a knucklehead right there. I tell you what, we've got Bible preaching churches full of knuckleheads. God saved us. He's forgiven us. And he gives us opportunity to grow in our understanding. He does so much for us. But because we don't develop our faith, because we don't grow and discipline ourselves Our thinking, our knowledge, all this list, these things, because we don't do that, we forget. All that God's done for us. We get the work. And Sunday night, praise the Lord, yes, amen. Say, preach it And Monday at work we forget all about it. We get caught up all that's going on. We say stuff we ought not to say. We do things we ought not, Christian ought not to do, because we've forgotten We're blind. All we can see is what's here and now. What we need to do is grow and develop. Are you with me? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to add diligently, add these things. to our faith and help us to study these, understand them, and then work and and and uh uh add them. I wonder how many with me tonight say, preacher I really need to add some virtue to my life. I know I'm saved, but there's some areas I really need to work on, make sure they're right. I let them slip. I know a little Here and there, some things I know I need to be careful about. Is there any like that? Preach or pray for me. Sure. If the it was truth was known, every one of us would say, Yeah, there's areas need work. Uh maybe knowledge, spending some time in the Bible and Lord teaching me of Himself. Teach in my life. Maybe discipline myself, patience, and just the whole list. Maybe tonight we come and say, Lord, help me to not lack these things, but diligently work at growing and developing them. Father, bless our invitation. I ask you to Use these thoughts to help us. Young and old, in Jesus' name, A