Second Corinthians chapter four. I did try to preach through the book of Second Corinthians in our in our new church, Tionga. Uh sorry, Bring Independent Baptist Church there and I think I made it to uh chapter eight before we came home on furlough and I remember going through and coming to this passage and just thinking Uh this phrase, something that I've I've read it many times and really trying to get a And a handle on it. And so Lord willing it can be a help to us tonight. The title of the message is Blinded to the Gospel. Blinded to the Gospel. You have your Bible there in 2 Corinthians chapter number 4. We'll begin reading in verse number 3. It says, But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. Keep going. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of the darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Let's just pray again quickly. Father, we love you and thank you for this evening, Lord. Pray you would help us to To be an encouragement and a help tonight and speak to us and help me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen We're going to look at some enemies of the gospel. Enemies of the gospel. Number one enemy, I think is straightforward here. It says in verse number four, in whom the God of this world. Thank you. That the King James Translators put a small g there. That's a small g, hello. But the fact that uh the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, said that Satan is the God of this world. Now, uh some folks don't think that they're they're they're following Satan, but there's only two kinds of people on the earth. There's folks that are following Jesus and folks that are following the devil. Now they don't be you know realize there's not a lot of people in America that are actually going to states and worshiping churches, but uh the Bible says that He is the God of this world. And if they haven't chosen to repent of their sins and put their faith and trust in Christ, then by default they are following the devil. They don't realize it. Why? Because the Bible says they are blinded to the truth He is the God of this world. Now, he's not the one true God, but for every person who is not following Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior They don't realize it, but he has them blinded and he's like lighting l leading those blind little sheep, you know, or goats or whatever you want to call 'em. All we like sheep have gone astray. The Bible says sheep are really dumb animals. They need a shepherd. And if they're not following the true shepherd, they're following something else. And the Bible calls him the God of this world. He is powerful. He's manipulative. And he's smart. Very, very smart. We know that Satan, the Bible says God created him, a powerful angel, angel of light, Lucifer. Light bearer, it means. So I think if Satan has been around for thousands of years, thousands of, you know, he was created by God and he knows people. He knows people very well. He should have figured out by now how to trick people. And the Bible says here that He is blinding them. Now, interesting it says blinding, but it doesn't say their eyes are blinded, does it? It says he's blinded the minds of them. So I look up that word mind comes from the word Numa has the idea of uh the the the that which is the product of an intellectual process. Your thoughts your thought processes So what Satan is doing is basically tricking people to think the wrong thing. He's getting the your mind is very important Now we know believing in Jesus Christ, that's uh it comes from our heart. The Bible says, uh, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. But the mind you have to hear the word of God first. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God Now there was a learning process when I got to Papua New Guinea because I would ask people, are you a Christian? And almost two man they said yes. And I said, What what makes you think that you're a Christian? Because I'm just looking at them. They don't go to church. They don't believe the Bible. Oh I believe in Jesus. And that's what they would tell me. So then I'm trying to figure out, well, who is this Jesus that you believe in? Because he's not the same Jesus that I believe in. Because your Jesus seems to let you do whatever you want and live however you want and still claim to be a follower of him. But my Jesus says, take up your cross and follow him. My Jesus says you're going to be different So it looks to me like one of the master uh tricks that Satan has played upon the world today is to get them to believe in the wrong Jesus. There's a lot of false uh preachers and teachers today who are preaching and you'll see them on the television and you'll see all these different uh things that they're promoting. But the Bible says if our gospel be hid is hid to them that are lost. Why are they so confused? What they think They believe in Jesus. It says that he's blinded the minds of them which believe not. Blinded their minds. They're just a bit confused. I remember when we got back to America and I was gonna make coffee for the first time we were staying at a camp in Alabama, my mo my wife had picked up some some sugar, so I went into the the kitchen area there and and I was looking for the sugar and I had my glasses on, but anyways Uh I could not find it. I looked through the covers two times. Now I've been in Papua New Guinea for several years, so now I'm back in America. Everything looks different And I'm still looking, looking. I go and tell her if no sugar. She says it's there. So I go and look through finally I find a bag that says coconut sugar on it It's no wonder I was looking for the wrong thing. I was looking for this container type of thing or it was packaged all differently I think that Satan is using the packaging of the world to promote a false Jesus. When you look at uh a a lot of the way that the churches are today, they're sort of like uh glorified discos. Or g or or like tame down nightclubs or something like that. Truly sad. And they're preaching Jesus, right? But it's a different kind of Jesus. The apostle Paul said if there's any other gospel than what I'm preaching, another gospel, another of a different kind, let him be accursed. Satan is promoting a false Jesus. Right. I told you this morning we have twenty-six different denominations in my town, right? And they're all preaching Jesus. They're all preaching Jesus. Some preach Jesus and baptism, some preach Jesus and speaking in tongues, some preach good works and Jesus on the side, some preach join our denomination or you're going to hell and Jesus. But they're all mentioning Jesus Do you know you do do you not think that Satan is involved in that? And he's using a false gospel to blind the minds of them so that they don't understand, they don't see clearly. I remember when I was about oh ten or eleven years old. And the teacher told my mom that I couldn't see the chalkboard very well. That's always a good sign. So she took me to get uh my eyes checked and lo and behold I needed glasses, as you can see And I remember the first day wearing my glasses and going out to the playground and I looked at my teacher and I said, the trees have leaves on them Now, I knew that the trees had leaves on them because I'd seen them when I got really, really close to them. But I never realized you could see actually the leaves on the trees without being really close to them Before everything was just fuzzy. I think Satan is promoting a fuzzy Jesus. Like a like a like a a a teddy bear or something like that. What do you mean? Well, we have we have people promoting today that uh God wants you to have your best life now Oh God God we have people that are uh oh let me see, what did I write down here? I should look at my notes. They there's people today that are promoting uh Jesus who's a genie in a genie in a bottle. You just pray and ask him for anything you want and he'll give it to you. But we preach a Jesus who says, Take up your cross and follow me. We have people today preaching a Jesus who says, anyone can go to heaven who simply acknowledges that Jesus is a real person That's what they do in Papua New Guinea. They say, I I believe in Jesus. What about Jesus do you believe in? Oh, he's a real person. He he really did live and die. But it hasn't changed their life. It hasn't become real. It hasn't become an impacting thing in them. They're saying anybody who who just acknowledges that Jesus is a real person is going to go to heaven But what we preach uh a Jesus who says, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. We we we have people who are are seeing a Jesus who is the product of the social gospel So if you will just help other people, then you're a good person. You're you're good enough to go to heaven. What do we preach? For I say unto you, except your righteousness should exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall all uh ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Isaiah 64, 6, but we're all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags. And your righteousness are as filthy rags. We're preaching that there is no way that you can ever be good enough. There's no way that you could ever be righteous in God's eyes. No, your goodness is not enough. There's people today that see Jesus says as a result of Billy Graham's teaching that everyone who believes anything will end up in heaven. I don't know if you've seen him say that, but he has. It wants to partner with everybody. The Catholics and the Hindus and and even uh maybe Muslims and all of those people. 'Cause we're all just part of one big happy family. Sorry, that's a different kind of Jesus than the one I'm following. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I think one of the techniques of Satan today is to confuse people about Jesus That's why it's so, so very important. On the mission field and here in America, we need to be much more clear about who Jesus is. What the Bible actually teaches about who Jesus is. Don't don't sugarcoat it. Make it clear. Appreciate what the Bible says the truth in love. But don't don't uh try to uh water it down. Don't try to make it palatable. Jesus is a very straightforward character in the Bible. And he always, yes, showed love to those people who were coming to him with a sincere desire for the truth. And those people who were self-righteous and those people who were uh arrogant and prideful He was quite strong with them. You pit of vipers. You're doing the will of your father. Ooh. He was pretty straightforward with those folks. And I'm finding in Papua New Guinea, the longer I'm there, the more and more straightforward I have to be. Because we have a lot of what they call skin Christians That that's a that's a that's a Papua New Guinea term, but I think you get the picture, right? It's on the outside. It's on the outside only How is Satan blind in their minds? I think he's blind in their minds. It says blind in their minds by confusing them about the gospel, confusing them about who Jesus is and what he demands. And the only way that we can fix that is by being clear with Jesus. And then I think the second thing that Satan is doing is distracting them. He's distracting. These are those people who are not believing, right? So the Bible says here he's blinded their minds, lest uh of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. So it's distracting them from seeing the light, sh from seeing the truth. I remember when I was uh I was going after my wife, okay? We were friends for three years before I realized that I was gonna have to work a lot harder if I wanted her to marry me. So at that time, uh I was working on my master's degree and she was an undergraduate student during her senior year of uh studying for a nursing degree. And so she had to do these clinical hours in the hospital and do all of her schoolwork and she was very busy and I wasn't allowed to see the undergraduates except in one place on the campus that was a like a cafeteria type place. And she only had time to see me on Saturday evenings. And I was working in a local church too on Sunday, so I was off the campus and different things. There was only one time a week I could see her And I wanted to marry her, right? And so when I went into that place on Saturday that's after not seeing her all week long and I was hoping to marry her that next, you know, school break, summer coming up the next And so she didn't know that yet, but I ha I had a plan. I had a plan. I was working. I only have so many sanities between now and then. You know, I've got to get in all the time and and uh you know woo her. So anyways. When I went into that eating establishment, I only saw one person. I mean there was other people there, but my focus, I was like laser focused, alright? I wanted to see her, and so I would walk in. I would see people but they were just like like sort of like I don't know what you would call it like statues or something. They might say hello or whatever and I was like okay okay okay where's the one you know And finally I would see her. Oh man. Woo! I was excited. I didn't see anybody else the rest of the night. It was just her You know what Satan is doing today? He's getting people's focus off of Jesus Christ He's getting their focus into all different kinds of entertainment. Oh my, don't we have enough entertainment? And everything is at our fingertips. We have all these different services you can get and you can watch Now you can pay just a little bit of money and no no commercials and you can just watch and watch and watch and watch and you can watch probably the rest of your life and never take a break. There's so much stuff on the internet So many shows, so many prerecorded things, and you can just go from one to one. It's no wonder people don't see Jesus. They're so focused on the things of this world. So much in America's It's terrible, but over there they still have it. They're getting phones, they're getting internet, they're getting data and stuff like this. One of Satan's techniques is to get people's focus off of Jesus. That's why it's so important. So important that we put Christ right directly in their face. I'm I'm sort of like uh this uh confrontational evangelism type of thing People are not looking for Christ. You have to put Christ in front of them. Satan, the Bible says, has them blind. He has them distracted by uh if it's not entertainment, it's sports, which could come under entertainment, right? And if it's not sports, it's politics, which come under, you know, well for some people that's entertaining, but for me it's just gross But if it's not a politics, then it's is this some kind of world disasters or some kind of news? Some people like eat up the news They just have to have it. 9 o'clock news, 10 o'clock news, 11 o'clock news. It didn't change. It was the same thing. I don't know if you notice that And a lot of the stories too, they're basically the same. But anyways. Oh goodness. The God of this world is very wise. He gets people so focused on other things. That's why when you do uh conferences, when you do activities, when you do outreaches, when you do uh uh uh the evangelistic activity for the kids and the teens What you're doing is basically what I do with my daughter Abigail sometimes. Say, Abigail, can you get me the ketchup out of the refrigerator? I mean it's right there in the shelf. So I will sometimes I love you, Abigail. You know it's true. I'll go and I'll get her head and I'll Go like this and I will point at it. Oh man, she was reading the labels on the back of all the other things. She loves to read Sometimes we have to get people and force them to look at Jesus. It's like uh I I'm going to the Bill Rice Ranch next weekend, I was a counselor one time and they had an acrostic that they promoted Kemp stands for Controlled Atmosphere for the Ministry of Preaching. A controlled atmosphere for the ministry of preaching. If you can get people under the sound of the gospel. And get them to focus long enough, the Bible says the glorious light of the gospel can open their eyes to the truth Satan has them so uh uh confused by the thousands of denominations and thousands of of varieties of Jesus and he has them so uh distracted by all the entertainment and things and all that it takes It's just to give them the focus long enough to hear the pure and the plain gospel of Jesus Christ. Here in verse number five, we we see the promoters or the defenders of the gospel. So we saw the the enemies of the gospel. That was Satan and the false teachers, which I didn't talk much about the false teachers, but that's verse one through three. And then we see the protectors and defenders of the gospel as the true preachers. Verse 5, for we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord in ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. Ourselves, your servants, for Jesus' sake. Now I remember when I went to Papua New Guinea, I was so excited I'm gonna preach and I'm gonna teach and they're gonna get saved And many times we do focus on that, we sort of like to leave off that second half of the verse. Ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. Wow. When we preach the gospel without a desire to to love them and serve them, it comes across as uh as a very uninteresting and distasteful thing many times. But when they see your heart, when they see your willingness to wash their feet As Jesus did. Wow. That makes the gospel so much more uh palatable. We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus. The focus is not on us, it's on Jesus Christ. And as a missionary, you know, li uh pastor mentioned something. Sometimes missionaries we get, you know, on furlough or on deputation, it's it's sometimes a year or two or maybe even three years where you're going and Your face is on the your name is on the board and and you sort of get used to that and you go over there and think these people ought to like bow down and get saved right now. I'm the great white hope coming to preach Jesus. I remember the first time I went through the town of Kyunga. They had discovered gold back there in the late 80s. And only the white people that had ever been to that town were people coming to work for the the mining industry And so I would just be, you know, moving around the town. I didn't have a vehicle at that time, and they were looking at me like Thankfully none of you looked at me like that tonight. But anyways, sometimes I wish I could just walk around with a mirror so they could like look at themselves. But anyways. I realized what I had to do was to show them that I was not there for the resources, I was not there for the money, I was there for them. So you of course we just start preaching uh in the market areas and start preaching around the towns And uh they started to realize that I was a missionary after a while and that that that helps. They would go like this until I got up to them and try to shake their hand and then they would smile really big So that was a blessing. Ourselves are servants for Jesus Christ. A servant's heart. Wow, that's what we need. Verse number six, for God who commanded the light to shine out of the darkness has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So what is God going to do? What is God going to do when we preach the gospel? The Bible says the same God The power. For the gospel is the power of God unto salvation, right? There is power in the gospel. And to illustrate that, the Apostle Paul used this Illustration, he says, the same God who commanded the light to shine out of the darkness. Now, does anybody know how many miles the the sun is from the earth? We have uh ninety-three million miles, something like that. Okay. And does anybody know how fast is the speed of light? Yeah, I don't either, but I googled it. It says it takes eight minutes and twenty seconds for the light photons or something to get to the earth. Eight minutes and twenty seconds. So anyways, you know how the earth spins around and when you're not facing the sun it's dark and when you're facing the sun it's light, right? So obviously the light comes from the sun, right? So what day did God create the s light? Like day one. And God said, let there be light and there was light. And God saw light that it was good. And he separated the light from the darkness. In the morning and evening was the first day. And then there's day number two, and then there's day number three, and then there's day number four. What did God make on day four? The sun, moon, and stars. What kind of God doesn't know how to create properly? I mean he created the light before the sun. And we all know that the sun comes, the light comes from the sun. So, anyways, that same God that can do that, He can open their eyes. Your job is not to open their eyes. Your job is to give them the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it doesn't matter how blinded and how uh you know what kind of skin color they have or what color hair color they have or how many rings they have or how many tattoos they have That doesn't matter because it's not your job to open their eyes. Your job is to give them the gospel and the same God that can create the light before the sun, he can open their eyes. He can open their mind. Because it's his gospel. We just have to present it clearly. Don't water it down. Don't try to make it tasty. No, just give it to them straight. We're all sinners. We all deserve to go to hell. But God in his great mercy wherewith he loved us. Amen. He provided a way through Jesus Christ. If we will repent and believe the gospel. So then it says here in verse number Seven, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels, and that treasure is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The treasure is not you, friend. The Bible says you are the earthen vessel. And if you look we think of an earthen vessel as as a as a like a clay pot or you know pottery type of thing. Very breakable Now you can uh you can fire them and you can coat them, but still you drop one in the wrong way, it's gonna crack, it's gonna shatter. And some of them do last for a long time, but The point of uh the the word here is that this is a type of item that's breakable. It's it's easily damaged. It's made out of dirt. I mean, that's what God created us out of, right? The first man anyways. And so that basically means all of us sitting here tonight we're we have God breathed into us the breath of life. So that makes us like a dirt bag full of air, the breath of life, or something like that. So when you look in the mirror and you think about I need to give the gospel If you take yourself all out of it, and that's that's where humility comes in, and you focus on Christ and being a servant And realize I'm nothing but the gospel is everything. It contains the power of God unto salvation. If I can just get them to focus long enough for me to give them this Wow. God can open their eyes. There's power. They're also the same God that commanded the light to shine out of the darkness. has shined in our hearts to give what's the purpose of that? Him shining in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Friend, God didn't save you to sit on the shelf To be a you know, uh a trophy type thing. No, you're a you're a vessel and he wants to use you, he wants to work through you, he wants to speak through you. Sometimes when I'm preaching I tell a lot m a lot of stories about Papua New Guinea and um tonight I didn't tell a whole lot but you got to see the video. And there's some young men there, there's some ladies there. Uh so many stories of lives being changed. Not as many as I would like to to have, but there's some and it it's incredible. I think of one I think of one and I'll share it with you and then I'll be finished. Uh Brother Wamida, he's the he's preaching on Sunday mornings at uh the church we left there and He came and uh he was coming from a different denominational background, but he was just tired of it, wasn't finding fulfillment And he heard about the Bible Institute, so he came, and one of his uncles was was helping me. The older man that you saw preaching in the market was his uncle so he came in. Before he left his village, uh the teacher of his Bible institute that he was leaving came to him and said, If you leave this place You will never preach in any of these villages if you go to that one. He said, I'm trying to follow God. If that's the price I have to pay, then that's it So he came and he stayed with us and then when I came home my last furlough we uh he went back. He went back and they were begging him please. He he had he'd come through the Bible Institute and they were begging him come and preach for us and do this and that and automatically they made him a pastor, but uh there was some things going on in the churches down there. He was trying to straighten them out. He found that he couldn't straighten them out. But um I said, brother you just need to leave and come and and become independent baptists. So when we came back this last time he said, Can I come back and help you? I said, Yeah, you can come back So he came back and he's uh he's helping us and he's straight on the word of God. Uh I'm really thankful. He is He doesn't play any games. Sometimes as an as an outsider, you know, I feel a little bit awkward preaching on giving or something when they're making, you know, on average, you know, fifty dollars a week or something like this and it's But man, he will just give it to him straight and uh that's a blessing. And I remember before I left, uh Brother Wamida said, Thank you so much for coming Thank you so much for preaching the truth. Now we have something to stand on. Now I have something to preach that I believe in. And that's the power of the gospel And I do pray that you will make it your number one goal that you are going to give the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we'll see more and more people who the Lord will open their eyes. Pastor, you come and conclude the message.