Um I want you to know I'm well aware of the time and I pay no attention to it whatsoever. But no, no, I'm joking. I promise we'll be out by ten and uh so don't worry about that. Second Kings chapter four, verse number forty two Oh, by the way, I was gonna say this. I preached this past Tuesday up in Erie PA and uh had the privilege to preach just before uh James Earl's. May you know him an old uh fundamental warrior uh for years, old black man out of Pen out of Virginia and just a great guy. And the guy that preached me for me was a black guy out of Pittsburgh and I I told him, I said, I feel like an Oreo cookie up here right between these two guys. And I said, But I'm the creamy center that everyone likes to lick. And uh so I don't know what that meant, but um We did have but the funny thing about it was I was going to say during our testimony time the fellow before me, Brother Beckley was his name, uh, he said uh he says they have testifying in their church and he says sometimes we have test a lying He said people get up give testimony. And uh he said a guy said, That guy's lying, I know him, that ain't true. So we don't want any test of lying going on around here. 2 Kings 4 verse 42. And there came a man from Baal Shalisha and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits. And he said, Give unto the people that they may eat. And his servitor said, What should I set before? A hundred men What shall I set this before? A hundred men? And he said again, give the people, that they may eat. For thus saith the Lord, they shall eat and shall lead thereof. So he said it before them. I'm going to speak this evening on bread from Baal Shalisha. I think we need the monitors up just a little bit if we could do I think a rapture took place in the sound room and so let's pray together and uh ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we uh thank you, Lord, for uh the word of God. I ask that you would Speak to our hearts now and um uh uh challenge us, open our hearts and minds. Lord, I yield myself to you and uh I present my body anew and ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Help me get to the point Here, Lord, and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Throughout the Old Testament, you find gospel truths are just hinted at through different events taking place in the Old Testament. Um I think what God does is in the Old Testament, he uh has things take place Point towards what Jesus was going to be like, what their Messiah was going to be like. They're pointing and showing events that uh uh are going to reveal to them a little bit what the coming Messiah is like. So uh so you have these little hints here. And I think we see that in 2 Kings chapter 4, verse 42 through 44, where you have a multitude. Is miraculously provided for by a small bit of food that is giving. And of course, that reminds us of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think the Lord is showing to his people Hey, this is what it's going to be like. This is what you can't anticipate when the Messiah comes. Miracles. Provision. And the fact of the matter is, throughout the Bible you see Repeatedly how God provides for his people. I'm telling you, if you ought to be in the habit of reading your Bible every day if for nothing else, it's simply For the uh uh for the encouragement you get as you read three and through and see how God provides for his people. I don't know about you, but I've got some needs in my life. Anybody here? Have some needs in my life. I read my Bible and I see, well, God is able to meet needs. God is able to provide. I like Psalm 3410. I claimed this verse through Bible college so many times. It says this, for the young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. You know what the Lord's saying here? He's saying if you'll seek God, God will take care of you. It's the same principle as Matthew 6, 33. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. God's people can be sure that God will take care of them. We don't have to worry about that. So we see that. Now let's look at this text and I want to get right to it real quick. Number one I notice here that we have an anonymous donor. An anonymous donor. Look at verse 42 with me. And there came a man from Baal Shalisha. The interesting thing is we're not told anything about this man. We don't know his name. We don't know anything about his family. We don't know his background. We don't know necessarily what tribe he is from. We know nothing about his standing in society. Is he a wealthy man? Is he a poor man? Is he middle class? We don't know anything about his education. Is he a highly educated man? Is he simply just a common person? We don't know anything about this guy. In fact, as I studied this, I got the impression that Elisha and his assistant, his servant Gehazi, they knew nothing about this God This guy just shows up. Where are you from? I'm from Baal Shalisha. What are you doing here? I got something I want to get. This anonymous donor, who we know nothing about, who Elisha and Gehazi no doubt knew nothing about, the fact is he was known to God. God knew who this guy was, and God knew what he was doing. All through history, God has a great host of men and women Who he has used in great ways who never make it into the books of history God has people all through history, people who, as far as the history of man is concerned, are unnamed Are unknown, yet God used them in tremendous ways. I want to suggest to you, and we touch on this periodically here in our church, there are people in this church whom God is using in ways that we perhaps may know little or nothing of. God has used people in your life, in my life, who have affected us that we never really gave them a whole lot of thought. So here you have this anonymous donor. He shows up Unknown to anybody, and he makes this donation of the spread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley, four ears of corn, and the husk thereof. And so there are ex uh uh exceptional men and women who serve God. People who Not serving God for fame and not serving God for fortune and not serving God for attention and acclaim, but they're serving God simply because they love God. And I tell you, I would far rather have a church full of people who really don't care who gets the credit as long as Jesus Christ is glorified. Just anonymous donors. Now listen, I believe we have an obligation. If somebody does something for the Lord, I think it's right to recognize that. Amen? I think it's right. The Bible says give honor to whom honor is due. But if man doesn't necessarily recognize you, don't think it goes unrecognized. So I did all this and never got any attention. Hold it. Number one, if you're doing it for attention, you just lost your reward. And second of all, regardless of what your motive is, even if man doesn't notice it, God does notice it. I want you to keep your place there. I want you to go with me to a New Testament verse, the book of Hebrews, if you would. Turn here real quickly with me Hebrews chapter 6. I like to put this verse on a letter. If somebody does something and I write a letter, I don't always do it, but often I'll put this verse at the bottom of that letter. Hebrews chapter 6 And notice with me verse number 10. I hope this verse encourages you tonight. Hebrews 6. 10. Look at what the Bible says. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of what? So you do something for me because you love me. God's not unrighteous to forget that, which you have showed me toward his name. In that you have ministered to the saints and do minister. What is this verse saying? This verse is saying, God takes notice when people do things because they love him. Now no one else may notice that. No one else may know that you gave out X number of tracts. It may not make the sword of the Lord, but I'm telling you, it made God's paper. God recognizes that. So we come back here to 1 Kings, uh 2 Kings chapter 4. And we have this fellow. He's anonymous donor. Somebody gives an unknown gift. Somebody donates maybe a certain amount of money. And we've had that over the years. They'll make an unknown gift. But it's noticed by God. Somebody gives out a track and uh nobody appreciates you don't get any attention over that, but it's noticed by God, it's blessed by God. I had a roommate in Bible College and I made reference to him over the years And uh I've had interesting roommates over the years. And uh this one guy, my first year I showed up and we tried to do things for Lord and You know, Bible colleagues, there can be some carnal guys in Bible college, you know. I don't know about the girls, but there was carnal guys in Bible college And this one guy showed up and we were praying and trying to serve the Lord. And this guy, one day, walked in. His shoulders were back, his chest was out, and he said, Well, I did it. He said, okay, great. What'd you do? He said, I gave out a track today. He said, well, praise the Lord. He said, Yep, I just walked right up and took that track and just handed it right to the guy We said, man, that's great, wonderful. Yeah, I just wanted you guys to know gave out a track today. It was like, whoop-de-doo, man. We're glad you gave out a track, but man, you're what do you want, a standing ovation? And so you have this anonymous donor. He wasn't doing it for attention, he wasn't doing it for fame, he just loved the Lord and he made this donation. And second of all I notice here, not only would you have anonymous donor, but we have an unconventional offering. Now look at verse forty-two again with me And there came a man from Baal Shalisha and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits. Now, stop and think with me for a minute. The bread of the firstfruits, the instruction concerning bread of the firstfruits is given in Leviticus. And God was very specific on his instructions as to how the bread of the first fruits was to be given. The purpose, the place, the people were to be involved. And God was very specific. The bread of the first fruits. Now, this was in the beginning of the harvest time, the very first crop they brought in, the very first harvest, the first fruits taken from their investment. What is the very first before they ate any of it, before they put any up in storage, before they uh sold any of it, the very first fruits were to be taken and they were to be brought to the priests And they were to be brought to the temple in Jerusalem. Very first, before anything was used for sale, for sold or anything. They take those very first ones, they bring it to the priest to offer it. The priest takes it into the temple and offers it to God. That was the instructions by God. But there's a problem. The established religion in Israel at this time was not the worship of Jehovah, but it was the worship of Baal. And the priests were completely given over to idolatry. There were very few, if any, godly priests left in Jerusalem. From the king on down, everybody worshiped Baal, not Jehovah. And I would imagine that there was folks back then just like there is today That would say, and by the way, I want to remind you, they're in the midst of a famine. Come back up to verse number 4038 with me And Elisha came again to Gilga, and there was a dearth in the land. Last week we talked about the devastation of a famine. So here you have a country that's been in a land that has been in famine for seven years. They get some meager little harvest out of the dry parched ground. And this man, this anonymous man from Baal Shalisha. Takes the firstfruits of that meager, brawny little harvest And he brings it. But there's no priests that worship Jehovah to bring it to. The established religion of the land is Baal worship. Elisha is not a priest. Elisha is a prophet. They're not at the temple in Jerusalem. So I would imagine that there were people back then like there are people today who would have said, good. I'm hurting to begin with. I mean I barely got a harvest at all. There's no priest to take the first fruits to. There's the whole place is given over. Good. I don't have to give it. I need it for myself. Would you agree with me? There are probably people that thought that way. Would you agree with me? I know there's people like that today. Well, uh we got snowed in this Sunday. I couldn't make it. Praise the Lord, I don't have to give my tithe this week Not very funny, huh? But it's true. And so there were people who could have thought of ways, oh well, I can't bring my first fruits to the Lord. Tell the priests or a bunch of hypocrites, the whole country's uh going over to Baal worship. I don't have to give my worship. I'm off the hook But this guy from Baal Shalisha, and by the way, that name of that cow means the worship of three lords. No doubt had pagan roots. He comes and he says, No, God has told me to bring the first fruits. God has commanded that. I love the Lord. And here's the thing about love. Love is in genius. Love will find a way. This guy loved God. God told him to bring the first reason. Now the priests are gone, the worship at the temple's completely shot, can't do that. But I love the Lord. And even though my Harvest is very meager. I want to do what God says. Now I can't give it to the priest, like the Bible says. I can't take it to the temple, that shot. But there is a man of God here. And if I can't do it according to the letter, I will at least do it according to the Spirit. And I will find somehow to obey God. True love finds a way to express itself. And so though he can't do it exactly according to the letter, he does it the best way he can. What an unconventional offering. We don't see anybody else doing this. He's alone in his commitment to the Lord. And so he brings his offering to the man of God. Now let me stop and touch on something here. And that is this. What about paying, providing for a man to serve God in the ministry? I want to say to you, to provide for a man to serve God in the ministry is biblical. Now I'm not saying this out of I'm not saying this because I lack anything. I'm here to tell you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church treats Pastor Leatherman like a king. I'm saying that. I'm not preaching this because I lack anything or because I'm asking anything. I'm preaching this because it's biblical. And the Bible says that it is right to provide a salary, so to speak, for the Man of God, the one serving God. For instance, James, we hired him on for the summer. It is right for us to provide financially and material for him, materially for him, as he's serving God here in this place. Now, I know we understand this, and I know we're all on board with this, but it's important to remind ourselves that this is not just our idea. It's not something you're just doing to be nice. It is obeying the Bible. Now take your Bibles with me. I can see I'm not going to get through this message tonight unless y'all want to stay till ten. I didn't hear any amen. So come with me if you would, real quickly back to Come with me to 1 Corinthians, if you would. I know I'm preaching the choir on this. Like I said, we've been here 16 years next month. Do you believe that? 16 years next month. This church has provided abundantly for me. I thank God for it. I brag on this church everywhere I go. Have good yard to me. But I want you to notice what the Bible says on this subject. First Corinthians Is that what I said? Chapter 9. Look with me at verse 7. 1 Corinthians 9:7. Who goeth the warfare anytime at his own charges? And the implied answer is what? No one does that. Don't go to war. Our soldiers fighting, they don't go over there and pay by their own bullets and do all that, right? The government takes care of them. I don't think we take good enough care of them Well they don't have to go on their own charges. We take care of them, we provide for them, we give them salaries. So who goeth to warfare anytime of his own charges? The answer is no one. Who plants a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? The answer is no one. Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock? Now I'm not really into sheep milk, but um The idea here is, he's taking care of the sheep. He is able to enjoy the fruits of that. Alright? Are you with me? Everybody okay? Now let's read on. Say I these things as a man, or saith not the law the same? For it is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn Doth God take care of for oxen, or saith he altogether for our own sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written that he that ploweth should plough in hope. He that thresheth in hope should be partaker of that hope. For if we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things, material things, is what he's saying. If others be partakers of this power over you, are we not rather Nevertheless, we have not used this power, this authority to receive from you, but suffer all things lest we should be should hinder the gospel of Christ. Do you not there do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar? Even so hath the Lord ordained that they that preach the gospel should live of the gospel. So it's a scriptural thing for a church to take care of the preacher. It was a scriptural thing for this man from Baal Shalisha to bring this and give it to the man of God. That was appropriate. Come over real quickly if we would. I want to show you one more verse, 1 Timothy chapter 5. And uh notice with me verse 17. Now you understand in the Bible the pastor is given several different titles: elder, minister, bishop. Uh um what else? Pastor, uh notice what he says in verse 17, 1 Timothy 5. Let the elders Referring to the pastors, let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not mozzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward. So this guy was not out of line when he came and took this and gave it to Elisha. God has ordained that that's how those who serve in the ministry are provided for by those who benefit from their ministry. And so, and again, I'm not saying it's because of any lack on my part or any concern on my part on this. I'm simply preaching it because it's in the Bible, and our responsibility to preach the whole counsel of the Word of God Alright, so you're you're with me, alright? Everybody okay? Alright, good. Now let me quickly get on. Let me give you give me a minute or two here. And so we have number one, we have an anonymous donor This guy shows up out of nowhere. Not for glory or fame. God knows it. God honors him. Number two, you have an unconventional offering. He can't do it exactly where it said so. He loves the Lord. He figures out a way to do it. And by the way Let me use an illustration, and they'll hear this eventually. I'm sure they're okay with it. But we have a family who consider themselves uh very Very much so, as members of this church who it is physically impossible for them to attend this church. You know why it's physically impossible to attend this church? Because they live in Holland Now I don't know that that's that great of an excuse, but a ten-hour flight every Saturday and every Monday would be rough. So what do they do? And there's no Bible preaching church within a driving distance of where they are. And they believe, I talk to them, they believe they're right where God wants them to be. So what do they do? They can't. You say, well, don't face safe assembling yourselves together. Well, they have no one to assemble with. So you know what they've done? They love the Lord. And so what they've done is they say, all right, we can't fulfill that to the letter, physically impossible, so we will at least fulfill the spirit of that command. And so they form themselves as a little church, their family. And uh I think I've shared this with you before, but uh um they get together, they probably did, they listen to the morning service. It's evening over there when it was morning here. And so they get together and uh they turn the internet on and they they flip it to the channel where we are and um they sit down and they listen in When we have the opening hymn, guess what? They're singing along with us over on the other side of the pond. Isn't that something? They emailed me. They said, what hymn book do you use? We want to buy 'em so we can follow along and turn in the pages. when you turn the pages and sing with you. Isn't that incredible? And so they sing along. They said when we have handshake, they get up, walk around, shake each other's hands. That's what they told me they do. And um I I got wondering, I wonder how they do offering. Uh you know what? Offering time they pass a plate around and the kids get spankins if they don't put any money in the plate. No, not really. And they take an offering up. They've sent money over to our church here a number of times, supporting what we're doing here. And uh they listen in when the preaching's preached. They listen in, sit there with their Bibles open. When we give the invitation, they get on their knees around the sofa, get down, pray, respond to what the Lord put in their heart. Isn't that incredible Now they can't fulfill the letter, but they love the Lord. And so they say, we're going to find a way to obey God. One way or another, we're going to find a way to obey God. You know what grieves the Lord, I believe? is folks that look for ways to get out of obeying God. Huh? I wonder how many would say, well, we don't have any church to go to. Sunday we'll sleep in. Huh? I wonder how many folks, well, uh you know we can't do what God says So we look for ways to get out of doing what the Lord has instructed us rather than loving the Lord and saying, I'm going to find a way to make this work. And that's what this guy did. An unusual, an unconventional offering. And uh then uh tell you what, let's just end it right there. And all God's people said, Amen. Praise the Lord But let's not end it there. Let's ask God to take this and apply it to our lives. And carry it out with. Let me ask you a question. Your obedience to the Lord is a result of love for God. You say, I love God, I'm going to find some way. To obey the Lord. I'm going to figure out one way or another, I'm going to figure out a way to do what God has instructed me to do. Or is it the mentality, oh well. I can't do that, so I'm not, I don't have any obligation. That is the difference between loving the Lord and simply serving him out of obligation. You with me? Let's determine this week I'm going to find a way. I'm going to figure out a way to do everything God has instructed me to do. If obstacles come up, if difficulties come up, I'm going to figure out a way to work through them rather than just walk away from it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless us. Help us to follow this man's example. Just determine. Lord, we may be in a famine. It may be difficult to do what you've told us to do. But help us to love you, Lord. To such a degree that we determine we're going to do what you've instructed us to do. Whether it's finances, whether it's time, whether it's abilities, whatever it is, Lord. Help us to trust you and obey you. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, you know, there's some areas I've neglected, it's inconvenient, it was difficult. This evening, God has spoken to my heart, and I want to obey God. I want to figure out a way to do what I know it is the Lord wants me to do It's not easy, it's not convenient, but I love the Lord. And with His help and by His grace, I determine I'm going to figure out a way to do what I know God wants me to do.