Our theme this year is revival, and um I I obviously can't speak for everybody, but I know there's a A good percentage of our church members who have been praying along with me for revival Revival in our church. Uh revival in our homes. And uh as I started out I was praying and and don't misunderstand, I'm not I'm not saying we don't have a good church, we do have a good church. But it's easy to get in a rut. And it's easy just to go through the motions. Can I go to anybody know what I'm talking about? And that fire just sometimes if we're not If we don't stay on it, that fire dwindles down. And we need God to move on our hearts. We need God to move in our midst every now and then to rekindle that fire and get us up out of that rut And um uh get the sp get uh the spirit back in control, the Holy Spirit of God. And so we've been praying and uh for revival in our homes as the year progressed. I started out for the church. As the year progressed, my prayer for revival kind of shifted. I'm still praying for a revival in the church, but my prayer for revival kind of shifted prayer for revival in my heart. for me personally, and God disturb and and um reignite his fire again. And so with that in mind We've been memorizing verses on revival. And so this month's is Hosea chapter 10, verse 12 And uh I'd like for us to read together, if you would, verse number twelve again. I know we just quoted it and we just, Pastor Matt just read it, but I'd like for us to read that one more time. Together in unison. This is a revival verse in the Bible. Would you read it with me? Ready? Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy. Break up your fallow ground, for it is time to seek the Lord till he come and reign righteousness upon you. Very honest with you, you could preach a series of messages from that one verse. I have in the margin of my Bible, beside that verse, I have Galatians 6. 7. Be not deceived. God is not mocked Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. That's in that verse there, that principle, that truth. There's other truths here in this verse, but I want to zero in. Right smack dab in the middle of that verse, there's a statement And he says this: break up your fallow ground. Break up your fallow ground. That's what I want to try and preach on this morning. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we thank you. For your goodness to us, Lord, the music's been a special blessing to my heart. The congregational songs, the choir special. I just stand in awe of you, Lord. I just I am overwhelmed sometimes, Lord, by who you are and what you are, what you mean to me personally. And Lord, we need you this hour And Father, we are praying for revival. We want a new zeal. We want a new fire, a new love rekindled in our hearts for you, a new confidence. A stronger faith in you and what you've taught us in your word. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I don't want to impose my understanding or my will on your word. I want your will to be expressed from your word. And Lord, I yield my body to you and ask that you would fill me again with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. And Lord help us to break up our fallow ground, as we're instructed here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Book of Isaiah is a little bit, I use this word hesitantly, but a little bit of an obscure Book in the Bible. It's Old Testament towards the back half of the Old Testament. It's actually the 28th book in the Bible. And it is the first of a section of the Bible we call the Minor Prophets. And that's from Hosea all the way through Malachi. And when we say that this is a minor prophet, or these are the minor prophets, be careful you don't misunderstand what is meant by that term. They're not minor in significance, but they're minor in size compared to Ezekiel or Jeremiah or Isaiah, those are what we refer to as major prophets They're 50, 60 verses long, or chapters, I should say. And so these are minor in the sense they're not as long, they're not as lengthy, but they are profoundly important. Much of the teaching that's given to us, the revelation that's given to us by God about Himself, much of it has to do with future events, the second coming of Christ. The establishment of Israel as a nation again during a millennial reign. And so they're they're very, very significant. We're not told much about this man, Hosea. He's the penman, of course, God's the author, but he's the penman. We're not told a whole lot about his background. We're told if you come back to chapter number one there, we got his daddy's name. The word of the Lord that came to Hosea, the son of Beri. We're told when he ministered, when he delivered this message, when he was given this word from the Lord. It was during the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. And those were the kings of Judah, the southern kingdom, the divided kingdom. They were the southern half. And then Jeroboam, the son of Joash, the king of Israel, that would be the northern kingdom of the divided kingdom. So we don't know a whole lot about Hosea, what kind of man he was. We don't know exactly how he was raised, no doubt, in the faithful Jewish home, worship Jehovah As God had instructed, his name means salvation. Hosea, Hebrew name, means salvation. That's his name. It comes from the exact I'll just give you a little background, some information here. I always felt uh whenever a person comes to church, whenever I preach, I like for two things to take place. Number one, I'd like for people to learn something about the Bible. I want people to learn something about the Bible. And second of all, I want us to be challenged in our walk with God, to be stronger in our faith, closer to the Lord. So that's why when I begin the message, many times I try to give a little background and learn something about this. So Hosea, his name means salvation. It comes from the same root word as the name Joshua. Joshua means Jehovah is salvation. Joshua, Hosea is just salvation. Interesting enough The Greek form of the Hebrew name Joshua, the Greek form of that word, that name, is Jesus. Jesus. Jehovah is salvation. So his name is significant in that it means salvation. His ministry is somewhat unique. Hosea is used of God not only in his preaching, and this is his message Primarily, no doubt he did other preaching throughout Israel and various subjects and different times. This is the one that God inspired and preserved for us. And God uses his preaching, but not just his preaching, he also uses his personal life. As an example, as a demonstration of the truth God was trying to convey to the nation of Israel. Of course, he preached, but there's something unique about Hosea's personal life that God designed and told him right from the get-go. This is how it's going to unfold in your life, and the reason for that is so you can communicate a very important message to Israel. God instructs Hosea to marry a woman of, now I'm using the Bible term here. It's a strong word, it's an uncomfortable word He's to marry a woman of whoredoms. If you're in chapter 1 there, if you're still there, notice with me. Let me get back there. Notice with me if you would, verse number two. The beginning of the chapter one, verse two. The beginning of the word of the Lord by Hosea. And the Lord said to Hosea, Go take unto thee a wife of whoredoms, and children of whoredoms. Now look at this. This is why he's having this play out. For the land hath committed great whoredom in departing from the Lord. How many people agree with me? That's tough. I mean going into it knowing this is how it's going to play out. But God had a plan And God had the purpose. And Hosea was yielded to the Lord, and Hosea was submitted to the Lord, and allowing God to use him to communicate an incredibly important message. To the nation of Israel. His wife's unfaithfulness to him was a demonstration A visuals, an object lesson, if you would, a demonstration of Israel's unfaithfulness to God. Just like his wife was unfaithful to him, then he says, Israel, has you've been unfaithful to me And Hosea's faithfulness to his wife, and he was, you study the book, it's fascinating, his incredible faithfulness to his wife. Illustrate, illustrated to the nation of Israel, God's incredible faithfulness to Israel, even though they were unfaithful to him. I don't know about you, but I'm glad God is faithful even when I'm not. I'm glad that God loves me even when I'm not very loving. I'm glad I have a God that cares about me, even when I act like I don't care much about him. Hosea is a powerful, powerful message to the nation of Israel, not just in its verbal communication. But in the demonstration of Hosea's walk with God and his obedience to God, even in difficult circumstances. Just like Gomer, that's Hosea's wife's name, just like Gomer broke Hosea's heart with her unfaithfulness, her whoredoms Israel broke God's heart with their unfaithfulness to God and their spiritual whoredoms. I'm uncomfortable using that word, but that's a Bible word. Hosea demonstrated the unfailing love of God. for Israel in spite of the persistent unfaithfulness on their part. We look at the nation of Israel at the time that Hosea is delivering this message and demonstrating this message We look at the nation of Israel and they are in desperate need of revival. They are a backslidden cut nation They are far from God, and they are facing the chastening judgment of God. It's inevitable. He's warning them If you continue on in this spiritual idolatry, if you continue on in this spiritual unfaithfulness to your God, to your Savior. You continue on that. Chastisement in the form of judgment will come. It will come. They need revival. They're in desperate need of revival. We look at chapter 10 and verse 12, and again I see that little phrase, fallow ground. God speaking through Hosea to Israel, he says, you need a breakup. This fallow ground. Now I got looking up. What in the world is fallow ground? I'm not much of a farmer. I planted two tomato plants last year, so I know a little about farming. So I did a little research. What is meant by fallow ground? Some of you know, no doubt. Fallow ground, as I understand it, as I've come to find out, is ground that is left to itself and becomes very hardened. It is another definition I came across was uh defined fallow ground as hard, unbroken, unplowed ground. It uh fallow ground is unsewhable. Anybody you follow what I mean by that? Unsewable. I don't know if sowable is a word. But whatever if it is, that's what fallow ground is. In other words, give fallow ground. It's hard. It's packed. And you sow seed on that fallow ground, it cannot take root. It's too hard, it's too dried, it's too packed, the root can't get down in it, it's unsewable And if you sow seed on that fallow ground, the wind could blow it away, the birds could come and eat it. It cannot take root. It cannot bear fruit. So fallow ground is fruitless ground. It doesn't bear any harvest. It doesn't bear any crops. God says to Israel that they need to break up their fallow ground. Now I think we all understand when he tells Israel to break up their fallow ground, he's not talking about the fields. Israel was an agricultural economy through f flocks and sheep and herds types of things and then through crops they would plant. They were an agricultural economy Economy. And so they knew exactly what fallow ground was when Hosea pronounces this instructions from God. They knew exactly what he was talking about But he's not talking about their fields. He's talking about their hearts. Fallow ground here is a figure of speech referring to the hard hearts of Israel. That day over time and over continued unfaithfulness and persistent disobedience to God, that ground of their heart, that soil of their heart Began to get harder and harder and harder to the point where God would preach his word and it could not take root. It had little or no effect. Fallow ground. Fallow ground. By the way, and we don't have time, I would love to be able to spend some time on it, but we go to the book of Mark in the Gospels, and Jesus referenced Now he doesn't use the term fallow ground, but he references this hard soil, talking about the hearts of men. And he says, he illustrates with a parable, he says, a sower went forth to sow, and some of his seed fell on the pathway. The fallow ground, the hard, beaten down, packed dirt, and it couldn't take root, and Satan came. Snatched the seed away like a bird. He talks about other soil that's rocky soil. Oh, it takes root, but there's no depth to it, and it withers away when persecution comes and difficulty comes. And then he said there's other hearts, other soils. And uh oh the root uh the word takes root, but there's thorns and weeds and there's the cares of this world and pleasures of this world and distractions of this world and it takes away and the sun beats down and that seed withers and dies And then he went on to say there's a good soil, good heart, that is open to the Word of God and receptive to God's instructions and God's promises and God's will. And it receives it and it bears fruit a hundredfold. So when it's not unique to Hosea for God to refer to the hearts of men as a type of soil. In fact, there's other place, I think Ezekiel references. And so this fallow ground, God is referring to the hard hearts of Israel, his people. God had assured them of his love. Just like Hosea loved his wife dearly. God assured Israel that he loved them dearly. In fact, he loved them unconditionally. He had warned them of their sin He had sent Hosea, no doubt, and other prophets you read through during the same period of time, Isaiah being a very significant prophet. And they are preaching in the streets of Israel. And they are preaching from the steps of the temple. And they are preaching in the palace courtyard. And God is warning Israel, you need to turn from this sin. You need to turn from going your own way. By the way, I think our churches and our country could use some preaching against sin again. Not hateful, not harsh Loving, compassionate, but firm, preaching against that which is ungodly. And that's what Hosea is doing. That's what Isaiah is doing. That's what these prophets at this period of time in the history are doing. They're warning Israel. Israel's going down a self-destructive path. They've disregarded the Word of God. They've ignored God's promises, God's will. They've determined to do what they want to do. They determine I'm going to live my life the way I want to live. And no concern for God. And God warns them. A selfish life is a self-destructive life. And Israel's going down that road. He assured them of his love. He warned them of their sin. He warned them of coming judgment. However, he says they could avoid this chastisement, they could avoid this judgment if they would just address their condition. If they would just break up this fallow ground, this hard heart you've allowed to develop in your heart and soul, this hardness you've allowed to develop, if you'll address that, if you'll confront that. Break that up. God can restore them. And they can avoid chastisement. They can avoid this coming judgment. It's interesting throughout the book, God is about to chasten them, but he repeatedly assures them he will never forsake them. God does chasten. The Bible says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every soul. God Does what he needs to do to get us back in the place of the joy of the Lord and the blessings of God and the presence and power of God on our life He does what he needs to do and he chastens us. But we must never think, when God brings chastisement upon us, we must never confuse that with him forsaking us Just like a parent that loves their child that's gone astray and doing wrong and engaging in destructive behavior, the parent intervenes and brings discipline or chastisement or whatever you want to call it. Not to be hateful, not because they don't love them, but because they do love them, and they want to bring them back into the place of safety and well-being. God says, if you don't turn, judgment's coming. I'm going to correct you, but don't misunderstand that. I am not forsaking you. God never forsakes his own. I love Hebrews 13:5, one of the most precious verses in my mind in all scripture, and there's a lot of them. He has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee And that's what he's assuring Israel of. He said, I'm not going to ignore your sin. I'm not going to just overlook it. I'm going to deal with it. We're going to confront it. With chastisement. But I'm not forsaking you. Just like Hosea loved his unfaithful wife. He says, I love you, Israel, my people, I love you. God had assured them of his love. He warned them of their sin. He warned them of coming judgment. And if they would just address their condition. If you would look here, show to yourselves in righteousness. Reap and mercy, it says, break up the fallow ground. Break up. I thought what does he mean by that? It literally means this: plow it. Get the mule out, get that single blade plow, get behind that thing, and break up that hard ground. Break up that soil, till it In other words, he's telling them, make your heart receptive to the Word of God. Get your heart and mind in the condition where you're able and willing to receive what God has for us. Break up the fallow ground. I look at this and I see that we as individuals are responsible for the condition of our heart. He says, break up your fallow ground. Now sometimes we get worked up and we want to break up other people's fallow ground. Right? Boy, preacher preached that, I wish so-and-so was here. They need it why he preached What are we saying? We want to break up those other people's fallow ground, right? He says, break up your fallow ground. I'm responsible for this condition of my heart. If it's hard and packed, I'm the one that has to deal with that. I'm the one that has to face that. Break up your fallow ground. Um we need to get away. We have uh tell me if I'm right or wrong. We have a society that has developed the incredible ability to blame others for their own Failures. I mean from the top to the bottom. And I'm here to tell you, it's crept into our churches And it's crept into our Christian homes. And we blame everybody and everything else for our spiritual condition. And God says you need to break up your phalograph. It's a direct directed to the individual. See, well, if you knew what parents, if you knew what my parents were like, you know what why I have such a hard heart. Uh, it ain't your parents' fault. Well, if you knew what my spouse was like, she's this and he's that. I'm telling you, you don't have a hard heart because of your spouse. You with me? Well, if you knew all the hypocrites in our church, then you know why my heart's so hard. Well, you find a church that doesn't have any hypocrites in it, don't join it. You'll break the record. We as individuals are responsible for condition of our hearts. Now my first thought as I was studying this came to mind what are the characteristics of a hard heart What are the characteristics of fallow ground, a heart that's packed and hard and unreceptive to the Word of God? Proverbs 4 verse 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Our heart, the command center of who and what we are, the spiritual command center. Determines the issues of life, how I respond to life, how I live. Every area of my life hinges upon the condition of my heart. Our hearts are not designed to be cold, hard, insensitive, and uncaring. God didn't make us that way. That's not the way we're designed to function with hard hearts, cold, don't care about anybody but me. Insensitive to the Spirit of God. Now how do I know if I ha how do I know if I have fallow ground? How do I know if my heart is hard? Preacher, how do I know? I've found in years in the ministry, myself included, a lot of times The person with a hard heart is one of the last people to realize they have a hard heart. A lot of times don't even see it in myself. I think that's why James tells us to look into the perfect law of liberty, the Word of God, and look into the Word of God like a mirror, like a glass, is what the term James uses. And look at myself in light of the Word of God. And then I am able to determine the spiritual condition of my heart. If all I'm ever going to do is compare my spiritual condition with other people's spiritual condition, I'm never going to be able to accurately assess my condition. Because you can always find somebody that's worse spiritually than you are. And you can usually find somebody that's better off spiritually than you are. And by the way, if you ever get the idea in your head that you're the most spiritual, godly person in the body of Christ, you are wrong. And so how do I know if I have a hard heart? How do I know if this fallow ground is is in my heart and soul? I put a few thoughts down, and there's no doubt many others we could probably come up with I put this down. Disregard for the only way to God. Now hear me out. John 14, 6, Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There is no other hope of salvation. There is no other hope of acceptance to God. Other than through the Lord Jesus Christ. And if I disregard the Son of God If I disregard, I have little or no concern about this matter of salvation and the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have little or no interest in the cross and the empty tomb. And I don't care about any of that. It's a pretty good indicator I've got a hard heart. Pretty good. I get I knock on doors. I try to every week. I don't get out every week, it's pretty busy, but I try to knock on doors every week, door to door, working my way out towards Um Tarolda that wicked town of Terolda and uh I'm joking, and uh a little bit. And um How many times talk to somebody a little bit? Say, well let me ask you a question. Know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Not to hell? Know for sure your sins are beginning? Go to heaven, not to hell? How many times over the years I've heard people say this? I don't care about that. You don't talk to me. I don't I don't know. I don't get out of here. You know what that tells me? It's probably a hard heart there. Now I want to be a little careful. I want to qualify that. Sometimes it's not a hard heart. Sometimes it's a convicted heart. And they know it's right. They know they need it, but their heart's hard and they say, No, I know but I don't want it No concern for my own soul's salvation, no concern for my eternal destiny, no concern about my standing before my Creator and my God. No concern for my spiritual condition. I tell you, when a person is more concerned About the well-being of their dog than they are about their own soul, that's a pretty hard heart right there The person's more concerned about the condition of their car than they are about the condition of their soul and their standing with God. It's a pretty hard heart right there. Misplaced values, temporal pleasures. A hard heart is unconcerned about their soul's destiny. About their soul's condition. I put the second one down, the disregard for the only way to God, the Son of God. I put this down, a disinterest in the eternal word of God. The devil hates a Bible-loving Christian. The devil hates a Bible-reading Christian. And if he can get us to lose interest in the eternal word of God And we have little interest, or no interest, and we and uh we have no interest in God's word. I tell you what, that's a right situation for that heart to start getting hard Proverbs 1, verse 24 and 25 says this, because I have called and ye refuse. I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded. But ye, listen to this, ye have set at naught all my counsel and would none of my reproof. You know what he's saying? It's possible for a Christian to get to the point where they just push aside the Word of God. No interest, no concern about the eternal Word of God, the precious words of life. Maybe it sets on a shelf for days, weeks, months. Never cracked open. Never a verse memorized Never a passage read, never opening my heart and soul to the Word of God, and let God speak to me and feed my heart and strengthen me spiritually. Never letting that happen. Tell you what, that's danger of a hard heart right there. When TV and videos and hobbies and things and stuff Take a higher priority in my heart and mind than the Word of God. I'm in danger of a hard heart. God told Joshua in chapter 1, verse 8 and 9, he said, This book of the law, this book of law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Then your heart is hard, heart is broken up, and God can speak and lead and direct and help me. Well my heart is hard, and I push that aside. That's a bad place to be. Psalm chapter 1, the psalmist, God tells us through that very first psalm, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the stormful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf doth not wither. Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. I'm telling you, we get a we lose interest in this old book. And I tell you, I I tell you the number of churches that have church service and do not even open the Bible, it is a shame on the name of Christianity. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, this book is our sole authority. This book is our anchor. This book is our hope. This book is everything to us. It's the word of God. We lose interest in God's word. I tell you, we're in danger of a hard heart. A hard heart. Job said that he esteemed the words of God's mouth, the Bible, God's word. He esteemed the words of God's mouth more than his necessary food. I I I like to illustrate this way. I think what Job was saying was if he was going to be stranded on an island and he could choose between having the food he needed to stay alive or the word of God, he says, I'm choosing the word of God. Wow. Somebody asked me one time, they said, if you were stranded on an island, uh, what would you like to have? I said, I'd like to have a a book on how to build ships. So I get off that island. Never mind. A hard heart has little or no interest in God's will, God's word. The devil hates a Bible-reading Christian. Memorizing, meditating, living. So how do I know if I have a hard heart preacher? How do I know that I'm the one with fallow ground? Well, if I have no interest in my soul's salvation, that's a pretty good indicator. I don't care whether I go to heaven or hell. It's a pretty hard heart. If I have no interest in the Word of God, I'm disinterested in the Word of God, that's an indicator of a hard heart. I put another one down, indifference to the expressed will of God. Romans 12, 1 and 2 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, I'm pleading with you, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? Paul was telling those Roman believers the will of God is paramount importance in our lives. I may succeed in business, I may succeed in a hobby, I may be successful in family life, but if I fail in a matter of fulfilling the will of God for my life, I've failed. I don't care what God's will is. I know what I had a person sit in my office say this to me one time, years ago. They said, I know what the Bible says, but I don't care. Hard heart. Disregard for the will of God. Indifference to the expressed will of God. At the judgment seat of Christ, which every believer is going to be at, whether we like it or not, whether we know it or not, we're going to be there. The question is going to be: have I done the will of God for my life? Have I done the will of God? A hard heart has little or no concern for God's will. A fallow ground has little or no concern about what God, my Creator, designed me to do and live I don't care about that. That's where Israel is at. I put a fourth one down. How do I know if I have a hard heart? How do I know if I'm dealing with fallow ground? If there's a distance in my walk with God, I I don't this this is a little harder to express. Some of you are going to know what I'm talking about. But I become insensitive to the presence of God in my life. How many folks here you're saved, you know it. Say amen. If that's the case, and I trust it is Then you and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, people born again, we are indwelt by the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit of God indwells us. Even now, as I'm speaking, The Holy Spirit of eternal almighty creator God dwells in my body. And you if you're saved. And if I get to the point where I am, my walk with God, my fellowship with this God that indwells me, and it becomes distant, and I become insensitive to the fact that God's presence is in my life. And he's with me wherever I go. And he's a part of everything I engage in. And I'm becoming sensitive to the presence of God in my life. Tell you, that's the danger of a hard heart. Well, time we could go and look at the fellow in the Old Testament, Samson. I don't think people are familiar with Samson. Er And the secret, if you want to use that term, to his strength, his physical strength, was what? His hair. God had instructed from a child that he got a special plan for Samson's life, he had a special purpose, he had a unique way, he was going to work through Samson. Part of that involved him not cutting his hair. Now, before you guys get the idea, oh cool, I'm going to grow my hair long, he doesn't tell anybody else. It was only Samson he told to do that, alright? And Samson took for granted. Sam Ed, did you get a haircut? See that? No Samson. And uh praise the Lord for that. Listen, y'all are getting me off track. Samson took for granted, now hear me, he took for granted the presence of God in his life. It said of Samson more than any other Old Testament person, the Spirit of God came upon him, the Spirit of God came upon him, the Spirit of God came upon him, the Spirit of God came up Upon him, and he did phenomenal things Powerful things. But he took for granted the presence of God in his life, and he began to play with the women of the world. And he got joking around with the ungodly enemies of God. And finally, He let his hair be cut. And here's what I'm getting at. The Bible says, I'm using the Bible terminology, he wist not that the Lord had left him. He became so insensitive to the fact that he was a child of God. He became so insensitive to the fact that he had the presence of God in his life, and it meant nothing to him. Until the point where he just lost everything. We get insensitive the fact that the Spirit of God is in my life, that the Spirit of God entwells me. We get insensitive the fact that the Lord's leadership in our life. That's danger of a hard heart. Prayers are non-existent. My interaction with the God that indwells me is cold and dead. And we wander, become insensitive, we distance ourselves from that intimate personal walk with our God. Years ago we lived in Indianapolis for four years I was youth pastor there and the boys were both born in Indianapolis. We got two little hoosiers and um One day I don't remember what the circumstances were, but I had one of the boys in Target. This is before Walmart and all of that. This was back around the Civil War days. And um There was no Walmart. And so we were I think it was Target or one of those I think it was Kmart actually. How many people remember Kmart? Yeah And he was there and I'm getting stuff. Next thing I knew, I looked around and he was gone. How many people know that feeling? Good night. Your heart sinks. Samuel! Look around, he's in the aisle, next one over, just looking at the cereal. He was oblivious to the fact that he had wandered off from his daddy. And when a Christian gets a hard heart, we can become oblivious to the fact that we've wandered far from our God. And there's distance in my walk with God. God is telling Israel, I love you, just like Hosea loved his wife Gomer dearly. And Israel, like Gomer, was unfaithful to God and had broken God's heart deeply. And God says we have to address this. And there will be chastisement, there will be judgment, but if you will address it yourself. If you'll confront the condition of your heart, this fallow ground, break it up, we can avoid that and we can restore that fellowship. We can restore that What we had initially. So we look in the Bible and we see, do I have a hard heart? Am I that fallow ground? You say, all right, preacher, God's dealt with my heart. There is some hardening there. There is some, again, I don't know if this word, there is some fallowing there. I can see some of these things, and there's others we can mention, but preacher, I'm not where I ought to be. I know that that hardness has set it in, has set in. How do I fix it? How do I break up a hard heart? How do I change my spiritual condition? What do I do? I don't want a hard heart. I want God to speak to me. I want God to use me. I want God to lead me and bless me in my home, in my life, in my ministry. How do I have that? Well, let me give you in a few minutes we got how to cultivate a tender heart. The opposite of a hard heart is a tender heart. A heart that's sensitive to the Word of God, the heart that is sensitive to the Spirit of God and the leadership of God. How do I cultivate that? And I don't have time to elaborate on these, but number one, I put this down: conversion. If you've never been saved, the starting point for getting rid of a hard heart is get saved. Trust Christ. I'm telling you, before I got saved, you've heard my testimony, you're probably so sick and tired of it But I tell you, before I was Satan, my heart was so hard filled with bitterness and anger and hatred at everybody and everything, including myself. I began reading the Bible. Man, God began breaking. Finally I come to the end and say, God, I need you. I need Jesus for my Savior. I'm telling you, God saved my soul and changed my heart. Now that old heart's still there. I still deal with some of that stuff, but he gave a new heart I look out, I see Derek and Tyler over there and others around, came to Christ and God saved them and changed their lives. And God gives a new heart. Now we're not sinless and we still deal with this. By the way, a disciple can have a hard heart. Jesus rebuked the disciples. He says, Your heart yet hardened. But the beginning point is come to Christ, trust Him as your personal Savior. He gives you a new life. He gives you a new heart. Conversion. I thought of I I mentioned the other week, I thought of Bush Ride Hardesty Worked with Ron in the mines. Bushride told me one time it was a funeral for one of the family members. Bushribe, we were sitting back in a fellowship, Paul. He said, you know, before I got saved, now I didn't know him then, but Ron, he was a little rough Little tough turkey there, I think. Probably so. He told me he was. But he said before I got saved, I'd open that Bible. It didn't make a bit of sense to me. It was made no sense whatsoever. He said, but after I got saved, all of a sudden that book became precious. You know what? Changed his heart. Changed his heart. So number one, conversion. Number two Confession. I think the beginning point of not having a hard heart is acknowledging that I do have a hard heart. I mean sincerely saying, God, my heart is not right. That requires humbling myself. Lord, I need you. Help me. Lord, I need revival. That's confession. That's where the churches in America, I believe, for the most part, are at today. We need to come before God humbly and say, God, we need revival. Our personal lives. At an old-fashioned altar, beside a bed, a couch in a living room, or in a basement, or out on an old stump in the woods, and say, God, I need you. To help me and revive me. Breaking up that fallow ground. Conviction. This is what I mean by that, is I just got to get, if I'm serious about breaking up that hard heart, that fallow ground, then I just do what's right, whether I feel like it or not. A hard heart says, I'm going to do what I want to do. Right or wrong, whatever the consequences are, whatever, whoever it hurts, too bad. That's a hard heart. If I want to break that up, it says, you know, I really don't feel like being nice to Evan, but hey Evan, I don't it's good to see you. You follow what I'm saying And just do it. And I I like being nice to Evan. But you follow what I'm saying? Whether I feel like it or not, I do what's right. And that little chip there. And I do and whether I want to or not, I do what's right. A little chip there. I do what I know God tells me to do, and it a little crack in the fallow ground here and another crack there and that blade can begin to cut as I do what I know I'm supposed to do whether I feel like it or not Your average American Christian, it's what they feel like dictates their actions, not biblical principles Break up that fallow ground. And then I am with this compassion. Compassion. Deliberately seek to be a blessing to someone else. I like to say this, but folks walk in the back, push the two doors open, church. Bless me if you can. How about this? God, help me find someone I can be a blessing to. You know what do some of us? You know what would help soften up, break up some hard hearts? Some of you maybe go home, make some cookies, go to the nursing home, go room to room, say, I just want to come by and be a blessing to you My dad used to say, he says, he used to say, I get complaining about getting old and all this, and then he says, I go to the hospital, I go to the nursing home. He says, I see that there are people hurting And I can help. I can be a blessing. I tell you, do our heart good, to get our eyes off ourselves and fall out of love with us and start caring about other people that are hurting. Break up that fallow ground. I'll never forget. Little Tiffany Morgan, Bob's sick. We need to keep Bob in our prayers. But little Tiffany Morgan, their granddaughter, was born with cystic fibrosis. They gave her a few years to live. I think she lived at 13, somewhere around there, I think. A lot longer than they anticipated. When I first came as pastor, Bob and Glenda were telling me about their granddaughter, she was in the hospital up in Morgantown in the PD is it pediatric? Is that the children? She's in the pediatric department, and you know I'd made hospital visits before, but never as a pastor. That changes your perspective a little. And I went up to whatever floor it was, the sixth floor, and I walked down, found her room, and I'm walking by rooms with little kids, their hairs gone, and tubes in them, and all this stuff. Went in visit little Tiffany. She's struggling to breathe. Prayed with her and she was small then, talked to her about the Lord. She had professed faith in Christ. I come out of there and I come I'm going down the elevator and I'm crying. I saw so much hurt You know, I think it helped me to be a better pastor. I think it helped me to be a better Christian. And I learned the importance of having a compassionate heart and caring about somebody other than myself. And a hard heart is consumed with itself. I gotta break up that and look on others and try and be a help and blessing to others. You with me? We need revival. How many of us are willing to humble ourselves before God and say, God, I need revival? I need you. If you're not saved, I plead with you. Settle that today. Tell you, eternity in hell, because I have a hard heart is foolish. Per se don't let the hearts get hard. Let's seek the Lord. Let's humble ourselves. Let's have some conviction. Let's have compassion. Father, I pray you'd take these thoughts tonight, this morning, and Lord, we need revival. We need revival. I pray you'd pour out your spirit on this little church up here in the mountains. And I pray you'd move in our homes and in our Sunday school rooms and our bus routes and our ministries and stir us to be tender-hearted again. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need God to soften my heart up. I need God. Any like that? I need God to soften my heart up. It gets hard so easy. Little neglect and it starts to fallow up on us. I wonder if there's someone this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't want to go to hell. I know I need the Lord Jesus. I've never personally trusted Him as my Savior. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I'll not embarrass you. I won't call you out or anything, but I'd like to pray for you. If someone says, Preacher, pray for me, I need I need that conversion that the Bible talks about. I need that new heart that God has for me. Any like that? The uplifted hand? I wonder how how God bless you. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I've drifted in my walk with God. That Bible has kind of been neglected. And I need to come back to that. I need to renew that walk with God and that love for his word. Journey like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. God bless you. I tell you, an old old altar at the front of an old-fashioned Baptist church is a good place. Come and just do business with God. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's