Read the whole chapter. Everybody look at your Bible, Psalm 101. I will sing of mercy and judgment. Unto thee, O Lord, will I sing. I will behave myself wisely. Boy, these are good campaign promises. What kind of king is he going to be? What kind of administration is he going to have? I will behave myself wisely. In a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me? I will, over and over, you see, I will, I will, I will walk. Within my house with a perfect heart, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. Froward heart shall depart from me. I will not know a wicked person. Whoso privilegely slandereth his neighbor, him will I cut off. Him that hath a high look and a proud heart will not I suffer Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land. That they may dwell with me. He that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me. He that worketh the seat shall not dwell within my house. He that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. I will early destroy all the wicked of the land. That I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the Lord. Well, Tuesday, November 3rd is when we go to the polls to vote, and we'll be choosing our civic leaders. We're going to choose who's going to lead our country, our state, our nation. We won't choose. It's just 30-some days away. And these civic leaders have potential to do great good. But they also have potential to do great harm and great evil. And they get to advocate um ideas and philosophies and policies that they hope to impose upon people. And so how should we Even start considering how to vote. Well, first thing let's do is pray. I'm serious. Pray. Dear God, I want to vote the way you want me to vote. So I want you to lead me So you pray and then you gather information. You do not vote by whim and caprice. Oh well he's he's very tall. He looks like a good leader. Do not vote accordingly. Find out where the person stands. Check out their record, who they really are. Gather information. So you pray, you gather information, and then give careful thought Abraham Lincoln, he beautifully said it this way, of the people, by the people, and for the people. Yeah, in our Federated Republic we get to elect our representatives. And they are supposed to represent us. And this chapter has a lot about leading. Psalm 101 has a lot about leading. Now, in the Bible, the emphasis is not so much on leading, it's on being a servant. Being a servant is emphasized in the Bible repeatedly, but leadership is talked about. And in this passage, we're talking about leadership. In fact, leadership is mentioned 131 times in the Bible. And so um let's look at what kind of leader That David planned to be, and then we'll come back and do some practical things for you and I in this very election. Well, the first four verses, it it breaks up into two sections, this chapter. The first four verses is about the personal character that a civic leader ought to have. The personal character. Well, number one in verse one A good civic leader should have a balanced attitude. Look at it. Verse 1. I will sing of, here it is, mercy and judgment. There's two: there's mercy and judgment. Mercy and judgment. Should a leader have some firmness about them? Well, of course. They've got to have some judgment One of the Bible roles for government. The Bible tells what the government is supposed to be doing. Read first and second Peter. What is a government leader supposed to be doing? Punishing evildoers. You see, it's unthinkable to me. I can't understand it whatsoever that a mayor or a governor would allow people to destroy property and not get the National Guard to stop that. That's unthinkable to me. I'm incredibly disappointed with some of our leaders. There's got to be some judgment. There's got to be some firmness. The role of government is to punish evildoers and commend those that do well. That's what the scriptures say. And when you fail to have this judgment about you, you're failing the Lord and you're failing the country. And so David said, I'll tell you what kind of leader I'm going to be. I'm going to have judgment, but I'm also going to have mercy. What's that? Compassion. Some kindness. Some care. Some love. April a year ago, Pastor Kevin Bartlett of West Virginia got a phone call from his delegate in the West Virginia House. And so Pastor Bartlett had been to the delegate's office many times to pray with her. Her name was Sharon. He had been over there to pray with her a number of times. But last April she called him. She's seventy-some years old, and she was a pistol, lots of energy. And uh she called and said, I uh, Pastor, I just think I need a pastor to come talk with me today. He said, I'll be right over. He went over, talked with her for a while, and um Shared with her how a person could get saved. And then he said, let's pray. And so they prayed. And then after the prayer, Pastor Bartlett said, Now, Miss Sharon, have you been saved? She said, Yes, I have. He said, well, when did you get saved? She said, right now, after you told me how to get saved when we was praying, I asked the Lord to save me. He said, wait a minute. Just now? Yeah, just now. Hallelujah. She came to church that Sunday came forward and made it public. I was preaching revival for Pastor Bartlett last October and we got a big surprise. Sharon died. Pastor Bartlett did her funeral. I was there. All these delegates, all that, he gets up and preaches after the funeral. We were outside and a delegate came to me and said, Brother Fox, you you heard uh that prayer and and that talk. that Pastor Bartlett had uh was Sharon. He said, Do you think Pastor Bartlett had that talk with me? I said, Come on, let's find out. Took him right to Pastor Bartlett. Pastor Bartlett led him to Christ. Well, you know, in West Virginia, when a delegate dies within two weeks, the governor has to appoint someone. And so he looked at three different people and then one day Pastor Bartlett received a phone call from the governor and said, uh Pastor Bartlett, I've just pulled up onto your church campus. Would you mind stepping out to my pickup truck? Yeah, the governor of West Virginia drives a pickup truck Yeah ma'am. I knew I liked him. Yeah, ma'am. And so Pastor Bro got inside the truck and Governor Justice said, I'm thinking about appointing you. Me? Now Pastor Burley already had some idea because he'd been interviewed. The governor said, I've got one big question for you. Pastor Bartlett, do you love the people of West Virginia? Pastor Bartlett, he said, Oh, yes, I do. And Pastor Burley got appointed. Now let me ask you a question. Don't you think these people that are in office, don't you think they act actually ought to love their constituents? That when you call them, that they ought to somebody return the call, that when you send a text message, if you send an email message, you send a snail mail, don't you think you ought to at least get a returned response? Yeah. See, David said, I'm going to tell you what kind of king I'm going to be. Oh, I'm going to have some firmness. I'm going to have judgment. I'm going to punish the evildoers. I'm I'm going to stand for what is right, but I'm also going to love the people. I'm going to have some mercy about the people. me number one the civic leader that who has the right kind of conduct number one has a balanced attitude number two blameless in conduct Whoo, that sounds good. Some civic leaders blameless in their conduct. Verse 2, David says, I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. The model civic leader will guard their behavior. Amen. You notice the word wisely? You notice the word perfect in this verse? That means that civic leaders are going to be careful with what language they use. I'm tired of our leaders cursing. I'm tired of it. Now I'll tell you, it's it's aggravating in Washington D. C. It really is. But have some character and you can find some words besides curse words to use. And they ought to be thoughtful. They ought to have integrity. They ought to be wholesome in all of their behavior. So number one In verse 1, we've got a balanced attitude, and then in verse 2, blameless in their conduct. But then in verse 3, have some discernment about their influences. About the folks that influenced them. Verse three, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes, for that sounds good. Discerning what influences them. Now, are civic leaders targets? Boy, they are. They are I told you I go to Capitol Hill about three to five times a year. And um I got buddies that go as well. One of my preacher buddies, he went in to see a delegate A congressman. And as my buddy walked in to see the the congressman, the congressman just hung his head. And my preacher friend said, Hey Congressman, I've come to pray for you today. Congressman said, What? He said, Oh, I've come to pray for you. He said, Oh, I thought you were with that group that was just in here. Yeah, you see, the LGBT group had been in there and had worn him out. Demanding of the congressman to change his beliefs about what a marriage is. And the congressman flat out refused, and they had worn him out. They are implacable. They cannot be satisfied. And a congressman that is right with God is going to stand with God on what a marriage is. God Himself designed marriage. This church didn't, our pastor didn't, none of you preachers did. I certainly didn't. God designed marriage between one man and one woman. And I'm glad we've got some congress folk that still stand with God on that. And this congressman, that group had been in there and worn him out, and then my friend came walking in, because they'd all been in suits and all dressed up, and here my friend came in in that suit, and he thought it was just another one, another wave to come in there and wear him out And he said, no, I've come to pray with you. Oh, come in my office. Come on, preacher. Come on. Talk to me about the Lord. Amen. We need to go see them. The last time I was in with Daniel Webster, Daniel Webster, Dan Webster. He's not the fellow that put that dictionary together. This one's out of Florida. He's a wonderful congressman. He used to run the bus ministry at his Baptist church. That's a point in his favor right there, isn't it? He loves God. The last time I went to pray with him, I said, sir, what can I pray for you about? He laid down on his desk and said, Pray that I have courage to keep doing what's right. It takes courage. A friend of mine that I went to Bible college with, Mark Walker, is in Congress. He's been in six years now in the house. When he first got in, his first week there, Speaker of the House Boehner said, Mark, come here. Got Mark into a cloakroom and said, Mark, this is not Sunday school. This is Congress, man. I said, Mark, what did you say to him? He said, Mr. Speaker, I refuse to ever speak with you about this again. But my theology goes everywhere I go. God bless him. Mark's a wonderful delegate. I was with him just two weeks ago. May the Lord continue to bless him. By the way, his dad is an independent Baptist preacher. I like that too. Mark's a good congressman. We've got about a hundred folk in Congress that are saved. Did you know that? You wouldn't know that. You know why? Because TV somehow gets the most bizarre people in Congress to be on the here. So you believe that a man could marry a doorknob? Oh Would you tell us some more about that? You're the most bizarre person in Congress. We're going to just have a special about you. We've got some folk in Congress that love the Lord. Gary Palmer out of Alabama. They're just a bunch of Bill Johnson. Bill Johnson in Ohio. He's about sixty years old. I've used them to testify in some of my meetings. Yeah, Congressman Bill Johnson. He was 15 years old. He's 15 years old. Skinny as a rail. Little. Bus captain knocked on his door in Ohio. Hey man, you wanna come to church? He goes, no. They said, you know what? We've got donuts and orange juice. Bill, don't you want to come? He said, Yes, I do. Bill went inside where his parents were passed out drunk. And Bill got his little two-year-old sister. And they got on that little Baptist bus, that little blue bus, and went over there to church. And yeah, you had him some donuts and some orange juice. And they told him about Jesus Christ on his very first time to Sunday school he got saved. And now he's in Congress. Keep those buses rolling. You may be winning Congress folk to Christ. Hallelujah. Amen to that Keep giving the gospel. Yeah, we've got about a hundred folk in Congress. Our vice president knows the Lord. I'm thrilled about that. Oh my. Listen, David says, here's my campaign promise. And number one, I'm going to have a balanced attitude. Number two, I'm going to have some Blameless conduct. Number three, I'm gonna be discerning about what kind of influences. I'm not gonna put anything wicked before my eyes. I'm gonna behave myself properly, is what he says. And then In verse 4, he says, I'm going to guard my relationships. Verse 4, I'm going to guard my relationships a forward. A forward heart? What is that? It sounds bad. It's someone who just twists and contorts and manipulates. Oh, one of those kind of people. A forward heart shall depart from me. I will not know a wicked person. So when it comes to getting staff, uh when it comes to deputies and assistants, you know I'll tell you in Washington, D. C. , some of the most clever people in the world. I'm talking about with high aptitude. Brilliant minds. I'm not telling you all of them are godly, but I'm telling you they're brilliant. Brilliant. Now you surround yourself with people, oh yeah, brilliant, your assistants, your chief of staff, all that, but you better have some that have some character about them. And some integrity about them. Who you surround yourself with is going to by and large Help direct your paths. And so uh David says, In my administration, I'm going to find me some people that are honest and have some integrity, and those that I put Around me, I'm going to have some standards about them in my administration. Well that's great. So the first four verses, David talks about the character of a model leader. Then the next four verses, the last section, is the public conduct. The public conduct of the model leader. Alright, verses five through eight. Whoso privaly slandereth his neighbor. David now is going to begin telling who he will punish. There's some people that he plans on punishing Because of their misdeeds. Slanders. Okay. Do we see any slander going on during uh campaign season? Boy, we do. Pastor Kevin Bartlett, one of my very best friends in all the world. I went on vacation sometime a few months back and You know, his election was like in May or whenever it was, June, I can't remember now. I was on vacation. He called me and said, Byron, they've just sent out a postcard about me. And they they put my picture right in front of a burning house and said, delegate Bartlett is not for safety. He said, What should I do? I said, Hit them back. Hit them back. I said, How much money do you need? And he told me. I said, I'm gonna call some businessmen right now. We're gonna hit them back. I called four businessmen. They all contributed just like that. He sent his mail around. And I went on back to vacation. What Pastor Bartlett didn't know was that they were going to send out five mailers about him. First one he put Pastor Bart, Independent Baptist Preacher. How many independent Baptist preachers knocked for safety? Uh zero. The next one came out. Pastor Bartlett, uh delegate Bartlett is for illegal drugs. Now I know there's no independent Baptist preachers for that They're bothered about you taking Nyckwheel. You know what I'm saying? No. No. They sent out five of the most ridiculous malers possible And Pastor Bartlett lost by 300 votes. A wonderful man in the West Virginia House of Delegates is not going to be there now. Because of five of the most ridiculous, slanderous things you've ever seen in your life. Why do we allow that? Is it because we're lazy? Is it because we don't expect more politicians? David says this slander, it's got to stop. No, no slander in my administration. We're not going to have that kind of a country. Amen to that. And then he addresses the elitist. This elitist attitude has not just been a recent thing, you know, where there's one set of rules for me and a different set of rules for you. You have to follow statutory law. I'll do whatever I want to. This elitism, oh, let's see, verse 5. Dear Lord, whoso probably slandereth his neighbor, him will I cut off. Him that hath a high look. Yeah, yeah. Look how big I am. I can do anything I want to. I've got me of them Messiah complex all by myself. Him that hath a high look and a proud heart, him will I not suffer. David says, I'm going to be a king and a leader that truly is impartial. Equity. Fairness. The ground's all level with everybody Amen to that. And that's the kind of government leaders we need to be electing, friends. That's who needs to run, and then who that's who needs to get our votes. Well, what about all the line? I hate. I hate the lying that goes on in politics. I despise it. Verse 7. He that worketh the seat shall not dwell within my house. My big governor's house here. Not going to have any liars. He that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. Do you think that every politician ought to be honest? Do you think every Christian ought to be honest? Thou shalt not bear false witness. Honest Abe. Boy, we can use a politician that was honest. I will and we've got some, but we've got a bunch that are just uh just frauds. I had to just recently call somebody out. One of our political leaders on my Twitter account, I said, I cannot tolerate this because this is a lie. Look Our leaders need to be held accountable. Lying is not acceptable. You think there's been a lot of lying going on this year? Uh the news about uh one or two percent honest and about ninety eight percent an agenda, seems like. And I'm pretty sick about it. And we gave through that litany of names of lies last night, perfidy. And all these th I just bald face lying. Davidson, I'm not gonna have it. I'm gonna have a administration that's honest and just tells the truth. I love that But now there's one uh passage left in this that I just I save to the end. He told about who was going to punish. Uh the elitist The slanderers, the liars, the deceivers, the insinuators, going to punish all them. But there's some group he's going to promote, he's going to commend. They're going to have a part in the administration. Verse 6. When I pause, say the next word out loud. Everybody help me now. Verse 6, when I pause, say the next word. Mine eye shall be upon the Hallelujah, there's still faithful people in our country. And hallelujah, in David's day, there were some faithful citizens. I'm talking about people who were honest. I'm talking about people who are loyal. I'm talking about people who are dependable. You know, when you you get voted in in America, you have that swearing in uh ceremony and you promise to uphold and defend the Constitution and the laws. We need some people that will be faithful in their daily walk, just simply faithful And we've got some of those right here in America, faithful to get out of bed in the morning and faithful to go to work and do their jobs and And take care of their family and try to be faithful in God's house and faithful to reading the Word of God and faithful to going soul winning, faithful in paying their tithes. Amen to these things. Hallelujah for the faithful We've got a faithful Lord now. Great is thy faithfulness. We've got a faithful God. And David said, I'm going to promote and I'm going to use and I'm going to surround myself with those who are careful and thoughtful and Have some wholesomeness about them, the faithful people. I'm going to promote them. That's who I'm going to commend. Now, let's have some conclusions. Let me ask you this question. Ready for a question? Good. Two of you are. Good. Question number one: Is there anyone currently in office that is perfect? Oh a big no to that. Okay. Is there anyone running for office that is perfect? Oh my, then how are we gonna vote? I mean, because sometimes we have even poor choices. How are we going to vote? Here's what I want to ask you to do. The title of the message is carry your Bible to the ballot box. We got that platform comparison chart out there. Get that out. And then find that candidate you're looking at. And then, friends, look this way. Get the lens of the Bible on it. And so now I'm going to look at this platform, I'm going to look at these principles, I'm going to look at this person's promises, and I'm going to look through the lens of the Bible. And I'm going to examine them. Now there's some really important um issues. Life. You ever heard the expression life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Well, I like that, don't you? Life, liberty. There's an important sequence. Life, liberty. Liberty, you know, if you're dead, liberty doesn't mean much to you. Life comes first. I'll just tell you, friends, anybody who stands for abortion will never get my vote. Never. Two weeks ago, I was there in Asheville, North Carolina, met with preachers there about these matters of voting Do you know in Asheville, North Carolina, last year? In Asheville, North Carolina, 25 babies survived abortion. There are babies who survive through the abortion procedure, astonishingly. 25 There are now a group of politicians who believe that it would be okay to let that baby still die. My governor is one of them. I've confronted him thirty times. In the stone wall. That is gruesome. That is wicked. That man ought to be removed from office. And anyone who has these kind of beliefs should never hold office. Marriage. If they don't have the right definition of marriage, I can't vote for them. Uh freedom in the pulpit. You think that our preachers need to have freedom in the pulpit? I do. I do believe in separation of the state. I don't believe the state has any business telling the preacher what he can and cannot preach And uh if we are not careful, we're gonna have some people who will come up with every kind of restriction you can think of. Uh Pastor, these lights that you have on, huh, they're nice, but you know, you're getting your electricity for down in Kentucky and they're having problems with pollution there. You're going to turn these lights off, preacher. Oh, this air conditioner's got to go. We're going to get to a point that our liberty is taken away. By the way, now, where does our liberty come from? It comes from God. How can you argue that? How do you prove? Man, read the book of Genesis. God Himself gave what we call soul liberty. He gives us a free will. He gives us a choice. Remember in Matthew chapter 17, they came to Jesus, the eternal Son of God, the creator and sustainer of the whole universe. They came and said, Jesus is going to pay your taxes. Jesus said, the children are free. Notwithstanding, Peter, come here, Peter, go down and catch a fish. Pay your taxes, pay mine too. Jesus said, the children are free. Our freedom comes from God. And it is a blasphemous impertinence. That any political leader would try to tell a t a preacher to stop preaching on a Sunday, uh, for God's people to stop meeting. Man, I'm telling you, the state of California Our preachers over there, they're going through it, man. And it'll come to Maryland. It'll come to West Virginia. It'll come to Georgia. My state of Virginia. We better vote. And we better vote the right people. And some of our church people are going to have to vote. My pastor's with the Lord now. I've got another pastor. His son's our pastor now. But my pastor, Danny Gray, is with the Lord now. Two years ago at our church on Property Tax Stationery, our church was sending a property tax bill Turns out that our little county with 42 churches in it, country folk, we were a test. And my preacher got it and said, we're not paying this. And he went down to the Board of Supervisors and said, Thank you all made a mistake. Churches don't pay property taxes. Oh yeah, you're going to pay it. In fact, Pastor Gray, if you don't pay it, we're going to fine you $35,000 per day that you don't pay it. So we paid it with a letter of umbrage, and then my pastor came back to the church and got all 42 other churches together. Got all 42 leaders of the other churches and said, fellas, here's what's coming, and here's what we've got to do. There's five on the Board of Supervisors, and three are up for election. And before we leave tonight, we've got to out of our own churches find us three people to take their spots on the Board of Supervisors. And my little preacher. Took all that on, and our people went three for three, beating the incumbents. Amen. I was just in Greenville, South Carolina, Tabernacle Baptist, Bob Jones University. The LGBT group had been there to the city council repeatedly trying to get them to change their views on what a family is. They'd already been there down there twice. I learned of it. I went to Joel Logan. I went to I got 13 pastors together. And I said, we've got to stop this right here in Greenville, South Carolina. And what happened is the pastor there in Greenville, he went on his radio station, and suddenly 400 Christians showed up carrying their Bibles. Which blew uh certain groups' mind. And expose exactly how mean they can be And three board of super of three city council folk were up for election. It's we've got to take our city councils back We've got to take our school boards back. How how do you how do you get on school board? Well, you've got the file to run. Uh it's a little fee and you've got to get five names. You've got to get five signatures. There's got to be at least five people who are registered voters who will sign and say, yes, I think this person ought to be able to run. How old do you have to be on the board, uh be on the school board? Eighteen. You can be eighteen and be on the school board. School boards or allowing some of the most vile, wicked things to be taught to our boys and girls, I contend that our government schools are little churches. And there there's a religion there. It's not the religion of Jesus. It's everything except Jesus. You see, it's not we're not a pluralistic society anymore We try to say that. If it's a real pluralistic society, we could talk about Jesus. But you can talk about eagle feathers. You can talk about Mother Nature, everything except Jesus. It's religious syncretism that's trying to be imposed upon us. So we need some people to run for office, some people in your church. My church, we've got a man in the House of Delegates there in Virginia. What are we going to do? What are we going to do? Sitting back and doing nothing, will that be okay? No, God has called us to be stewards. Steward of our life. Steward of our influence. Would you stand? I want some of you to just come to these altars and start praying for these elections. Would you do that right now? Would you come and just pray with me? Just come on. I'm asking you, do not vote according to your billfold. Don't vote according to a political party. Don't vote by your NRA membership or your AAR membership. Vote according to the Bible. Good, good. Now let's pray earnestly. Pray specifically We're going to have some prayer and fasting. I've already set aside October 28th, that Wednesday, for me personally. As a day of prayer and fasting. Our presidential election is a two-horse race. There is not a third candidate going to win. We better pray I'm not just talking about a presidential election. I'm talking about every election, all the way down that ticket. Find out who is running. Educate yourself. Educate others. Every member in your church needs to be registered. Have voter registration at your church. We've learned somewhere between 85 and 90% of our churches have never had voter registration Well let's let our light shine. While I'm here, if I can help you in some way with these matters, I'll be glad to try to do that. Pastor.