Get everybody up to speed. Some of the folks haven't maybe haven't been in the study or whatever, but uh we're at the point in David's life, if you remember, where Absalom had this coup d'etat where Absalom tried to uh led a rebellion against David, ran him out of the palace, ran him out of the city, and actually occupied the palace in the city for a very brief period of time He assembles the nation, uh, an army together there in Israel. They pursue after David, and David, uh, with the leadership of Joab over his military, they do short work of Absalom's army. And I mean within the my impression is within hours, uh probably with at the most day a couple days Uh Absalom's army is decimated. He's out there fleeing for his life. He's got separated from his men and his security. He's running through this thick forest and his head gets stuck in the branches of a tree. Joab kills him, we know the story, and brutally kills him, and ten other guys get in, beating him up and stabbing him And it's just an awful thing. David grieves. Joab confronts him about that grief. And now the nation of Israel has called David back. to the throne, back to the palace, back to Jerusalem to r uh to reclaim his position as their king. So that's where we're at. Now let's pick up reading in verse chapter 19, verse number 16. And this is as David is making his way back to the city to take the throne again. Verse 16, and Shemiah, the son of Gerah, a Benjaminite, which was of Bahurim, hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, with Shimei, and Ziba, the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons, and his twenty servants were with him. And they went over Jordan before the king. And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king's household and to do what he thought good. And Shimei, the son of Gareth, fell down before the king as he was come over Jordan, and said unto the king, let not my Lord impute iniquity unto me Neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart. For thy servant doth know that I have sinned Therefore, behold, I am come the first of this day of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my Lord the King. But Abishai, the son of Zerui, answered and said, Shall not Shemiah be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord's anointed? And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah, that ye should this day be adversaries unto me? Shall there be any man put to death this day in Israel? For do not I know that I am this day king over Israel? Therefore the king said unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. And the kings swear unto him. I'm entitled it Shimei's Confession. I was going to skip over this as we're approaching the end of David's life. We're approaching the end of his study. We're probably within five years of the end of his study of the life of David. And so um I was going to kind of skip this part, but I got studying it. I think there's some lessons here for us. In Shemiah come and approaching David again. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I certainly enjoyed studying about this man after your own heart And I pray now as we look at this one brief incident in his return to the throne, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would glean out of this for us some lessons for us some caution, some instruction, encouragement. And so Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body and I pray, dear Lord, with all my heart once again. That you fill me with your Spirit, and that your Holy Spirit would speak through me. Be our teacher. And teach us the lessons from this that can help us. And so I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Absalom's dead. Israel, Judah have called David back to Jerusalem to reclaim the throne. And lo and behold, guess who shows up as David is making his way back? Shemiah. How many people remember Shimei from a previous study? I would venture to say David did not expect to see this fella approaching him. And I'd like to be, I would like to have been uh one of the men there or somebody in the crowd and just watch this transpire as Shimei comes back to David uh uh as David is returning and um This time he's coming to David. The thing is, this time he's not cursing David. Remember, before, the first time we met Shemiah, David's leaving Jerusalem He's being run out of the city, and Shimei is on this ridge, and he's cursing David. He's saying bad words at David. He's saying uh uh uh profane language he's using, throwing down at David. He's making these accusations, false accusations, suggesting that David killed Saul Suggesting that God wanted Absalom to be king in place of David. And he's saying all these awful things. He's not cursing David this time. First time David went out and Shemiah encounters him, Shemiah's casting dust up in the air. He's throwing rocks down at David. This time he's not casting dust in the air and he's not throwing rocks at David. This time he's coming down and falling before David, literally, and confessing his sin. Confessing his sinful actions. He's addressing what he did just a brief time before this, maybe a couple weeks before this. And um let me say right up front, with this confession of Shimei, now this is my opinion, I'm going to inject a little bit of speculation, a little bit of my opinion here, and I'll point it out, and you can take it or leave it But um I am very, very skeptical of the sincerity of Shemiai's confession of his sin here, and I'll point out why I how I came to that conclusion But this is what I want to look at. First of all, tonight, I want us to notice Shemiah's approach to David. He makes this approach, and it's interesting how he goes about Now, apparently he uh anticipated Absalom defeating David and being done with David. Well, it didn't work out that way. He gets wind and word that David is coming back, and he feels like he needs to address what he had done before because it could be bad. And so he makes this approach to David. And look there at verse number 16. It says, And Shimei, the son of Gerah the Benjaminite, which we were introduced to before. Which was of Behurim. Now look what it says. He hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. So he's apparently in Jerusalem and and uh he's coming down if you leave Jerusalem. I'm not been there, but I've studied it and it and I understand that when you leave Jerusalem you go down. It's kind of like Garrett County, no matter what direction you go, you're going down a mountain. So you're going down Jerusalem. So he's going down Jerusalem down to the river to meet David when he comes across that river because he needs to take care of some business. And it's interesting, what caught my attention as I was studying this verse, it says he hasted to come down. And I got looking up that word hasted. I looked where it's used other places in the Bible and where it comes from. And it means uh on the surface it means what you think it would mean. It means hastily, very quickly, uh has the idea of acting quickly, but It has this element to it. It's an interesting word. It has this element to it. It has the idea of forcefully pushing your way through. One definition I came across said this: to push through, it used the word violence. So as I'm looking at this and studying this, one definition was to push through headlong. In other words, it ha this is the picture I get in my mind of what's happening here. Shimei is coming down here. Of course, David has his security in his family. He's got a lot of people with him, as generally a head of state does when they're traveling, especially in a dangerous circumstances like this And Shemiah gets down there and he forcefully and very as fast as he can, he is pushing his way through. And I see him pushing people out of the way. In fact, I wouldn't put it beyond him taking his shoulder and putting a elbow into a couple of people's guts and uh to get them out of the way, maybe tripping some people. I mean, he is getting to David As fast as he can and as forcefully as necessary. Now that tells me a little bit about Shimei. He doesn't ask for an audience with the king. Now, how many people would agree with me? It seems to be appropriate, the king, especially after all of this, it seems appropriate to ask for an audience. Would you agree with me You know, would you let the king know? Let King David know. I'd really I would really like to talk to him. I'd really like to set up a meeting and talk to him, something urgent. I could see that, but he doesn't he doesn't ask for an audience He doesn't wait for a convenient time. Let David get in, get back in his house, get unpacked, settled, catch his breath a little bit. This has been chaos for the last several days Let's give David a chance here to catch his breath, and we can sit down in a personal, private manner and deal with something that really is pretty important. In fact, it's Shemiai's life, perhaps, is an issue here. But he doesn't do that. He doesn't ask for an audience. He doesn't wait for a convenient time. He just forces his way into David's presence, whether David wants to see him or not. Whether David wants to talk to him or not. And like I said, that tells me a little bit, at least implies to me, a little bit about this character Shemia. I was reading one author, I was trying to read some biographical articles about him, just trying to get a mental picture of this guy. And one of the One of the uh uh writers described him. He called him, he kept referring to him as this lizard. He didn't think very highly of Shimei. Uh my as I see Shemiah's actions here and previously what we noticed previously, a few things I pick up about Shemiah, and we mentioned a couple of these before. But Shimei is a very opinionated man. When David is leaving the city, he wanted everybody to know what he thought about David. He's a very opinionated man. He's just throwing out there and he doesn't like David and he made sure everybody knew what a terrible person David was and how he disliked him and just went off. Very opinionated man. Uh he was also a we mentioned this before, he was a bit of a coward. He didn't do this when he's confronting David to the things he didn't like about David. He did that from a distance. And so he's opinionated, he's a coward. Uh I think he's self-willed He has no consideration for what's going on in David's heart and mind at this time, no consideration what David's dealing with. He had his business and David was going to deal with his business, whether he liked it or not. And so he was very self-willed. And I put this down. I picked up, he's very inconsiderate and very disrespectful. I want to remind you, he's not confronting the person behind the counter at Cheats. Now I think you ought to be respectful to the person behind the counter at Cheats. I think you ought to be respectful to the waitress at Denny's. I think you ought to be respectful to everybody. But when it comes to the king, anointed of God, that's a whole nother level at that point in my mind. And I'm reminded, I go back and I remember how David his respect and towards King Saul Now, I'll be honest with you, character-wise, spiritual maturity, legitimacy to the throne, David is mountaintops above King Saul King Saul was a rascal. He had betrayed his responsibilities as King of Israel. King Saul was a rascal, but David refused to lay his hand on King Saul. In fact, David refused to speak evil about King Saul. Even at his funeral, David praised him, and David blessed him, and David's respect For the man that God anointed to be king over Israel was impeccable. And now you have this, to use another writer's terminology, lizard. Shemi, this peon, and he forces his way into the presence of David and demands his attention. Regardless of the motives, just that in and of itself tells me a little bit about this guy, Shemmi. If you haven't picked up yet, you're going to find out I don't have a lot of respect for Shemiah. And so his approach to David is very disrespectful. And by the way, he gets everybody's attention. with this approach. Everybody, what in the world's going on? This guy's forcing his way in. I can see David's security. And it doesn't the Bible doesn't say this happened, but in my imagination I can see David's security. Man, they're pulling swords out. They're pulling handguns out. Who's this guy approaching the king? And so regardless of how maybe it all played out, he gets there. He accomplishes his goal and he gets the attention and gets the audience of King David. So his approach is interesting to say the least. Next thing I notice in verse, the last part of verse 16 and verse 17, is uh first it was his approach. Now his entourage that he has. And by that we mean the people attending with him, his attendants, his his uh associates that are with him in this approach to David. Look there at the last part of verse 16. It says And he hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. Now, let me back up here and make this statement, repeat myself. I am skeptical of the sincerity of Shimei's confession of his sin. And the f what he does here kinda enforces my skepticism about his sincerity. So he brings this tribe of Judah, it says at the last at the end of verse 16. Now that's David's tribe. These are David's people. This is his family. These are the ones that David could previously speak very candidly about them, saying, Hey, why aren't you guys inviting me back? And they catch themselves and they invite David back. I mean, these are his people. If anybody in Israel, if any of the tribes of Israel are going to be loyal to David, it's going to be these this tribe And so Shemi, one way or another, gets himself in with the people that we would think are the most loyal to David. Now, please uh humor my skepticism a little bit. Why do you think someone like this would want to be associated with the people that are so loyal to David? He wants to appear loyal. He's mixing in with the crowd that are David's people. Hey, I'm one of you guys. You know? I don't know. I'm I'm just throwing that out. But his entourage, he's in with the tribe of Judah. Who knows what the numbers are? It's a large number, no doubt Then in the first part of verse 6 it says, there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him. Benjamin, what tribe is Shimei from? Look back up there in verse 16. He's from Benjamin. He's a Benjaminite. These are Shine's people. These are his kin. These are his family. These are people that would most likely be loyal to Shemiah. This was Saul, King Saul's crowd. In fact, previously the division between there was with the Benjamites who were loyal to Saul. And so he mixes in with Judah But then he has a thousand men of his tribe who would, you would assume, would be loyal to him. Now, there's been suggested, I was thinking, all right, what's the significance of that? I don't think God put stuff in the Bible for no reason. So what's the significance of pointing out there's a thousand men of Sheniai's tribe? So we have to speculate again Some have suggested that Shemiah was coming down and he brought these men so they could help David cross the river, manpower, more f More arms, more muscles, help him get across the river, mentions a ferry there that they had, and possibly Shemiah got that ferry there to help David across That could very well be the case, and could you know that may be the answer. My skepticism tells me there's perhaps another reason, either In replacing that or in addition to that, I'm wondering if Shemiah wasn't uh allowing for the possibility of David saying, I've had enough of you, take this guy out. And I'm wondering if he isn't allowing for the possibility of David taking the advice of Abishai that told him before, remember, this guy's a dead dog. Remember previously he said, let me go up there, I'll flop his head off I don't think, Shimmy, I forgot that. I've had, this don't say a lot about this, but I've had some threats on my life. We had a several years ago some guy got one of our gospel tracts on his front door, just left on his door. That's all it was. Man, he called was back in the office, he called me up. I mean livid He's going up and then he made this statement. I'm coming out there right now with my shotgun, I'm blowing your head off. I tell you, when someone says that to you and you don't know who they are, that gets your attention. I called the sheriff and told them and they diffused the whole thing. But every time now and then, every time I see a guy walk in the door with a shotgun, it makes me nervous. So I don't think Shemi forgot what A Abishiah had said about whopping his head off. And I'm wondering if he doesn't decide, you know, might be good to have a few guys with me, just in case. Now, we're not told why, but he brought a thousand men of his loyal tribe, his people. He brought them along with him. Then there's somebody else in this entourage that surprised me. Look there again with me at verse number 17. There were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and look at this. And who? Ziba, the servant of the house of Saul and his sons and his servants. Now, somebody think back a little bit. We've met Ziba previously Shortly after David became king. Who was Ziba? What was his role? And who remembers? He was assigned by David to take care of Mephibosheth, Jonathan's son, King Saul's grandson. Remember, Mephibosheth was lame in his feet. The nurse dropped him when they were fleeing, and he grew and uh could not walk. And David wanted to show compassion to him and kindness to him for Jonathan's sake, and so he found him, and he assigned to Ziba uh the responsibility of taking care of Mephibishe. So here Zyba shows up again. Now we saw him briefly a little bit ago when David fled the city. We didn't talk much about him. But here he's with, of all people, he's with uh Shemiah. And I thought, what in the world is that, what in the world is somebody like him doing in a crowd like this? And I got looking at it a little bit, and I became skeptical of Zyba. I think Zyba was a dishonest man. If you go back, if you keep your place here, come back to chapter 16 of 2 Samuel And verse number one, and I had just mentioned this in passing as we were studying our way through this, but Ziba comes out and meets David as he's leaving the city. And notice what transpires here. Look at verse 1 of chapter 16. And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him. Remember David was feeding Mephibosheth in the in the palace and he'd eat at his table and Ziba was to make sure he was taken care of and David treated him like a like a king's son And Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread and a hundred bunches of raisin. and a hundred summer fruits and a bottle of wine. That's quite a supply. Now one of the commentators I was reading, one of the Bibles scholars reading, they said it's kind of questionable how Zyva could have put together put together that much supplies in such a brief notice. And it was suggested that maybe Ziva was in on with Absalom and was tipped off. I don't know. Anyway, verse 2, it says, And the king said unto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses be for the king's household to ride on, the bread and summer fruit. for the young men to eat, and the wine, and such as uh that such as be fain in the wilderness may drink. And David's concern was for Ziba's responsibility Verse 3, he said, the king says, and where is thy master's son? Where's Mephiboshet? That's who I hired you, I instructed you to take care of him. And Ziba said unto the king, now listen to this. Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem, for he said, Today shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. You know what I think? I think Zyba's lying. And look at the next statement Then said the king to Ziba, now David is a, he's no doubt this is he's distracted. He's got other things on his mind And he says to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that pertain unto Mephibosheth. In other words, I'm giving to you everything that Mephibosheth owned. Assuming that what Ziba is saying is right, Ziba, you get all his possessions. Now I'm assuming Mephibosheth has some pretty decent possessions. And I think, this is, I'm telling you, I'm just, tonight is a lot of my opinion, my thinking, but I think that was Zyba's whole goal in this whole thing, is get what Mephibosheth had. So he I think he lies. David says, all right, if that's the case, you get all his stuff. And Zibra said, I humbly beseech thee that I may find grace in thy sight, my Lord, O King. So Ziba goes back. Now Absalom's dead. Nothing worked out the way Shemia or I think Ziba thought it would work out. And Absalom's dead, and the coup is is foiled. Now David's coming back, and I think Ziba's thinking, good night, he's going to talk to Mephiboshev and find out what the truth is And I'm in trouble. So I think, again, speculation, a lot of speculation, but I think maybe that's how Zyba ends up with Shemiah here. He lied to David, he deceitfully obtained Mephibosheth possessions, and um he comes with Shemiah and forces his way into David's presence. So one we have Shemiah's approach very forcefully, just rudely, irrespectfully, just forces his way in He's got this huge entourage with him. Then the third thing I notice in verse 18, 19, and 20 is his apology. Now, if we're going to look at this, I'll be very honest with you. He does and says what I believe are the right things He follows the scriptural instructions for confession and restoration. He follows it almost to the T. First of all, in verse number 18 he displays humility. Now the first part of verse 18 he references that fairy um hauling stuff back and forth. And look at the end of verse 18. And Shimei, the son of Gareth, look at this, fell down before the king. As he was come over Jordan. That doesn't mean he tripped on a rock and fell down in front of the king. He's doing this deliberately. In fact, the phrase fell down is used other places to refer to falling prostrate on your face. He's laying himself down as a display of submission and a display of humility. Before David. Now I'll be honest with you, if this guy's wanting to save his life, that's a smart move. I'm skeptical, maybe he's being shrewd, maybe he's being sincere, but he's doing the right things. Humility is a powerful factor in seeking forgiveness. Anybody here ever need or want someone to forgive you? Wow, two people. I'll venture to say all of us at some point have needed somebody to forgive us. Come on now. We talk about other people. I need to forgive other people. Well, we need forgiveness sometimes also. I'm going to give you a little tip. If you need, fellas, if you need your wife to forgive you, humble yourself. Ladies, vice versa, humble yourself. If you messed up and did something with the kids and you gotta come and Apologize or confess something I did wrong, I'm sorry, I did wrong. It's a good thing to humble yourself before as you confess that sin and seek forgiveness. Humility is a powerful. I'll be honest with you, it's kind of hard to forgive someone that's very proudly and arrogantly acknowledging their sin. Yeah, I sinned against you. Forgive me. Uh I'll think about that. So Humility is a very powerful factor in seeking forgiveness. Shemi at least puts on a display of humility. Whether it's sincere or not, I can't answer that. But he he displays humility in his in his actions. By the way, God always responds to humility. I tell you, a great study sometimes is to study how God responded to people who humbled themselves before the Lord. It is fascinating. Anybody recognize the name Ahab? Question, Ahab good, thumbs up or thumbs down? Double thumbs down, Ahab was terrible. I don't like him. He did awful things. He was effeminate, he was a coward, he was a sissy, he was selfish, he was a pervert. But the Bible says when Ahab humbled himself, God showed him mercy of all people. Every time you find someone, doesn't matter how wicked the king was, it doesn't matter how bad they were, it doesn't matter what how terrible their sin was, when people humbled themselves before God, they got God's attention. In fact, God says, before we can ever have revival, the first step to revival is if my people shall Humble themselves. Humility is vital in seeking forgiveness, in restoring a relationship, in restoring fellowship with someone. humility. In fact, I would suggest, and I the Bible clearly teaches this, to maintain unity, to keep a uh to keep the presence and power of God and the unity of the body of Christ, we must maintain humility in our hearts and minds. And so Zh uh Shemia At least outwardly, he does the right thing and he displays humility. Here's God, God always responds to genuine humility. Here's a man after God's own heart Shimei humbles himself by falling prostrate on the ground before him, and we're going to see here in a few minutes, David responded to that humility. That display of humility. So first of all, he humbles himself. Second of all, I notice in verse 19, he desires forgiveness. He displays humility. Now he desires forgiveness. Look at verse 19 what he says And said unto the king, this is Shimei speaking, Let not my Lord impute iniquity unto me Please, don't put this, hold this against me. Neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely. The day that my Lord the King went out of Jerusalem. So he's acknowledging what he did was perverse, it was wrong. And he's saying, David, I don't want you to hold this against me. I want you to forget this. Put it out of your mind, please. He's desiring forgiveness. He's desiring David not to hold this over him. Now he goes a little far, in my opinion. At the end of verse number 19, and he says, he says, Um not remember uh uh neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely day that my Lord the king went out of Jerusalem. Look at his last statement. This is where Again, question mark comes up in my mind. That the king should take it to his heart. I put in the margin of my Bible, this is what he's saying. Don't take it personally, what I said to you. That doesn't sound sincere. Listen, if somebody does something really bad to you and hurts you and does some awful things they come and say, I don't take it personally. Do you think they're really sorrowful over that? No, don't take it per I called you a liar to your faith. Don't take it personally. Now I'm injecting here a little bit, but um In my mind, if we're genuinely sorry for this, I genuinely am repentant over this, I wouldn't say, don't take it personally, I would say something like this: I know I hurt you badly. Now that sounds to me like genuine concern that what I did was wrong. Listen, I know that hurts you. I know I said some things that hurt you. You accuse people of you lies, falsely accuse people of murder. And then you say, don't take it personally? So I don't know. But he's saying the right things. He's going through the right motions. He humbles himself. He desires forgiveness. And then verse number 20, he declares his guilt. And I gotta hand it to him. He says the right thing. Look at verse number 20. For thy servant doth know, look at these next three statements, that I have sinned. You know the scriptural formula for confessing sin is not saying, I am sorry. The scriptural formula for confession of sin is saying, I have what? Sin. I mean you can be sorry for anything. Oh I'm sorry. Everybody's sorry when they get caught. Right? They're sorry they got caught. Or did you ever hear somebody say this? Well, if I said it did anything to hurt you, I'm sorry. Well, if it's wrong, whether it hurt him or not, it's wrong, it's wrong. So he doesn't say I'm sorry. He says the right word. He says, I've sinned. I have sinned. Sincere? I don't know, but it's a scriptural confession. Somebody help me, 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, cleanse us on our unrighteousness. He's confessing. He's he's doing the right thing. Now he says something else here, then throws that question mark back in my mind. Look at verse um he says verse 20, I have sinned. Then look what he says next. Therefore, behold, look what he says, I am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph. To go down and meet my Lord the King. He's kind of exalting himself here a little bit. David, I've sinned. Oh, by the way, did you notice I'm the first one coming down here greeting you Even your own family. I got here before the tribe of Joseph, before the family of Joseph did. See, you owe me forgiveness. David didn't owe them nothing And so again, little statements like that throw a question mark in my mind whether he's really sincere or not. So we have Absalom's approach, or Shemiah's approach, we have Shemai's entourage, his apology, which on the surface looks good. And then we come to this guy, Abishai, look at verse 21. We have his advice again. But Abishai, the son of Zariah, answered and said, Shall not Abishai be put to death for this because he anointed the king, because he cursed the king's anoint the Lord's anointed? That's the exact same thing he said back in chapter 16 verse 9, almost verbatim. Kill him First time Shemiah's up on the ridge cussing and making accusations, throwing dust and rock down on him. Shemia says, I'll go up there and chop his head off. He says, no, you don't do that. So now this all transpires, they're coming back in. Shimei falls down before him, and he goes through this, and Abishai, I can see him standing there, oh for Pete's sake. I see him getting his sword out. Shh, shh, shh. David, you're not gonna you're not listening. Listen, we need to kill this guy. He cursed you. Same exact same advice before. Some people's advice for everything is just blow it up You know, if there's a problem, oh just burn the place down, just kill him, lop his head off. I've known pastors like that. Every time somebody's isn't something, well, we'll kick him out of the church. It's not always the best way to do things And David in his wisdom does not take Abishai's advice again. I get the impression that Abishai does not like Shemiah. That's my impression. I don't think they're best buddies. I doubt he sent them Christmas carts. I really don't think he did. I don't think Abishai trusts Shemiah. It's one thing not to like him, but he don't trust him. He says, listen, we need to eliminate this. This guy is a potential ongoing threat We need to eliminate them. And then last of all, I see David's answer to Abishai. Number verse 22, the first part, look what he says. And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? That ye should be this day, that you should this day be adversaries unto me. I put it this way. First thing David did, his answer was he rejects revenge He goes, no, we're not taking revenge. We're not doing that. I'm telling you, that could backfire really bad on David. If they kill him, he's laying prostrate, confessing his sins, sincere or not, and they kill him. that could look bad on the nightly news. Oh, David killed a guy that was humbling himself and confessing. David says, no, we're not taking revenge. I threw this out there. We better be careful who we take advice from We better be careful what kind of advice we have. Proverbs 2. 2 says, Incline thine ear unto wisdom. We listen to wrong advice long enough, we're going to end up doing wrong things. Psalms 1, verse 1 says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Now I don't know whether Abishai was ungodly or not, but his advice was not good. And so David rejected revenge. He goes, nope, we're not going down that road. And my advice to every one of us is: do not go down the road of revenge. So you don't know what they did to me. They don't make them pay for that. You're making a big mistake. And that's going to come back and hurt you. And so he rejected revenge. Then notice in verse 22, he s he remains focused. Look at verse 22. He says, um That you should be adversaries. Shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? So he's rejecting your revenge? Then look what he says at the end. For do not I know that I am this day king over Israel What David is saying is, listen, my focus is back on that crown, that throne. My focus is back carrying out the responsibilities God has given me. Listen, God has not given to you and I the responsibility of taking revenge. Jesus says, revenge I mean, the God says, revenge is his, mine. It's not my responsibility. David's responsibility is not to take revenge. David's responsibility was to rule this kingdom the way God told him to. I need to get back there. I need to stay focused. And I'll tell you the best thing to do. When somebody's giving us a hard time, somebody's mistreating us, somebody's saying hateful things about us, stay focused on Jesus Christ and His will for your life. Don't get sidetracked, chasing down everybody that's adversarial to you. You never accomplish God's will in your life So he remain rejects revenge, he remains focused, then I put this down, he remembers mercy Look at verse 23. Therefore the king said unto Shemi, Thou shalt not die. That's almost an exact quote of what Nathan told David that he would not die. It's interesting. Shimei says to David, I have sinned. You go back a few years And you a few chapters, and you find David saying to Nathan and to God, exact same words, I have sinned. You have David saying to Shemiah, Thou shalt not die. And you have Nathan previously, at the instruction of God, saying to David, Thou shalt not die. Here's the thing, it will help us a lot. If we'll remember how merciful God's been to us, that'll help us be merciful to others You say, yeah, but preacher, they don't deserve it. Uh neither did you or I deserve God's mercy. And so David remembers, there's no doubt in my mind, David remembers that God was merciful to him. And so he extends mercy. To Joe to uh Shimei. And then David, I put this down, David resisted pride. He never lifted himself up. He never, you never find one time David saying something like this. I don't deserve to be treated this way. Never said that. He never said, listen, you remember who I am. Do you know who I am? Listen, we've got to be careful with thinking we deserve stuff. Right or wrong? Well, you're gonna treat me better than that. I'll tell you that right now. I tell you what, if we got what we deserved, somebody help me, where would we be right now? We'd be burning in hell. Don't ever forget that. So David rejected pride. He says, I'm not going to allow pride take over me. This guy's a squirrel. This guy's a lizard. He's a dead dog. He ain't talking to me that way. That's what Abishai thought. David said, listen, I know I'm a sinner. I know I'm a sinner just like he is. I'm not going to let pride take over. I put this down. Proud people, would you get this? Proud people have a hard time forgiving. You know what keeps us from from forgiving? It's our own stinking pride. Proud people have a difficult time forgiving. And I tack this on, and I'll end with this. Not only do proud people have a hard time forgiving, but proud people have a hard time Confessing their sin. Pride. Pride is so destructive. It'll keep me from confessing sin and acknowledging what I've done, my sin. And it'll keep me from extending forgiveness and being patient with others. Pride, pride, pride is our enemy. Solomon put it this way, only by pride cometh what? Contention. Contention Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this little brief incident the importance of forgiveness, the importance of humility, the importance of sincerity. Or they didn't have time, but later on we're going to see that Shemiah's sincerity is very questionable because of later actions. But I pray you'd help us be sincere. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, now I don't know how anybody would respond to this. You might not respond to this. But it's between you and the Lord, not me, so that's okay. But I wonder how many of us need to confess something. Wonder how many of us right now the Holy Spirit of God is speaking to our heart and saying, you know, you really need to go. And humble yourself and acknowledge that what you said and did was wrong. Pride says, uh uh Humility says, I need to do that. I need to do that. I wonder how many, if anybody's here, that we need to humble ourselves and forgive somebody. We've been holding a grudge for weeks, months, maybe years. I'll never forgive them. That's pride, period. We need to humble ourselves and say, I forgive them. No, you shall not die. I'm not taking vengeance. I give it to the Lord. Father in heaven, bless your invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name.