2 Samuel 19, beginning in verse number 1. I'm going to read down through verse 15 to keep the whole context here together. It was told Joab, Behold the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom. And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people. For the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son. And the people get them by stealth that day into the city, as people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle. But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, Oh my son Absalom, oh Absalom, my son, my son. And Joab came into the house to the king and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants, which this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons, and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives and the lives of thy concubines, in that thou lovest thine enemies and hatest thy friends. For thou hast declared this day that thou regardest neither princes nor servants. For this day I perceive that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had pleased thee well Now therefore, arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unto thy servants. For I swear by the Lord, if thou go not forth, there will not tarry with thee uh this n there will not tarry one with thee this night. And that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now. Then the king arose and sat in the gate, and they told unto all the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sit in the gate And all the people came before the king, for Israel had fled, every man to his tent. And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies And he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines, and now he has fled out of the hand of Absalom. And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore Why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back? And King David sent to Zadok and unto Abiathar the priest, saying, Speaking to the elders of Judah, saying, Why are ye the last to bring the king back into his house? Seeing the speech of all Israel has come to the king, even to his house Ye are my brethren, ye are my bones and my flesh. Wherefore then are ye the last to bring back the king? And say to Amasa, art thou not of my bone and of my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the room of Joab. And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man So that they sent his this word unto the king, Return thou and all thy servants. So the king returned and came to Jordan, and Judah came to Gilgal to go meet the king, and conduct the king over Jordan. Bring the king back. Several times it says here about bringing the king back. Let's pray together and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our time in your word this evening. Father in heaven, we just pray you've told us that all scripture you've given us is by inspiration is profitable. So please teach us tonight from these events here in David's life. I ask, Lord With all my heart, dear God, I yield my will to you. I present my body. I ask you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and uh be our teacher tonight and help us Have uh ears to hear, dear Lord, and and speak to us in Jesus' name. Amen. Absalom is dead. Of course, he rose up against David. We've been studying this for a while. He's dead and the rebellion has been squashed. The interesting thing is Absalom's uh pursuit of David out into the uh the wilderness where he had fled, that woods of Ephraim Absalom's pursuit was over almost as soon as it started. David knew what he was doing. Joab knew what he was doing. He had less men Uh he was outmanned and no doubt outgun, but he wasn't outsmarted. And David knew how to deal with this situation and he very handily And very quickly dealt with Absalom. Of course David did not want Absalom killed. He made that very, very clear And yet Joab, being a much more practical man and not bound, he kind of did his thing, even in the end, it was very pragmatic and it was often the the best thing to do. He he kind of did his thing and uh he killed Absalom very violently. And so now it's time for Israel to be restored. It's time to uh uh for the nation to get back on its feet. They've had this this interruption, so to speak, that could have been very, very bad. And now it's time to get back. I see in this passage here, and this isn't my outline, but I see in this passage here two things. take place. First of all, David returns to clear thinking. And you'll understand what I mean by that here in a minute. But David gets his head back on straight. And so David returns to clear thinking, and then by the end of this passage, David is returned to the king's throne. And he's back where God anointed him to be, back where God intended for him to be And so just a few thoughts here. At this point in David's life, at this point in David's reign as king of Israel, he has approximately 10 years left Ten years from these events, he's going to pass away, and uh the kingdom will pass on to his son Solomon And so his life is winding down. And the interesting thing is as um as uh his life winds down, his reign as king is winding down. We're not given as much details about David as we were earlier in his life. Some of these events will get a few verses. that address some different events at the end of David's life. Whereas earlier, Goliath, when he faced Goliath, that was a whole long chapter. And Saul pursuing David was chapters dealt with. And so approximately 10 years left of David's reign, left of his life on earth. We have less details, but there's tremendously important principles we learn here. There's important lessons. I've said this, uh I'm saying, I catch myself saying this more and more as the years go by The older I get, the more concerned I am about ending well. Twenty-nine years ago, we came here. I wasn't thinking about a whole lot about how I ended my ministry or ended my life. I was wanting to get started. But as years go by and as we age and we our years are spent and they get fewer and fewer, um I get concerned that I'm using my time wisely. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's kind of like when you're young and you got a wallet full of cash. You don't care how much you got, man, you're just spending, but boy, that pile starts going down And there's just a little bit left in there, then you're a little bit more careful where you spend it. You follow what I'm saying? And um so uh King David is winding down And uh his life and his reign on earth. But they need to get back on their feet. So I want to look at this here. The first thing I notice in this passage I read as they're kind of getting, Israel's getting back up and running is I notice that David at this point is still controlled by his emotions. He's controlled by his emotions. Look with me again if you would at verse 1 And it was told Joab, behold, the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom. And the word gets out, and people hear about David's weeping and mourning. Come down to verse 4. And the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, Oh my son Absalom, oh Absalom, my son, my son, if you'll remember, back up in the last verse of chapter eighteen He goes, oh, would to God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son. David is being controlled by his emotions. God has created us as emotional beings. How many people are aware of that? We're emotional beings. And we're created in the image of God. And as we study the scriptures about God, God is an emotional being. Do you know that God rejoices? That's an emotion. God is an eternal personality. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And God has emotions. God rejoices. We read about in the Old Testament about the joy of the Lord. Ephesians tells us, and this is mind-boggling to me, but Ephesians tells us that we can grieve the Holy Spirit of God. Now that's amazing to me that me as an as a as a human being, what's the word for something very small and insignificant? A speck or a minute. We're very small and in uh and minute. We're a speck. And yet you and I can say things, we can behave in a way that the Almighty God that inhabits this universe will affect him emotionally. None amazing thing. We had ants in our house. We had, I finally won the victory. Ah but yeah I might a talk too shit. It's those little tiny insi bitsy peeny weeny ones And they were in the in the they were at the sink of the kitchen. Finally we got that. Then they showed up in the bathroom at the sink. So we've been battling. I got a flamethrower and a dynamite. And uh I'm telling you. And uh but you know those little things, they there and they worked me up emotionally I felt anger. I felt frustration. And when they were dead, every dead one I saw, I said, yes, praise the Lord. But we're we're we're we're so insignificant, we're so uh tiny in the grand scheme of things. And yet God considers us so dearly that we can actually affect God emotionally. God is an emotional God. He has joy. He has grief. God can praise. There's things that God praises. God can get angry. God created you and I in his image, and being created in his image, he's created us with emotions. Now, emotions, let me talk about this for a little bit. Emotions are an important part of our life. They're an important part of our makeup. Emotions, when in their proper place, are a tremendous benefit to us, or a tremendous help to us in life. Motions can motivate us to action. Can you think of a motion that might stir us up and get us going where uh and motivate us to do something? Can you think of any emotion that might motivate us? Huh? Anger might get us going, oh boy, we get and we get going, get s started there, or um we know something makes us very uh brings a lot of joy to our life and boy that'll stir us boy I really need something pick me up right now and get motivated. So emotion can motivate us to action a passion get passionate about something Stir us up. I believe Christians could use a little bit more passion in our Christian life. Get stirred up, excited, emotional about the things of God. So emotions, they can motivate us to actions. Emotions can help us avoid danger. Of course, the emotion of what? Fear would help us to avoid danger. You know, you're walking down the street and cars are buzzing by you, you know, two inches off. That, you know, boy, that scared the daylight of me. So I'll walk over a little bit farther from the street. You follow what I'm saying? And other ways. So emotions can motivate us to action. Emotions can help us avoid danger. Emotions can help us make good decisions. Help us make decisions We love someone. And so then we make, we think it through, man, you know, I really care about them. And so I want to do what's right. I want to do what's best. I love my church. I want to do what's best. I want to do and help us make decisions. So my point I'm trying to make is God created us as emotional beings. David is controlled by emotions here, but God created us as emotional beings and Emotions in their right place are very, very helpful. We need them. They're good. However, Whenever emotions control us, then we have problems. We were not designed to be controlled by emotions Fear can protect me, but fear must not control me What did Paul tell Timothy? We've got given you a spirit of fear, but a power and of love and of sound. Fear is a good tool. It's a part of makeup. It helps me be cautious when I need to be cautious and and you know help maybe uh help protect me sometimes. But that fear cannot control me. Um uh passion Passion can motivate me, but passion cannot control me. I think David, when he brought, we already studied this, but when David brought the Ark of the Covenant into the city of Jerusalem. He got so stirred up about that, he got so passionate about that, he got reckless. And that passion of doing even a good thing, but he was so passionate about it, about bringing that in He wasn't careful to follow the instructions God gave, and it cost uh um what was the fellow's name? Uh cost um Uzziah his life And so passion is good and we need that to stir us and fire us up. But brother, we can't let it control us or we get reckless and careless. Guilt and shame. They can be helpful. They're good. They can caution us Man, you know, how many times have somebody said or did something wrong and they felt guilty about it, and it drove them to Christ? And that guilt made them seek the Lord, and they trusted Christ as Savior, and their sins were washed whiter than snow, like we just sang. Guilt is a good thing in its place, but guilt cannot control me. If I'm controlled by guilt, I'll be overcome with depression and discouragement. I'll carry weights around that Christ has already dealt with. The weight of guilt. By the way, if we confess our sin He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all righteousness. I don't need to carry the guilt of that sin around with me. I don't want it to control me. Do you follow what I'm trying to get at here tonight? Emotions are good. Emotions have their place. They're given to us by God, but they are not designed to control us. When we are controlled by emotions, like David is here, the emotion of grief, when it controls us, it can cloud our thinkings. When we're controlled by emotions, it can lead to unwise actions and unwise decisions and unwise statements we make sometimes, when emotions are controlling us. My advice to folks has been over the years, especially if there's a loss of a loved one, that it's best not to make important life Important life decisions while I'm still being consumed by the grief of losing that loved one Get that under control. Let that subside. May take a year, so it may take a while, but let that go so that my thinking is not clouded And sometimes, you know, people get emotional about stuff. I think of young people. A young man sees a young lady and he falls in love. Oh, I'm going to marry that girl. And he doesn't really know her and he doesn't spend any time with her and he's not really sure who and what she is, but he acts on that emotion of infatuation and then he's tied in and about a year later he's thinking, hmm, what did I get myself into? Follow what I'm saying? I had a fellow years ago back in another state told me one time, they'd been married for a little while. He says, you know, I probably ought to thought this through a little bit for it, did that? So emotions, if they control me, even good emotions, natural emotions, if they control me, can lead, cloud our thinking, and lead the unwise Actions. We have emotions. Emotions play a role, but here's what I'm trying to say. Jesus Christ in his word must control me, not my emotions. I must, my emotions must be submitted to the authority of Christ. Christ must be on the throne of my heart, not my emotions. Not my emotions. David has allowed the emotion of grief to take over his thinking. He has allowed the emotion of grief to control his mind, and he's doing great damage. If you would, look with me at verse 2. Now I understand his grief over his son. We're not saying that in and of itself is wrong, but to allow that to control him Is where the problem is. Look at verse 2. And the victory that day was turned into what? Mourning. Unto all the people. Now look at this. For the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son. That's fine in and of itself. But it so controlled David. Look how it affected the people in verse 3. That the people get them by stealth that day into the city. Now, can you picture that in your mind David and his forces have been out there. They've conquered this insurrection that has risen up. They conquered them. David's son has been killed. David is greed. The people hear about it, but rather than coming back into the city, all right, let's get back, let's build this thing up, let's pick up where we left off, let's uh let let's rebuild They're walking back in there. They're getting themselves in by stealth. I don't know how you picture that in your mind, but I picture it this way, like if uh they're hiding from the enemy. In fact he says there, he says they got them by stealth as people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle. God gave a great victory here. God delivered them from this insurrection. Absalom taking over the kingdom was not the will of God. It was God's will that David be king. And so they've done, this has happened, and now it's affected the people. And so David's emotions controlling them has done is doing great damage to the countr uh to the city and to the people. Rather than restoring the nation, David's discouraging them. I've said this before, but can you imagine, just imagine with me if this coming Sunday I got up behind the pulpit, instead of telling one of my really good jokes that I worked very hard on, Suppose I got up and said, you know, I just kind of hugged my shoulder and said, boy, I need y'all to pray for me. It's been a tough week. It is tough being a pastor of a church. You know how everybody would respond to that? They would all say, oh man, we need to pay for pray for Pastor. Boy, he's having a tough time. He had a rough week, and everybody would be sympathetic. And everybody I'm guarantee you they'd go out, oh Pastor, we're praying for you, you know, hang in there. You know I I think they would say that. But um Uh, you know, all that. Suppose the next week I got up and said, Oh, it's even worse this week. You don't know how hard it is to be the pastor of a church And then people would people would start worrying. Do you think? Do you agree with me? Be like, man, what in the world? What's the deal with Pastor? And then the third week I get up and I just sob uncontrollably. Oh, I can't take it anymore Uh, they'd vote me out. All right, enough of this. He's out. That's where if you allow emotions to take over, it hurts the people around. Here's what I'm trying to say. is we influence others. Leadership has influence in the home in the church, in the workplace, on a national scale, leadership has influence. Now, my question is, I got a little ahead of myself. My question is, why was David so overcome by grief about Absalom? What was it about this situation that caused David to be so overcome? Anybody. Any guesses? He felt like it's his fault? I think that's probably part of it. Can I tell you, as I was studying this, I kind of this thought entered my mind. I think I think David was concerned for the spiritual well-being of Absalom Remember, go back, if you would. Remember when Bathsheba conceived with child from their adulterous night? You all remember that And Nathan came and approaches David and he confronts him and rebukes him. And David humbles himself. He confesses sin. He repents. Psalm 51, tremendous response to Nathan's rebuke. David just uh he deals with it exactly the way uh we should deal with failure, sinful failure. But then Nathan said that that son is going to die. Remember that story? Remember us? And what did David do when he found out the boy the child the child was going to die? Probably two years old at this point, maybe. What did he do? He fasted and prayed, remember? He lay prostrate. He was hoping, praying, hoping that God would show mercy and the child would live. But he didn't. God said he's not going to. And the baby died. And what did David do immediately? He got up, washed himself, prepared a meal, and went back to his business. Got back up and started being king again. Started, and the servants were like, what in the world? Well, the baby's alive. You fasted and afflicted yourself, but now the child's dead and you're up eating and going on. And he made a powerful, powerful statement. He says, I shall go to where that child is. And I'm not quoting exactly, but I shall go to where that child is, but he's never coming back to me. What did he say about that child? That child is where? It's going to be in the presence of the Lord. David's going to be with that child again. That was a direct result of his actions with Bathsheba. You think there wasn't guilt associated with that? You think there wasn't remorse associated with that? This baby's dead might fault But yet he was able to control that emotion. He was able to deal with it. I'm convinced it was there. But he was able to deal with it because he knew the baby was alright. He knew the baby was okay. I'll see the baby again. And that helped him deal with that sorrow. Paul said in Thessalonians, he said, We sorrow not, even as others who have no home. He doesn't say we don't sorrow, we do sorrow, but it doesn't control us because we know we'll see them again, they're okay. But not one time does David say that about Absalom. You know what I think? I'm speculating here. I think David was worried that Absalom was an unsaved man We see no evidence of any spiritual life in Absalom whatsoever at all. And here his son dies unsaved. I tell you, the death of an unsaved loved one can be overwhelming. At a funeral years ago in another city where the child, the father died unsaved, and the teenage boy was been trying to witness to his daddy, trying to win his daddy And daddy died suddenly of a heart attack. I mean dropped dead before he hit the ground. And I'm telling you, that grief overtook that boy where they end up taking him to the hospital in an ambulance from the from the viewing that night. And so grief is a powerful thing. Why did David grieve so deeply? And so why did it so take over him? I think maybe he was concerned For Absalom's spiritual well-being. I tell you, if we have unsaved loved ones, we ought to apply ourselves every way we can to win them to Christ. And I see little effort on David's part to try and win Absalom all through this. And now he regrets that. I thought about I thought about Job. In fact, if you would, take your Bible, turn there with me, Job chapter number one. Now keep your place here because I want to look at a few other things. But come back. Job chapter one, just before Psalms Chapter 1 is right before chapter 2. Job chapter 1. We know the story of Job. Was Job a good man? Yes or no? Yes, he was just and upright. In fact, God said he was perfect in all his ways. Wow. Did Job have a, we'll use New Testament terminology for the sake of illustration here. Did Job have a saved family? Yes, yeah. He offered sacrifice, he prayed for 'em, they all got along good there and in chapter one says Sons went and fasted it feasted in their days. Every one his day sent and called. And uh it was so. Job sat and sanctified, rose early in the morning. So he loves his family. No doubt they know the Lord And then if you get over to chapter 1 and verse 20, here they're all killed in this one day. Loses all his property, all his servants are killed, all his children are killed. Look how Job responds. Verse 20. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshiped. Wow. Just found out all his kids are killed. He goes and worships God. He says, God, you're in charge. You're the authority. You're the supreme authority. I submit to that. That's what worship is. And he says this: Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all of this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. What a response. Then get to chapter two and takes away all his health. Look in verse nine. His wife starts talking. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. By the way, that's exactly what Satan was trying to get him to do. But he said that thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. Men, I would suggest you don't say that statement to your wife under any circumstances. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God? Shall we not receive evil? And all this Joe did not Job sin with his lips. You know why I think Job was able to He grieved, there's no doubt about it. We see that. He questioned, he had a lot of questions. It was tough. But his emotions did not overtake him in this situation. I believe because he knew his children were okay and he would see them again. In fact, at the end of the book, God says, I'm going to double the amount of children you have, but the new kids that show up after he's over this Is the same number he had before. Why? Because the ones that died initially, they're just fine. They're with the Lord. They're fine. Now I'll give you that same number again. You have double the number of kids. And so knowing the Lord and enables us to keep from controlling our emotions. So I think David uh was was controlled by his emotions because he was worried about the condition of his son. Now let me let me come back here if you would come back to our So we have David controlled by his motion. And second of all, we have Joab's confrontation of David. Joab sees what's going on. He sees how he's affecting the people. And he comes and he confronts David. Look at verse number 5. And Joab came into the house to the king. He's back in the palace. Or no, he's not. He's out in the city there. And Joab comes to the house where the king is. He says, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants. Which this day they've saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons and thy daughters, the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines, they've saved your life. And he confronts David here. Joab saw how David's behavior was affecting the nation, and he intervenes. This is what I kind of touched on earlier. I want to come back to it. The attitudes and actions of a leader has profound influence on the followers. Let me put it this way: a daddy's attitude in the home affects the family. A mother's attitude in the home affects the kids and family. Dr. Lee Robertson said, everything rises and falls on leadership. And that doesn't just apply the church. By the way, the attitude of the leadership in the church affects the church. You know what I found? I found if you've got a pastor that's very critical of everything and complains a lot about everything, you know what I found out? He's got a church full of people that are critical and complain about everything I had a preacher friend of mine years ago. He's not in ministry now. He's older. He was older than me at the time. He's still is older than me. But um Man, every time we get together, he just told me all these things that people weren't doing right and the people didn't do this and they didn't do that and they didn't give me a birthday party and they didn't do this for me. And man, it was just all the time And I met some of his people. Guess what? Ah, the preacher don't do this and he don't do that, and he didn't give a party for us, you know. Leadership affects followers. Leaders have influence on those they lead. In a home, on the job. You ever work for a boss? I had a foreman down in Chattanooga. I worked in a carpet mill from 11 o'clock at night till I think it was six in the morning, something like that. And uh I worked for this guy, he was English, British. And um man, that guy was the crabbiest guy I ever worked for in my life. I mean he just crabbed about everything. And guess what we find ourselves doing? We started crabbing about everything. Leadership has influence. Our attitudes affect others in the home. In the church, in business, hey, in a nation, leadership has uh has effects Everything rises and falls in leadership. So David is here, and his actions, his attitude is affecting the people. And now they're insecure and they're scared. They don't know what's going to happen. And how what how where does this end up with our king like this? I found one thing I've learned over the years, I believe what I believe are two most important aspects of leadership. I hope you get this. Two most important aspects of leadership. Number one, there has to be trust. The followers of a leader must trust that leader, right or wrong. If I don't trust him, I don't trust where he's leading, where he's going, I'm going to have a hard time being very confident and following him, right or wrong. There has to be trust. There has to be some integrity on the part of the leader. There he he has to establish trust. When I speak to young preachers on occasion I get a chance, one of the things I tell them, one of the first things you need to do When you get in a church, whether it's a youth pastor or a pastor, one of the first things you need to start working on is earning the trust of the people. Sometimes somebody will walk in and they'll demand, you trust me. It doesn't work that way. Trust must be earned. And so people don't know if they can trust David or not. You know, well, he's so emotional, we don't know. So I think two aspects of leadership are absolutely necessary. Number one is trust, which implies integrity on part of the leader, and number two, consistency Sometimes he's up, sometimes he's down, sometimes he's here, sometimes he's hot, sometimes he's cold. Now we all have to deal with consistency, right or wrong. How many people say in your Christian life, a big part of dealing in the Christian life is being consistent in Christian life? Anybody with me? Yeah. And leadership has to be consistent. Those kids need to have a daddy they can trust, and he is consistent. And you get a mama they can trust and she's consistent on the job. If that job's going to succeed, if they're going to have good morale Workers have to trust the leader. He has to be consistent, staying at it. And so they didn't know if David was what's going on with David. They didn't know. And it affected the people. A leader controlled by emotions will not have either. He will not have the people's trust, and he will not have their consistency. He will not have their trust because he's not consistent. What he'll have is frustrated followers and he'll have discouraged followers And that's exactly what David has here. He's allowed his emotions to control him. So Job confronts him. And let me just give you a few observations here about Joab's confrontation of David. Notice, if you would, in verse 5, Joab shows up, he came to the house. Thou ashamed to disday the faces of all thy servants Which have saved thy life. He said, listen, if Absalom had prevailed, he would have killed the whole family. That was part of the procedure, I guess you could say, and In those days, if there was a if one king conquered another king, the very first thing you did was killed that former king, you killed all his family, you killed all his offspring, you killed everybody that was loyal to him You eliminated all competition because you don't want to risk them rising up against you. And I'm someone saying, hey David, listen, I want to remind you of reality. Reality is if If you'd have lost this, you would be dead, and your whole family and everybody would be dead. So he reminds them of reality. When emotions control us, sometimes we lose sight of reality. We tend to focus, our focus turns on ourselves. We lose sight of reality. We get all wrapped up in ourselves. So number one, he reminds David of reality. Number two, he rebukes David sharply. Look at verse 6. In this thou lovest thine enemies and hatest thy friends. Ouch For that thou hast declared this day that thou regardest neither princes nor servants I perceive if Absalom had lived and we all died, you'd be happy. Man, what a rebuke. The word shame there in verse 5, he says, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants. That word shame there means to dry up all encouragement. You've completely knocked all the confidence out of your people. Everything positive has been erased from your people. You've shamed them. They're just down. You've taken every hope they have, you take it away every any positive thought they have, you've shamed them And verse 6, selfishness spawns in gratitude. We don't find one place where David thanks the people for being loyal to him and defending him. He's all wrapped up in his emotions. And selfishness spawns ingratitude. You know what Joab's doing here in verse 5? It's a verbal slap in the face. Anybody here old enough to remember what was that aftershave? And um I remember commercial when I was young. He's in a plane. What was it? Alphabet and the guy's in a plane and he kind of passes out and the plane's going down and it's gonna crash and they go over and they slap him across the face. Thanks, I needed that. Anybody remember that? Am I the only one? Yeah, you remember it. Okay. That's b it's right. You some of y'all were before TV. That's right. I forgot about it. What Joab is doing here is he's given David a verbal slap in the face. And David responds. And then last of all, Joab reasons with David. It reminds him of reality. David, listen, if you'd have law, if Absalom would have won this battle, your whole family, all of us, we'd be dead. Rem remember that. That's reality. Number two, he rebukes them. Hey, you've shamed everybody. You've just ruined all these people's lives. You're so wrapped up in yourself. And then he reasons with David. And now he backs off a little bit and he starts reasoning. Look at verse number 7. Now, therefore, he's gotten David's attention. David is, he slapped them now, so to speak. Now, therefore, arise. Go and speak comfortably unto thy servants For I swear by the Lord, if thou go not forth, there will not tarry one with thee, one with thee this night, and that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth up. He's reasoning with David. He says, David, you need to fix this. Or you're going to lose everything. Sometimes that's why people lose their ministries is because they get so wrapped up in themselves. They fail to see what their actions are doing to their people. He got David's attention. He restarted David's thinking and David's reasoning. I like Proverbs chapter 27 and verse 6, it says, Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. You know, when we got a good friend, someone we trust, someone we know cares about us and loves us, when they come and sit down with us and say, hey, listen, you need to wake up. You're messing up. You're messing up. That is a good friend. That's a good friend. And Joab's helping David here. And faithful are the wounds of a friend. I think confrontation is important. Confrontation, by that I mean confronting someone and rebuking when necessary. That's necessary for childhood, growing up into adulthood. Proverbs 29, verse 15 says, A child left to himself bringeth his mother what? Shame. He's saying you need to confront that child sometimes. You need to rebuke them. Their confrontation is necessary if a child is going to grow into maturity. Have you seen in the media and different places, maybe out in the community, grown-ups acting like spoiled little babies? You know why? Because they were never confronted as a child. They were never dealt with as a child. They were left to themselves. Now they grow up and act like spoiled toddlers, kicking and screaming and yelling. So confrontation, what Joab did with David here is a good thing. It was needed if the kingdom's going to survive. And children need that. To be confronted. By the way, to be mature spiritually, you and I need that. Proverbs 9:8 says, Rebuke a wise man and he will love you. How many people here you're saved, you know it? Say amen. Did you ever go in a preaching service, maybe a revival or a sword conference coming up, something like that, and the preacher gets up and skins your hide. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean, he is just ripping you up and you're sitting there thinking, man, that's me, that's me. And then after it's over, we go and say, man, that was great, wasn't it? You know why? Because there's something in us. We need that. Paul told Timothy, reprove, rebuke, exhort. Now he says, do it with all longsuffering. Don't be hateful about it. But that preacher, that you and I need a preacher or a pastor that tells us how it is. And doesn't doesn't sugarcoat our sin. I tell you, what's counting? Can I give you a little insight? I'm going to end. But can I give you a little insight and brothers Brother Brother Heimbold will relate to this, I think. You're preparing a message and you know that message is dealing with somebody in the church, something they're dealing with. You know, we go through Peter or something, and I'm preparing. I'm telling you, I never preach a message directed at a person. I've never done that But inevitably, when you're preaching through a passage of scripture, you come on something and you say, All right, I know this is exactly what's going on in someone's life. Anybody want to guess what the temptation is? Well I'll just skip that verse. We'll come back to that later when they're not here. And uh but you can't do that. You can't do that What Joab did for David was the best thing he needed. I tell you, I look back over my life and I can think of some sermons, I can think of some preachers. Brother Homer's God used him in my life. And man, he'd just sit you down and say, hey, this is the way it is. You need to quit doing this. You need to start doing that. Yes, sir. I'd be mad. But then afterward I'd say, yeah, that's right. That's true. I needed that. And that's what David does. He responds. And so we need that. 2 Timothy 4 told Timothy, preach, reprove, rebuke, exhort. Man, you preach it straight. You preach on sin. How many people here want a doctor that tells you the truth? Anybody here want a doctor that addresses what's wrong with you? Yes, well that's the same way spiritually. I want a preacher that's going to tell me the truth. And if I've got a tumor, tell me. Tell me what it is. Now we've got to be careful. Too often we're more ready to rebuke than we are to be rebuked. You know? We kind of like yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna go rebuke them for that. Well that's fine, but you better be willing to be rebuked when you need it Galatians 6. 1 says, if any of you overtake in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, lest ye also. In other words, he's saying if you've if you got a situation you feel like you need to confront somebody like Joab Joab did David You better, number one, make sure you're right with God first. I don't know that Joab did that, but this is what God tells us. Better make sure you're right, you which are spiritual, and then you do it very graciously and very carefully remembering I could fall into that same thing that they're in. You follow? So David's controlled by his emotions Making bad decisions. He's hurting the people. Joab steps in and confronts him. And then we'll see how David responds to that. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this. Lord, help us to keep our motions, let them play the role they're designed to, and keep them in check. And Lord, help us to take rebuke when you send it our way. And to receive that, and we thank you for it. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how if there'd be some say, preacher, I need to uh uh I just need the Lord to help me control. My life and my actions and my thinking, any like that. I need the Lord to help me. I do. I need the Lord all the time. Lord help me. Control. Be disciplined. I wonder if there's some who say, you know, I really don't like to be rebuked. Nobody does, but you say, you know, I understand it plays a role in my growth as a Christian. And maybe we just need the Lord to help us be willing to be corrected when we need it. Is there any like that? My hands raised. Need to be willing when I need it. Father in heaven, please bless our imitation I pray you could use these thoughts tonight somehow in Jesus' name, Abraham.