2 Peter, I want to begin reading in verse 4 down through verse 8. We're working our three way through this little passage here And um we're picking out little statements he's making here, differ different ver different virtues of the Christian life and looking at them. Let me begin reading in verse 4. Peter writing to these persecuted believers, he says, whereby are given to us exceedingly great and precious promises that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. He's saying, you know, by these precious promises we grow. We become more like what God wants us to be. We're less like the world, more like Christ And then he gives this list here. He says, Besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. And to patience, godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity And he says this: for of these things, and I underline that phrase, these things, referring back to this list of eight characteristics he just gave, these things, if these things be in you and abound. They make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to look at that one statement there, that one characteristic in verse number seven, add to godliness, brotherly kindness. We're going to talk about brotherly kindness for a little bit. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. study of your word, particularly here in 2 Peter. And I pray that this this characteristic you mentioned here, that you would help us to diligently add this to our faith And that we wouldn't just brush off your instruction here or disregard it, but we would take it very seriously and apply ourselves very diligently Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do that, and I need your Holy Spirit to help me preach this like it should be. And so I yield my will to you. I want to remove my will from the message. I want your will to be expressed. Lord, I give my body you I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me and you would speak and communicate that will through my body And so help us, as we finish out this Lord's day, to take a step forward in our Christian growth and maturity. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Christian growth is a lifelong endeavor How many people were finding that out? How many people had the idea maybe early in their Christian life that by the time you're 15, 20, 30, 40 years in the Lord, you pretty much arrived You know, sometimes we get that idea. I I I'll be honest with you, I never dreamed when I was three years old in the Lord that I would still have the spiritual warfare going on that I have today. It never ends. Christian growth is a lifelong endeavor. Christian maturity, Christian development. Talk to some of the folks who have been around here saved a long time. They'll tell you they're still needing to grow. Still need to grow. Now one of these days, and Dale kind of touched on it, we sang about it, one of these days, we'll be complete in Christ. And what a day that will be. Um someone said that if we knew, if we knew About death, as believers, if we as God's children knew what God knows about death and the hereafter for the believer, not one of us would fear death, one iota. In fact, we would embrace it. If we knew about death and the hereafter what God knows about it, brother, we'd be looking forward to it. Amen or not. However If we knew what God knows about death and the hereafter for the unbeliever, that unbeliever would fly to Christ. Fly to Christ. And if we understood that completely, we'd do all we could to reach people. So but spiritual growth is a lifelong endeavor. Peter's instructing these persecuted believers that he's been writing to, 1 Peter, and now 2 Peter. And he's encouraged them to stay focused on their personal spiritual development. They've got to stay focused. On adding diligently to their faith and these lists of characteristics. We've got to apply ourselves if we're going to grow spiritually. We cannot neglect Our spiritual life and our spiritual responsibilities if we're going to be mature, if we're going to be what God wants us to be. So He's urging them, He's instructing them, listen, you guys stay focused, you stay at this Diligently. Their objective, according to verse 8, is to be a mature, fruitful believer. I can bear fruit for Christ, the fruit of the Spirit, see other people saved, God glorified in my life. And reflect the characteristics of Jesus Christ. I love that passage in Acts there, early in Acts, where it says they took note of Peter and John that they had been with Jesus. Jesus had rubbed off on them, and they could see the characteristics of Jesus Christ. I see Christ in those fellas. I see the characteristics of the Lord Jesus. Those guys have been spending time with Jesus, and you can see it in them. Their attitudes. He's challenging him in our attitudes, Christ-like attitudes, reflect the character of Christ in our conversations, how we talk. How we talk to each other and treat each other. The characteristics of Christ, we see that in our interactions, the words we use, and the way we speak one to another. In our behavior, how we conduct ourselves, places we go, the things we do. How we live our life, all this, we want we want Christ to be reflected in my life. Have the mind of Christ and speak as Christ would have me to speak and live my life that reflects the character of Jesus Christ. That spiritual fruit, that spiritual maturity. And that's what Peter is challenging these folks here. He gives them a list of these necessary ingredients if I'm going to be a mature Christian. How many folks here tonight you say, preacher, I sincerely want to be a mature Christian? How many people here uh raise your hand if you want to be a babe in Christ? Nobody wants to be a babe in Christ. And God doesn't want us. He wants us to grow and be mature. And so he gives this list of ingredients here. We've looked at six of them already. Faith is the beginning point. Add to your faith virtue. We talked about that. Knowledge. Temperance, which is self-control, patience, and godliness Now there's two more on this list, but I see, and maybe it's just me, but I look at this list and I see a bit of a division between the first six and the last two. The first six I see they are more of internal characteristics. The ability to control myself, me living a godly life. Me being patient with people. Me uh gaining knowledge of the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? Me being virtuous, morally excellent. These are all kind of internal. This is what I'm working on myself. I'm diligently adding these things to what I am And then the last two look to me to be a bit of external. I've got the first six in place, or at least I'm working on them, diligently working at incorporating them into my what I am. And then the last two, brotherly kindness and charity. That's my treatment of others. I get these first six in place, and then I'm able to have brotherly kindness. I'm able to express and display charity. And so there's a bit of a division here. And so he brings up this brotherly kindness subject, and that is somewhat of an external virtue. The first six characteristics, I put this down. Oh, by the way, all eight are necessary if I'm going to be mature. I need all of these. Verse 8 makes that clear. The first six characteristics faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, those first six without The last two, I would end up a, I'm going to use this term, a stoic Christian. How many people understand what it means you say someone is very stoic? Anybody understand? What what do we mean? Somebody help me. Very stern would be some w uh would be along the line. Someone else. If someone's stoic, very somber. It has the idea of unemotional. Nothing moves them. They're stoic. Somebody's hurting there and suffering doesn't faze them a bit. Somebody's very, very happy and rejoicing. Doesn't faze them a bit. They're stoic. They're unemotional. They are very uh you could say hard If I have faith and virtue and knowledge and temperance and patience and godliness, but I don't have brotherly kindness and charity, I could be a very harsh Christian. You follow my thinking here? I could be a very unkind Christian. You can have faith. It's possible to have faith in God, live a very moral life Be patient, drit your teeth, and be patient, be very self-disciplined, and yet be very harsh. Right? I've met preachers. Straight as an arrow. Man, they got faith. But they weren't very kind. They weren't very loving. And we need all of these ingredients if I'm going to be a complete mature Christian. Say, preacher, I got faith, that's wonderful. Preacher, I've learned to discipline myself, wonderful. Preacher, I've grit my teeth and I'm patient, I don't react. Praise the Lord. But if I don't have brotherly kindness If I don't have charity, I can be a very hard, harsh, unkind Christian. Do you ever meet an unkind Christian? They have nothing positive to say about anybody else. They're harsh and sharp in their words, stern. Talk about being strict. I tell you, you can be strict and be as carnal as a goose. And every goose I've met has been very, very carnal. Are you with me? See what I'm saying? We ought to have faith. We ought to be disciplined. We ought to be developed patience. We ought to know our Bible. We ought to learn of God. That's all part of maturity, but we cannot leave the last two out. Be very, very unkind. Brotherly kindness is just as vital to my spiritual maturity as is faith, knowledge, and godliness. Would you agree with me? A preacher ought to have brotherly kindness. Would you agree with me? A preacher ought to be kind. I believe, and I'm I'm I certainly don't live up to this all the time, but I believe a preacher can preach hellfire and brimstone, King James straight as an arrow, in your face, sin hating preaching, and yet be a very kind man. I believe that's true. I think I believe that's ideal. And by the way, I want a preacher that preaches hellfire brimstone straight up against sin Bible preaching. But while we're doing that, we be kind. Add to your virtue, your knowledge, your patience, your temperance. Add to that, add to your godliness, add to that brotherly kindness. Be nice. Would you agree with me? Deacons ought to be kind. I tell you, pray for me. I gotta work with these deacons here. Oh Lord, help us. But do you agree with me? Someone holds the sect only there's only two offices in the church, pastor and deacon. Pastor ought to be kind. I think the deacon ought to be kind. I'm not preaching it at anybody. I'm preaching the Bible. Would you agree with me? Choir members ought to be kind, a brotherly kindness. I think Sunday school teachers ought to be kind. They ought to have faith. Need to know their Bible, you need to know what we're preaching the Word of God, teaching the Word of God. We ought to know it. We ought to be disciplined to prepare ourselves. But if we're not kind We don't have brotherly kindness to the people that God puts under us, whether they're children, teenagers, or adults. We're not kind. We're not what God would have us to be. We're we're hurting our influence. So the first six without the last two It's not a mature Christian, is not a complete Christian. I think church workers ought to be kind. I think the husband ought to be kind. Oh, the wife said, Amen. Do you agree with me? A husband ought to have faith in God. Right or wrong? Husband ought to be disciplined. Husband ought to be patient. Oh, husbands need patience, trust me. Husband ought to be patient. Wouldn't you agree with me a husband ought to be godly And a husband ought to be kind. Ought to be kind. A wife ought to be kind. All the men said, Amen. Seriously. Add to your faith virtue, add to virtue knowledge, and the values temperance, and the temperance patience, the patience godliness, and the godliness Brotherly kindness. Be kind, be nice in your words, your actions, your behavior, your countenance. Parents ought to be kind to their children. Children ought to be kind to their parents. All the parents said, Amen. A couple things about brotherly kindness here. Number one, we need to comprehend what brotherly kindness actually is. What's he talking about? What is God telling us when he says, add to your uh add to godliness brotherly kindness? What's he talking about? Do you know that's the only pr time That exact phrase is used in the Bible is right here in 2 Peter chapter 1. Brotherly kindness. It's the only time that phrase Is used in the Bible. Brotherly kindness. However, I got digging a little bit And there are a few other places where the word, where we get our English word, brotherly kindness, from, that same word is used other places in the New Testament. However, it's translated a little differently, and it gives us some insight on what brotherly kindness really is. You know what I found the fascinating thing about the King James Bible? You study words, it's its own dictionary. You look those words up and how it's used and you have a dictionary. The Bible is its own dictionary. And so I got looking up how it's used other places, how that word is used other places. In Romans 12, verse 10, in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 9, in Hebrews 13 and verse 1, it's translated brotherly love Aha. So when he says be kind, it's more than just being polite. There's actually a decision, a commitment of love involved in it. In uh in uh 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 22, it says that same word is translated, love the brethren. So brotherly kindness, brotherly love, love the brethren. So there's Love, but that other word that's in every one of the meanings is what? Brotherly. That tells us the uniqueness, what he's talking about here. Brotherly love. Here's the literal, strict definition. Brotherly kindness is the affection, compassion, and concern that is found within the family unit The love, the compassion, the affection, the concern that's found in the family unit. Now we live in a day where families are fractured. We live in a day where sin has devastated our relationships within the family. But nevertheless, the family is God's institution. And that love that is designed by God within the family unit is what he's talking about here. A kindness, here's another definition: a kindness and loyalty that we show to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. Pastor Matt and I have different backgrounds. He was raised in a good, strong, godly home, family, strong parents, strong marriage. Grew up in that in that spiritually strtified family unit. I did not. He lifts weights? I do not. And um I lift some other things, not weights. But um so what I'm trying to say is we have different backgrounds, but you tell you what I love Brother Matt like a brother. As if we were part of the family. How many times have we said at Mountain Lake, this church is as much of a family as it is a congregation? And that's God's intention. And when he says, add to your add to godliness, brotherly kindness, he's saying that That affection that's within the family. Diligently add that to your life. These are your brothers and sisters in Christ. In the home and in the church. Brotherly is the family attachment Love, kindness, is the family affection. There's a sense of loyalty there It's an uh uh I like this definition, an inclination to show kindness and be lenient towards another That word lenient has the idea of being soft or tolerant or gracious. I've said this often. We ought to give people the benefit of the doubt. My brothers and sisters in Christ ought to give people the benefit of the doubt. We ought to give uh I think you'll know what I mean by this, it's maybe a little slang, I'm not sure, but we ought to give people slack. Right? Everybody know what I'm talking about? Give him a little room. And that's what he's saying. Listen, you're living godly, add to your faith, man, live a godly life. Be godly But to that add this kindness that's part of that's designed to be part of the family unit. Be kind to each other. Give the benefit of the doubt. Don't assume the worst. A healthy family loves one another. Amen or not. There is no love in the family unit. There is something seriously, seriously wrong with that family unit. Amen or not? Husbands, love your wives even as Christ loved the church. That's pretty intense. Peter tells the older women, teach the younger women to love their husbands. And that love that God has designed for the family unit is to be expressed in the body of Christ, in the family of God. Should we be godly? Yes or no? Yeah, we don't want sin and worldliness in our in our lives. We should be disciplined, should be patient, we should learn and know what the Bible says and instructs us about God and how to live. But we need to be kind. Brotherly kindness, comprehend, we need to understand what it is. It's a love and a loyalty for one another. That God Designed the family to function on and the family of God to function on. Number two, quickly, the brotherly kindness is commanded I want to look at all these verses where there's no way. But brotherly kindness, loving the brethren, loving each other, is a major theme throughout the New Testament. I want to read one to you. I've got a list of them. I'll list them off, but let me read one. I'll just find it here real quick and read it to you. It's from John chapter 13. Notice what he says: this is Jesus speaking to his disciples. A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you. In the same way, in the same fashion. That ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if you have what? Love one for another. Brother, I'm all for King James Bible, but that doesn't advertise me being a disciple of Christ. I'm all, you know, look at me, I'm all for short haircuts on men. In fact, I'm for shaving it all off, to be honest with you. But that doesn't identify me as a disciple of Christ. Jesus said, I'm giving you a new commandment that you love one another exact same way I've loved you. How many people loved us when we were unlovely? Anybody here? Jesus loved us, loved you when you were unlovely? Sure. While we were yet sinners. Christ loved us and died for us. So we're commanded by God. It's not a suggestion. It's a command. I'm to love that person. I'm to love them. Just as Christ has loved me. Well, I wish we'd go to Romans 12. 10. I wish we could go to 1 Thessalonians 4. 9. I wish we could go to Hebrews 13. 1, 2 John 1. 5. They all say basically the same thing over and over and over. I'm instructing you, I'm telling you, love one another, love one another. If I don't add to my faith brotherly kindness, I am disobeying God. You say, well you just don't know how they behave. You just don't know what they've said and done. I know they I don't probably don't know what they said and done or how naughty they might be or how awful they might be or what how rude they were But I know this, God sure loved me when I was awful and naughty and rude and unkind. How many people here, if someone was unkind to your child, that would bother you? Any parents? If someone was unkind to your child, would that bother you? Yeah. Can I suggest to you? That it bothers our heavenly Father when someone is unkind to his children. And so if I'm unkind to my brother or sister in Christ, That bothers God. And he tells me, you love one another. Brotherly kindness. Number three, brotherly kindness must be cultivated I am not naturally kind. I need to diligently add to my faith brotherly kindness. Kindness, at least for a lot of us, probably all of us, to some extent, does not come easily. We have to work at it. How many people sometimes you just don't feel like being kind? I don't mean right now, I mean at some point So we have to work at it diligently, add to this. How do I develop brotherly kindness? Here's a few bullet lists. Make sure of your own salvation. The unsaved Pharisees were brutal on one another. They were lost They had no presence of the Holy Spirit in their life. They had no love of God shed abroad in their hearts. They were harsh and brutal, condemning. It's impossible to have a proper relationship with God's people without having a proper relationship with God. Again, if we had time, we'd go look at Zacchaeus, the wee little man. Before he came to Christ, man, he was ripping people off. He was hateful, self-centered, rude. He climbed that sycamore tree to see what he could see. Jesus said, Zacchaeus, you come down. I'm going to your house today. And old Zacchaeus got saved. A wee little man got a big salvation. And what does it say? He immediately went back to all the people he ripped off and said, here, I'm giving you fourfold back. I want to make things right. He became kind. So make sure your salvation. We're going to develop kindness. Number two, consider God's loving kindness to us. I've already touched on this. Ephesians 4. 32. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one to another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. So look, study the fact how gracious and kind God's been to me. Study that. Learn from that. I put this down. Study examples of brotherly kindness in Scripture. The one that came to my mind immediately was David finding Mephibosheth. And he says, I want to show kindness to him. Study that. Say, preacher, I just have a hard time being kind. Well, study some of these guys. See how they did it. Number four, deliberately die to self and humble yourself before God. I'm telling you, I don't know how you are, but I'm telling you, this altar and many like it around the world is very, very precious to me So many times you don't have to come to the front of the altar, but I think it's a good idea. So many times I've knelt at this altar during weekdays, late at night, I'll come over. I'll say, God, I've blown it Lord, teach me. I tell you, come and humble yourself before God. You die yourself and say, God, all I can see is other people's faults. Lord, change my sight. Help me to see people that you love. Help me to see, Lord, I want your love to be shed abroad in my heart for others. We come and we humble ourselves before God and we die to self and say, Lord, it's not about me anymore. It's about being a blessing. Developing, adding to my faith brotherly kindness. And number five, I put this down, deny myself. And walk in the Spirit. Study Galatians 5. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And then he goes and he gives this list of works of the flesh, and they're awful. They're hateful. They're selfish. The works of the flesh are dirty and unkind. I need to die to self and Lord fill me with your spirit. Bear your fruit through me in my home and in my workplace and in my ministry and in my body of church. Gotta develop this. It doesn't come naturally. It doesn't come easy. I've got to diligently add this to my faith. And I end with this. What are the characteristics of brotherly kindness? I think one's a genuine concern for one another. 2 Corinthians 12, we don't have time to go there, but he says, sorrow with those who sorrow. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Be empathetic in in in in in immerse yourself in what they're going through and and be concerned Here's a novel concept. Let's care about others. Would you agree? We live in a world that just cares about itself. How I'm treated, what I'm doing, what are they doing for me? How are they treating me? It's called dying to self Characteristics of brotherly love is genuine concern for the well-being of others I put this down, genuine support for one another. Don't have time to go to verses Hebrews 10, 33, 34, Hebrews 11, Hebrews 13. Helping others, stepping in. I've used this before, but our boys were small. There was a little snow on the ground. I say little, about two and a half feet, but um And and on the back of our house, some of you have seen it, it's just a slight slope there. The boys were had a toboggan or those plastic, what are they called? Plat little plastic Sled. Um and uh they're sliding down and they're bundled up, you know, they're like they got all this stuff wrapped around, it's freezing out. And they were small, and Daniel fell in the snow and couldn't get up. And he said trying to get up. And I'm in the kitchen and I'm looking out the window there. It's probably doing dishes. I want you to see what a great husband I am. And um But I looked out and Dan was there, Ugh, he's crying, snot all my work. My oldest son Sam goes over. He picks him up and he puts his arm around them. So they're just little He brings them over and brings them in. I tell you that broke my heart. You know what that's a picture of brotherly kindness. Helping each other, caring about each other. Now they've changed since then, but um uh no kidding. They would help each other, I guarantee you. Support one another. Some of these are redundant. Forgiving one another. Forgiving one another. Forgiving and then encouraging one another. Hebrews three Chapter 13, the first couple verses, first few verses, said, exhort one another. It means lift up, encourage, strengthen. We bring these little children in here. Parents bring their church folk bring their children in here. We want to encourage them. We want to build them up. We don't want to beat them down. We want them to experience the love of Christ from the moment they get here to the moment they leave. Am I right or wrong? And we want adults that feel that too. Visitors come in. Visitor comes in and they're all tatted up and they're all whatever you want to describe it. They ought to experience the love of Christ. Brotherly kindness. Encourage one another, lift up, help. I'm telling you, this world is very good at beating people down. We don't need Christians doing the same thing. We need to build each other up, build each other up Somebody, Alexander McLaren, was a great preacher in London hundred some years ago. He was a contemporary of Charles Spurgeon. He made this statement. He said, kindness makes a person attractive. If you would win the world, melt it. Don't hammer it. I agree with that. I put a little footnote under his statement. I put unkindness Makes a person ugly. Unkindness. They can be the most beautiful man or woman in the world and have perfect physical features. But if they're unkind, they're an awfully ugly person. Am I right or wrong? Lord says you gotta work at this. And listen, I'm I'm preaching myself as much as anybody. I know things I've said to people in the past I'm not proud of. Attitudes I've had. So we're all in this together, right? We all got simple nature. We all have to work on it. But that's God's admonition to us. Add to your faith brotherly kindness. I've said this, I've I believe this is all my heart. This is my I feel strongly about this. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, the folks that are part of this body of Christ here ought to be the kindest people in Oakland, Maryland. And we're not in competition, but we just ought to be. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now. Teach us this, Lord. We know it doesn't come natural. We've got this old sinful nature that is so hard. All of us do. So I pray you'd help us. This coming week, as we leave here in a few moments, I pray you'd fill each and every one of us with your Holy Spirit. And I pray the fruit of the Spirit would be born in our lives. In the home, in the workplace, market, all where we go. And in our godly, trying to live godly and disciplining ourselves and learning of you I pray you'd help us add brotherly kindness. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I'm wondering how many would join me in saying, preacher, God spoke to my heart. And I need to work on this. Any like that? I need to work on this. Sure. If you have a sinful nature, we've got to work on this. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads up