Psalm number 127 and number 128, turn there in your Bible. Psalm 127 and 128. We'll look at both those Psalms. I'm going to read both those Psalms as a groundwork or as a springboard. into the message today and uh I believe the Lord will will use the message to speak to our hearts And uh and help us to have godly families. Am I on? I t I turned it on. He's back there Shaking his thing at me there. Okay, I got it. Good, yeah. All right. And uh uh Psalm one hundred and and twenty uh seven and Psalm one hundred and twenty eight. Would you stand with me please? I'll I'll read quickly and you follow along there with me as We read the Word of God. Oh, there we are. All right, good. Okay. Psalm 127, 128. Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Well, isn't that something? We we try to do it without the Lord and wonder why it doesn't work. Labor in vain. He goes on to say, Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early and to sit up late to eat the bread of sorrows. For so he giveth his beloved sleep. Lo children are inheritance of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward, as arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children of thy of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. Wow, what a great psalm. Listen to Psalm 128. Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways For thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands, happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants around about thy table. Behold, and thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion And thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life, yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for the precious Word of God. Thank you, Lord, that it's so full and so blessed And I pray you'd speak to our hearts today. Help us, Lord, as we think about having godly families. You've made so many wonderful promises. You've told us how blessed and how happy and and how fruitful our lives can be if we will allow you to be God in our lives. And Father, I pray that you would help us to have godly homes. And Lord, help our homes to be becoming more godly. Help us, Lord, never to get to the place where we feel that we have arrived until we arrive in thy presence. But Lord, help us daily to want to be growing Christians. to want to be improving in every aspect of our Christian life, certainly our our our rejoicing in our salvation our ability to win others to Christ and Lord also in our homes, in our families, and our children, and our our our inner our relationships there And Father, we give you the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. You may be seated. You know, we talk about praying together. We talk about having fun together. And sometimes we uh we preachers uh we we're so uh we are so adamant about having a a spiritual and the walk with God and the prayer life and studying the Bible memorizing scripture and I'm for a hundred percent all of that, but we don't talk a whole lot about families having fun together. Well that's important too. Fun time, vacation time, building memories and uh those sort of things. D and developing family traditions. I'm gonna talk about some of those things just very briefly this morning. Talking about going to church together. By the way, if you are a visitor here this morning Maybe you've visited many times or whatever, and you don't really have a church home that you can call your own. I highly recommend Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. and make it your home. If you have friends, loved ones, relatives, co-workers that are really out of the loop with the Lord and not involved in a local church. Do your best to get them to come. Begin to make your prayer list of people that you're reaching out to because that'll do as much or more for their family than anything else you can offer them. and uh be a blessing. Uh uh I think about family traditions. I I remember when our daughter in California married her husband from California And Nancy said to him, she said, okay, we'll agree to the marriage. If you'll promise that every Christmas you'll bring her home. And now for how many years? Twenty something? Twenty-four years, twenty-four years they've had to now they've got them and five kids. Sometimes it costs them over a thousand dollars, fifteen hundred dollars in airfare just to come and and be the in Louisville for uh for uh in the greater Louisville area for three or four days, you know, just but he comes home for Christmas every year. And uh that that's a family tradition. Those other things. We ha we have our family, all of our family together. I think this year I don't know what we had, twenty something, twenty-nine people or something like that in our house and and uh for for two or three days. It was such a great time to have them all there and it was such a blessing when they went home. And uh Twist it's just amazing what the Lord did. But I want to speak to you on building godly families. Isaiah 54 verse 13 says, And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord and great. shall be the peace of thy children. I'm afraid that we've got a whole generation and maybe now a second or even in part a third generation of people growing up in America that have no idea about the spiritual foundation of this country and really what it was all about and about knowing Christ and walking with Christ You know, there was a time when over fifty percent of the people in America uh were in church on any given Sunday morning, and some of them rotated in and out, so over fifty percent So it was probably 60 to 70 percent that went on some kind of a regular basis, at least once or twice a month, that kind of thing. Now today it's uh well the last statistic I heard, which is about three years old, it was twenty-seven percent percent of the people in America attend church on any kind of regular basis, 27%. And we wonder why people are out of touch with God. why they're out of touch with morality, why they've lost their moral compass, why families are in trouble, why marriage is is such a confusing thing. People don't even know the definition of marriage. The Supreme Court don't know the definition of marriage. and and biblical marriage and what it's been for all these for thousands of years in every country of the world And now with this modern progressive movement, all those things are changing and the confusion is everywhere. And young people have no idea. Now they're being taught in school, hey, you may or may not be a boy or a girl. You have to stop and think about it and decide which one you are today. And tomorrow you may be different. Tomorrow you might be a dog or a cat or something. Who knows? You know, you know, go sleep in the kennel. But uh you know, it's it's just it's crazy times that we're living in And the confusion, can you imagine the confusion of young people with drugs flowing through even in the in the public schools, drugs are flowing like a river. And uh and states one by one are starting to legalize, you know, miracle marijuana and and and uh the the I I was listening to some of the uh political things they were talking about in New Hampshire that 90 young people this last year uh had died from an overdose of heroin. Teenagers. I'm talking about teenagers. And uh and 90 had died from an overdose of heroin in that one small state. And it's it's just exploding like crazy. And it's just amazing. We are living in perilous times. And praise the Lord, uh people are looking for something that's going to satisfy, and we have that thing that satisfies, and and yet sometimes we get so caught up in the idea and the methodology and the philosophy of the world and think we have to be like them. We're afraid to be different anymore. We just want to be wallpaper. We just want to blend in the background. It's time to come down off the wall and stand up for Jesus Christ. and and have families that have morals, that have principles, that have a moral compass that people can know what direction they're going and why they're going there. Well, the marriage was the first institution on earth. Preacher made reference to that a little bit earlier. God basically founded three institutions, the home. And then the gov uh then the the uh uh the home and then the the government and then the church. And the church is a great institution that God has founded and And the church is the bride of Christ, the body of Christ, it's the meeting place for uh it's the assembly of people coming together to meet. and uh to worship the Lord, to get their instruction, and to to storm the city with the gospel of Christ and and so forth. The government God instituted government, but the very first institution that God created and that he gave us was the family. The home. That's Adam and Eve there in the Garden of Eden, and you know the story. We won't go back to that again. But God created the institution before the institution of government, before the institution of the church. And the family is so important to God. I think of the Apostle Paul when he was in jail another time and and they sang and praised God and and God sent us, shook the ground. I guess it was an earthquake, shook the ground and All the doors were open and their chains fell off and and uh the the jailers saw it all uh realized that the doors were open and thought they were all gone, was getting ready to take his own life because it was a capital offense to allow these prisoners to escape and uh he was just gonna he he was shamed it was a reproach and and uh and death was imminent anyway and but Paul stepped out and said, Wait, do thyself no harm We are all here. They had had a jailhouse revival. Everybody in that jail had gotten saved, and none of them left when the doors opened. And the and the jailer couldn't believe it. He fell on his knees and he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And Paul said this, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Listen, and thy house. You see, even there, Paul, the Apostle Paul, understood the heart of God and the purpose of God, and he said, Look, Mr. Jayler, it's not just for you. God wants you, but God also wants to take care of your family. It's a family thing. It's a family matter. And on this family weekend, and on this Valentine Day, and on this day where we're thinking about how can I be a blessing to my family, to my loved ones, how important it is that we honor the Lord Jesus Christ. The commitment of Joshua in Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15. He said, If it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your father served, which were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord As for men, look, it was a decision he made. Hey, I want to say to the men, by the way, we had a good men's meeting right here during the Bible study hour. We're gonna we're gonna have an even better men's meeting in the second hour just before the evening service tonight. And I wanna tell you conviction was heavy in that room And there were men weeping, holding on to the table, crawling under the table. It was amazing. And uh, right, fellas, somebody say amen. Yeah, we we had we had a we did have a good time in there. Fellas, if you couldn't make that early hour, I want you to be sure and be back here at five o'clock tonight. And if you have any questions that you want to ask, the pastor has some card, you just ask him, he'll get a card to you, and you can write them. We'll do it anonymously. And uh unless you put your name on there. If you put your name on there, I'm going to broadcast it. But but you uh you can get we can do it anonymously and uh and and we'll we'll answer the questions But Joshua said, Joshua, he said, look, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. You see, the family is important to God even in this day of throwaway families. That's the kind of day we're living in. Baby killing abortion, no-fault divorce, uh the state's intrusive move to control the family and take away parental rights uh destroying the true meaning of marriage, adding uh the legalization of mind-altering drugs to the scourge of alcohol. Uh I'm talking about I say alcohol, I'm talking about fermented wine. Well it's a big push. Everybody uh trying to make winos out of everybody in America. You know, that's uh that's amazing Uh but uh fermented wine. I emphasize the word fermented wine. Everybody says, well they had wine in the Bible, but not fermented wine. It was new wine. You know new wine, fresh squeezed grape juice, is not fermented Excuse me. And uh uh when Jesus made wine, it was brand new wine. It hadn't sit there and fermented. And when uh God likes the unleavened bread, you know, and the and the and the new wine. So anyway, there is a difference the fermented wine, the liquor, the beer. They're trying to destroy millions of young lives and the use of public education for social engineering more than for education and and and teaching of truth. Satan wants to destroy the family. There are some things we can do. I want to give you two or three simple. Oh, that's introduction. Now I'm going to get to the message very quick very simple. There are some things that we can do. Number one, in our families. Number one, we need to get back to conducting family devotions. At our house, we call them family commotions. Because it was never a it was never a quiet form. We didn't sit the kids down and and and play uh play highbrow organ music and say, you know, hm, you know, uh it wasn't like that. It was time we came together and every time we say, okay, hey, it's time for prayers, time for devotion, whatever And they say, oh, okay, wait a minute, I gotta get something first. I run to the refrigerator, you know. And uh all these different kind of things. They said, well we gotta hurry because I've got homework to do. And uh and then we'd end up sitting there talking and and and for a half hour, forty-five minutes. as we got into the thing. And you say, Well how in the world did you do that? How'd you accomplish that? I'd say to the kids, we'd sit down there and I'd say, let's let's pray together and we'd go around the room. Everybody prays or one night it's your turn to pray and somebody else's turn to pray. We'd take prayer requests. We'd pray, read a scripture verse, hey, tell us what your favorite verse is and what it means to you, different things like that. And then I'd say, hey, let me ask you something. Anybody get in trouble in school today? We would gossip for about twenty-five or thirty minutes. Just family commotions. Just having just talking about situations. You say, well what good did that do? Well, we found out I'd say, well, what do you think should have been done in that situation Let me tell you, here's what I think we ought to do. And it was a teaching opportunity of how to deal with situations, how to deal with people, how to deal with teachers that you think are overbearing because one of these days they're gonna have a job and they think the boss is unreasonable. You know, those those kind of things. And just opportunity, just teaching time from the b biblical point of view. And just, you know, we Call it what you want to. Call it gossip. That's what we called it. And uh that's what it was. But it was it was good spiritual gossip with it's in the family context to teach our children how to handle life because they were in they're out there living in the middle of it every day. You see what I'm talking about? They come home and then you never even deal with those situations. You don't even talk about it. Don't talk about the bully in the classroom or the are are the are the sc scared little kid that gets picked on, or the or the uh are or the funny looking kid, or the one that can't talk plain, or or or the or the teacher that didn't show up or got in trouble and boy there's the rumors going through the school about something the teacher did. You know, all those things. It gives you so much opportunity to deal with life issues from a biblical perspective in that kind of setting, and man, you've got their undivided attention. Because now you're right there where they live. And that's an exciting thing. That's what we did. We didn't have a formal book that we went through. I I'm not opposed to that. I think it's good. I think it's good to have devotion books. and do your personal emotions, all that kind of thing. But we had family commotions. But uh look we need to take that opportunity. The Bible says this. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 6 through 9. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And shall talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest in the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up. In other words, it ought to be part of your whole day. Your walk with Christ ought to be obvious to you and your children that everything you do throughout the day, you do it in light of, as a Christian, I want to be pleasing to God. So again, he said, when uh when thou sitest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way When thou liest down, when thou risest up, thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, thou shalt be as frontless between thine eyes, thou shalt write them upon the post of thine house and on thy gates. He says, You ought to have reminders everywhere Have reminders everywhere about uh you know what, when when you walk in your house, you don't need to get the who the uh uh Please excuse me. You don't have the the latest NASCAR number and a big w picture on your wall there. How about instead have the 23rd Psalm? Have what my mama used to have on her wall, made all my kids memorize it Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, thy my strength and my redeemer Or be like that one picture shows the man sitting there and he's got the bread and he's got the Bible and got the candle and it says the Lord and he's praying for the before he takes the meal and it's hanging there in our kitchen. We had one for uh uh for many, many years, and it said, uh The Lord is an unseen guest at every meal, an unseen listener to every conversation, something like that. I don't remember the exact words, but it was that kind of thing. Let those kind of things decorate your life. to remind you of who you are and that make you uh different from the world not in a weird way but in a way that maybe even causes the world to feel a little bit uncomfortable around you Because they think you're you're weird in a in a holy way. And but by the way, don't do it unless you're going to live what you're trying to portray. Be what you look, if don't don't wear I saw the Usher jacket with Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church on it. Hey, if you're gonna go to the mall and act like an idiot, don't wear that jacket, please. If somebody says, where do you go to church? Tell them the Episcopal Church down the street. You know, I and uh and you know whatever. You know, don't don't don't be you know use your brain, be right, live for God Conduct family devotions, let God use you, and uh that sort of thing. That's number one. Number two, number one, conduct family devotions, live for God, learn how to live for Him, 24-7 and uh and be a testimony. Strive to be what you are advertising. And uh and let your kids know and let your wife know and let yourself know that you haven't arrived yet and that you've made you make mistakes along the way, but you know you have a God in heaven who's not only willing to forgive you, he's willing to restore you. And he's willing to teach you and help you to overcome those things. The just man falls seven times and riseth up again. You say, well, I tried to have that devotion thing, it just didn't work, so we can't do it. Yes, you can. Do it again. Do it again, do it again, do it again. Just keep rising up again. And uh it'll look I'd rather try and fail and try and fail and try and fail than to never try at all And you don't have to be a genius, you don't have to preach. Some men make the mistake thinking, well, I'm going to have family devotion, so I've got to get I've got to get a sermon together to preach to my kids, and they've got to sit there 30 minutes listening to me, bore them to tears. You know how it works. How many of you ever never mind. We we won't even You know, uh that that's okay. Hey, but if you have something really interesting to share on occasion, that's wonderful. Do it And but but family devotions ought to be fun. It ought to be exciting. It ought to be interesting. Kids ought to go away. Boy, that'll just be spinning in their brain. And they're looking forward to the next one now And every time when you get ready to do it, they'll have something that oh well I gotta do this, I gotta do this, we've got to hurry. And and then the next thing you know, boy, an hour has m gone by and they're still sitting there waiting for more. You know, it it's just great. Okay, number two Be faithful to church. Be faithful to church. The Bible says in Romans 10. 17, so then faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the Word of God. I don't know how many Christians I've heard say over the years, well, preacher, I wish I had more faith. And I said, well then come to church and hear the word of God more. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. I say, they say, I wish I I want I want my faith to increase. Then quit just being a Sunday morning glory. Come back Sunday night and midweek service and be involved And get involved in the events and activities of the church where the Word of God is going to be preached and taught, and let God do a work in your life And uh I believe that's the answer. It's a big part of the answer. Especially when you're in a good Bible-teaching fundamental New Testament church like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you've got a pastor like Dr. Dennis Leatherman who loves the Lord, loves the Word of God, spends hours saturating himself in the Bible. and and just filling himself up and then comes in here and and unlo and and makes it available. Ah, what a shame not to take advantage of it. I understand. I I'm not being critical of people that have to do shift work and and uh occasionally you have to take a vacation and that kind of thing. I I know all that stuff. But I'm talking about when you can and when you should and you just choose not to. Being be faithful to God's house. Well, that's important. You want a strong family. I want my family to turn out right. I want to, look. Having your kids in church three times a week for 18 years of their life is no guarantee because they're still free moral agents and they may make some bad choices when they get out from under your roof. And probably some of them will sometime. And hopefully they'll learn from that and come back to Christ. And when they're old, they'll not depart from it. But the truth is. You had that opportunity. Yeah, I I'd I'd hate to I'd hate to not have done that. Then the kids go down those wrong trails and you blame yourself the rest of your life Why? Let God use you to be a blessing in your home. Hebrews 10, verse 23 through 25, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. By the way, I call this the salad bowl of the Bible. Here he said, let us hold fast the profession of our faith in verse 23, Hebrews 10. Verse 24 says, and let us Getting a lot of lettuce in this in this uh passage here. Let us consider one another. Listen to this one. I like this one. Let us consider one another and provoke one another to love and to good works There ought to be something about my life. If you got to know me, there ought to be something about my life That you would say, I wish I could love people like he does. Now I'm not saying that there is because I don't know. No, you know, I but that's my desire. I want let us provoke one another. I want to provoke you to love other people and to do good works. Let us provoke one another to love and to good works. A lot of times we provoke people to fight or provoke people to be disgusted. And we're just provoking. But how about if we how about if if we ask God to ask God to help you to be the kind of influence on your family first, on your church family second, and on your world. The circle of influence that you have, where you work, where you live, where you shop, your extended family, the in-laws, the outlaws, and all the other laws. That God would use you To be a provoking factor in their life that they would look at you and say, here's what they say. You say, What am I trying to get them to do? You're trying to get them to look at you And see Christ in you and say this. And you're looking at you and saying, boy, I wish I could be more like that. Because then, one of these days they're going to crash and burn, and guess who they'll call? You. And then you can say, the reason I do have a level of victory, The reason when I face some of the same situations that you're facing right now, that I survived and survived happily and am going on with my life, the reason I did. Is because my relationship to Christ, I'd like to share that with you. Come with me to church. Let me share the gospel. Whatever it is. You see what I'm talking about We make this thing of Christianity and living for God way too complicated, folks. We make it sound like we we make it sound like it's something so way up here that you know just the average men and the few men, I could never do that. You know, but let let's let's be real. Let's just face this thing. Did you know your preacher puts his pants on one leg at a time just like you guys do? Did you know that? Did you know the Bible says there hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man? Face the same hardships, difficulties, hurts. Discouragement. Whatever you faced, we faced. I know sometimes we come across like holy people. But the truth of the matter is, if you look real close, we're shot full of holes. But we love the Lord and are really working hard to do it right. To be an influence, to be a blessing, to help you. And if you would do that same thing in your circle of influence, God would use you in such a wonderful way. And you can be used of God in a mighty way. You can reach people for Christ. Oh, how important it is. So number one We need to conduct family devotion. Number two, we need to be faithful to church. This thing of being in church, hearing the word of God. Let's continue this lettuce bowl here. He said, let us draw near with a true heart. He said, let us hold fast and profession our faith. Let us consider one another, provoke one another to the love and to good works. And he said this, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. So when I talk about this thing of influence and the you say, how can I maintain my own level of spiritual out of spirituality and have a growing faith that will help me to have an impact, to make a difference, to touch other lives, to strengthen my own family To gain the esteem of my spouse and the admiration of my children that they would want to be like me How can I do that? One of the ways you do it is being faithful to God's house so that you can grow in grace. How important that is. Wow. Yeah, I'm I'm just amazed at how we miss that. Well I can worship God down on the creek bank with a fishing pole as good as I can. You can worship God better on the creek bank with a fishing pole than you can in God's house. You can worship God better driving down the highway thinking on the things of the. . Yeah, I'm not talking about worship God. I'm talking about being faithful to church. God's the one who said this. God said if you're going to be able to exhort one another, you need to not forsake the assembling of yourselves together as the manner of some is. He didn't say anything about it'll make you a better worshiper. He said it'll build your faith. By the way, ultimately it probably will make you a better worshiper. Most people come to church and never worship God while they're there anyway. How many people walked in those doors today having said before you came in here and sat down, God please speak to my heart today and give me something? Help me to leave different than I came in. How many? No, don't raise your hand. Wouldn't be 5%. You just came to see what was going on. You came because you had an obligation. You came because somebody invited you and you didn't want to load them down. You came for a thousand and one reasons. You can't you know you came because you I gotta sing in the choir. I I've got a giant usher and I'm on duty today and this thing and that blah blah you know I And we forget why we're even here Am I making any sense today? Somebody say amen or something. I know we're up north, but that's okay. Go ahead and say it. It's a good it's a good thing. We're talking about family. We're talking about salvaging our families. We're talking about groups of people all over America in what we call local New Testament, Bible-believing, fundamental independent Baptist churches that could have strong families that could get the attention of America at large. They say, you know, there's this group of people And and the and they're not they're not they're they're in society, they're they're not like isolationists, but somehow they're insulated. They're not isolated, but they're insulated, and they're happy. And they're successful. And their families are staying together. And I wish I had what they have. And it even could be a families getting right with God could even be a spark of revival, at least in your own greater family. I can't even I won't have even time to tell you how to win your loved ones to Christ, the message I preached sometime. I don't know if I preached that here or not. Nancy's family were all Catholic and over the years, over 40 years. We got almost every living member of her family saved and many of them serving God, three of them in full-time Christian service. And they were they were, I wouldn't say died, I wouldn't say they were devout Catholics, but they were they were committed Catholics, you know, bingo, church picnic. faithful cr uh Catholic schools that all that kind of thing. I mean they they they that's what they were. And they they were angry and didn't want to hear anything else Excommunicated us, shunned us when Nancy tried to witness to him. But ultimately I believe. Trying to practice some of the things I'm telling you here, and we didn't do it very well, but we but we stayed at it God used it to see almost 100% of them that are still living come to Christ. And we praise the Lord for it. So be faithful. Be faithful. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, verse 15, Paul said, if I tarry long, in other words, if if it's a while before I get there, I I'm coming, but if it's a while before I get there, if I tarry long that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Local church, the pillar and the ground of the truth. God has chosen to use the institution of the local New Testament church. as a place to strengthen and bless his people. Long-range benefits of being faithful to God and his house will far outweigh the difficulty of putting him first. Love finds a way. Don't use flimsy excuses not to do what you know you ought to do. Instead use a determination to say, I'm going to be where I ought to be, doing what I ought to do. Your children and your own spirit Or smarter than that. You can use film flimsy excuses if you want to, but your kids see right through it and they say, you know what? I know they go there and they feel like that, but it it's really not that big a deal to them. And so when they get a little older, they go a different direction. And we're losing generations. We're losing them. And we need to go apologize to them. We need to go apologize to our kids and say, hey, you know what? I didn't really do this thing exactly right. And I want you to forgive me. Would you forgive me? And then would you care if I pray for you that God would help you to become a better example to your kids than I was to you? How about that? I'll tell you another thing we've lost in our families. Humility. We have a hard time admitting we were wrong. We did it right all the way. Our kids were just rebels. They just got in with the wrong crowd. All that kind of stuff. Oh, you know, you know, I won't stay there. Let's move on. Number three. Number one is conduct family devotions or commotions. Number two, be faithful to God's house. Number three, when real problems arise, get godly counsel. By the way, it wouldn't hurt to get counsel sometimes before the problem before it becomes a problem. Proverbs 11. 14 says, where no counsel is, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors there's safety. The Bible says in Proverbs 15, 22, without counsel, purposes are disappointed, but in the multitude of counselors they are established. And by the way, God does warn us against ungodly counsel. He said in Psalm number one, verse number one, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. His delight is in the law of the Lord. Get a counselor that's living for God and doing their best to live by Bible. Now, you pick somebody and you start inspecting them, well you're going to find some chinks in their armor. I mean we're human, aren't we? And we all make mistakes. But you can uh you can pick, you can find godly counselors. You can find you can have a cabinet of counselors, people that you're going to go to. Maybe a godly layman or laylady that that loves the Lord, that you can talk to, that'll keep confidences. your pastor, your spouse, some people that you can counsel with about things and and and have four or five people maybe you talk to, maybe have one main person that's like an accountability partner. to help you and to uh in that sin that doth so easily beset you and that sort of thing. But but get counsel into your life. No man is an island. We do need one another That's why one of the things that God created in the church, it's a family. I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. It's God's family. And God warns us and encourages us. Don't let the devil destroy your home. Get the right kind of counsel. I remember one man that uh he was in the process of getting divorced. He came to talk to me. He said, Pastor, I want to counsel with you And I said, okay, I didn't even know have any idea what his name is Jim. And he's in he's in heaven now. But he uh he came to me. He was a member of our church. He was saved. He'd been serving the Lord had even worked with the youth some. He said uh it blew me away with this. He came in my office and he said I just want you to know uh my wife and I are getting a divorce and I want to get your counsel. I said wait a minute time out The decision's already made that you're getting a divorce and you want my counsel? That's really it. I think you got to think backwards. You should have come to me and we should have talked before you made the decision. I said, what's with that? The Bible says that a multitude of counselors are safety, I'm your pastor, you didn't even talk to me about this, and now you want me to counsel you about something. I have nothing to say to you. You've already made the decision. You're already in the process. Now, if you're wanting out, I can maybe help you figure out how to get out of it. Oh no, no, we're done. I said, what in the world? I said, why didn't you get oh well preacher I did get counsel? I said, oh, you talked to another pastor or something that maybe a former pastor, you were just a little bit shy about coming to me, embarrassed or whatever. Oh no, no, it wasn't that He said, there was this lady a few doors down from us that had just gone through a divorce, and I talked with her. Great counsel. You shot yourself in the leg. You destroy destroying your family, destroying your little kids, without ever even getting the godly counsel. Learn to get the counsel you need before it's too late. A lot of people come to the preacher. They don't want, preacher, they don't come to you because they want your advice. They come to you because they want you to agree with the decision they've already made. Shame on God's people for being that way. Shame on us for not really wanting the input of God's man and see if there's anything that would come to his mind that the Holy Spirit would bring to his mind from the scriptures that he's read and studied and prayed over for years. that might be a help. Or some other example of people because he's he's counseled hundreds and hundreds of people over the years and And he sees he's seen the train wrecks. He's seen he's seen people get thrown under the bus. He's seen the heartache and the heartbreak. And and he he knows He knows some of the dangers and and could maybe he could maybe s help you salvage some things and at least get out of the thing without total destruction and and and you don't even give him the don't even give him the the respect. To see if he has an opinion. Wow. What kind of Christianity is that? I don't understand it. I don't understand it at all. Get godly counsel. And don't wait till things blow up. If you if you just have even if something that seems nitpicky But you think, man, I struggle with this thing, things don't really seem to be going right in our home, my wife seems upset all the time, or my husband and he's kind of a bully. I I really don't know what to do about that. You know, he's uh uh goes off the handle easy why not just come to the pastor and say, Pastor Could I set an appointment, take about half hour sometime, and just share with you what's on my heart and let you pray about it and maybe give me some ideas? Tell me what's next. Now I know. Honestly, preacher, I'm not trying to drum up business for you. I mean, we we we carry more than we can a lot anyway. I understand that But I want to tell you this. He's a man of God. He has a pastor's heart. And I believe he'd say in a heartbeat, you're worth it. You're worth it. Let God help you with that. Don't wait till it's too late. The devil wants nothing more than to destroy our homes, God's basic institution. in society. And we have the opportunity to make it right. Number four, last point. Make sure that you and your family are saved. I ended with that last night at the uh at the dinner. Told about how Nancy got saved after we were already in church and involved. Maybe there's someone here today that's not 100% sure that if you die today you'd go to heaven Make sure that your family members are saved. Check them out. Hear their testimony. What brought it to my mind, how I became aware that it that I wasn't sure Nancy was saved, is I got to thinking about it and I'd never heard a clearer testimony from her. I'd married this young Catholic Lutheran lady that became a Baptist uh in in uh in in practice but i'd never really heard her give a testimony of how she got saved and uh That gave that became a key to me that maybe I need to pray about that. Ultimately, obviously, you know, she did get saved. It was last night, but no, I was just kidding. Just kidding. She she did get saved. And uh and is go is great what a great help mate that she's been to me uh through these years. And uh, but maybe there's someone in your family. Maybe they even joined the church somewhere along the way or made a profession but didn't really have a possession. Maybe good one, maybe it'd be good in that family commotion time sometimes to go around the circle and say, Hey, let's all just tell when about when we got saved Where where were you when you got saved? You might not remember the exact time of day or the calendar date, but you ought to remember where you were, what the circumstances were. Maybe there's someone here today and you're not sure. that you're saved. Well, wouldn't this be a wonderful time to get that matter settled? You know, it could be that some of the family problems that some people have and some of the difficulties they have is because they're trying to pretend, trying to give an appearance to be something that in their heart they're not really sure they are. Just kind of going through the motions, trying to bide some time and hoping that everybody will go going along to get along, but not really sure. It would be a good thing to be sure, wouldn't it? You know, God loves us. He sent his son to die in our place on Calvary because we were the ones that should have died. We deserved hell because of our sin. But God loved us, sent his son to pay that sin debt for us. And he said, if you are willing to believe that what my son did was enough payment for your sin, and you want your sins forgiven, you're sorry for your sin, and you want to turn from your sin and turn to Christ. And you're willing to call on him and invite him into your life to be your Savior and your Lord, He will gladly come into your life. Jesus said, He that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. He wants to come into your life. He wants to be your Savior. He wants to forgive your sins. He wants to write your name down in heaven. He wants to give you that free gift of eternal life. It's a free gift to you. It costs him a great deal He became sin for us, took our sins on his own body on the tree, that we might become the righteousness of God in him If you're not sure of heaven, trust in today. Let's bow our heads together, please. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, and Christ is right here with us. I wonder who's here today that would say, Brother Lonnie. My home is there there's some areas in my home that I know and in my family that I know need improvement. I know there needs to be some growth. And and some of the ideas or maybe none of maybe there's not even any of the ideas I gave this morning, but but you know there's some things wrong and you maybe even have an idea what they are, and you would say, There's some areas in my home, in my family life, in my faith. Where growth needs to take place. And I want God's help in it. I want God to work in my life. Pray for me. I wonder who'd say that today. Just slip your hand up there. Slip it up there. Yes. Oh my goodness. All over the room. All over the room. Is there some are there others Are there others? Preacher, pray for me. That's what I want. I wonder how many to say today. Now listen very carefully because this one's a little bit more touchy because it's not it's not you personally How many would say, preacher, there's somebody in my life, somebody that I love? Might be one of your children, it might be a niece or a nephew, it might be a might be your parents, it might be anybody. I don't know who it could be, somebody you work with or or a neighbor. But there's somebody that I care about that I know they're not right with God. I don't know if they need to be saved or I don't know if they just need to get rededicate their life. I don't know what it is. You know, I I'm not God. I can't be the judge there. They they may be saved, but I know they're not living for God. And I know they're headed down the wrong path. And my heart goes out to them, and I'd like to see them reached for Christ. They're on my heart. I'm willing to pray for them. I'm willing for God to use me, if He will, to try to make a difference. If he'd give me wisdom in it, uh pray with me for my friends or loved ones or relatives or whoever it might be. Would you slip your hand up? How may you have somebody like that? Oh my goodness. Oh my Oh my, oh Holy Spirit of God, please help these folks. Give them wisdom. Give them help to be able to be an influence. And others. That said many that said, in my own life, there's a need. Lord, maybe in just a few moments when we begin the public part of the invitation. They ought to come to this old-fashioned altar or the front pew and just take a knee or sit there if they can't kneel. And just Put that need before you in their own personal life, or put those names before you of those loved ones, those friends, those neighbors, claim them for Christ and ask you for wisdom and power. And to be able to make a difference. Lord, help them not to be ashamed. With our heads still bowed and our eyes closed, one last question. Who's here today? And you'd say, Well, Lonnie, I'm not really 100% sure that if I die today, I'd go to heaven. Now, no one's going to be looking on except the pastor if he'd like and myself. But we do want to pray for you. You say, preacher, pray for me. I'm really not 100% sure that if I die today, that I have a home in heaven. But I'd like to know that Please remember me in your closing prayer. Would you slip your hand up if we say that today? Slip it up there a moment where I can see it. Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me Well, the pastor said it was mostly home folks here today, and I'm assuming then that most everybody is saved, or at least not to the point where you want anybody to know you're not saved. But if you do need Christ, boy, today be a great day. You come while others are going to be coming in a moment, but while they come, you come. And uh you just tell the pastor or tell myself, hey, I need to be saved. I I need to be sure I'm going to heaven, and we'll we'll help you with that. We'll have somebody w pray with you, show you from the script. You can leave this place today knowing that you have Home in heaven. Father, have your way now. May Christ be honored. We pray for Jesus' sake. Amen.