Boy, take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter fifteen, if you would. Luke chapter fifteen. I uh how many people know uh heard have have heard the term, you're familiar with the term waterboarding Anybody know what that is? It's in the news a lot. Terrace, waterboarding terrace. That's really nothing new. The dentists have been doing that for many, many years. They call it root canals And uh I was waterboarded this morning for two and a half hours at the dentist upside down, and uh it was a form of torture And then you gotta pay 'em to do it, you know. It's Luke chapter fifteen, let me get there. And uh I'm gonna begin reading in verse twelve. We're familiar with this, and actually last week we began or look at this passage, and uh I want to take it a little bit step by step through here. Luke 15 and beginning in verse 12. The Bible says the younger of them, well verse 11, he said a certain man had two sons. Verse 12, the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me And he divided unto them his living, the father's living, he divided up to the boys. Not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent to him, and he sent him into his fields to feed the swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and despair? and I perish with hunger. I will rise, and I will go to my father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he rose and came to his father, but when he was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him And put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it. Let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is And they began to make Mary. Now, if you remember, we uh touched and pointed out last week that the Son came to the Father confessing, asking for forgiveness And the Father readily and completely forgave the Son. He does not notice, he does not ask for payment back. He does not ask the son to restore that which he took and wasted. He completely forgives him. He does not hold him accountable for what he did. Now read on. Now the elder son. Verse 25 was in the field, and as he came and drew nigh to the house, heard the music and dancing, he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and sound. And he was angry And would not go in. Therefore came his father out and entreated him, and answering, said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee. Neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment, and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends And as soon as this thy son was come, and which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed him for the fattig hath killed for him the fattig calf. And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me. Notice his last phrase. And all that I have is thine. It was meat that we should make merry. And be glad. For this thy brother was dead and is alive again, and was lost and is found. So here's the situation, just to restate what we pointed out last week. The youngest son takes off, takes the money. He wastes it, he defames his father's name, he brings shame on the family. He comes to himself, he comes back to the father, and he confesses his sin to his father, he seeks forgiveness. And we talked about in the series on forgiveness how to go about to somebody whom we've hurt deeply, how do I go to them and seek forgiveness? That's what the Son did The Father, and as we pointed out, the Christian's responsibility is to forgive readily, is to forgive freely and completely. And the Father does that. Now, the subject we're discussing at this point is What do you do? How do you rebuild a relationship after someone has sinned against us? So deeply that it has hurt us. It has affected our life. This father's life savings are gone. His life has been affected by this. The family was affected. How do we restore that relationship? How do we come back and say, all right, this person sinned against me deeply, hurt me deeply, it's affected my life. What about restoring that relationship? Let's have a word of prayer, and we're going to pick up the second thought on this this evening. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would uh bless now our study. Help me, Lord, to stick to the point here And I pray that your Holy Spirit would drive home a very important truth, I believe, tonight. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit And uh speak to our hearts, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Remember, we said forgiveness is an act of obedience to God. It can be deeply personal, and it is uh at the level we're talking about And it is first and foremost a transaction between God and I. If you remember in verse number 18, when the Son confessed, he came seeking forgiveness, the first thing he says is, I have sinned against what Heaven. And so this was between him and God. And forgiveness is an act between God and I. Me forgiving someone who hurt me deeply, who has done something very wrong to me or against me. Me forgiving them is actually my obedience to God. It has to do with my relationship with God more so than it has to do with my relationship with the person I'm forgiving. The most important relationship you and I have is our relationship with our Heavenly Father. That must be right. You say, well, I think my relationship with my wife is more important than my relationship with God. Hey, if your relationship with God isn't right, you can't have the right relationship with your spouse. So I must maintain that relationship with God. And uh so it's a transaction God and I. Now here's the question we're facing. Does God ask us to forgive someone who has committed a horrendous sin against us? We're not talking about little petty stuff. Talking about serious things that have deeply hurt us and affected us, and then turn around and act like nothing happened. And just turn around and restore everything right back the way it was. If you remember, we pointed out in Proverbs 4. 23, the Bible says, keep thy heart with all diligence. We said the word keep there means to barricade, to guard, to shield, and the heart is the seat of our emotions. And so we're supposed to, God says, that we need to guard our emotional well-being. Now we forgive someone. Somebody on the job lied about us and we lost our job and the boss believed the liar. And we lost that job, and our name is dirt now, and we lose our credit. Maybe we have to sell the house, move into a smaller place, or whatever. But it has deeply affected my life. It's hurt my family. I forgive them. Biblical, I'm a Christian. My responsibility is to forgive them. Now, do I immediately go back and re-establish a relationship with them as if they never did anything? Does God require that of me? No. The Bible says we're to guard our heart. There's emotional our well-being is necessary. And it doesn't mean we're hateful. Remember, I said this. We don't get this attitude. Well, we're not on speaking terms That's baloney. Nowhere in the Bible we're ever commanded to be unkind to someone. Nowhere in the Bible we're ever commanded to be rude or not be on speaking terms. But I don't have to re-establish that relationship. And we said number one, we touched on this last week, genuine forgiveness is not naive. It's not gullible. There are some folks who are what the Bible calls reprobate. They're given over to certain sins for whatever reason. Maybe it's to lying or whatever. You just cannot trust them. Forgiving a person, if I, somebody, let's use the illustration of the job, guy lied, I lost my job, my name's Mud. Uh because of losing my job, I lost my credit, I got foreclosed on the house, my whole life is in shambles financially and socially and all that. But I'm a Christian. I love God. I want to please God. So I go before God and I forgive him completely and fully. And uh I want to obey God. I want to do right. So I forgive him in obedience to God. Just because I do right does not mean the person who offended me is going to do right. And I am not obligated to trust them. Forgiving a person does not mean that they want the relationship to be right. They could very possibly take the mentality, oh good, he forgave me, I got away with it And so I cannot control the actions and attitude and the condition, the spiritual condition, mental condition of the one that I'm forgiving. So I must not be gullible. I must not be naive. Forgiveness makes it possible from my end to restore the relationship. But I must be wise. We pointed out from Proverbs, there are some people we are not to make friends with. An angry man was one of them. We are not to make friends with them. We are not to establish a relationship. So, if I if I've forgiven someone for a serious sin, and now I'm considering, all right, restoring this relationship, first thing I need to understand is I don't necessarily have to restore that relationship. Depending on the situation. Now, as I pointed out last week, marriage situation is a little different. In a marriage situation, I have an obligation to God to seek the restoration of that relationship. Alright? You following with me They they cheated on me, they lied to commit adultery, I'm chattered, I forgive them. And uh but now because I've taken marriage vows, because I've taken a whole made a holy covenant with God Now I have an obligation to seek to restore that. And that's a whole nother thing. And I believe there are a few exceptions there, and I'll we'll deal with that another time. But I want to get to the second Number one, don't be gullible. Just because I forgave them doesn't mean I'm gullible. And by the way, we pointed out here in the story of the prodigal son. Uh when the the older son's problem was unforgiveness, self-righteousness. But if you notice at the end The father gives the oldest the oldest son, the one who stayed and was faithful, he's the one that gets to share in all that the father has, not the younger son. uh assume here by what said and how it said that the father did not hand everything back over to the youngest son. So number two If I'm going to restore a relationship after there's been a grievous sin, I've forgiven them. Number one, understand, and I don't always have to do that. Number two This is an important point I want to try and get across tonight. Is this genuine forgiveness may involve a continuing emotional turmoil I'll say it again and I'll explain what I mean. Genuine forgiveness may involve continuing emotional turmoil. In other words. Just because I forgave them does not mean I don't still hurt. Right? Forgave them. Sometimes forgiveness, oh boy, it's a load off my back. But there's still hurt there. Suppose, let's suppose for sake of illustration, Tom walked in late, and so I'll use him for illustration. Let's suppose Tom after church I say something to him nice and he misunderstands what I say and he gets mad at me and reach over and breaks my arm. I mean just breaks it. After he's gets back up off the floor when I'm done with him, I uh No, I'm Christian, I'm a pastor. I just say, Tom, I forgive you. I know you can't control yourself, and um you have a terrible temper. Tom, I forgive you. And I before God sincerely and completely and biblically forgive him. Does that mean my arms automatically healed? No. I've still got the results of what he did, his sin against me, even though I forgave him, I still have some results there. And guess what? It still hurts. Even though I forgive him, you know what? My use of my arm is limited still. And so we must understand that even after forgiveness is extended, There's very possible some emotional turmoil going on. That guy at work that lied, I lost my job and my credit went bad, and I foreclosed on the house, and man, you know, I just see him. And uh You know, the old heart sinks, and I gotta my mind starts racing. And uh I've got to deal with emotional turmoil. Our sinful nature is very powerful. Right or wrong, how many people found that out to be true? I wasn't saved very long. May 7, 1979, I trusted Christ the Savior It wasn't very long, and I found out that old sinful nature was still there and was still very, very powerful. And when somebody sins against us and does something that hurts us badly, that old sinful nature is still there. And you know what I found out about my sinful nature? It is very unforgiving. The old flesh is not very quick to forgive. Now, as a Christian, as a believer in Christ, a newborn child of God, I want to please God and I extend forgiveness as a deliberate act of my will. But the flesh is still reacting. Let me give you some scripture. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to Romans chapter 7. Romans chapter seven and verse eighteen Romans 7, 18. This is Paul speaking. Question: Paul, saved or lost? Saved, he's great. He's one of the greatest Christians perhaps that ever walked. But in Romans chapter 7, he has this struggle that's going on between him, between his spirit and his flesh. Verse 15, and you've got to think this through how it's worded. For that which I do, I allow not. For what I would, that do I not. But what I hate, that do I If then I do that which I would not, I consent to the law that's good. Then it's no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. For look at verse 18. For I know that in my flesh I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For the will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good, I find not. And what he's saying, and most of us here are familiar with this, many of us here are familiar with this, but what he's saying is this. I'm saying And inside me, there's a part of me, the real me, I want to do what I know is right. But I find that when I go to act on what I know and want to do that is right, I find I don't do it. And that which I don't want to do, that in my heart and soul I know is wrong, I don't want to do that. I find myself doing it. And he gives the reason. He says, For I know that in me, that is my flesh, my old nature, there is not one good thing. Question, is forgiving someone in obedience to God a good thing? Yes. It's obeying God. But my flesh does not want to do that good thing. And so I have this many times when someone has sinned against me deeply, the flesh, I still got to deal, even though In my heart and soul, I've forgiven it, I've I've let it go before God, I've I've released them from it, but man, the old flesh is still fighting that. And I've got to deal with myself Ephesians chapter 2 and uh verse 3, notice what again Paul, under the inspiration of God He says this, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past. In other words, we lived our lives differently before we were saved, in the lusts of the flesh. Fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of Wrath, even as others He's saying, Listen, this old flesh has desires that are contrary to God. This old natural mind, the old way I thought before I got saved, still is there and is a powerful force. The flesh wants to retaliate. The flesh wants to hold a grudge. The flesh wants to get even. And though in my heart and soul I've forgiven him, I've still got to deal with my flesh. This emotional battle takes place in the mind. Now again, we're not talking about stupid little things that people do all the time, cutting in line at Walmart or having 20 items in the 10-item line at Walmart. It's not what we're talking about. We're talking about serious stuff, and you understand that. And what happens is this. Tell me if I'm wrong. What happens is this, somebody does this wrong. We sincerely, before God, we forgive them. Forgive them But boy, the old flesh doesn't want to. And what's the flesh start doing? Starts dwelling on it, rehearsing it over and over and over. He said this. He did that. That was a lie. That was not true. Man, I should have done that. And I should have why did he do that? What in the world that why I remember back there he did this and man that thing comes back and comes back. Am I right or wrong And the mind begins to rehash that thing and rehash that thing and dwell on that hurt. And old flesh just feeds on that. And the flesh starts getting worked up. And the flesh starts saying, he needs to pay for that. That's not right. And so what happens many times after forgiveness, there is a battle that begins to rage within the person. Over that matter of forgiveness. And if I am going to restore a relationship with that person, first of all, I realize I don't have to You know, it may be a situation where it's not best, but a friend, large lead in my life, and we feel like, alright, I need to restore this relationship. Or perhaps in a marriage situation, and you're required by your word. Now, I've got to conquer this battle. If I'm going to be able to restore this relationship, I've got to have victory over this turmoil that's going on. And this battle is in the mind. And if I'm going to restore that relationship, I have got to get that battle under control. I have to conquer those thoughts. I have to conquer that Rehashing that flesh, just bringing it back up constantly. I have got to defeat that. Satan knows. Boy, now get this. And by the way, there is a real Satan He is real. You don't have to be saved long to understand that. Satan knows that if I that if he can control my thoughts I'm defeated spiritually. And the flesh knows that if the flesh can control the thinking, If my old nature, if my flesh is the one that's in control of my thought processes, I am defeated spiritually. I cannot allow the flesh to control my mind. I cannot allow Satan to control my mind. I cannot allow the world's philosophy to and the world's way of thinking to control my mind. I'll be defeated every time. I'll never get back up on my feet. I'll never re-establish that relationship, a good Christian relationship. I'll never get beyond that if I do not have victory over my mind. And that's where the battle is. I think a lot of times the initial decision to forgive is the easier of the two. I understand what the Bible says. I've heard the preacher preach it. I've read it in my Bible. The Spirit of God says with my heart, Yes, I'll forgive, I need to, I know it's right, I'll do it. But boy, then the battle comes up And my flesh says I'm not letting that thing go. My spirit says I have to. And so the battle gets in the mind. Take your Bible. This is a very important passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Please turn there with me. I want you to see this. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 I'm sorry, Second Corinthians chapter ten. And verse 5. Boy, we gotta get a hold of this. And this applies not just in this matter of forgiveness, this is across the board. Casting down. Let's start at verse 4. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. In other words, fleshly. You don't flight the flesh with flesh. But mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Now what are these strongholds that are keeping me defeated? uh strongholds, uh uh the flesh that are keeping me from having victory. Verse five tells us. Casting down what? Imaginations. The word imaginations there means this. Thinking processes. Casting them down, getting to control them, not letting raw unscriptural thinking. Rule. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, what I know to be true of God, what I know God wants from me. And bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. That passage is so important. Because not just in this matter of getting victory over forgiving and letting that thing go and not letting it consume me, but in every area of the Christian life, how we think determines how we act And how we think determines really what we are. As a man thinketh in his heart, his thinking processes, so is he. So, I've forgiven him. I've confessed. I got my knees before God. Before God, I've forgiven him fully and completely. Boy, the old flesh starts working. Remember they said this man hurt so bad. That was so wrong. That was a lie. Our thoughts form our attitudes, our attitudes determine our actions, and actions have consequences. It is impossible To restore a relationship after forgiveness until my thoughts are under the control of God's Word and God's Spirit. I've got to get that process of thinking under control of the Holy Spirit of God. Now I know what some folks said. I had persons say this to me. They said, I cannot stop those thoughts. I have no control over them. The person said this to me, it is impossible, humanly impossible, for me to forgive. I cannot have victory over that. Our flesh is very, very powerful. And the Bible says that we are to yield ourselves to the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit is the power God gives us. And ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And so as I yield myself and I yield my mind to the Spirit of God, I saturate my mind with the Word of God. And I think you'll find when they you're thinking like that, the last thing you want to do is read the Bible. Because the flesh is controlling the thinking. I've got to bring that into captivity by submitting my mind to the Spirit of God, by getting my eyes and my mind stayed on the Word of God. and take in the Word of God because I'll never be able to have victory over this. I'll never be able to restore that relationship until that is taken care of. Now here are some things that people think. Somebody's done this. Spouses run off with someone else, left us alone. And we're not careful. The flesh, the devil, make us think this. I am alone. And no one cares about me. No one cares about me. I'm completely alone. And that thought will begin to Control and think it over and it takes over every area. The way you counter that is with Hebrews 13 verse 5. Jesus says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The fact of the matter is I'm not alone. The Lord Jesus Christ is with me, and that is a lie of the devil, and that is a lie of my flesh to say that I'm alone and no one cares. I'm not alone. I have the Lord with me and He does care. And the fact of the matter is, if we're saved and part of a good church, there's a lot of people in the church that care That will share the burden with you. Maybe it's of a personal nature. We can't make it public, but God cares, and there are people that care. Don't let that thinking consume your mind. It is not true. Somebody says, I'm hurt. I'm hurt deeper than I've ever been hurt in my life. And no one in this world understands how badly I've been hurt. Hebrews 4 verse 15 says, The Lord was tempted as in points like as we are. We have not a high priest who cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. The Lord understands. In fact, the whole book of Hosea is an illustration of somebody who was sinned deeply against by someone they loved and trusted, and how they overcame that as an illustration that God loves us. And that he understands our hurt when someone has done wrong to us. Somebody says, I've been slandered. My name is bad. They lied about me at work. The testimony of the job and in the community maybe is my name is Mud. Romans 8. 31 says, if God be for us, who can be against us? If we do right, if we trust God, He's for us and He can overcome that. Somebody says, I was treated unjustly. I was done wrong. And boy, that thought gets in their mind and it begins eating away. Listen to 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 5. Therefore judge nothing before the time, but listen to this, until the Lord come. Look at this, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness. And will make manifest the counsels of the heart. Then shall every man have praise of God. What's he saying? He's saying this. They may have gotten away with something that was unjust. They may have done something that was flat out wrong. They lied through their teeth. And you took the brunt. You paid the price for their sin. He's saying, listen, don't get consumed by that. The day's coming when God's going to take care of all that There is a judgment day coming when every person, if that person was a Christian, they're going to have to stand before God at the judgment seat of Christ. If they were unsaved, they will stand before God at the great white throne judgment. There is a judgment coming. The Lord comes who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness. Vengeance is not yours. It's God. Let God take care of that. So, I wanna I need to restore this relationship. I feel the Lord is directing, I need to restore this thing. First of all, I understand I don't have to, but I feel the Lord's leading, so I'm going to take that first step. First thing I gotta do, I gotta get my thinking under control. Because you know what's gonna happen? Every time I see that person, those thoughts are going to start racing. Right or wrong. Every time I think of that situation, I'm going to lose control. I've got to get that under the control of the Holy Spirit. Now that's where Proverbs chapter four comes in, where we may need to just leaves some distance for a period of time. So I can get victory over that. Till my emotional well-being, till my emotional state has settled down and I'm able to think clearly and think scripturally and think biblically. I may need to stay away. We don't have the attitude, we're not on speaking turns, but we just say, hey, you know, we'd be nice if we see them, but we just don't pursue restoring that until that we've gotten control over this. So, let's protect our hearts by yielding our minds to the Spirit of God. Let's protect our hearts by yielding our minds to the Word of God. Get God's word in your mind. Get God's word in your heart. Pray. Bring that thing before the Lord. Lord, my thinking isn't right. I know it isn't. I yield my mind to you. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. Take victory over this matter. And God will help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us in this matter of our thoughts. What a battle. I ask, Lord, that uh not just in this matter of forgiveness, but Lord, a prayer across the board in every area of your life, our thoughts would be yielded to you. And controlled by your word. Bless us now, I ask. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really need God to help me in this matter of reading my Bible and keeping my mind uh stayed in the word of God and submitted to the word of God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. That God will help me read my Bible and get it in my heart and mind like I know I should