Go, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed Every man's tempted when he's drawn away by his own lust and he's enticed. I've entitled the message this morning: Build the Wall. Build the wall. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of your word. I pray you'd help us in our Christian lives. To be strong in the Lord. I pray you'd help us to have victory over temptation. That our walk with you would be everything you've saved us to be. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, as every ounce of my ability, I yield my will to you, and God, I present my body to you And I ask that you would fill me and that you would speak through me and help us to grow, help us to be what we ought to be. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think people have been hearing a lot about walls lately. Building walls. Building the wall. We hear that all the time. Going on. Build the wall, build a wall. I want to think about walls for a little bit this morning. What is a wall? What would a wall be? A wall would be a barrier. We put walls up primarily. To be a barrier between something that I value. Here's something I value. It might be my family, my life. Something I value, and something that is a danger or a threat to that which I value So I put a wall up. I put a barrier between the two. How many people say duh Pretty obvious what a wall is. It's a barrier between something that's important to me and something that is a threat to that which is important to me. Walls are designed, for the most part, walls are designed to produce safety Here's my family. Here's my possessions. They're here. Over here is somebody that is a threat. To that which is important to me, my family, my possessions. So I put a wall up to remove or at least reduce the opportunity. For the one that would do harm to my family, reduce that opportunity for them to have access to it. You follow what I'm trying to say? A wall. A wall was designed to produce safety. For instance Well, a year ago, Brother Fox and I were down uh in Australia, New Zealand. We were preaching Australia. We had one day where we had to travel from one place to the next. And while we were traveling, the preacher there said, he said, I want to show you something. There's a little uh national park here. We want to show you something. We pulled in, drove down this little road, and we came to this edge of a cliff And you could just see for it had to have been 30, 40 miles. It was just forever you could see. And there was these mountain ranges and everything off there. And there was this huge gorge, this huge canyon And I rem I forget the name of the the the area there, but this gigantic canyon. And where we were walking, the uh the the the viewing area was right on the edge of this cliff that went down hundreds, maybe a thousand feet. I don't know, it went straight down How many people agree that would be very dangerous for people and all that to be on the edge of that cliff, right? That would be very dangerous. So you do anybody want to guess what they put up along the edge of that cliff? They put a wall up. They put a barrier there so that it would protect us. Our lives are important to us. Our lives are valuable. That is a threat to my life. That is a danger to my life. And so they put a barrier up there so that I am safe from that danger. danger that falling uh the opportunity to fall off of there and lose my life is reduced. Um wall uh walls are designed to produce safety. Anybody here ever been to Blackwater Falls? Everybody done anybody go down the 999 million steps down to the falls? And um uh what do they have all along those steps and when you get to the bottom platform they have something around. What do they have? It's like a little fence. It's a barrier. A wall of sorts. Again, for this very same purpose, for safety, to put something between that which is important and valuable to me, and that which is a danger, that which is a threat to that which is important to me. Out in Colorado We lived in uh Boulder for three years and we loved we used to love to go up to Esthus Park. That was one of our favorite places in the world, Esthis Park, Colorado. Anybody ever been up to Estes Park? Beautiful, beautiful area there You get up to Esther's Park and you can go up into the Rocky Mountain National Forest. Is it National Forest? National Park National something. And you can go up there, the highest paved road in North America goes up through there. I think it's called Trail Ridge Road or something like that. And you go up there, and that road is very narrow, it's paved, you're in the Rocky Mountains, there is canyons and cliffs, and there are no guardrails. I mean you're driving up there and it is ps you're either right or you're wrong. There's no in-between. My mom was out visiting us. And uh we said, oh, we want to take up the S this park. We're gonna take you up on top of the mountain up there, and there's a pass up there, I think. And so we're driving up, and uh mom is freaking out And so, you know what I did? I drive as close to the edge as I could. She's screaming, ah, no There was a it was dangerous. There was no barrier there. There was no wall there. And um we did survive. We lived. And uh we had a wonderful time. In Deuteronomy chapter twenty-two and verse number eight, God instructs the the Israelites that when they get into the promised land and they build a house or they live in a house, he says, on the roof of the house, and and I think it's chapter 22, he says, on the roof of the house, you are to install or build a battlement. is what it was called. And it was a type of wall or barrier around the roof of the house. And he says, and I'm not sure it's worded exactly this way, but something to the effect, lest there is bloodshed In other words, God is saying, put this barrier up, put this wall up on your roof so that there's no danger of people falling off. So walls are designed to produce safety Um uh I uh try to every evening, and I don't get every night, I didn't last night, but I try to every evening, late in the evening, take our dog for a walk. And uh we go have a certain place I walk. We go down there. One house has a vicious maniac Tasmanian devil dog. And guess what they've got around that dog? They got a big fence, and it's very high because the dog jumps way up. And every time we go down there, that dog just freaks out. And I tell you, they have a barrier between that dog and anybody going by, and I am very, very grateful for that barrier. Because it would be a danger and a threat to myself and anybody else going by. So we put barriers up, we put walls up around a cliff, along the roof, uh around a vicious Tasmanian man-eating dog. Along bridge walkways. Do you ever notice you go under an overpass and they'll have a big high fence there along that bridge there? Why? A barrier Between safety and death. What I'm trying to say is this. Walls are designed for safety, and walls work. Walls work. Uh mentioned I was in Dominican uh this past year preaching, and we stayed in a very nice home with Brother Steve Sidler. He's going to be with us in December. um stayed in his home. But I noticed when we pulled into the housing area where he was, every single house, without exception Every single house had a very high wall all around its property. And a lot of the houses on top of the wall was in the cement, embedded into the cement. was broken glass, broken bottles, just shards sticking up, very, very uh jagged and sharp and dangerous. Some of the houses crossed the top of the wall, and I mean the walls were ten, twelve feet high And across the top, a lot of them, they had barbed wire across there. And uh why why would they put those walls up? It wasn't for decoration. Although they were very nice, painted, they looked very nice. Wasn't for decoration It was for the safety of the people inside. Because outside those walls, the crime down there is horrendous. Outside those walls are criminals and thugs and thieves. And they would want to get in and get their family, get their possessions. So they put a wall up around it. And I found that those walls are very, very effective. Walls work. Walls work. Now I said all that to say this. We have walls in the physical world for our safety because we live in a dangerous world. I believe we live in a beautiful world, but we live in a dangerous world physically. We talked about falling off cliffs. We talked about vicious man-eating dogs. We talked about all these things that are a danger to us physic uh physically. But I want to suggest to you, we live in a dangerous world, not just physically, but we live in a dangerous world spiritually. There are spiritual dangers to your well-being and my well-being. And what walls are we using the physical world to put up to keep us safe, to protect us from danger? I'm suggesting to you this morning, we need some spiritual walls. We need to put some walls up that protect us from spiritual danger. Can I suggest to you this morning that the most dangerous thing I hope you'll get this. The most dangerous thing to your spiritual well-being and my spiritual well-being, the most dangerous thing, is sin. Sin. Satan sought to destroy mankind. Satan sought to rebel against God, and in so doing his his his his uh His purpose was to get Adam and Eve to do what? To sin against God. To transgress or to break God's clear commands, God's clear instructions. If he could get Adam and Eve To disobey God, if he could get them, so to speak, if he could get Adam and Eve to step outside the perimeter of God's will. Step outside the perimeter of God's design and sin against God. He knew that the day they eat thereof, they shall surely die. His goal, his his goal was to get them to sin against God. I'm suggesting you the most dangerous thing Your spiritual well-being and my spiritual well-being is to sin against God. We can ignore it. We can try and justify it. We can minimize it. We can try and whitewash it all we want. But sin destroys everything it encounters Sin. Greatest threat to your life and my life. Now, for the unsaved person, and by the way, whatever s sin, whatever form sin may take. Well, the sin that I struggle with, the sin that might destroy me, might not be the same one that you have. The sin comes in many types, many shapes and forms. But it is a threat and a danger to us. Now, what about to a person that has never accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior? They may be very religious, they could be a church member, they could put on a show of of a show of Christianity, but if they've never been born again, if they've never been saved, they are, the Bible says, are in their sins. Their sins are unforgiven. Their sins are still held against their account. And Jesus said the worst thing in the world that could possibly happen to a person is for that person to die in their sins, to die unforgiven, to die with the sins still on their account. So, for an unsaved person, it is sin that is damning a lost person to hell. If you're there this morning, you've never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, you don't know for sure based on scriptural truth, that your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. Most important thing in your life is to find forgiveness and cleansing from sin. You're unsaved Very important. So sin for the unsaved is what damns them to hell. I need to have my sins forgiven. That only takes place through trusting Christ as Savior. Now, what about the person that has already accepted Jesus Christ as Savior? What about the person that has been saved? Say, preacher, I accepted the Lord. I got Bible promise. I called in the name of the Lord. He promised whosoever shall call on me shall be saved. I believe Jesus died for my sins personally. He shed his blood. Cleanse me from sin. I've accepted that. God has forgiven me. I'm born again. I'm a child of God. I want to suggest to you the most dangerous thing to your spiritual well-being as a Christian, and my spiritual well-being as a Christian is sin. Allowing sin to come in our life. Now, once we're saved, I cannot lose my salvation. I can never lose that salvation. But what I do lose is my fellowship with God. I lose the blessings of God on my life. I lose the presence, special presence of God in my life. I lose the um uh uh the protection of God as his child all my life. I'm My my fellowship with God is broken. Oh, I'm still saved, still a child of God, still have my home in heaven. God has forgiven my sins. On the records, it's all forgiven. But as a Christian, if I sin My fellowship with God is gone. That peace is gone. How many people know what I'm talking about? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? You've been saved any length of time, you've dealt with that As a Christian, if I sin, if I live in sin, I disobey God and I don't deal with it, I don't acknowledge it and forsake it, I begin to experience the chastening of God. That is the discipline of God. And I want to tell you the most miserable thing in the world, and I wish I didn't know this from experience, but I do. The most miserable thing in the world is to be living outside of the will of God, is to sin against God, not deal with it, and experience God's chastisement. That is not pleasant. That is miserable. Until finally we say, all right, Lord, you're right. I gotta get this straightened up. We confess it, forsake it. And then that fellowship is restored. The blessing comes back. The joy comes back. That walk with God comes back. Know what I'm talking about? So what I'm saying is this. You and I, as believers, now this message is for saved people this morning. The truth I'm trying to get across this morning is for those of us that know Christ as Savior. The most precious thing I have as a believer, the most important thing I have as a believer is my fellowship with God. My walk with God, that is but you say, Oh, the most important thing in my life is my family. Listen, family is very important My walk with God is more important because my relationship with my family is not going to be what it ought to be until my walk with God is what it ought to be. And so, what I'm saying to you is my walk with God, my fellowship with the Lord is the most important thing in the world. I must protect that. I must guard my walk with God, my fellowship with God must be protected because I live in a dangerous world spiritually, just like physically. I live in a dangerous world spiritually. I have the world out there trying to destroy my fellowship with God. I've got a a living real A deceitful devil who is out to destroy my fellowship with God, and I have a sinful nature that is out to destroy my walk in fellowship with God. And so, most precious thing I have is my fellowship with the Lord. Is uh my walk with God, the most important thing I have. Over here is the world, the flesh, and the devil. Now I want you to notice something here in James, verse 14. It says, but every man is tempted. When he is drawn away uh uh when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed So over here, let's say brother uh uh Xander come on up here. I caught him yawning, I can't believe it, on the front pew Stand right here. Here is Xander. Boy, he loves the Lord. He's walking with God, and God he has the joy of the Lord in his life. Joy. There you go. He's got the joy of the Lord. And uh he uh has God's blessing, God's protecting him, God's leading and directing him. I mean God's all over the sky. He's saved and blessed and walked with God. He is everything a Christian ought to be. He is walking with God. Then over here, let's see, Joe. Would you help me, Joe? Joe is the bad guy. Sorry, Joe. You're the one I saw. I didn't want to pick the old guys because they'd get mad at me. Here's Joe. He is the he wants to destroy that guy. You're the bad guy. He wants him to sin against God. He wants him to disobey God. He wants him to do things that God does not want him to do. He's the bad guy. He's the threat. He's the danger. Alright, he represents the threat, the danger, and all of that. So according to James chapter 1 and verse 14, he says, every man is tempted. When he is drawn away, temptation draws him away, away from his walk with God, away from his fellowship with the Lord. And draws him away and gets him the sin. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and entic So what I'm suggesting, this is what I'm trying to illustrate here. Here is my walk with God. This is precious, this is important to me. Here's a danger and a threat to my walk with God. And this area in between here is the area of temptation. The area of enticement. Here Xander's walking with God. He loves the Lord. He's living for God. Over here is the world, the flesh, and devil, and they're saying Doo-doo doo, look at this. Come on over. If you come over here, it's going to be happy. Don't do it. That's the preacher's job. Don't you do that And he's alluring him, he's enticing him to come over and get out of the will of God. God has designed you and I, he's he's designed us To live a certain way, to behave a certain way, to live a certain way. When we step out of how we are designed to live, we have problems. We have issues, then death sets in, corruption sets in, defilement sets in when we live outside of how God has designed us to live. I use the same illustration over and over, but it it applies. You have an engine, you have a motor, you have some sort of machine. It is designed to operate a very specific way. If you use that or run that machine or that engine In a way that it's not designed to run, it begins to break down. Right? You have problems. It deteriorates. We are created in the image of God. We are created to be holy. We are created, we're designed to live the way the Word of God instructs us. But we say, oh no, I want to do it this way. We get enticed. The world draws us out. You don't have to live that way. You don't have to do what God says. Just ignore it, change it, and modify it. uh just uh re disregard it and you come over here and immediately we're start deteriorating. We live in sin and starts causing problems and uh and we can see in society. Do you agree? Society has problems. Because we're not functioning the way God created and designed us to function. Thus we have social breakdown, we have moral breakdown, and there's horrific results to that And so here I am. Here is my fellowship with God, my spiritual well-being. I'm living the way God designed and created me and wants me to live. I'm in His will. Over here, world and the flesh and the devil, uh uh uh sin, once we have no testimony, have no peace, no joy in my life. And so this area in between is temptation. That's the enticement. By the way, I cannot lose my salvation. If I'm saved, I'm walking with God, the Lord save me, I want to live for the Lord, I'm living for Him. I may get enticed over here. I don't lose my salvation, but my fellowship with God is broken. I want to make that clear My fellowship, my walk with God, the joy of the Lord is gone. But I'm still a child of God. I'm still saved. And so this area in between is the area of enticement, temptation. Thank you. You guys can sit down. Now I want to show you where I'm getting at here with this, and maybe you already picked it up. I want us first of all to look at verse 14 and I want us to guard that walk with God, to protect that walk with God I think, first of all, I need to understand temptation. I need to understand what it is. Temptation, in and of itself, is not sin. Alright? Did you get that? I can be tempted yet not sin. Alright? In fact, everybody is tempted. How many people know that? Everybody's tempted. Temptation is the reality. It's universal. It's part of life. Temptation is not necessarily sin. Temptation, if not dealt with correctly, will lead to sin. I need to understand temptation. Alright, look at verse 14. Notice this: temptation begins with my own desires. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away. What's those next three words? Of his own lust. Temptation begins in my own heart Temptation begins with me, with the desires that are in my heart. Notice that word om with the Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. That word own there means personal, private, individual, my own heart and soul And then he uses a term that I think is misunderstood. Every man is drawn away of his own lust. How many people in your mind, you hear the word lust, you say that has bad connotations? That's our thought. Oh, lust is bad. When we think of lust, we think of sensuality. Right? Lust. Boy, he's got lust in his heart. Well, actually, the word lust in and of itself is not, it doesn't necessarily mean something bad or negative. The word lust simply means a desire. It means a longing or a craving for something. the drawn away of my own lust. It could be a longing or a craving or desire for something that is absolutely legitimate, something that is absolutely fine. God designed me that way God put that desire, that craving in my body and my mind, my soul. It's a legitimate thing. It's not necessarily wrong. And so he says, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust, his own desires. Again, not necessarily something sinful in and of itself. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 15. The Lord is instituting the Lord's Supper. And he says to his disciples, He says, I have desired to eat this Passover with you. The Lord said, I desire to eat this Passover with you. Anybody want to guess that word desire there? Anyone to guess what word that comes from? The word lust comes from the exact same word as translated here, lust. Was the Lord desiring the Lord, this sounds bad, but it's not, was the Lord lusting to eat The meal with the disciples, was that sinful? No, absolutely not. It was a good thing. It was a pure thing. If we had time, we could go to Galatians chapter 5. And verse number seventeen. And it says that the flesh lusts against the Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit lusts against the flesh. The words of the Bible. What is he saying? He says, My flesh wants to run me, my sinful nature. Wants to run my life, wants to be in charge, wants to to be gratified. The Holy Spirit of God also wants to run my life. He desires, he lusts to control me and lead me and direct me. So you have this conflict going on within the believer. My flesh wants one thing, my flesh desires, lusts for something, the Holy Spirit desires, lusts to control me and there's a conflict going on. Let me ask you a question. Is it sinful for the Holy Spirit of God to lust to have control, desire to have control of my body? Yes or no? No So when James tells us, when he's explaining what temptation is, he says, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own desires, of his own lust. He's not necessarily referring to some sinful craving for some wicked thing. It could be completely innocent. It could be completely pure and right. So temptation begins with my own natural desires. That's where it begins. How many people, admit it, how many people have desires in your life? Sure, we all do. We're created that way. We have desires in our life. And there is a legitimate way to fulfill those desires. God has designed them, He's given them to us. And he's given us a means to legitimately fulfill those desires, those lusts, so to speak. However, what temptation wants to do Is take those natural desires, those natural lusts that are in my life that God gave me, and temptation says, come over here and have those desires fulfilled outside. Of the will of God. Have those desires fulfilled, gratified, outside of how God has designed for them to be fulfilled. Look with me again at verse 14. Every man is tempted when he is what? Drawn away. That's a hunting term. It's a fishing term. It means to this, to lure away. I love fishing. I was talking to Matt a little bit about fishing. I'm anxious to get out and do some fishing. I love fishing. I love using lures to fish. And what you do is that fish is down there under a rock or behind a rock, and he's just happy and singing fish songs It's a fishy world and he's as happy as can be and I want that fish, I want to eat him. And so what I do is I take a lure and I throw it past that fish, and I work that lure just a certain way, come by there, and that fish thinks it's a legitimate meal. And I lure that fish up from its safe spot. I lure, I tr I bait it up there and it comes up and says, oh look at that. It's not really, it's not good. Those little metal hooks hanging out the bottom should be an indicator. And I lure that thing. I entice it. Every man is drawn away. So here I am. I have legitimate desires. God gave them to me. They're pure and right and good in their way to the pure. All things are pure. And the world, the flesh, the devil's over there and says, Ooh, look at this fancy lure. That'll meet that desire. Boy, that'll satisfy that craving. Hmm. Then he says, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. What's the last word? What's the last word in the verse there? Look at it. Enticed. Again, that has the idea of baiting or alluring. I enjoy hunting. In Maryland, you're allowed to put bait out to shoot the deer. I'm really glad because I probably wouldn't shoot any deer if you couldn't do that. And so you put that corn out there or you put some um apples out there or something, and the deer's walking along, he's doing what deer does. They have a natural craving desire to eat. Um and they walk alone, all of a sudden, ooh. And they're enticed and they're drawn over, and they're drawn away from a place of safety. to a place of danger, though they don't know if they come in and they eat that, they're in danger. It is an appeal or enticement to fulfill a desire outside the perimeters of God's design. Am I making sense? Everybody with me so far? Y'all look like you're uh you all look like Xander yawning. And so God's created I'm going somewhere with this, so so hang in here with me. God's given us legitimate uh desires, legitimate cravings, legitimate quote unquote lusts And he's he's made a way for them to be fulfilled within the perimeters of what we how they're designed to be fulfilled. World, the flesh and the devil wants to entice me, wants to allure me over here out of the will of God, out of God's blessings. out of the walk with the Lord where God wants me, over here into place of danger. For instance There's a young person in school. They're finishing up high school, maybe 11th, 12th grade. They're taking some tests. They're looking at their future, what they're going to do, they're going to go to college or whatever. thinking about what we need to do, if I need to get do good on this exam or whatever, and uh it'll help me in my future. And so they want to do well on the exam. Question, is that a legitimate desire? They lust to get a good grade on this exam. Legitimate? Sure, absolutely. And there's a legitimate way to fulfill that desire. Which is what? If I want to do well on the test, I want to get a good grade for my future, it's a legitimate desire, I really want that. What's the legitimate way to meet fulfill that desire? Study! Work hard! Apply yourself! Get that up in your head and learn it. That requires discipline, it requires effort. Requires time, it requires focus, it requires desire. Gotta want it. However The devil says, Hey, you can get a good grade on there without having to do all of that. You can cheat You can cheat. And so, the young persons in class are sitting there, they really want to do good on this, and sitting right beside them is the smartest kid in the class. And now they are tempted. They're enticed to look over there and get those answers. and put it on. Legitimate desire, legit legitimate uh craving to get a good grade, but they're enticed To fulfill that desire, that craving in a wrong way. That is temptation. That is the temptation So what do the schools do? I was in a class here a year or so ago and the kids were taking a class. I think it was northern middle school or somewhere. It was up in the pagan side of the county. And um And so there were the kids were taking a class, and you know what the teacher did? She had little barriers she put up between the the on the side of the the desk. What were those barriers? Those barriers took away the opportunity to what? Gee, it was a wall It was important they do well. That was precious. How important you do well and pass that test. The danger is cheating and really messing your life up. So we put a barrier there, a wall there, so that opportunity, that enticement, that drawing away is reduced. You follow what I'm saying A fellow wants to own his own house. He wants to buy a house. He's working hard, he's saving his money, he's putting money up, and he really wants to do this, he wants to invest. Make this investment. Maybe he's a young man and uh he's working hard and he's at work and he needs the X number of dollars, you know, whatever much, he needs that much money to make a down payment to purchase a house, he needs to have that And he's working at work, and lo and behold, an opportunity comes up where he could embezzle hundreds of thousands of dollars and have that money to buy the house. Let me ask you a question, is it a sinful desire to own a house? No, that's a good thing. That's a good thing. Now, there's a legitimate way to have that make that happen. It's by what? Working hard, saving money, being smart. uh investing however you do. You work a couple jobs maybe do what you need to do so I can get that money and purchase that house. But there's also an illegitimate way, and he has an opportunity at work to embezzle this money. So that he has the money to buy the house. Question, is that legitimate? No, that's the enticement. That's this area in between here where he's being drawn away, he's being lured to do A right desire, a good thing, but accomplish it, fulfill it in a wrong way. And so what do they do? They have accountants. That check the finances that watch the dollars that examine it. It's called accountability And so that barrier is put there. I cannot buzzle that money because they am an accountant. They have somebody that's going to watch that, that check that, it's going to uh uh uh um Be held hold us all accountable to do right. It's a wall, it's a barrier. Are you with me? You follow? I hope um I hope I'm getting this across We have our deacons meeting once a month at trustees and we have a financial statement. By the way, they're available. Anybody wants one? Just say so. We'd be glad to give it to you. And the beginning of our digging, everybody, the trustees, everybody gets a copy of the financial statement from the month before. All the checks are itemized, everything's there. And anybody's welcome to this And we give that out, and I'm telling you, those guys, they go down over that thing line by line. They look at everything. There's a question here. And I'll tell you, can I be honest with you, sometimes that gets on my nerves It's like, you know, it just gets on my nerves. What about this? Well that was that. Well, how about this? And and they're good about it, usually. And um Well how about what what's all this money there? What is that? And uh man they're going through that thing like a fine tooth comb and uh they're questioning everything and it gets on my nerves. I told my wife some time ago, I said, you know, it really irks me But I'm glad we do that. That's the right thing. Because that is holding me what? Accountable. You know what that is? That's a wall. It's a wall. So that that which is right and good and true isn't lured, isn't tempted to use or do something that is wrong. You follow where I'm going with this? And so temptation is a legitimate real desire. It's nothing sinful in and of itself. But that desire is drawn away, it is enticed to do it a long way. Then when lust has conceived, when that legitimate desire is conceived with an ill unlegen illegitimate way to fulfill it, when lost hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And we don't want to do that. That's the worst thing. That is the most dangerous thing to my spiritual life, is allowing sin in my life. And so this is what I'm getting at. The way I avoid the danger of sin, number one, I understand temptation. And number two, I limit temptation. And I do that by building walls. Building spiritual walls in my life. My responsibility as a Christian is to keep those temptations to a minimum. To do anything and everything I can to not allow that temptation to become legitimate. I think there's two Two things must be in place for temptation to happen. Number one, there must be a desire. Well, we've already got that. Number two, there must be an opportunity to fulfill that desire for there to be temptation. Maybe I have a desire, maybe let's say just for me personally, I have a desire for $200,000. I want to save up, I want to have $200,000 for some things I want to do. A legitimate desire, that in and of itself is nothing wrong with that. Now, if I don't have any opportunity to steal it or to get it in an illegitimate way, I'm not tempted. I'm not tempted to steal $200,000 today because I have no access to it. There's no opportunity to get it. Anybody knowing y'all are looking at me like uh I have no opportunity, so there's no temptation there. But if it's there, that opportunity is there, then oh, there's that enticement There's that drawing away. And so what I need to do is limit those opportunities. My responsibility is keep those opportunities to do wrong to a minimum. Put a wall up. This is what I'm saying. Walls work. Family and Dominican. My family's important to me. My children are precious to me. My possessions. are are mine, are important to me. I'm going to put a wall up so there's no opportunity to lose those things, to have them taken from me Because walls work. Walls work. So what are walls we put up spiritually? What can I do in my life as a Christian? That will minimize the opportunities to fulfill legitimate desires in a sinful way What walls can I put up in my spiritual life that eliminate or at least reduce that enticement, that drawing away to do wrong? What kind of walls can I put up? Well, the Bible tells us Number one is the wall of prayer. The wall of prayer. Turn with me, if you would, to Mark chapter 14. The wall of prayer. Mark chapter 14, the Lord is in Gethsemane. He's taking the disciples up there. Judas is gone off. He's fixing to uh uh betray the Lord. He brings the disciples up, brings a few of them with him, he goes off by himself, he brings a few along a little ways, and he tells them to do something. What does the Lord tell the disciples to do? When he's in Gethsemane, he's going to pray. What does he tell the disciples to do? Tells them to pray. Watch him pray. Now look with me in Mark chapter 14 and verse number 38. Look what he says, and notice the wording here very carefully. Verse 38. I'm sorry, Mark 14, verse 38. Look what he says. Watch ye and pray. But he doesn't stop there, he makes another statement. Watch ye and pray. Look at this, lest ye enter into what? Temptation The implication being if they don't pray, they are vulnerable to what? Enter into temptation. And he's telling them that prayer, prayer is a wall that protects me from temptation. Prayer is a barrier that protects me from temptation. I have found that good, strong, healthy Christians Christians that have victory over temptation are men and women of consistent and earnest prayer. How many people here love your family? Say amen. How many people your family is important to you? Amen? Precious. How many people would like your family protected from the world, the flesh, and the devil? Amen. I feel the same way. My family, my wife, my boys, my granddaughters, very precious to me. Very important to me. I don't want the devil to get them. I don't want the devil to get my home. I don't want the devil to get my wife or my kids and my granddaughter. I don't want the world to have M. So how do I put a barrier up between that? One barrier, one wall is, is prayer. Prayer. I think one of the greatest things you and I can do for our families and for our homes and for the things and people that are dear to us is pray over them, pray a hedge about them. Job did that. Job prayed for his family, offered sacrifices. He prayed all the time. In fact, the devil comes and says to God, Oh yeah, you're no wonder you put a hedge about him, you put a wall around him Because he prays. You put a wall up around him. You take that wall down, he'll deny you their face. And God let the devil take that hedge down. And what happened? Destroyed his family, destroyed his possessions, and all that. The Lord was trying to prove a point there, but what I'm trying to say is this, you can see exactly what the devil wants to do to our homes and our families if he has access, if there's no hedge there, there's no barrier there. And so we need to pray. Pray for our family. Pray for our children. Pray for our home. Pray for my spouse. Pray. It's a wall. It's a barrier. I have another one I found in Scripture, another wall. That's the wall of Scripture. Oh, by the way, let me back up and make the statement. Every home ought to be saturated in prayer. Can I just say this? Can I just say this? Husbands, men, you ought to pray with your wife. Every day, you ought to spend time together praying with your wife My wife and I, every evening, unless the circumstances do not allow it, every evening, we get together and we pray. She prays and I pray. We need that. That is for protection. You ought to pray. I think if there's kids in the home, you ought to have the whole family come together. I think you ought to read the Bible And everybody bow their head, hold hands, and pray for God's blessing, for God's protection, for God's help. Don't come, listen, don't come to me and start griping about all the problems in your home if you're not praying in that home. I can't do anything for you. This couples class can't do a thing for your home if you're not spending time together in prayer. We cannot do what only God can do for you. Only God can put a wall up. Only God can protect that in response to prayer. Now get my point across Prayer is a wall. It's important. I think young people, whenever uh are young people up here tenth grade, ninth grade, eighth grade, in twenty years from now when they start dating Twenty years from now, Xander. Um You know what my advice is? Before you ever go out on that date, I think you ought to pray together. Lord, bless our time together. God help us to be pure and right and good. Help us to honor you and everything we say and do. Wow! That's a wall, huh? It's a wall. Before you go to work in the morning. Lord help me be a good testimony. God, don't let me give in to those stinkers saying nasty jokes. God help me. Lord put a barrier up. Help me to be strong. It's a wall of protection of prayer. Then there's the wall of scripture. Would you turn with me? You're here in James. Come over to Um, we hear more come back to uh uh 1 John chapter 2. Man, there's a ton of scripture I could give you on this one. First John chapter two. Alright, hang in here with me. I'm uh I think this is helpful. Look at First John Hebrews, James, 1, 2 Peter, 1 and 2nd, 3rd John. Look at 1 John 2, verse number 1. Just the first phrase here. Look what he says. My little children. These things write I unto you. What is he talking about, the things he's writing unto you? It's the what? It's the Bible. It's God's Word. These things write unto you. Why? What's the next three four words? That ye sin not. You know what the implication there is, at least in my mind Is that the Word of God, the things that God has written for us, is a wall to help reduce the temptation to sin. The Word of God is a wall to help reduce that opportunity to fulfill a legitimate desire in an illegitimate way. The Word of God is a barrier so that I sin not. Psalms 119, verse number nine. Wherewithal shall a young man uh wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways by what? Taking heed unto thy word. I don't think I quoted that right, Brother Heinball. Let's go back to Psalms 119. Would you turn there with me, real quick? Psalms 119, and I'm winding down here. Believe it or not, Psalms 119, look with me if you would, verse number nine. Psalms 119, verse 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways by taking heed thereto according to thy what? Thy word. How does a man cleanse his ways? How does a man protect his walk with God? How does a young man keep his heart and mind and life pure and clean and right and function the way God designed him to function? By taking heed thereto according to that word. That phrase taking heed means this. This is fascinating to me. It means to put a guard around. In other words, he's saying this: wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his waist? How can he maintain his walk with God? He takes God's word and he makes it a guard around him. He takes heed to what God says. He does what God says. That's a guard. That's a shield. I'll come down to verse 11. He says, uh, thy word have I what? Hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee, so I don't give in to that temptation and produce sin. The word hid means this, to place In a secure place. To put it in a secure place. Can I, just for the sake of the message, say it this way? To put walls around it. Put walls around it. So the Word of God is a wall that I might not sin against thee. Jesus put that wall up in Matthew chapter 4. Satan came to him and tempted him. And he says, turn, and I'm putting in my own words, he says, turn these stones into bread. What was Jesus' response? It is written. You know what he's doing? He's putting a wall of scripture up. Wall of scripture up. You know what? When I'm tempted, I have an opportunity to do wrong or do to uh entic to fulfill a desire in an illegitimate way, I need to get some scripture. Thou shalt honor the Lord. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight. I'm telling you, this book is a powerful book, as a powerful wall against sin and temptation. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every day. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every day. We ought to meditate on that thing throughout the day. We ought to have it up on our walls. We ought to have it on the radio of our car, listening to the word of God sung and taught and and preached. We ought to have it. We ought to be saturated. Every Christian every Christian ought to be in church every time the doors are open. To reduce, to put that wall up, the wall of scripture. And my last one is this: is uh the wall of personal standards. The wall of personal standards. Now, every person has to determine what their own personal standards are, but the Bible gives us some principles. That we build our standards on. And by a standard, I mean this personal standard. This is what I mean: a personal code of conduct based upon scripture that I commit myself to. In other words, I established some personal convictions. I established some personal standards, and there are some things I will not do And there are some places I will not go. And there are some crowds I will not hang out with And there are some things I will not allow into my home. And there are some things I'm going to make sure they do happen. These are my personal standards, my personal convictions. And those become a powerful, powerful wall. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us every Christian ought to have personal convictions. About what you're going to do and what you're not going to do, about what is right and what is wrong, and how I'm going to respond to that. And he said this: if you don't have your own convictions, borrow mine until you get some But every person ought to have a personal set of convictions and standards. That's a wall. That's a barrier around to help us protect us. Walls work. Walls work. Um down in Dominican, crime rate is unhurt, unbelievable. But inside those walls, the people were safe, they were happy, they were secure. Because those walls protected them from the danger. And I'm telling you, prayer, scripture reading, and personal convictions work. And they help us live victorious Christian lives, pleasing to the Lord. Anyone recognize the name C. I. Schofield? Anybody recognize that? It is not Brother Schofield's uncle. C. I. Schofield produced the Schofield Study Bible. It's been a classic in fundamentalism for a hundred years, probably. Great man of God, powerful Bible student. C. I. Schofield was a drunkard when he got saved. I mean a drunkard. He was a lawyer and he was a drunk. And God saved him later in life and changed his life. I mean changed his life. But C. I. Schofield understood that walls are important. And he I read an account where he had wherever his office was, was several blocks from his home. And between the office and his home, the most direct route, right in the middle, right on the street, was a bar, a saloon. Liquor flowed freely Now, C. I. Schofield said that's an enticement. That would draw me away because of my past. That's an enticement to me. So you know what he did? He built a wall. You say, what kind of wall did he build? When he got to the block where the bar was, he would go two blocks this way. And then two blocks down that way, and then two blocks back, and then went to his home. He refused to walk down the street where that saloon was. You know what he was doing? He was building a wall. That was a conviction, a personal standard. I'm not going to walk by that place. Now what about you? Do you have any standards in your life at all as a Christian? Have you thought this through and said, all right, there are some things I've got to be careful I cannot allow into my home? There are certain channels on the cable I will not have access to. Maybe I'm not even going to have access to cable. Because it's an enticement, it's an allurement. I need to build that wall. I'm not going to let that in. Our Vice President Pence, do you know what? He's got some spiritual walls built. He made this statement. He says, I will not have lunch with another woman unless my wife is there with me. You know what that is? It's a wall. Protect his testimony. Protect him. A shield. What walls you got? When Kathy and I were dating, we always took a chaperone with us. Two reasons. One, we wanted to second though school made us, but um But you know that chaperone sitting in the back seat, you know what that was? That was a wool. Who was a wool. But she was pretty good looking. She is pretty good looking. And I need to protect man, I just shot myself right there. I hope you understand what I'm saying. Listen, this is so important. I don't know if I did a very good job communicating it, but I'm telling you, this is a truth that is so important. That we protect our walk with God, that we protect our fellowship with the Lord, and not leave, not have open borders. But have walls. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope you use this. I pray you'd help us to stop and think things through and what we're doing, what we're allowing in our lives. And help us to look at that and say, wait a minute, I need to establish some barriers here and there to reduce that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. But I can see some open borders in my spiritual life where Satan has access, and that allurement there, that enticement is there, and I really need to put some barriers up. I really need to address some areas to reduce that enticement, to reduce that allurement. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's some areas there. God bless you, hands all around. If the truth were known, probably all of us. Would need to address this. But think it through. Ask the Lord to help you. Give you wisdom. And let's make sure these walls are in place. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled, that I can know that my sins are forgiven. I'm a child of God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Any at all? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. God, I pray you'd use this truth to help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.