Well if you will, and uh now let's turn to uh uh Second Kings. Second Kings chapter twenty-three George Washington was approaching one of the most fierce battles of his campaign. He and his troops had uh crossed over a bridge as they were nearing the battle. When one of the his officers came to him and asked whether or not they should burn the bridge behind them. prevent the enemy from slipping up behind them or to have guys who didn't want to fight the battle to sneak out and head back where they came from. George Wurson, great man that he was, he looked toward the battle. Then he looked back to where they had come from. And then he looked toward the battle again. And then he gave his answer. He said, Burn the bridge. It's either victory or death. Many of the decisions that we make are d are uh uh decisions that that uh determine uh our eternal destiny, we just don't realize it I want us to look at uh a few verses of scripture as we get into the message. And uh I trust that you you'll stick with me and And uh pray for me as we make an effort here to uh preach your preacher word. Heavenly Father, as we uh as we approach the preaching of the Word of God, I ask you to fill me with the Spirit of God. You know my needs. Pray that you'd bless the chalk drawing, Lord, and uh pray that you'd get honor and glory for what's accomplished here in the service today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Burning bridges. I don't know about you, but when when I got saved, that was one of the things that uh that I had to do. There were some bridges that I had to burn. Uh probably all of us have done the same thing. It was just things that we could not go back to if we were going to try to live for Christ. And so there were just some of those bridges that we just had to strike a match, light it. Praise the Lord, it went up in flames. Some of you are s still still filling around with some of those those old old habits and stuff that uh uh because you didn't burn those bridges. Uh I mentioned the other night um how much I enjoyed uh smoking a s smoking a a pipe. My wife had got me a white briar pipe before I this before I was saved Cherry blended to back. I I really liked the the smell of it. It didn't taste that good, but it smelled so good. But uh when I got saved uh threw that old white bar pipe away and uh took all the tobacco and threw it out and that was that was the end of it. Had to burn my bridges. That was just some of the bridges that I burned. I mean I I could go over a list of them and probably all of us could. So we're called upon as Christians to evaluate what is for God and what's not for God. And for those things that uh that we uh are involved with that that uh doesn't uh uh suit the plan of God, those are the those are the things that we just we need to uh Annihilate them, burn the bridges, cross the bridge, burn it so that you can't retreat to it. In uh 2 Kings chapter 23 We'll read a few verses of scripture and I think you'll get the the gist of this whole thing. Let me see if I can get my glasses working here. Uh we're in in verse uh verse one, where the word of God says, let me get up here. And uh and the king uh sent and and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and and uh uh Jerusalem. And the king went up into the the house of the Lord and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests and the prophets and all the people, both small and great. And he read into their ears all the words of the book of the covenant, which was found in the house of the Lord. So they're going to get a dose of the Word of God. That's what we're supposed to be doing here at this in this revival meeting. You come to hear the the preaching and you see a chaff drawing and and maybe it's entertaining, maybe it's not, but you uh You uh listen to the Word of God and the Spirit of God speaks to you. This is your cue to do something. Maybe the cue to uh to burn some of the bridges. We know some of the people who didn't burn bridges. Uh Lotswatch would be one of them, wouldn't it? She uh she just couldn't keep her eyes off of uh Sodom and Gomorrah when they left uh the city and uh turned into a pillar of salt. I don't think God works in the salt business today, but uh he could if he wanted to But the point is that uh she made a mistake. She turned around, she disobeyed God, that's called sin Here in this verse we see that he said they read all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the Lord. And the king stood by a pillar and he made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments. And his testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and with all their soul. You know that's one of the things missing in Christianity today We got half-hearted Christians that are going through the motions because they have to. I I I would really Uh I wouldn't want to embarrass anybody and and uh to ask uh for a raise of hands. Uh who'd rather be watching uh watching T V tonight rather than listening to this preacher preach? I'm not gonna ask you though, because I don't want to be embarrassed. But I know this that there's probably a few in there that would say, well I I have to go because this is what to expect of me. But that's the way it goes, you know. Uh we're people, aren't we We're just uh uh just the way we are. Uh thank the Lord most of you decide to come anyway. And uh so the king uh says in all their soul to perform the the words of this covenant that were written in this book, and all the people stood uh to the covenant And so the king uh commanded uh Heilkiah the high priest and priests of the second order and the keepers of the door to bring forth out all of the uh out of all the temple of the Lord, all the vessels that were made for Baal. I want you to notice what's taking place now. The the Word of God was was preached. And uh At least those who who heard it and wanted to do something about it, uh, and which is the king here in this particular case, verse four. Uh They start to to bring out the things that uh was used in Baal worship and false gods And it says in and for the groves and for all the hosts of heaven, and he burned him without uh without Jerusalem in the fields of uh Kitron, and carried the ashes of them into Bethel. And he put down the adulterous priests You see, this is what you call burning burning your bridges behind you. He knew that to to leave the priests in power would uh Uh they'd be able to get a support group and the next thing you know that uh the uh idol worship would be rampant just like it had been before So this king is a smart king and he's uh he's doing the right things. He's saying those things that uh that deal with that which God is opposed to, we're gonna get rid of those things You see, we need to burn our bridges when it comes to obeying the Word of God. The tragedy that I see in so many lives today is that they hear the Word of God, they know the Word of God. And yet they don't obey the Word of God. They don't burn the bridges when they're convicted by the Spirit of God. We don't hear that word used very much anymore, you know, conviction. Conviction. What is that anyway? It's where the Spirit of God uses the Word of God to touch somebody's heart about something that they're doing that's not pleasing to God Now maybe that maybe he's uh he blesses your heart because God does bless, and he'd rather bless you than curse you for sure. But I know this that uh we have a tendency uh to not burn our bridges if we can get by with it. You know, we can we we'll we'll come to a revival and we'll get down here at the altar and we'll we'll pray and we'll say God I know this is a problem that I've got, and I'm asking you to forgive me. See, I know what to say because I've said it before See what I mean? It's easy to get caught up in that thing. You can go through the motions one more time. One more revival. One more year. Another revival, another year, another revival, same thing over and over and over again. And yet uh we don't burn the bridges behind us. That's our problem We don't get the priests out of our life and and uh get rid of them. We don't get the utensils and burn them and and and uh uh destroy them He goes on. And he says, he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the king, I'm looking at verse five, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places round about Jerusalem. Can you imagine can you imagine the hurt in God's heart? Here is God's chosen people. Of all the people of the earth, he looked around and picked out one little guy. One Syrian up there named Abraham, and he says, I'm going to make a great nation out of you. And he made a great nation out of this this one this one uh uh uh individual And uh if they grow into a great nation and what what happens? They st they continually go back across the bridges that they should have burned and get into idolatry again. So they put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high place of the city of Judah. And in the places uh round about Jerusalem, them also that burnt incense to Baal, and to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the hosts of heaven Today, uh look at that that group of uh of words there, the moon and the planets and the sun and and uh the the host of heavens, the stars And I think about how our society is going more towards science and uh and atheism rather than towards Christianity. It's tragic to see it happening in our churches where some of our per churches are are going off the deep end and and allowing some of that stuff into into their uh their services So he brought out the grove from the house of the Lord. Wow. And uh without uh Jerusalem and is the brook of Kidron. And he burnt it in the brook of Kedron and stamped it small to powder and cat. I tell you there's somebody that's got some I mean he's he's getting rid of this stuff And you know that's that's the attitude we have to have. If there's something that's in your life that's that is hurting you spiritually, You that you know what every time you get involved with whatever it is, whatever it might be, every time that you get involved with that thing, you know that that's wrong The Spirit of God, that's I mean, that's if you're saved, that's the Spirit of God working. His purpose is to convict you of your sin, of the things that don't please God. Why is God always bugging me? Why is he always bugging me? Because he wants to bless you, that's why And the the problem is we uh uh we want his blessings, but we want it on our own terms. And we're not that you can you can't do it that way. They had listened to the Word of God. And the Word of God said, this is wrong. What you've been doing is wrong. And they decided to obey the Word of God, and that's what we have to do here tonight. You know, I could you know uh uh I could take uh make a list of all the sins that I know And some that I don't know, I could make a list of all those sins and I could read them down the you know, I could read the list off here and and uh I'd surely miss somebody, you know, because you know, it's I just probably wouldn't get everything. But the important thing is that that uh We don't try to uh I I don't know how how to explain this. Sometimes we we s I remember when I was smoking I I use that a a lot because I that's that was just one of the vices. And uh And one of the things that I would would uh tell somebody that said, well, that's a sin, I'd say, well, where is it in the Bible? Well, there's nothing in there that says I can't smoke uh in the Bible. But it does say a lot of things about, you know, your health and of course now we know that it, you know, it uh uh causes cancer and heart problems and all yeah. We know that stuff is in there, but if it's not specific, you know, we like to we like to just uh, you know, uh How how's the Bible say, you know, have a a beam in your eye, but uh uh well whatever. You know what I'm talking about, I think. They burnt the vessels, they burnt the groves, they burnt the chariots. They had chariots that were dedicated to the sun gods, and so burn the chariots. You know, it's we're talking about getting into a lot of money here. But it's It's going to cost you. It's going to cost you. Might as well mark it down. It's going to cost you either way And you might as well err on the side of good and righteousness rather than on the side of the devil. They burnt the high places. They burnt the groves, they burnt the bone. How many times I've read in the Old Testament as you read through there, as uh Israel is going up and down on its roller coaster spiritually And you hear the same thing. They burnt the groves. Same thing over and over. They weren't burning their bridges. Here's a king that's determined to to burn some bridges here and get rid of some of this garbage. And he does a good job of it. I mean he goes he goes into it And the high places. I'm looking at verse 13 now. We just kind of slipped over there. Which were on the right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had uh builded for Ashroth. There's a see there's a guy that was so smart. He was so smart he was dumb Well he must have been they had had many wives and concubines and so forth and uh and and now he's he's building things for Astroth. Uh and Kemosh and the abomination of the Moabites and the and Malcolm the uh uh uh the abomination of the children of Ammon, the the king of the file. That was Solomon, King Solomon, David's son, the man who wrote the Proverbs, the Ecclesiastics, and Song Solomon, and all those wonderful Proverbs. My goodness. Don't don't say well I'm not gonna I'm not gonna you know I won't backslide like that. I don't I won't I you know, I'll leave that bridge up because I can handle that. That little sin there doesn't bother me that much. And I I can let it go if I want to let it go all the way, I can let it go and see I've let it go for a good while And somewhere down the line you're going to find that you you'll be sneaking back across that bridge. That's what you'll be doing. Yeah. They burnt the bones of the high priest and burnt the men's bones and What we can notice about the burning of the bridges, number one, was that uh it was prompt. I mean he got right on the thing and and uh it was public He made sure everybody understood. And it was also uh very pricey. Like I said, when they started burning chariots and just getting rid of all the The uh stuff that's uh uh made out of silver and gold, uh that was pricey. Then there's another thing Not only should we burn the bridges when it comes to obeying the Word of God, but we need to burn the bridges when it comes to objecting to sin. Back in the book of Acts, we'll slip back there now and look at a situation where they burnt their bridges. And I'm looking at Acts chapter 19 Acts chapter nineteen, and we're looking at verse eighteen. Let me read a couple of verses ahead of that. Verse 11. And God, this is the Apostle Paul he's talking about, and God brought special miracles by the hands of Paul, so that from excuse me uh so that from his body were brought into the sick uh handkerchiefs, aprons, and the disease disease departed from them and and the uh uh evil spirits without him and so forth. I mean, Paul's having a a revival of his own here. He's performing all these miracles. Which is a a proof of his apostleship and then the and the reality of this gospel that he's preaching. And then it says in verse 15, the evil men answered and he said, uh Jesus I know and Paul I know, but uh who are ye? And we won't get into that part of it. But uh then uh then as we get down to verse 18 it says, And many that believed Came and confessed and showed their deeds. I want you to notice that They came when they were believers. They came and they confessed and they showed their deeds. Many of them, verse 19, also which used cura curious arts, brought their books together, and they burnt them before all men. Uh-huh. I remember I was preaching at a revival up in uh in uh Indiana and in the uh at the end of one of the meetings There was a man who'd come forward at the altar and and he had uh he stayed here for a long time and uh uh he'd gotten saved. And uh The next night he came back. And when he came back, he was sort of limping, I know, sad, and and he said, Can I talk to you, Brother Williams? I said, uh, yep, sure. He said, I want I want to tell you what what's happened to me. He said, I said, I got saved last night when I trusted Christ. And he said, I've uh I've got a whole garage full of uh pornographic magazines. And he said uh now I walked in that garage last night after I got saved. And uh as I got closer to the garage, the more I got to thinking about one particular magazine that I liked And uh he said, I thought, well, maybe maybe just one more. See he's slipping back across the the bridge. You know the that bridge that you left, that's for traitors. It's for traitors. And that's what he was. He he was he's thinking uh I want just maybe one more time. I'm safe, but but you know, just one just you And he said he as as he thought those thoughts, he stepped across one box to get to the box he was trying to get at and when he did it it the the board under his foot broke. He went down through the floor and almost broke his leg. He just scunned up real bad and sprained it real bad. That's why he was limping And he's he stopped right where he was at, and he asked God to forgive him. And he Left the left the garage and that that night he came and he he said what I want to ask you is he said you know he said that that garage's got uh that's a Involves a lot of money. I mean, I could probably sell that and give it to the church. I said, brother, burn it. The bridge needs to be burnt. That kind of stuff, you know, uh it's a bridge that needs to be burnt Yeah, I uh yeah, I I suppose uh uh pornographic magazine's almost out of it now because you can get all that garbage out on the your e i phone if if or your computer, just uh real easy so you don't have to do all that other stuff. But I'm going to tell you right now, that's a bridge that needs to be burnt. That's a bridge that it'll suck in, suck in, and you it's difficult to get out of. Burn your bridges when it comes to objecting to sin. What happened to the Apostle Paul here? Looking in verse 18. It says, and many that believed came and confessed and showed their deeds, and many of them which were were used the curious arts. If you want to know what the curious arts are, you know you need to ask your pastor tomorrow. brought their books together and uh burned them before I will say this the Curious Arts undoubtedly had something to do with pornography and just about all of all of this garbage that you read that uh ha usually most of that had something to do with with pornography And they counted the price of it and found it to be 50,000 pieces of silver. You see, it's expensive. So once again we seem to see the same thing playing out. It was prompt. The action was prompt. The burden of the bridge was prompt. It was very public, and it was also very pricey So many people are convicted of their sin either either through preaching or teaching of the uh or just the Holy Spirit speaking to them. But how many actually burn their bridges and a once and for all stand against sin? And that's what we need to do. Whenever you burn your bridge, uh those bridges, it's a stand against sin and we all need to do that. These are new converts literally they burnt their bridges so they couldn't go back to the former things Like I say, we we who trust Christ as our Savior, when we're made at that new, when we were transformed into that new creature. It does something to us. It makes us so aware of even the slightest cussword. It makes us aware of things that are just out of sorts with God. And that's that's the thing that we need to be really uh really concerned about. And then we have one more, and uh it's found over in 1 Kings in chapter 19, if you'll slip over there with me. Not only do we burn our bridges when it comes to obeying the Word of God, but we burn our bridges when it comes to objecting to sin. And then we burn our bridges when it comes to opportunities to serve. I guess Probably all of us who are in the ministry and have uh gone to some sort of service for God can speak to that particular issue The opportunity to serve God is not something to be taken lightly. I'm afraid it is taken lightly by uh too many. But it's not to be taken lightly. And it means that there's some bit of bridges that's gonna have to be burnt I was with uh Caronation Company for twenty-one years and uh was an engineer and was a plant there in Campbellsville. And the uh I knew that I knew that God wanted me to in full-time service, but I wasn't sure about the call of God at that time as far as being a preacher But I told the Lord, I said, I'm if if whatever you want me to do, I'm ready for it. And so uh church asked me if uh if I would uh be interested in being a youth director. Now I've got twenty one years with Carnation. That's you know that's a pretty good length of time, you know. And you've got money from you know uh uh You know, from your uh whatever you want to call it. But anyway, uh the the point I'm making that is is uh there had to be there there had to be a total commitment Because if I resign from carnation, that's the end of that. I've burnt my bridge and my reliance has to be totally on God And you know, from that day that I handed in my resignation to this day, it's been amazing how God has taken care of us. Because when I uh when I surrendered into full time service uh all right. Uh I didn't have any income at all. And for about two or three months I didn't have any income. Until finally the church said, Well we've we've uh We believe that uh you know that God wants you to work here at this church and uh you'll come on we'll give you uh what was it, 150 a month, I believe it was, or something like that. Hundred a week, okay. She remembers that stuff uh better than I do. Well, I mean that was kind of a What am I supposed to do? Trust God with the bridges burnt or leave the leave the door open so I can get back in if I need to. Well You know the answer to that. And uh listen, I I don't like to use my own self as a illustration, but I'm I'm telling you there there you have to make some decisions And there's some some decisions when it comes to uh uh serving God, they're hard decisions. They're life decisions, things that affect your entire family But it's been worth every minute of it. And I thank the Lord for it. Here in in 1 Kings chapter 19, we see a similar call. Elijah is going along. He sees Elisha out in the field plowing with his oxen. And he he says, come and follow me. And uh Elisha He looks around and uh let's get the story from the from the Word of God itself. Uh 19 and verses 21, I think, is about where we want to go. Uh wait a minute, found the spot here. Chapter nineteen, verse twenty-one. It says and he he turned back from from him let's read a couple of verses ahead of that. Verse 19. So he departed thence and he found Elisha the son of Shephat. Who was uh plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him. You know, that's a pretty good bunch of oxen. Right? Twelve yoke And he was uh the twelfth, and Elijah uh passed by him and he cast his mantle upon him. That's the call to that's the call service. And he left the ox, and he ran after Elijah, and he said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again, for what have I done to thee? And he returned back from him, and he took a yoke of oxen, and he slew them. He boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen and uh gave it to the people and they did eat. And then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered to him. There's a guy that burnt the bridges behind him, killed the oxen, and fed them to the people. It was prompt, it was public, and it was pricey. There was a cost involved in it. The secret of doing something for God is to maybe burn down the bridges back to the devil Burn down the bridges, back to the devil. We got a lot of them, you know, in our past. And uh some of them we've burnt, some of them we haven't. And we need to burn every one of them back to the devil. He's the originator of the whole b whole mess. You're here tonight and and Uh, you'll say, Well, you know, I I don't think you know, God's not called me to serve you uh I y hey, you don't know what he's gonna do, but I know one thing He's looking for someone who will have a clean life. Someone will have a desire to serve. And if you have a clean life and a desire to serve and and uh you're waiting for the call, you just perk up a little bit because God'll be God's the one who does the calling. But when he does, be ready to burn the bridges because uh that's where the blessings are We can have the lights out and we'll show the shark drawing