Now the context here that Brother Grant read and the little bit that I addressed here is uh actually it's kind of like a little skit. That this prophet is putting on for King Ahab. It's a parable. He's acting out this parable. And he's illustrating to Ahab how costly His failure was to fulfill his responsibility. God had told him he was to kill Ben Hadad Ben-Hadab was an enemy of Israel. Ben-Hadab was a wicked, wicked man, responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of people. He was under God's judgment, and God had chosen Ahab as the instrument to carry out God's judgment on Ben-Hadad. Ahab failed completely in that responsibility. Um to give a background here of the chapter a little bit, and I want to be careful because I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but if you come all the way back To verse number one of chapter forty, we find that Ben Hadad, the king of Syria, has put together a political coalition. He has a number of kings he's brought in with them And uh he's planning an attack on northern kingdom of Israel, on Samaria, their cap their capital. Um he puts this coalition together of kings, and the interesting thing is, and we'll see this here in a moment, but Kings are not always the greatest military leaders. Sometimes they are, often they're not. And so he has kings in place, and he's I think this whole my impression is this whole maneuver, this whole endeavor of attacking Northern Kingdom of Israel is simply Ben Hadad trying to establish himself of as a leader among the nations there. And so he brings these kings and he's going to kind of show off to them and uh go on. He's not really taking this attack on Syria, on Israel very seriously If you'll notice in verse number 16, this is as they're about to go to war, it says, and they went out at noon, but Ben Hadad was doing what? Drinking himself drunk. That doesn't sound to me like a military leader taking his uh campaign very seriously. In his mind, this was in the bag. This was just a political show, he's gonna crush Ahab, he's gonna crush Israel. and uh just uh uh exalt himself. In fact, as you read through there, and again I'm trying to be brief to go through this, but you find him kind of toying with Ahab. Give me all your money, give me all your women Ahab, King Ahab, disgusts me. I can't stand this guy. Uh he is, in my mind, the most disgusting king of Israel of any they had. Now they had some nasty guys. They had some nasty kings, some pretty wicked kings. But Ahab, everything about him just turns my stomach. He had no leadership, he had no discernment Um and so he tries to appease Ahab. I mean uh if Ben Hadan comes in and Ahab and he's d making all these ridiculous command uh demands uh and uh Ahab, rather than standing up to him, just says, Okay, well, you can have whatever you want. And he just hands it over to him. It's called appeasement. Well, just do whatever you want, just don't hurt me. It's kind of like Ben Hadad was making nuclear bombs, and rather than standing up against it, he says, Well, listen, just don't hurt us. That was a subtle reference there. Um Ben King King Ahab, I have a hard time with King Ahab. And and and every time I read in there I just get frustrated with him and I think, man alive. Uh his wife Jezebel, without a doubt the most wicked queen ever rule in Israel. If if his wife Jezebel would run for president, I would not vote for her Ahab has no character, he has no background. He tries to appease Ben Hadad, but that doesn't satisfy Ben-Hadad Satisfy Ben Hadad. And finally, Ben Hadad just makes the most ridiculous commands. Ahab doesn't know what to do. He goes to his advisors and says, This guy's making all these ridiculous commands. What should we do? No leadership. And they're they're basically the advisors, and this is I'm reading into it, I know, but they're basically say, what do you think we should do? We gotta fight them. We can't let them do this And lo and behold, God steps in, this pitiful leadership. You have this powerful Assyrian army. And this coalition of kings. And you have Northern Kingdom of Israel with this pitiful leadership under Ahab. And lo and behold, God in his mercy steps in And gives Israel victory over Syria. I mean profound victory. Israel's outgunned. They're outmanned. But God gives them the victory. Our God is a merciful God. I found that God has done wonderful things for me that I did not deserve. Israel didn't deserve victory. Israel was under Ahab's leadership was uh uh was pitiful but God stepped in and for his name's sake he gives them victory And uh amazing, amazing so I wish we could spend more time with it. Look with me if you would at verse twenty two. Now this is after the victory's done And uh God has stepped in in his mercy not because of Ahab's great military strategies, not because of Israel's tremendous military strength. They had neither But God in his mercy gave them victory over this powerful coalition. Then look at verse 22. And the prophet came to the king of Israel, Ahab, and said unto him, Look at this. Go, strengthen thyself and mark, and see what thou doest For at the return of the year, the king of Israel, of Syria, will come up against thee. He says, Listen, God gave you a tremendous victory. I hope you learned from this. God has been tremendously merciful to you. God has given you a victory you did not deserve. You were outgunned, you were outmanned, you were outnumbered. Now you mark this, and you be wise, and you be prepared, and don't dilly-dally around anymore. You need to take seriously your responsibility as King of Israel. So he gives them a very solemn instruction there. Well, sure enough, then Hadad regroups. Verse number 23, the servants of the king of Syria, that's been said unto him, Ben Hadad, their gods are the gods of the hills. Therefore they were stronger than we. So the war took place up in the hills. And i i Syria's thinking is they're very superstitious. They think, oh, their gods, they're gods up in the hills. If we fight them down in the plains Their gods are powerless and will win. So they adjust their strategy. Look what else they do. He says, but Let us fight them against them in the plain, we shall surely be stronger than they. And do this thing. Now look, this is his advisors. Look what they say. Take the kings away. I'll put it, this is the way I see it taking place. King Ben Hadad, get these knucklehead politicians out of it. And in their place put military strategists. Look, he says, take the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their rooms These guys are not military men. They don't know what they're doing. They're politicians. Let's put captains, let's put guys in here that know what they're doing, know how to fight a war, know how to carry out a military campaign. Put them in there. You know what I found if you study history at all? Anytime politicians are running a war, you're going to lose it every time. So he gets the kings out of it. And he reorganizes, they readjust their strategy, they reorganize, and sure enough, they come back and attack Israel. Again, they are defeated. Again, God in his mercy steps in and he gives Israel victory. Now, notice verse 13. I'm trying to touch on a few things here, but before we get to my point. But verse 13, at the very end of verse 13 God is telling Ahab, he says, I will deliver it into thy hand this day. This is the first round. And look what he says. And thou shalt know that I am the Lord. Come over to verse number 28 and look at the last part of verse 28. Now this is after the second round. The next following year, they attack again. Last part, I will deliver all this great multitude into thy hand, God telling Ahab, and ye shall know that I am the Lord. God is trying to convince Ahab that he needed to take seriously his relationship with God. He's saying, Ahab, I'm giving you, or Ahab, I'm going to give you and Israel the victory here so that you understand my power and who I am and what I am. And then he says it again the following year when they go to war. Listen, I'm going to give you the victory so that you know that I am the Lord. Ahab had a problem with taking his responsibilities before God seriously. He played with God. He played with his soul. He played with his condition spiritually. He dilly dowried around He wants this little vineyard, so he kills that man to get it. Then he wants that and he doesn't want this and he wants to do that and he doesn't want to do that And God is saying, listen, I'm going to show you who I am and what I am. And you need to learn from this. You need to take this responsibility, take this seriously. I may be talking to some folks this morning. God's been awfully good to you. God has blessed you maybe with a family, with some a job. I know this. God has blessed every one of us to live in a tremendously free country. God has blessed us with His word abundantly. Going to Lord willing be in a meeting on Friday and Saturday in Ohio, a missions uh session with some pastors, thirty or fifty different pastors getting together. We're trying to work together to get the Word of God translated into s into languages around the world where they don't have the Bible. And here you and I are, and we have stacks of Bibles in our homes. We got a Bible in our glove box, we got a Bible in our shelf, we got a Bible in the kitchen, we got a Bible in our office, we got a Bible in our po God has been awfully good to us. I think I might be talking to some folks this morning. You've just been dilly-dallying around. God has blessed us so much and we do not take seriously our responsibility to trust Him and obey Him. And fulfill what He's created us to do. God has blessed us with family. Those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, salvation is the greatest blessing known to man. Have my sins forgiven and escape hell and have a home in heaven and to Jesus to pay that horrendous price so that I can have that. And then we just play. With our Christian life. We just play with sin and uh ourselves and our desires, and we don't take seriously our standing before God. God has blessed us with provisions and health and safety. I'm telling you, God is working in our hearts and God is working in our lives. He's wanting us to take him seriously. I would venture to say, if I could sit down with nearly every one of us just one-on-one, and I would ask something like this Has God been doing anything in your life lately? Has anything been happening in your life lately to make you think about heaven and hell and you're standing before God and And God and the Word of God and your soul, has anything been happening? I venture to say nearly every one of us would say, you know, things have been happening. I have thought of that. God is working in my life. You know what he's doing? He's trying to show us that he is God We have a responsibility before him. We cannot play with that responsibility. We are the creatures. He is the creator. He has given us life I mean the most amaz to me the most amazing miracle of God, one of the most amazing miracles of God was when God breathed into that Pile of clay there in the Garden of Eden, in the in the Adam's body, and he breathed into that body the breath of life, and man became a living soul Only God can create life. Only God can bestow life. God has given us life. We're alive because of a direct miracle, grace, gift of God. And He provides salvation for us. And you know what we do? We're busy here and there. Here and there. We don't even think about our standing before God, our responsibility before God. And we're just dilly-dowling around with our soul and with the gifts of God. God is trying to show Ahab, listen, I am God. And you do have to take seriously your relationship with me. So God gives victory the second time. And this time Ahab is captured. Uh not not Ahab, I'm sorry. This time Ben-Hadad is captured, the king of Syria is captured. And God had given very clear instructions, he is to be executed. Capital punishment. He is to die. He's a wicked man. He is responsible for many thousands of deaths. He is blaspheme God's name. God has judged him, and the sentence is he must die. And God gives Ahab the responsibility of executing him. Now look with me if you would at verse number 32. And this is one of these passages I read. In fact, I put in the margin of my Bible a whole series of question marks. I'm thinking, what in the world is Ahab thinking? Look at verse 32. So they girded sackcloth on their loins, this is Ben Hadad, and put ropes on their heads and came to the king of Israel. Alright, they're captured. They know that He's supposed to kill him. And in fact, if you come up there, uh verse thirty one, his servant said unto him, Ben Hadad, Behold now we've heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings Let us, I pray thee, put sackcloth on our loins and ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Per eventually he will save thy life. And God had already instructed him, he's to kill him So they girded sackcloth on their loins and put ropes on their heads and came to the king of Israel. By the way, I'm not sure about the ropes on the heads business. I don't know what that is. And said, thy servant Ben Hadad saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he, King Ahab, look at this. Is he yet alive? He is my What? Brother? He's not your brother. He's your enemy He's the enemy of God. He would be dead if this man got what he wanted. Your whole nation would be annihilated. Your women would be pillaged. Your property would be stolen. This guy's blasphemed your God. And you're calling him your brother? I'm telling you, Ahab has no discernment, spiritual discernment, whatsoever. And so, look at this. These guys are no dummies. Then Hadet. Now the men, verse 33, now the men did diligently observe whether anything should come from him. Oh, they're watching very carefully how they're responding. And they hear King Ahab says, Is he still alive? Oh, he's my brother And you know what I see on King Ben Hadad and his servants, you know what I see take place? I see a smile go across their face. He's calling us this brother. And they catch it. Look what it says there. And did hastily catch it. They caught on real quick. And they said, Thy brother Ben Hadad, yes, we're brothers Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Ben Hadad came forth to him, and he caused him to come into the chariot, and Ben-Hadad said unto him, Thy cities which my father took from thy father I will restore Thou shalt make streets for thee in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will send thee away with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him and send them away. He squandered away The opportunity God had given him to eliminate this man and have generations perhaps of peace in Israel. Here was the opportunity to do something for God's people, to obey God and trust Him and alter the future of God's people. And he squanders it away. He doesn't fulfill his responsibility. He says, you go on. Well, then we have the passage that Pastor Grant read. Ahab fails to see how dangerous this man is, and he lets him go. And so God sends a prophet and he puts on this little skit that we read. This fellow, as we said, is he disguised himself as a soldier who was given the responsibility to hold, detain this very dangerous prisoner. And he gets distracted and he fails to realize how important his responsibility is, and he lets the fella escape. He's busy here and there and the guy gets away. And he failed to realize the magnitude of the responsibility he had Suppose uh uh and I meant I meant to get a million dollar bill out of my bank and I forgot But suppose I had a million-dollar bill here. Now that's going to take a lot of supposition, supposing. And as long as I gave it to Brother Moyer, and I said, Brother Moyer is a million dollars. This has been given to give to the missionaries. This has been given for Beacon of Truth Baptist Ministries, the Print Scriptures. And Brother Moyer, I need you to hold on to that until the bank's open tomorrow morning. As soon as the bank's open tomorrow morning, then we're going to bring it, we're going to put it in the bank, we're going to send it down to Beacon Truth, and they're going to print millions of Bibles. For Haiti and Kazakhstan and all around the world. This is tremendous. God has given us a phenomenal opportunity. You just hold on to this Now this doesn't reflect Brother Moyer, I don't think, but suppose, oh yes, sir, Pastor Lemon, I'll do that. He sticks it in his pocket. And after church we're fellowshipping around, he's drinking coffee and he gets his keys out and whoops he drops a million dollar bill. Loop, stick it back in there. And uh he's going, he takes a nap this afternoon, he puts in a million dollar bill, falls out of his The pup uh pocket while he's not and then he finds it and he puts and then he gets working on this and then he starts washing the car and then he goes over here and visits and then Uh he goes and does this, that, and tomorrow morning gets up and uh he's got uh oh I've got all this work to do. I've got to mow the grass, I gotta wash the car, he's doing all this stuff. And uh where'd that million dollar bill go? I call him up and said, Brother Moyer, bank's open. We've got to go down to the bank. We gotta put that million dollars in. We're gonna get Bibles printed. People are gonna be saved. Communities are gonna be impacted with the Word of God. He goes, Brother Leatherman, uh I think I lost it. What happened? What happened? Well, I was just busy here and there doing stuff and I don't know what happened to it. What do you think I'd do to Brother Moir? I'd baptize him permanently How many people say that would be ridiculous to lose a million dollar bill just piddling around? How many people agree with me? That's exactly what's going on here. And Ahab's just dilling-dallying around. He has been given a tremendous responsibility that's going to have a profound impact on the nation of Israel for years. And he just squanders it. Now, I put several areas that we dilly-dally around with. I put this one down. Too often people dilly-dally with their salvation. With their salvation. God has given to mankind a tremendous opportunity. That opportunity is to be saved from our sin, to be saved from hell, and have an eternal home in heaven with God. Would you agree with me? That's a phenomenal opportunity. That is the greatest gift known to man. To have my sins forgiven and to know that I go to heaven and escape hell. What an opportunity! And here's the tragedy. Our world is filled with people who know they need to be saved. Many of them know how to be saved. But they're doing this and that, horsing around here and there, putting it off, not taking it seriously, just toying with it. Until it's too late. Until it's too late. If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice, and you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are being you're going to heaven. If there is any doubt there Don't dilly dally around with your soul salvation. You get that settled. You nail that down. Um Most important decision a person can possibly make in their life is to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. But there's so many people, and I meet them on a weekly basis who are busy here and there, busy here and there, busy here and there, dilly-dowling around with this, that and the other, and they never stop and say, hey, wait a minute Priority one, get this salvation settled. Just play around, just play around, just play around. Jeremiah 8, verse 20, prophet said this: the harvest is past, the summer is ended. Listen to this, and we are not saved You know what he's saying? We got busy this summer working on the garden and the farm and we got doing this, that, and the other, and next thing you know, it's the end, and I never settled my salvation. Lost. Lost. Jesus told Nicodemus late one night, he came to him, he said, Ye must be born again. You know what he was saying to Nicodemus? He was telling Nicodemus, listen, Nicodemus, your salvation is your responsibility. You need to make sure you have been born again. Nobody else can get saved for you. Nobody else can do it for you. Hey kids, mom and dad can't get saved for you. You need to be saved. Your spouse can't get saved for you. We had a fellow how many people remember Dave Stork, big old Dave Stork here. I like that was years ago. He came, got saved, and baptized. He sat right about here where Cindy is, right in this area here where brother Moir is. And uh old Dave I he was a big old guy if you remember him, big old guy. He was about that tall standing up and he was about that tall laying on his back. And uh he'd get fi I'd be preaching, he'd get fired up, his old leg would be going And uh one time he came to me afterward, he said, Pastor Ledman, I got a bunch of guys uh we need to go visit. Um I need you to go save them. I said, what? He said, we need to go visit them. I need you to go save them. You know, just like you saved me. I said, Dave I didn't save you. I can't save them. He says, I know, I know, but you got to tell him how to get. He didn't know what he was. He knew what he meant, but he didn't know how to say it. And I said to him this, I said, Dave, I can't save them. I can't even save myself Jesus needs to save them. But it's the individual's responsibility to allow Jesus to save them. You follow what I'm trying to say? Don't play around with that. Listen, it's your responsibility, it's my responsibility to make sure we've trusted Christ as Savior. Don't play with that. Turn with me if you would in your Bibles to the New Testament, the book of Luke. Here's a Lord gave a perfect illustration of what I'm trying to say, I believe. Luke chapter 12. God had given Ahab a tremendous opportunity to alter the course of Israel's history, to change their future, make it safer for them, more secure. And Ahab did not take that responsibility. He failed to see the magnitude of the opportunity before him, and he squandered it And God has given to you and I, He's given to all of mankind the phenomenal opportunity, the phenomenal privilege of being saved, of accepting Jesus our Savior. And so many people just dilly-dally around and squander that opportunity. Look with me in Luke chapter 12, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 16. The Lord says, and one uh verse 16, and he spake a parable unto them. This is Jesus speaking, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he fought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room wherewith to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I'll pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods, and I will say to my soul, so as much goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry What's he focused on? He's focused on himself. He's focused on his stuff. He's focused on here and now. But look what the Lord says. But God said unto him, verse number 20, but God said unto him, thou fool, ouch. That's strong terms coming from God. Thou fool, this night, look at this, thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall these things be, those things be which thou hast provided? Says you're horsing around, you're dilly down around, busy here and there, building barns, making money, doing all this stuff. It's all fine in and of itself, but there's something far more important at stake. That's the destiny of your soul. And you've given no thought You've given no attention to your standing before God. You've given no attention to your spiritual condition, and tonight you'll die lost. For all eternity. Your soul is required of you tonight. And all this stuff you dilly-dallied around with, all this stuff you've been busy here and there with, what good's that gonna do you? Too many times people are busy here and there with their soul salvation. Luke 2 Corinthians 6 verse 2 says, now is the day of salvation. We've seen in our own community within the last several months how one the very real The the the reality of a person can get up in the morning and put their shoes on and that night be laying in a morgue. Young and old, healthy and sick, rich and poor. There's no discharge From that day of death. It is appointed unto man once to die. There's an appointment. Listen, I uh recently I missed an appointment that I messed up my schedule, a very important one, and uh I failed terribly. And there's one appointment nobody's going to miss. I don't care what your schedule is, I don't care what you write in your calendar, I don't care how good your smartphone reminders are. There's one appointment we are not going to miss, and that is the appointment of the day of death. And you don't know when that is, I don't know when that is. And for us to dilly-dally around and be busy here and busy there with stuff that is non-con inconsequent or that has no eternal value and neglect our own soul salvation. The Lord says, Thou fool. You're crazy. Well, it's busy here and there, and he got away. One of the areas people dilly-dally around with, they're busy here and there and they neglect their salvation. There's another one I want to touch on, and this might apply to many of us here in this service this morning, dilly-dowying around with our testimony. Busy here and there neglecting our Christian growth, our Christian testimony. I mentioned a few moments ago the tremendous gift of life that God has given us. Life. Listen, life did not come from chaos million, millions of years. It was a direct creation by God. It is impossible. It is impossible for non-life to produce life. It is impossible for non-substance to produce substance. It is impossible. God has given us life. The only being in existence that is able to do that, eternal living God. He's given to us this gift of life. And he's given it to us for a purpose. There is a reason you and I are alive. There is a purpose and a plan that God has for my life and your life. And then when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, we have not just this life here now, but we have eternal life now, a home in heaven. And God has saved us for a purpose. There's a reason you're alive. There's a reason I'm alive. There's a reason he saved us. There's a plan and a purpose and a pattern for us to fulfill. And so many Christians just dilly-dally around with that. Well, as long as I'm going to I had a boy in Indianapolis. His name was Brett. And uh he came to me one time and he said, I don't know what he was thinking. I I don't know what any teenager thinks. But um I don't know what I'm thinking sometimes. But he came to me and said, Pastor Lama, I have a question. I said, all right, we've one aside. He was probably 17, 16 years old. He goes, Can I go to heaven and not witness to anybody? If I don't witness to anybody, will I still go to heaven? I said, well, witnessing the people isn't what gets you to heaven. It's accepting Jesus as Savior that gets you to heaven. I said, but why in the world would you not want to witness to anybody? He said, Well I just don't want people to think I'm weird. I said, that's weird. I said, I think you're weird. Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for you, naked on a cross, unashamed, took responsibility for all your sin. You say I don't want to tell anybody about them? What's wrong with you? In fact, what I'm trying to say is this, God saves us for a purpose, to be a witness of his grace and his goodness in our life. And so many Christians don't take that seriously. And we just play around with it. We play with sin and we play with the world. We love the world. We love sin and we like this and we do that. And there's never any distinctively Christian atmosphere about us. And God's given us a tremendous responsibility to be His witnesses. We're to grow in our faith. We're to testify of what Christ has done for us. We're to be mature as Christians. We are to establish a testimony in this whole world that God is God and He is good and He saves people and He transforms their lives and He gives them joy And he's given us that responsibility to testify that. And we just play with it. 2 Peter 3. 18 says, we are commanded by God, but grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Now that's true. God has commanded you and I that we are to grow in our grace and knowledge. The word grow there means to increase, to develop. Our faith should be getting stronger as every week goes by. Our commitment and our love for Jesus Christ ought to grow deeper as every day and week goes by. My testimony as a child of God and God in my life should be clearer and clearer as each day and week goes by. That's growing, that's developing, that's increasing in my Christian witness and influence. We're commanded by God to do that. Well, we're busy here and there. We dilly-dally around with it. You say, preacher, how do I grow? How do I develop? How do I develop a testimony? I'm glad you asked. Real quickly, one, if you're saved, you ought to be baptized. I think that's the very most important, very first thing a saved person ought to do. They ought to get baptized. Just come out and out. I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. I've trusted in my Savior. I want the whole world to know. It's a testimony. Um, I think once you're saved, I think uh when you're saved you ought to be baptized. I think you ought to be faithful to church attendance. Come on now, help me out. Somebody said every time you carry a Bible, you walk uh Charles Spurgeon, I think, said, if you walk a mile to church carrying a Bible, you've preached a mile-long sermon. It's a testimony. Listen, the church is a the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, this local body of believers, this wasn't Pastor Leatherman's idea, this wasn't Ed Wilt's idea, this is God's idea. God ordained the church for God's people to be able to grow and serve Him. God, I'll be re- Listen, God wants His people to be faithful and involved in His church. That's a testimony. I'll go far to say this: a Christian cannot grow and develop without a local church. That's why our missionaries out in the mission field, one of the first things they ought to do is start a church. Because the believers need a church. To attend. Of course, that involves evangelism, all that. Daily Bible reading. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every day. Every day. Every day. Every day. Um uh I was work I'm working with a fella, he moved away now, but um I getting him reading his Bible and he started in Genesis and he did good in Genesis. Exodus he did pretty good, he got to Leviticus, and he started drowning. He goes, preacher, I don't even know. I don't know what I'm reading here. I said, well tell you what, it's the Bible is a lot of different books. Let's take some books that are designed, given to start out with. So we got them reading Psalms, and we got them reading Proverbs, and we got them reading Gospel of John. It's a good place to start for a new Christian. Come back, saw him a week or two later, you know what he said? He goes, man, that's good stuff. He says, man, I'm reading this and what I'm reading is right what I'm going through, and it's like God wrote it that day for me. It's a bingo. That's part of growing. That's part of developing. Don't, hey, don't dilly-dally around with your Bible reading. I'm talking to some folks, I know I am. I'm talking to some folks, you get up in the morning and you do it here, you're busy here, and you're busy there, and you're off there and you're here this and you do that. Next thing you know, you're laying in bed, you wake up at midnight and think, good night, I didn't even read my Bible today. You squandered. Great opportunity for God to speak to your heart. God may have given you something that day could have altered your life. Busy here and there, busy here and there, busy here and there. Bible reading, daily prayer, witnessing. So, number one, some people dilly-dally around with their soul's salvation. Some people, once they're saved, they dilly-a-dally around with their testimony. They have a horrendous testimony. We had a guy one time we were going out visiting Thursday night. He came out from out of the blue. He showed up Thursday night. And I said, All right, we're going to go visit. And by chance it was a fellow visited church. I said, I'm going to have you and you go visit this guy. He says, Oh, I can't go visit that guy I said, why not? He goes, I've got a terrible testimony. Uh uh he won't listen to anything I say. So you've got to be kidding me. You know he did. He squandered his testimony with that fella. Listen, if there's somebody in the world that I can't go to them and talk to them about the Lord Jesus Christ because my testimony is bad, that's bad. That's squandering. A tremendous responsibility. I ought to be able to sit down with anybody on this planet and open a Bible and sincerely share the gospel with them without any reproach coming back on my testimony. Am I right or wrong? So our testimony, our salvation, let me give you the last one. This one's just a thought. The Great Commission. God has given, God's instructions to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church are very, very clear. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's what God has told us to do. It's not complicated. It's not difficult to figure out. We are to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Any church that is not involved in that great commission of getting the gospel into all the world, any church that's not actively involved in getting the gospel to every person around the world, does not square up with Scripture. Any individual Christian, saved person who is not involved in one matter or another in getting the gospel to every lost person in the world does not square up with Scripture. Now listen, if we're spending more time and money on fun and games than we are on getting the gospel to the lost, we are dilly dallying around with the Great Commission. Right or wrong? If we're busy here and there with things that do not involve getting the gospel to the lost, we are squandering a phenomenal responsibility that God has given to us. We have nations, entire nations. Seventeen million people in Kazakhstan, two missionaries. That's not right. We have nations that have no gospel witness. Now, granted, some of them are incredibly difficult with the Muslims and the anti-Christianity and the persecuted. I understand that. But good night God has told us to do this. People dying go to hell without the gospel. We spend all our time dilly-dowling around and busy here and busy there. Now there's nothing wrong with fun and games. It has its place. I mean we need to be busy here sometimes and we need to be busy there sometimes, but not at the expense of our responsibility. Are you with me? My responsibility, and I take it very seriously, and I believe our church does also My responsibility is to lead Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in carrying out the Great Commission. Making sure we are doing what God has told us to do. And I thank God for a church that's on board with that. But let's just constantly be on guard that we don't start dilly-dallying. We don't get busy here and busy there and stop going out, not just in Kazakhstan, but in Kitzmiller. Not just in Africa, but in accident. You know the people in accident need the gospel just as badly as the people in Africa? People in Kittsmill are just as bad. Now they might have more opportunity to hear the gospel than the other countries, but they still need it And so let's not bill you down around. On um what day was it? Last Friday, a week ago Friday, I got a message, came in on my phone Pray for the Wesson family. So the Wesson family, I know Josh and Joy and the kids, Stephen and Kimberly and the girls I spent I spent ten days in their home with them just a year a half ago down in Dominican. They were up here not long ago. They stayed in Ryan and Sandy Sandy's mother's house. Prayed for the Weston family. I thought, what in the world, what's going on Josh drowned this morning. Four kids were in the ocean, got caught, sucked into a rip tide, and Josh jumped in, rescued three of them. The fourth one, he was taken under with the boy. And I found out more, the boy kept clinging to him and holding him, and he brought Josh down under, and they both drowned. You know what Josh became in my mind? He became a hero. Hero. There was a tremendous responsibility. These boys are drowning. Somebody has got to go in there and get them. Now he could have said, you know, man, I've got my good shoes on, I've got this other stuff. Somebody needs, uh, I I'm busy here and I've got I'm busy there and uh I'm glad he wasn't dilly dallying. I'm glad he saved those three boys. Follow what I'm saying? We have a phenomenal responsibility with a phenomenal opportunity in front of us. Let's not squander that. You're here this morning and you're not saved. Don't you dilly-dally around with that. You settle your salvation. You're here this morning and you're saved and your testimony is not what it ought to be. Don't be busy here and there horsing around. Take that seriously. Get that testimony lined up. Make it what it ought to be. Get involved. Grow. Study. Read. Pray. Witness. And God help our church to not dilly-dy around with the great commission He's given us. A little footnote. Josh had witnessed to a lady who was studying in the university in Dominican just a day or two before he drowned. He shared with her her need for Christ. She has several degrees. I think she was working on a master's degree or something. She has several degrees. And she said, this is her words. She said, Reverend Josh, I'm just too busy. I got my studies, I got my plans. I'm not interested in this gospel of Jesus Christ. A few days later, she's sitting in his memorial service in Dominican Republic, and the speaker gives the gospel. And this lady who was busy here and busy there and didn't have time for the gospel at his memorial service responded and trusted Jesus as our Savior. I'm glad God gave her another chance. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. God's giving you another chance. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Help us, Lord, not to dilly-dowy around. Lord, we do have responsibilities. There's stuff, you know, that needs to be done. We understand that, but God, we want to make sure we have first things first. I pray you'd save the lost. I pray you'd revive Christians. I pray you'd stir us to get the gospel around the world. These are important. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many Christians this morning say, I'm saved? I know I'm saved, but you'd say, preacher, my testimony is not what it ought to be. There's areas I need to develop. My church attendance involvement, my Bible reading, my witnessing, my prayer. You could go down the list. You say, preachers, there's areas that I've allowed this busyness here and busyness there to take that away and I need to get that back in priority, get that back in line. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas that I need to get back in line. God bless you, hands all around. Bible reading, church. It's so easy to let other things take that away. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, Preacher, you know, I really don't give a lot of thought I hate to admit it, but I haven't really given a lot of thought about my role in getting the gospel to people around the world, whether it's through faith promise giving or prayer or going on trips or giving myself to be a missionary And you'd say, preacher, I want to be more careful to make sure I'm doing my part in getting the gospel around the world through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Is there any like that? Preacher, that's my burden. To be active involved in getting the gospel out. God bless you, hands over on. Maybe it's witnessing on a weekly basis, Thursdays, buses, or faith promise, whatever. Let me ask one more question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven? I don't want to toy with that. I want to make sure that's settled. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle it in my heart, that I know that He has forgiven my sins, I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm concerned about that. Any at all? Just slip it up high. How about it? Any God bless you. How about it? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, I saw hands. You know our hearts. I pray now as we give the invitation that you would help every hand raised to find a place in old-fashioned altar And just get things lined up and get priorities back in place and stop dilly-dowing around and take seriously our spiritual responsibilities. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.