Deuteronomy chapter 24, and in just a very few moments I'll begin reading in verse number eighteen of that chapter and be reading through verse number twenty-two. Pastor Lederman, thank you so very much for the invitation to be here. I've heard so much about your wonderful church and your pastor. And I've heard so much about this meeting. And we've tried to get this thing worked out time and time again. It just didn't work out before, but I'm certainly thankful that God worked it out this year. I'm honored to be here. I'm excited about tonight. I'm excited about tomorrow, should the Lord's say is coming, and I'm excited to get to meet and get to know some of you. Thank you so much for being here in the service tonight. And I assure you you won't hear any better preaching than what you've already heard. Aren't you thankful? Aren't you thankful Dr. Smith's still preaching as good tonight as he ever has preached before And what I love about him, he still preaches the same thing. Preaches from the same Bible. Amen, and I'm thrilled about that And then I'm thrilled to be with my friend, Brother Byron Fox. He's just one of those folks that you just love to be around. Not only great preacher But he's a great person. I love being around him and you can't help but smile when you're around Brother Fox. Because when I when I look at him, you will smile, I guarantee you. That's exactly right. Preacher Brother Brett was so good to pick me up at the airport earlier today, and uh it's about a two-hour ride from the airport and we just had a great time of fellowship. He's a good man regardless of the socks he has on tonight I've enjoyed getting to know Brother Brett. I appreciate you being here tonight. Have you found your place in Deuteronomy chapter 24? If so, would you please stand? We're going to read a few verses of scripture Zero in on just a few thoughts before we go to the potato bar tonight. Deuteronomy chapter 24 and verse number 18. The Bible says, but thou shalt remember. That thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee thence. Therefore, I command thee to do this thing. When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheep in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it. It shall be for the stranger. For the fatherless and for the widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hand. When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow. When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterward. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow. And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt. Therefore I command thee to do This thing. With our Bibles open tonight, let's bow our heads, shall we, for a moment of prayer. Father, I love you tonight. I'm certainly thankful for the mountain peaks that you've let us Explore during the first message tonight. My what great thoughts from your Bible. Thank you, Lord, that this book that I'm preaching from tonight is, as Dr. Smith has said, inspired. Inerrant, infallible, impeccable, indestructible. And we give you glory for it tonight. I'm so thankful that I have a book to preach tonight That I can feel confident in my heart about what it says. Thank you, Lord, tonight for the Bible. And I pray for the next few moments that you would allow the Bible to do much more than challenge us I pray that it would change us that we may be more like thee. Help me, I pray, I long to be a blessing. Cleanse me of sin and self and fill me. With thy precious Holy Spirit. And I'll give you glory and honor in Jesus' name. I pray. Amen. Thank you for standing. You can be seated tonight Let me once again call your attention, if I may, to verse number 18 of our text, as this single verse of Scripture will be used as the key text of the message that the Lord has laid on my heart for this evening's service. The Bible says in Deuteronomy chapter 24 and verse 18, but thou shalt remember. That thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee thence. Therefore I command thee to do this thing With the help of the Lord tonight, I want to lift out the first four words of this single verse of Scripture and use those four words as the title of my message tonight. Those four words are simply, but thou shalt remember. I want to back up and read those four words audibly again with you, if you would be so kind. As to read those four words with me tonight. I tell you what I'm praying. I tell you what I'm trusting the Lord to do. I'm trusting before this service is over tonight The Holy Ghost would get those four words beyond your head to the point that they find a lodging place in each of our hearts tonight. So would you say those four words with me tonight? Let's say them together, shall we? But thou shalt remember. I love to read and study from this great book of the Bible. I've always found it interesting that the book of Deuteronomy, when you study the book, the name of the book actually explains the purpose of God inspiring its writing to begin with. You see, by the time the Lord used Moses to pin the book That first generation of Israelites who were initially delivered out of the bondage of Egypt's land, with of course the exception of both Joshua and Caleb, had passed away. And therefore, there was a great need to remind that second generation of Israelites of the law of the Lord as it had been delivered to God's people through the ministry of Moses. Well, that, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what the book of Deuteronomy does. The book of Deuteronomy is simply the record of Moses rehearsing the law of God for the sake of that second generation of Israelites. Who at the time of Moses' writing had known nothing but wilderness wandering. That's why the name, Deuteronomy, has been given to this great book of the Bible. It is a name that simply means second law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the record of the man of God sharing the law of God with the people of God a second time. Therefore, you can certainly understand then why that all throughout the verses, all throughout the chapters that make this book of the Bible up, there is a constant challenge to remember For instance, Deuteronomy chapter 5, first portion of verse 15 says, And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt And that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched out arm. Thou shalt not be afraid of them, but shalt well remember what the Lord thy God did unto Pharaoh and unto all Egypt. Lie here in the very chapter before us, if you'll notice in verse number nine, the Bible says, Remember what the Lord thy God did unto Miriam by the way at After that ye were come forth out of Egypt. Yes, over and over again, all throughout the book of Deuteronomy, all throughout the book Of second law, there is a constant challenge for God's people to remember. I believe one of the reasons why God over and over again encouraged and in fact admonished his people to remember. It's because God knew what was true then is just as true today. We are prone to forget. And therefore, tonight, this very night In Western Maryland, God says, through the preaching of the Word of God, thou shalt remember. I don't know about you, Pastor Leatherman, but the older I get, the more issues I have with remembering things. I I was talking to Brother Smith earlier tonight. I don't know what it is, Brother Fox, but when I turn fifty, a lot of things begin to change in my life I will walk into a room and I will forget why that I walked it. I'm so glad to see tonight with your response. I'm not the only one having these issues tonight. I'm feeling better all throughout the course of the message. I walk into a room and I will forget why that I walk I'll walk back out, Brother Fox. Walk back in hoping that it will trigger something up here. We are prone to forget It sort of reminds me of the story of the two fellows. They were friends. They were getting older as I am getting older and they met each other on the street one day and one buddy said to another buddy, He said, You know, I have f Finally found a doctor that's been able to help me with my problem of memory loss. Well, immediately he had his buddy's undivided attention because he was getting older as well, and he said, Really? He said, Well, if this doctor has helped you, surely he will be able to help me. What is your doctor's name? His buddy thought for a minute. And he fought for another minute. And he scratched his head. He said, What's that doctor's He said, No, wait a minute, it's just right on the tip of my tongue. He said, Let me ask you this. What is the name of that long flower with a stem and it's got thorns on the stem? And his buddy said, Oh, are you talking about a rose? And his friend turned to his wife and said, Rose, what's the name of that doctor? I can't remember the name of his that thing to stay my life. Now that old boy had issues with remembering And I want to tell you the older we get, especially those of us that have been saved for ten, fifteen, twenty, even thirty or forty years, there are some things that God admonishes us all throughout the pages of his Bible to remember. There are some things that God would have both you and I to never forget And he reminds us of those things not only all throughout the book of Deuteronomy, but particularly here in the latter portion of Deuteronomy chapter 24. I love what one Bible commentator said about this particular book of the Bible. He said, reading and studying through the book of Deuteronomy is sort of like taking a walk down memory lane And do you see what the Holy Ghost of God has done here in the latter portion of Deuteronomy chapter number 24? He is leading us down a walk down memory lane, and he is specifically admonishing us to remember. Three things. I believe it's the same three things that God would have us at this conference on revival and soul winning to consider for just a very few moments tonight. What is it That God would have both you and I, child of God, to never, never forget. Number one, God says this: never, never forget To remember your ruin. Can I prove it to you? Look again at our key text, verse number 18. God says, remember your ruin. God says through the pen of Moses, but thou shalt remember. What is it, Lord, that you would have us to remember? What is it, Lord, that you admonish us to never, never forget? God says Thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt This was the very first thing that God, through the pen of the writer, is admonishing his people to never, never forget was their ruin. I mean when you study the context of this chapter, it's almost as if Moses is saying, hey, here is the law of God, this is what thus saith the Lord, and here's why you ought to not only hear it, but here's why you ought to heed it. Here's why you ought to do what God commands you to do, because there was a day in your forefathers' past when they were nothing more than slaves. That word bondman that is used in the text literally means a slave. It has primary reference to one that is held in captivity. And so Moses is simply reminding God's people that there was a time in their forefathers' past when they were held captive in the land of Egypt by their enemy. They had been slaves, bondmen, according to the Bible. You must understand, according to the text, they had no power in and of themselves to deliver themselves, no strength, to set themselves free, and God says. Never, never, never forget. Oh, and as I hasten to make application tonight, can I give a personal word of testimony? I remember when I too was a bondman I remember when I too was lost. I remember when I too was held captive by sin I remember my ruin. Can I tell you about my life before the Holy Ghost convicted my heart and revealed to me my need of a Savior? Well, I was lost and a nun without God. I was on my way to hell. I was held in captivity of sin. Can I tell you about my ruin? I could not deliver myself from my lost condition. I did not possess within myself the ability to set myself free from sin that I was born into. I was lost and Undone without the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you've got to understand how significant a truth that is in my life. When I was a little boy, I had a very serious drug problem. My mom and daddy drugged me to church every time the doors were open. If anybody could have made it to glory, being a good little boy, buddy, I was on my way, as Brother Maines used to say, heaven bound with a hammer down But oh happy day that Sunday morning in the month of June in the year of 1974, when my preacher, instead of telling me what I wanted to hear, he told me what I needed to hear, and God, through the preaching of The word of God brought about old-fashioned Holy Ghost conviction. He removed the blinders from my eyes, and I saw my need of a Savior And on that Sunday morning, God birthed me into the family of God when a little eight-year-old boy turned to the Lord Jesus Christ and said, Lord, be merciful unto me, a sinner. Come into my heart, forgive me of my sin, save me by your grace. And when I prayed that very prayer, God was as good as his word. But I want you to know before he set me free, I was bound by sin. And every now and then, you know what I like to do? I like to do what the Bible admonishes us to do. I like to take a walk down memory lane And I like to remember where I was when Jesus came to me, convicted me of my sin. Now listen, when I talk about remembering our ruin, I'm not talking about remembering specific sins. Thank God that God has not only forgiven but chosen to forget. I'm not talking about that, but I am talking about the depths of sin that we were in when God Came to us, convicted us of that sin, and brought us to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hey, can I ask you tonight? Do you remember when you were ruined by sin? Do you remember when you first realized that you could not save? Yourself that you did not possess within yourself the ability to deliver yourself. Do you remember your ruin Boy, I'll never forget it myself. And I think every now and then we ought to take a walk down memory lane and remember our days as a slave. Let me say this and I'm moving tonight. And I say this kindly, but I say it without apology. Having been at a different church every single week of my life since May of 2014. I believe with all of my heart one of the reasons why there are so many dead, dull Dry, independent, fundamental, temperamental, Baptist churches is because some way or another we've got over being saved. Are you kidding me tonight? Listen, do you understand that it's more than just a line of a song? Right. If we cut what we deserved I don't care how good a person you are, and I'm sure you are a good person. You're a good moral person, or you wouldn't even be here tonight But I don't care what side of the tracks you're from, brother. If you got what you deserved, if I got what I deserved, I'd be in hell right now The only hope I have of heaven is through him by the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think it would fire us up for Jesus if every now and then we would remember where we walked. When Jesus came to us and saved us by his good grace. So number one, God says this, never, never, never forget. I want you to always remember, number one, your ruin. But isn't it amazing, according to the text, God did not leave us in our ruin. He not only said according to verse 18, remember your ruin, but he said, secondly, remember your redemption. Do you see it in the text? Look at verse 18 again. But thou shalt remember. Thou wast a bondman in Egypt. That's our ruin. Now the verse doesn't end there. And the Lord thy God. Redeemed thee then. And so the same God that encouraged his people to remember their ruin. Is the same God that encouraged his people to remember their redemption. How many of you believe tonight salvation is free? It is. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 8, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 9, not of works, lest any man should boast. Salvation is a gift. It is absolutely free. But you hear me tonight, whereas salvation is free. It certainly wasn't cheap. God redeemed us according uh to the writings of the Apostle Peter, not with the blood of bulls, not with the blood of goats or calves or turnbugs, but But the spotless, sinless son of the thrice holy God of glory left the portals of glory, was born of a virgin named Mary for the sole purpose of walking up a hill called Calvary and through his Shed blood. He offers redemption now for whosoever. Salvation is achieved. Do you know not one time in the Bible, not one time Does God in His Word instruct us as to how many times a month or how many times a year we are to observe the Lord's table? But he did say this. As oft as you do it. You remember what he said? As oft as you do it, do it in what? Remembrance of me Redemption. Redemption. Boy, if it ever dawns on us what that entails tonight, I tell you, they'll catch you halfway to Pittsburgh, running and shouting and praising God Jesus paid a debt that he did not owe because we owed a debt that we could have never paid I'll illustrate it like this. I'm talking about remembering our redemption. It was while I was pastoring my second church. I've only pastored three churches in the 22 years that I've served as a pastor, and it was at my second church. I can't remember it was a birthday, pastor appreciation day, something like that. Someone got me and my family a gift certificate. To the K and W cafeteria. Now, I don't know if you are familiar with the K and W cafeteria. I don't know if you have such things like that. here in the wonderful land of Maryland, but where I'm from, Statesville, North Carolina at that time, that was one of my favorite places to eat. I know Dr. Smith is familiar with the K and W, and you know Brother Fox is familiar with the K and W. That's one of the reasons, preacher, why I know I'm getting older because I love to go to KW and you know what K and W stands for, don't you? Canes and walkers. That's what it stands for. That's where all us older folks, that's where we love to go and eat. I don't know if you've ever been to the K and W cafeteria, but here's how it works. It never fails. It has worked this way for years. You walk in and out and go through these series of lines. You go up to the buffet, you get your tray, you get your silverware, you walk down through the buffet and you make your choices as you go down. They got all these ladies there wearing hairnets and they're mean ladies. Mean. Because when you get up to them, they want to know what you want. I remember suffering anxiety attacks when I was a little boy, going to the KW cafeteria because I knew the mean old ladies wearing the hairnets. Would make me tell them what I there was no time to contemplate what when you got to the lady with a hairnet, you better know what she was gonna eat So finally, after you made all of those life-changing decisions, when you got down to the end at the KW, there was another lady down there with a hairnet, and she was figuring up your bill So when we went to the K<unk>W, we got our food and got to the end of the line, the lady figured up our bill, and she handed me The statement that revealed to me the debt that I had acquired. That was money that I owed. It was on my account Well the way it works at K and W, when they present your statement to you, when they present the bill to you, you go and you sit down, but there ain't but one way out. If you go out one of the side doors, they got all grades of alarms on those side doors. You're not going out the side doors. You're going to go out one door, and it's by one more little old lady. Wearing a hairnet. Now why they gotta have a hairnet to take people out is beyond me. But she's got one So after we finished with a meal, I took uh my bill and I presented it to that last little lady with a hair now. She looked at it and she said, Yes, sir, you owe And I can't remember how much it was, but she stated to me the amount that I owed, and she said, this is what you owe the K and W cafeteria. And that's right. That was my debt, right? That was a debt that belonged to me. I had acquired the debt. But When she told me what I owed, I took out the gift certificate where somebody else had already paid the price. And I presented that lady with the gift certificate, and I'll never forget what she did. She looked at the gift certificate, and there was enough of a price that had been paid That she reached behind her and she took a rubber stamp and she dipped that rubber stamp in a red ink pad and she stamped that bill. And you will know what it said? It said in red Redeemed. And boy, when I saw that word redeemed, the Holy Ghost took me back down memory lane. And he particularly brought Deuteronomy chapter 24 and verse number 18 to mind. But Zell Shall remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt. That day, as I walked down memory lane, I remembered my ruin. I remembered a day in my life when I was lost and undone without the Lord Jesus Christ. I also remember when I as an eight-year-old boy responded to the invitation that was given. Whosoever will may come, whosoever let him come and drink of the water of life freely. And I remember that day when my little heart cried out To Jesus. Oh, I could see it in my mind's eye. The Father of Glory dipping that red ink into the blood of his only Son and stepping my sin dead. Redeemed, redeemed. Redeemed, redeemed. We just don't get excited when we sing about the redemption blood of the Lord Jesus Christ for nothing. Because you see, without it, there is no remission. There is no forgiveness of sin. So we need to remember tonight the great price that was paid in order to deliver us from Our sin. Now there's one other thing that God said in the text we need never, never forget. And I've always found it interesting, Pastor Leatherman. God spent more time on this last admonition to remember than he did even our redemption from our ruin. So I'm very interested to know what is it that God would have us to never, never forget Well, number one, God says, remember your ruin. You remember the day when you were held captive by sin? You remember the day when you was Abondman, remember your ruin. Then God said, Remember your redemption. But listen now, watch your Bible. Now that you've been redeemed from your ruin, never, never, never forget. You have a responsibility to make a difference in the lives of others. Can I prove it to you? Look at verse 18 one more time. Thou shalt remember that thou was the bombing in Egypt. And the Lord thy God redeemed thee thence. Therefore, which simply means, in light of the fact that you've been redeemed from your ruin. Therefore, I command thee. This isn't a suggestion to be ignored. It is a command to be obeyed. I command thee to do this thing. Verse 19 When thou cuttest thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands. Verse 20. When thou meetest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow. When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterward. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, for the widow. God said, now that you've been redeemed from your ruin, never, never, never forget to remember your responsibility. Your responsibility to make a difference in the lives of others. Now listen, I don't have time to give you the literal interpretation. of these verses of Scripture as they apply to the nation of Israel in direct relationship to the Mosaic Law. But let me just say this and I'm moving. There is a literal interpretation of these verses of Scripture. But wait a minute. Did God put these verses in his Bible just to take up space? Is there nothing here for both you and me who have been saved today? I submit to you, there is a literal interpretation, sure. But for us today, there is a spiritual application. And here is the spiritual application. Let me just put it in a nutshell. Now that your spiritual hunger has been fed, never, never, never forget, there are literally millions of people in the world today That are still hungry. Now that your thirst, your spiritual thirst has been quenched, never forget. That there are literally multitudes of people around this globe that are still thirsty for he that said, I am the water of life. Yes, we've been redeemed from our ruin, but there is a reason that God has left us here in this earth. That is because he has given us the responsibility to make a difference in the lives of others. To reach others with the gospel. To reach others for the cause of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll close with this true story. Well, I was pastor of the Canaan Baptist Church of Covington, Georgia. Dr. Smith preached for me there before. Brother Fox came regularly. And uh we would have several big days throughout the course of the year. We would have one really big day. We would set goals in Sunday school classes. We would set goals on bus routes. We were running about five bus routes at the time. We had goals on every bus route. Listen, I'd rather shoot at something and miss it than shoot at nothing and hit it. Amen So we set goals and I mean we had goals on top of goals that day. So I remember one day, the Sunday night before the big day, the following Sunday, I was really making one last appeal to our church family, to reach out to their lost friends, their neighbors, family members. Everybody that they could reach that following week so we could meet our goal and make a difference in the lives of others. I'll never forget one young lady Her, her husband, Robert, their children, they lived about two miles from our church right there in Covington, Georgia. Her name was Carrie Carrie heard her preacher make an appeal to make a difference in the life of others that week. Carrie took a plain, simple gospel track. It was a gospel tract much like this from the church that I was just in this past week. And she literally walked across the street. And she knocked on a door. And when that door was knocked on, a fellow by the name of Brian came to the door and he answered the doorknob. Miss Carey introduced herself. She explained to Brian and his wife Arlene and their little boy Brandon that she was sent out of the Canaan Baptist Church of Covington, Georgia, and that we were having a big day next Sunday. Since they just lived right across the street, since they had just moved in, she wanted to come and introduce herself and invite them to come to church. Lo and behold, next Sunday, Brian, Marlene, and little Brandon, they showed up. Next Sunday, they were back. Next Sunday, they were back. The next Sunday, going out the door. Brian came up to him and he said, Preacher, he said, listen, we've been coming now for about a month. I've been saved, I've been baptized, Marlene's been saved, she's been baptized, we're still praying for Brandon when he reaches the age that he understands his need of a savior, that he would be saved, but we firmly believe that the Lord is leading us here and we want to become active members of Canaan Baptist Church. And they did. Not only did they become active members, but they became very close friends with me in my family. Well, not long after that, I looked up on a Sunday morning and there was an elderly lady sitting beside a brother Brian. Now Brian loved preaching. His wife Marlene loved it. Little Brandon certainly loved it. But that lady sitting beside Brian, I'll tell you one thing, she wasn't too thrilled with the preaching that day. You can just tell I understand why now God said a lot of times to Jeremiah, now be not afraid of their faces. Look, sometimes you just have to look over people. Some of you tonight you think I'm making eye contact. Uh-uh. I'm looking at them CDs back there. That lady sat beside a brother Brian that day. She wasn't too thrill with the preaching And I happened to notice after I finished and extended the invitation, she wouldn't even come out and shake my hand. She made a beeline for the side door. But next Sunday, she was back. She wasn't too thrilled with the preaching again, and she went out the side door, but she came back. The next Sunday, she came back again. Brian came up to me going out the door and he said, Preacher, you see that that woman's been coming with me? I said, Yeah, I've been seeing her. He said, Preacher, pray for her. That that woman's name is Ruth, and he said, Preacher, ask my mom. He said, my mama's lost. I said, well, no wonder she don't love the preacher. She's lost. I said, now Brother Brian, do you want me to go see her? I'll go try to win her to go. He said, you just keep doing what you've been doing, and I'll keep trying to get her back. And lo and behold, next Sunday, she is back. Not long after that, on a Sunday morning, God granted unusual liberty. I mean unusual, preacher, you know what I'm talking about, unusual liberty. I mean, before I realized it, Brother Brad, I'm honest before the Lord. I got in a big way of preaching, and before I even realized it, I was standing on top of the pew. When I got up on top of the pew, me in my subconscious mind stood back over here and said, What are you doing? But when I was standing up there on top of that pew, me and Brother Fox and preaching and I laid that finger right upside of Miss Roos' nose. And I said, Some of you are going to let your pride send you straight there. I couldn't believe I said it. But I did. And when I extended the invitation that day, I looked back and for the first time, after about two solid months of hard Bible preaching. Ruth bowed her head and she started to cry. When I extended the invitation further, she was sitting on the very back row. We had an auditorium seated about five to six hundred people. It was pretty long aisles. The folks was in the balcony, folks was in the back. She got there early so she could get a back row seat. You got to get there early in the Independent Baptist Church to get a back row seat So she's sitting on that back row. She stepped out in the aisle and she started coming forward and when she got halfway, I told Miss Cassie, I told my wife, I said, get your Bible Turn to the book of Romans, chapter number three. We're going to lead Miss Ruth down the Romans road. Nobody had to lead Miss Ruth nowhere. She knew she was lost. She knew she needed Jesus. She broke out into a trot when she got halfway. She ran to the altar, threw both hands in the air, and said, Lord Jesus, be merciful unto me, a sinner. Come into my heart and save me by your good grace. And Ruth got saved. Well not long after that I looked up and there was an elderly gentleman sitting beside of Miss Ruth And I noticed, well, he wasn't too thrilled with a preaching either. But going out the door, Brian came up to me and he said, Preacher, he said, you see that man sitting beside my mama Ruth just got saved? I said, Yes, sir, I did. He said, pray for Bill. He said, that's his name, Bill. He said, that's my stepdaddy. He said, preacher, he's lost. Never been saved. Seventy-some years old. Never been saved. He said, preacher, would you pray for him? I said, absolutely. Do you want me to go try to win him? You just keep on doing what you're doing. I'm going to try to get him back. And he kept coming on Sunday mornings. Ruth was so fired up about the Lord, I guess he had no choice. He wanted to come and see what all the hoopla was about I got to preaching not long after that, and I was preaching about old King Agrippa, and God granted unusual liberty I got to preaching and I got about halfway down the aisle that Sunday morning and I said, To be almost saved, Agrippa said, Almost, thou persuadest me to be a Christian. I said, to be almost saved. is to be totally lost. And boy, I tell you, I got in a big way of preaching. I said, I tell you one thing right now, I wouldn't go to hell for nobody. I wouldn't go to hell. I don't care what my buddies say. I wouldn't go to hell for nobody. And I looked back. Old Bill bowed his head And when I extended the invitation, Bill stepped out in the aisle, and Bill came forward, and Bill got saved. Now the story doesn't end there. Not long after that, I looked out there. There was Brian, Marlene, Bill, Ruth, and there was about a 21, 22-year-old young man with them. I preached that Sunday and going out the door, Brian came up to me and he said, Preacher, you see that young man with me? I said, Yes, sir, I do. He said, pray for him, preacher. He said, that's my son. He's at Wayne College. He attends college out west. And he got up closer that Sunday morning and he said, He's lost. Never been saved. He said, I'm going to try to win him to Jesus this week. I I've been sharing verses of scripture with him, but would you pray, preach? I said, I sure will Next Sunday morning, that 21, 22-year-old young man walked an aisle with his daddy and trusted Christ as his Savior. Now the story doesn't end there. Remember little Brandon that was standing there at the door when Carrie first knocked on the door to invite Brian and his family to church? While little Brandon had seen Ma Bill Mama Ruth get saved, he'd seen Paw Paw Bill get saved, he'd seen his big brother get saved, and one Sunday night, not long after that, after I finished preaching. Him and his daddy walked to the altar. Brandon got saved by the grace of God. I baptized Ruth. I baptized Bill. I baptized Brandon into the fellowship of our church. They joined the church and become active members of our church. And you know where it all got started? Not because the preacher made a visit. Not because the evangelist made a visit. One young lady One young lady who realized that world evangelism doesn't begin across the sea. It begins across the street. And she took a gospel track and she knocked on one door, literally less than one hundred yards from her front doorstep. And a whole family is going to heaven tonight because of it. Now, can I ask you this question right now before we pray? I want you to think of that family member I want you to think of that co-worker. I want you to think of the schoolmate, young people, that as far as you know, they've never trusted Christ as their Savior. I want to tell you something. God wants to use you. And therefore he sent me to encourage you and in fact admonish you. Yes, you've been redeemed from your ruin, and I thank God for that. But now that we've been redeemed, we have a responsibility. That make a difference in the lives of others. Can I ask you this? I want you to listen to what I'm getting ready to ask. How many of you know At least one person within a 50-mile radius of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, as far as you know, they don't have a clear testimony of salvation. Do you know of just one person like that? Would you slip your hand up if you really do? You do? You do? All right. God sent me here to tell you. You have a responsibility. So as we stand to our feet all over the building, as we stand to our feet, can I admonish you to do this tonight? I want you to think of that name. Think of that name. Think of that co-worker you just thought of. Think of that family member you just thought of. Are you thinking about that name? Do you have that name? Do you have the roof? Do you have the bill? Do you have the little branded? Do you have that name in your heart and on your mind tonight? I wonder how many would bring that name to an altar. And having brought that name to an altar, ask the Lord Jesus, oh dear God, tonight. Please help me to remember my responsibility. The pastor's coming to close the service as he sees fit. I want to encourage you to do tonight what God would have you to do. Father, in Jesus' name. Thank you so very much for the opportunity to proclaim another portion of thy precious word. Now, Father, I've done all I can do tonight. The rest is up to you Lord, would you use the preaching of the Bible to challenge, to change us, that we may be more like Thee? Oh dear God, tonight may we leave this place having remembered our responsibility. I'll thank you for it. I praise you for it in Jesus' name, preacher. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed, and