The word but can be used as an adverb, a conjunction, or a preposition. Now as a conjunction, it coordinates two sentences and points out contrary or unexpected information. Aren't dictionaries and the sources wonderful? For examples, of every tree of the garden thou mayest free to eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat thereof. Here's another example. Behold the fire and the wood, but where's the lamb for a burnt offering? So we're going to look at uh conjunction, the word uh conjunction but and and three different verses of scripture And uh I believe we can perhaps learn something about the Lord that uh we need to know. You see, the great question when Jesus walked on this earth was was uh who is this guy? Who is he? Who is this? Remember when Zacchaeus climbed up in the tree. The reason he climbed up in the tree to see the crowd, to see Jesus, was to see who he was. Whenever he walked into Jerusalem, that was the thing on everybody's lips. Who is this fellow that is demanding all this attention and everything and comes riding in on a dunk? I mean, who is this? That's the big question in a lot of people's minds. Even today, you know, people wonder who Jesus is. You see there's so many things too so many lies uh thrown out there today you Many people don't know what to believe. And the reason is they don't have an anchor. They don't have a book that they can trust. And so Here we have an old King James Bible, and I believe it reveals, at least in these three different verses that I've chosen, some things about him that I think will be a blessing to you. So let's look at those three verses that use the conjunction but to give us three wonderful truths of who he is. We're going to go to the book of Luke. But I need to introduce this portion of Scripture before we actually read the verses. We're looking uh at three different scriptures. Let me see. Let me set the scene. It's it's the middle of the Jewish month of Nasan, or that's April in our time. in Jerusalem, during which time the entire population of Israel is celebrating the Passover and the freedom, you know, from e Egyptian bondage some 1500 years prior to that. And while a spirit of celebration may be going on inside the city, outside the city walls, in a place known as Golgotha The place of the skull. The scene is both angry and solemn. It's a place that's well acquainted with pain and suffering and death. Its ground is saturated with the blood of people who have uh lost their lives The ground is saturated with the sounds of the agonizing voices of people screaming in pain and the wailing of those loved ones that are there watching their loved ones die. And as we once again visit this place of suffering and death, there's three that occupy the crosses that stand before us. All have been tried, beaten, crucified, side by side. Jesus Christ And two thieves. We're in Luke chapter 23. Luke chapter 23. And we're going to start reading in verse 39. The Word of God says, and one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost thou fear God? Dost thou not fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. There's our conjunction. But this man Has done nothing amiss. But this man hath done nothing amiss. The first thing we look at is the is the absolute perfection. of this one. He could say the enemy of Jesus could find no fault with him That's what Pilate said. I find no fault in him over and over trying to get Jesus off because he he knew that he was innocent of all the charges that were made. By no fault of him. Here's the here's the the m the malefactors, the thieves on the cross, one on one side, one on the other, and and uh one is condemning him and and Chastening or uh speaking evil of him and the other and saying, Hey, uh we deserve what we got. But this man, this man, hath done nothing amiss. Here's a man that as a toddler he never never threw a fit. As a junior age, he never never threw a tantrum As a teenager, he he never had a rebellious thought, let alone a smart mouth uh smart mouthing his mom or dad. Not even tainted the truth one time. What made Jesus different anyhow? What was the difference between this man that hung on the Middle Cross and These other two were or for you and I for that matter, what was the difference between he and I? The difference between you and him. What what what was the difference? Well The difference was who his father was made a big difference. The Holy Spirit overshadowed Mary and She conceived and gave forth a son. His name was Emmanuel, God with us. The son was Jesus, Savior. He was different than in the uh any other man, but this man had done nothing amiss. He is he was just the the perfect man. What a wonderful, what a wonderful Savior we have. They sang about him just a few moments ago. He's the Father, He's a Savior, He's He's all the things that we need in our heart, He is. And that's an amazing amazing feat for anyone. But then you have to remember who He was Or he was perfect for one reason, and that is because he was the son of God. He was the son of God. But this man had done nothing amiss. The thieves were justly receiving their due rewards. Just as all men, just like each one of us. We've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. None righteous know not one. We know all the verses, don't we? The heart's deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? And we know our own heart. We don't have to look at somebody else's heart and say, well, they're desperately wicked. Then we We can just look around in the recesses of our own heart and see the little dark places that we don't want the Holy Spirit to visit and check us out about. But this man had done nothing amiss. He was a perfect man In Romans chapter 1 and verse 4, it says this, and declared to be, speaking of Jesus, he's declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. The proof of his sonship is the fact that he was resurrected from the dead. In Deuteronomy chapter 32 and verse 4 it says, This he is the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are a judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right. Is he, although others have shown that rebellious streak and being prone to to sin and penality But this man has done nothing amiss. We look at the second one, the second conjunction. To introduce this, we have to go back 1,500 years prior to the time that Jesus died on the cross. Fifteen hundred years before Christ was born. And we see a nation. We see them out in the desert place in Egypt. And they're making blocks out of uh mud and straw. And even got worse, they were just slaves to the Egyptian people God gave him a deliverer. His name was Moses. And we know the story, so I'm not going to go into it except to just say this. They crossed the Red Sea, and we know what happened there, and the Pharaoh and his armor tried to follow, and they were killed. They go to Mount Sinai, and on Mount Sinai, Moses talks with God. Or God talks with Moses, I guess would be a better way to put it. Gives him the Ten Commandments, but he also gave him a pattern of the tabernacle. And along with the pattern of the tabernacle, he gave him also the the instructions concerning the ministering of the tabernacle. And that portion of it had to do with the the priests. We're going to be those who would intercede. You see, a priest is one who is between God and man. And so there needed to be a go-between. And we know that uh now, as we look back on it, we know as Christians today, we we realize that this is the pattern that God is setting up to give us a picture of what is to take place in the future, in their future. When Jesus would be our high priest. So he God gives them the all the information that they need It's found back in in the book of Exodus, where it talks about the order of the high priest, in Exodus chapter 29. And Aaron and his sons, thou shalt bring into the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water. Or wash them with water, if you're from other places. They made fun of me because I said warsh. And they would say it's there's no R in that. There is where I come from. I just said wash. But if you want to say wash, go ahead. And thou shalt take the garments and and put it on uh Aaron, the coat and the robe of the ephod. And the aphod and the breastplate, and gird him with the curious girdle of the aphod. And thou shalt put the mitre upon his head and put the holy crown upon the mitre. Now uh then shalt thou take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him. And thou shalt bring his sons and put coats upon them, and thou shalt gird them with girdles. Aaron and his sons, and put the bonnets on them, and the and the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute And thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons. Perpetual statute. In other words, it's going to be a continuing priesthood. Priesthood. It was going to go between them and God. And God planned us all out And he says, Aaron, you're going to be the high priest. And he gave him the special garments for that. And he said, the purpose here is that you're going to be a picture of something in the future. And uh so Aaron is is the high priest a picture of something in the future. Wonder what that could be. Well, let's read the verse of scripture that has to do with with uh it's found over in the book of of uh uh Uh, Hebrews chapter seven, there it is. You see, there's only one problem with this priesthood. The Iranic priesthood, the problem was that they kept dying off So it was a continual replacing of the priest, constantly. Every time one would die, they'd have to get another one And uh you can see where the problems would would be. So here's what we read in Hebrews chapter 7. Uh And verses 23 and 24. It says, and they truly were many priests. And talking about the Iranic priesthood. Because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. See, there was the problem But this man, aha. But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come to God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them But this man, because he has a continuet, continueth, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. You see, that's a wonderful thing about the Lord Jesus Christ. There's one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. It's not a man that can forgive sin. Bernie Gopsha can forgive sin. Sin is a spiritual condition. And so it's not wiped away with the waters of baptism. It's not depleted by our good works. It's a spiritual thing. It has to be taken care of in a spiritual way. And so we have a high priest here. The Bible says he's we have a high priest that is not touched with the feelings of our that is touched It's a double negative in that verse, and I always get it confused. But I'll say this. We have a high priest who is who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. That's our high priest. But this man hath an unchangeable priesthood. There was two garments that the high priest wore The one garment was a was a garment that was uh was spectacular in its appearance It had uh it had uh uh an ephod that had the twelve stones upon it, each stone representing uh uh one of the tribes of Israel. It had the uh Urim and the thumb inside that was used to give information to the priest to uh to make decisions for the nation of Israel. This was a special garment for the special high priest. Aaron was a picture. Of the the one that would be to come, the one that had the unchangeable priesthood. The unchangeable priesthood. The Bible says he's after the order of Melchizedek You read about him back in the Old Testament there where Abraham paid tithe to Melchazedek. Melchazade has no beginning and no end. He's a picture of the Lord Jesus, who has no beginning and no end, because he has an unchangeable priesthood. Why do we need a why do we need a high priest like this? Because we need one who will constantly be right there at the right hand of God the Father, interceding. For you and I. That's why we need one with an unchangeable priesthood And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. Do you ever stop and think about all of the sacrifices that were made in those years? The 1500 years prior to Christ's birth and death Perhaps millions, who knows how many different um uh sacrifices were made. But the Bible says that there was a reason for it. You see The taking or the shedding of innocent blood as a substitute tells us the awful nature of sin. I wonder how many how many children who uh tended the flocks of Israel. The father would pick out one of the lambs and say, okay, there's going to be our sacrifice. And I could see the eyes of this little one tear up. As he realizes that's that's the the lamb I picked out that I fed, that I took care of when it hurt itself, and yet still uh it's going to be sacrificed If we want to really see how bad sin is, uh, we could look at the sacrifices that were made and and see that, you know, that little innocent lamb, he did nothing wrong, and yet they Cut his throat and spilled his blood. But didn't this get a better picture and just look at the one You know, the one that had done nothing amiss, and yet his blood was shed. Should that not bring a tear to our heart as we contemplate Our sin that was laid upon him that caused that awful uh scene there at Golgotha. But this man had done nothing amiss. He was perfect. But this man had an unchangeable priesthood. Because he ever lives, because he had uh had no death, he he never died. And then then we go down to uh the next thought. We're looking in the book of Hebrews now, and we're looking in the in chapter ten and verse twelve. Hebrews chapter ten Let me read the the verses ahead. I'm gonna start at verse ten. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering, oft times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man After he'd offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. But this man, after he'd offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God We see uh here the absolute payment. When I say the absolute payment, it was the one that was paid in full and it was once for all. Delivered. You see, he was the perfect sacrifice. There wasn't any sin found in me perfect And here's the amazing thing. Not only was he the sacrifice, but he was also the high priest. He performed both positions for Urani's salvation. And here we have the uh This one who is not just with an unchangeable priesthood, we also see that he is that one sacrifice. That's forever that sat down at the right hand of the Father. The Bible says, and whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the Lord to accomplish his vow. or a free will offering in in bees or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted. And there shall be no blemish. And then it says, in being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation for all them that obey him. The message tonight is just simply this. The Lord Jesus Christ Took the position of the sacrifice in order to satisfy the needs of the law. The Bible says the law was given as a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. We looked at the law of God. We saw the perfection of that law. And we saw ourselves as we tried to to reach up and attain that perfection. And every time we reached out to to to uh to attain the perfection that the law demands, we find ourselves coming up short. Oh, wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? The Apostle Paul said And he speaks for each one of us because each one of us, when we look down in the depths of our heart, we see how wretched we really are. How deceitful the this heart is that we have. There's probably uh well We'll get into that part right there. But the Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus being the perfect sacrifice. Was accepted of the Father. The Bible says he was the propitiation or the satisfactory sacrifice for our sins and not ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. We have a a Savior and a high priest that once he saves you, then he is seated there at the right side of the right hand of the Father, where he makes intercession for us. On a regular basis, every day we walk through this world. We dirty our feet. We need them cleaned. And he washes our feet. He stands there at the right hand of the Father, and he intercedes for us. He's our advocate. He's our our lawyer that uh uh Every time the devil comes up and makes a claim against us, he says, he's uh he's one of mine, and we're accepted in the beloved. He hath made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Uh the Christian religion, if you want to put it that way, Christianity has has it over all other religions. We have a living Savior and a living priest that intercedes for us at the throne of God. You're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. I want you to understand that Jesus died for you. And the reason that he can stand in your place is because though you've sinned, this man has done nothing amiss. And you tonight can have the cleansing that he offers through his blood by simply receiving him as your personal Savior. We can have these lights out. We'll show this chalk drawing.