Twenty three verse twenty-three says Buy the truth and sell it not, also wisdom and instruction and understanding. I'm going to really just focus on that first half of the verse this morning by the truth. And sell it not. Buy the truth and sell it not. And that that's what the title of this message is this morning. So let's pray, and then we'll we'll dig into this verse and see what the Lord has for us Heavenly Father, again we come before you this morning. Lord, again we want to say thank you for all you've done for us. Lord, you've been so good to us. You per you provide our needs, Lord, and you provide many, many of our wants And Lord, all that aside, you provided salvation for us. And Lord, we have no reason to be anything but grateful this morning. And so, Lord, we want to say thank you for being good to us. Lord, now as we take a moment to look at your word this morning, Lord, help us just to remember, Lord, that this is your word. Lord, that these are words that you would have for us to read. And you said uh the scripture was uh written for our learning. So whatever it is you would have us to learn this morning, I pray that we would learn it. Lord, I ask that you would now take over the service. Uh I'd ask that you would hide me behind you, Lord, the best way I know how I I just give myself over to you this morning. If there's anything that I'm about to say, Lord, that I've written down that uh goes against your word, Lord, I'd ask that you would keep me from saying it And likewise, Lord, if there's something that needs said that might not I I might not have written down, Lord, I ask that you would bring it to my mind. But Lord, again, the the best way I know how, I'm asking you to just take over the service uh this morning and you be the preacher, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Buy the truth and sell it not. Buy the truth and sell it not. That is the uh the phrase that we're going to focus on this morning. Since the beginning of time, uh there's been a war on truth. Um since since since since the Garden of Eden, there's been a war on truth. Um In Genesis 2. 17, God made a truthful statement. He said, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. That was a true statement. That was true. And the devil challenged that Tempting Eve and then also twisting the truth that God had given. He went on to put words in God's mouth, so to speak. And to give part of the truth that God said, but then also added some of his own uh spin on it, I guess you could say. And uh there was a war on truth. There was a war on God's word Um and we've seen that since the beginning of time. He said, Hath God said, and um went on to twist the truth. And throughout the Bible, right there at the beginning we see it, but throughout the whole Bible, we see a war on truth. From those that would go against God. We see kings that were against God truth. We see kings that were against God. We saw nations. We saw individuals. Last Wednesday night we did we looked at the book of Amos downstairs in youth group. We looked at the book of Amos. And uh very interesting in the book of Amos um it says that um the the prophets were silenced. Uh Jeroboam had silenced the prophets. There was a war on truth. He didn't want to hear the word from God. And so we see that throughout the Bible. Really, throughout history, we see a war on truth. Um and um I'm not telling you anything that you don't already know. Um the Emperor Nero, right after Uh Christ went up into heaven shortly thereafter. The early church there was persecuted, and uh Nero was uh at war with truth, at war with God. And um and then from then on uh we see um religions that were at war with truth. Uh the Catholic Church was very opposed uh to truth and uh actually did not even want uh people to have their own copy of the Bible. They would uh uh keep it chained so no one could get it And um but anyway, there was a war on truth. And um many many religions, many governments, uh many tyrants uh were against Truth. They're against God. And more more recent centuries we've seen this war on truth continue with communism, socialism, Marxism, and things like that. And now we get to today's world and today's culture, and um no surprise there's still this ongoing war on truth. There's still an ongoing war on truth. If there is anything that is factual, it's questioned It's questioned. Um you you can go um online and look at uh interviews. I was looking at uh this uh this preacher online. He has his own uh channel and I was watching him interview people just randomly, and the overwhelming majority of just plain every ordinary every everyday ordinary people um did not believe in an absolute truth Did not believe that there was such thing as uh definite truth. Uh we we live in what's called a postmodern society. If I say postmodern, uh uh by raise of hand, how many of you have heard that term before? Basically, what it means is this. A postmodernist will believe that there is no objective reality and that there is no scientific, historical, or objective truth. And that that's that's really pushed today across the board. Um the the the the education systems are teaching it Um colleges and universities are teaching that, pushing that for that. They'll claim things are just relative and we can't really be sure. of anything because we don't know what truth is or if it even exists. So there's a big push for that. There's a big push for that in the news networks You know, we we don't really know what's true. There is a news anchor uh just about a year ago on a on a prominent uh news network, he was saying that what happened might be true for somebody, but it wasn't his truth. His truth was different. So it's pushed with uh the news networks, it's pushed with uh education systems, it's pushed um with uh social media, big time in a very big way. And this is just a kind of, oh by the way, you better make sure you understand what your kids are doing on social media. It's not the Facebook that existed in 2010. It is not the same thing. It's a very, very scary, scary, dark world, and make sure you keep an eye on that. But there there is people that they call social media influencers. And by definition, they make their money by influencing your children. And there's this big push towards there is no absolutes, there is no truth. We can't be sure of anything. Truth is relative. And that's a society that we are are shifting towards. And depending on where where you're at, you might already be in that society. I think here in Western Maryland we're behind a little bit, but most of the cities across our nation are definitely in this postmodern philosophy. This philosophy of there is no truth and truth is relative. So then when someone like us comes and says we have the truth, it's automatically questioned. Well, how can you have the truth? What is this claim that you have to truth? What makes you so special? Well, first off, nothing makes me special, and nothing makes you special. But we do have the truth. We do. So anyway, we live in this culture that is totally opposed to the idea That there can be something that is absolutely true. I I was watching one and they were even arguing the point where we don't even know that like he said the sky is blue. He said we don't even know that that that the sky's blue. It might not actually be blue. That's just what I call it blue. It could be it could be orange. It could be pink. We don't know. And it sounds silly, but he he was dead serious Because that is unfair to say that I am absolutely sure and something is absolutely true. So then we get to this verse here: Proverbs 23:23 It says, buy the truth and sell it not. That's a very small phrase, but there's quite a few things that we can learn from that. There's quite a few facts, truths, if you will, that we can pick up from that phrase. And I'm going to list some off this morning, and I hope it'll be a help to you. It was a help to me as I was studying it. But the very first thing right off the bat, when I read this phrase that says, buy the truth and sell it not, the overwhelming obvious fact is there is truth. There is truth. Truth exists. God would not be saying, buy the truth and sell it not if there was no truth. Right? Truth exists. That means there are things that are true, and that means there are things that are not true. If things that are different are not the same. So if there's two things that claim to be true, but they're different from each other, then one has to be wrong. This is just deductive reasoning. There is truth. Truth exists. Things that are right are right. Things that exist exist. Things that aren't real aren't real. You know what truth is? Truth is reality. It's true that this pulpit's here, right? It's true that the lights are on. It's true that there's three buses out in the parking lot. It's true that a man's a man. Go on down the list. It's true. So anyway The first thing I learned from this, there is truth, and there is an objective truth. If my if if if I don't see three buses, but I see four buses outside Or if I see 30 white buses outside, would I be right or would I be wrong? I'd be wrong. There's three. Doesn't matter if I feel like there should be more Doesn't matter if I don't like that there's three. There's three. And a van, but that's not a bus. Right? Now is a bus a van? Is a van a bus? No, I'm just kidding. So truth is not subjective. It's objective. Things are what they are, and things aren't what they are. And we can ri come to this conclusion that truth exists a couple ways. One, we have the Bible, right? And the Bible is truth. It tells us what's true. We see what's true when we read the Bible. The apostles said. It was tell me if I'm wrong. I think it might have been Peter. He said we have a more sure word through prophecy. We have a more sure word. This is true. The Bible's true. But also, those that don't have the Bible can still come to the conclusion that truth exists by simple deductive reasoning. Have you ever heard someone make the statement that there are no absolutes? The very first question you ask is, are you absolutely sure? It works against the argument. And then they'll try to get around it and say, well, you know, I we just really can't we can't really be uh uh certain that that that that any statement's true So then is is that a true statement? Right? Or, well, I don't know if it's a true statement, but nobody can be certain of anything Are you certain of that? You see, and it works against itself. A few weeks ago, uh on Wednesday night we were taking some some kids home. Uh Bella, you would remember this. Um Chloe, I don't even remember what she asked for Your sister, Chloe, not that Chloe. Um and I said no, and she said, Well today's opposite day, so that means yes. Don't you don't want kids do that? Today's opposite day, so no means yes And so this this was th this this was my ingenious immediate reaction. It wasn't that ingenious, it's just this what happened So she said it's opposite day. I said, so it is opposite day. She said, yes. I said, that means it isn't What what? I said so if you're saying it is opposite day, that means it is not opposite day. Which means it can never be opposite day because when it is opposite day it isn't. And the wheels were just turning. It was kind of it w they were turning here too. I'm like, does that make sense? Was what I'm saying making sense But i isn't that funny how that kind of works. Parents take notes. Just remember that. If it's opposite day, that means it's not. Alright? Okay, cool. But that means it's the same it's the same structure For when someone says, Oh, there's no there's no such thing as truth, is that true? Because if you're if you're saying there is no such thing as truth You're trying to make a truth claim, saying that there is no truth, you're making an argument against yourself. Your argument doesn't hold against itself. And we see that. If that makes sense to you, raise your hand. Okay. That's the culture we're in. A few statistics. here that are they're kind of they're kind of shocking. I looked there's a survey done and if anyone's interested in it, I can give you the the link to it after the service But um I'll just read it real quick. There's two surveys conducted by this certain um this certain uh organization. Um one among adults and then one among teenagers. People were asked if they believed that there are moral absolutes That are unchanging or that moral truth is relative. A 3-1 margin, 64% to 22%, of adults said truth is always relative. 64% In teenagers, um it was even it was even more lopsided. It said eighty-three percent uh said moral truth depends on circumstances, and only six percent said truth is absolute. Six percent of teenagers in our country that were surveyed said truth is absolute. Now, amongst born-again Christians, Christians that would use our lingo, say born again, they're trusting Christ as their Savior, born-again. Um they were more likely than non-born again individuals to accept the moral absolutes. Thirty-two percent Of born-again believers said they do believe in moral absolutes. Thirty-two percent of Christians said they believe in absolute truth. Um among teenagers, nine percent of Christian teenagers said they believe in truth. 9% of born-again Christian teenagers say they believe that there is an absolute truth. Is that scary? I think it is. I think it is. I I I and that nine percent I don't think that's across you know that that's across the country. You might have one church where it's there's none, you might have you know what I'm saying. But as a nation, that's kind of a little frightening, I think, do we have born-again Christians that say, well, we really don't know. Because that's what that's saying. But if there's something that I can learn from this verse, the first thing is this truth is real. There is truth. There is truth. Truth does exist. The second thing is more of a question, really, if you're taking notes. What is truth? Let me say it this way. There's a lot of people that will search for truth. They believe that there maybe could be a truth out there, and they're looking for it. But they're looking in the wrong places, right? You'll have people that look for truth just off of societal norms Um you people people will say that, well, what's true for our society is true. If that's the case, there's a lot of false things that are true if you're following me. So for instance, society in in in in Germany in the thirties, in Nazi Germany, society pushed towards certain people being classified as non-human unless evolved. That's what the government pushed, that's what a lot of society pushed. Well is that true? No. Of course it's not true. Humans are humans, right? We're all created in God's image. That's what's true. That's what's true. A lot of people will look to society. A lot of people will say whatever they feel is true is true. Well, facts and feelings aren't the same thing. Truth and emotion is not the same thing. People will search for truth on the internet Which most of what's on the internet is not true. They'll search in the news. And of course, there's this that this term that's been around for a few years now, fake news. It's because you can't trust it. You don't know it's true. You don't know it's true. Societal norms, etc. , but all of these are broken sources. Now, if I were to ask you, what is your source of truth, what would you say? It's the Bible. That's where truth is. Go to um John seventeen seventeen real quick. John seventeen seventeen Many will say the source of truth is in reason or just the individual mind or maybe what society says. But let me get to John 17, 17 real quick, and see what Jesus says. I'll catch up, hang on. It says Oh, I'm in the wrong verse. Bummer. I wrote down the wrong reference. Oh no, I'm in the wrong book. I'm in Luke. That's why. Like that does not look right John seventeen, seventeen says, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Y'all knew that's what I was trying to say, right? I was just in the wrong book. Jesus is saying that thy word is truth. God's word is truth. That means this, what we're holding in our hands is truth. This is truth. This is right. This is factual. The truth exists, and I've got it right here, and you've got it in your lap. That is truth. So if someone would want to search for truth, And they were to approach you, where would you take them? You take them to the Bible. It's real easy for Christians to get caught up in um sources of truth that aren't true. We'll get on this niche um news network Say, oh, everything that comes, they're right. They're right in everything they say. So we depend on them for truth. All right. But that's a broken source of truth. We understand that. The only one source of truth is the Bible. So am I saying that there's nothing true that comes from the news? Well no, there's some truth, I hope. But if it goes against God's word, then obviously it's not truth. Obviously, it's not truth. And of course, this isn't the main part of my message, but John 14:6, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. God is truth. God is truth. So the first thing when I read Proverbs 23-23, I can see there is truth. Well, what is it? It's the Bible. That is our source of truth. That's how we that is the very foundation that we embase that we base our entire worldview on. Is God's word. The next thing I can learn from this verse, buy the truth and sell it not. The truth is attainable. We can have it. How many of you um have ever bought a car? Okay. Or a home. Keep your hand up. Car, home, um Food. Alright. You bought something, right? When you buy it, do you have it? You d is that your if you buy a house, is it your house? If you buy a car, is it your car? If you buy a ribeye steak cooked medium rare with sweet potato and brown sugar, is it yours? Yes, it's yours. You have it. If it it's something that you can have. It's something you can attain Truth isn't some mystical thing that we'll never know. Well, we can really, never, really know what truth is. No, you can't. God wouldn't say buy it if you can't. God wouldn't command you to do that if you couldn't get it, right? By the truth, that means it's something that is attainable. That means we can own it. We can have it. John 8:32, you shall know the truth. You can know it. You can have it. Can you know Christ? Yes. Is Christ the truth? Yes. Can you know your Bible? Can you memorize verses? Sure. Is the Bible truth? Yes. It's something you can have it's something attainable. Now, um there is a verse in uh in Corinthians, it says, if any man think he knoweth anything He knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. We might not know things as well as we one day will. But we can know That we have the truth. We can know that what we have in our hand is true and right. And we can be confident In our Bible. And when it says something, we can take that to the bank. Because it's true. Which leads me to my next point. The truth has value. When you buy something, that means it's worth something. If a brand new truck wasn't worth anything, I'd have a few of them. But because it cost money, I don't have one. It costs something. The truth costs something. It has value to it. Does that make sense? If you're purchasing something, that's because it has value. Can I just the the truth has value? It's not some cheap thing. The Bible is not some cheap book. You understand what I'm saying? The truth has value to it. What is it that makes the truth so valuable? Well, there's a few things. One, salvation. That's valuable. Eternity in heaven, you can't put a price tag on that. That has tremendous value. John 5. 39, search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. The scriptures tell us about Jesus. That's value. Galatians 3. 24, the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. That law has value because it brought us to Christ. There's value in that. Life. Man shall not live by bread alone, Matthew 4:4, and he was quoting Leviticus, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. The Bible has value because we can live the life that God wants us to live while we're still on this earth. Home in heaven, relationship with Christ, instructions on how to live, I think that's pretty valuable. The truth has tremendous value, but oftentimes we treat it like it's cheap. We treat it like it's cheap. The world will try to haggle the price of truth with you. Um I used to sell furniture and people would try to haggle prices. And sometimes they would win, sometimes they wouldn't. But the point is, this isn't furniture. It's not a used car This isn't cheap. This is God's word. This is valuable. This shows people how they can get to heaven. This gives instructions for how to live here. It's extremely valuable. The truth brings wisdom. We've been going through Proverbs in Sunday school for the past, I don't know, it's been a while. We've been going through it. It's valuable because of the wisdom that's coming out of it The truth brings freedom. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth will make you free. Freedom comes with truth. That's John 8. 32. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Truth is more a more valuable commodity than anything else you can have People will try to get you to trade your truth, and I don't want to get too far ahead of myself here, but they'll try to get you to sell your truth as if it's something cheap. It's not cheap. It's valuable. It costs something. Christ went through a lot to get us this, right? Christ went through a lot to give us salvation. That was a lot of pain and agony on the cross. Also for us to have our own, to get to where we have our own copy of the Bible in our hands You realize the price tag that's on that? The amount of people that died, so that we can have this It's not cheap. It's valuable. And then this is just a a something that this is a pet peeve of mine, but the way we treat our Bibles It it it it upsets me. I'll see Bible sitting in in in in the dash of a car and it's all the the heat's got it all the leather all bent up and it's the the pages are brittle and breaking covered in in dust, it's sitting behind uh the the the couch at home and it's just all the couch has it all messed up or you you know what I'm talking about. We don't treat it as if it's valuable That was truth. Truth costs something. Alright. The truth, next point, can be invested in. The truth can be invested in. If you buy something, you're investing in that product, correct? That's really good today. If you buy something, you're investing in that product. If you buy a mutual fund or a stop or you put money into a CD. You're buying into something to get a return. You're investing in it. If you invest in a car It depreciates over time, but you're putting money into that, you're investing in that for it to get you where you need to go and do the job you want it to do When you buy something, you're investing in it, whether short-term or long term, you're still investing in that thing you buy. When you buy the truth, you're investing in it. It's something you can invest in. So, have you bought into truth? If you've trusted Christ as your Savior, then you have. You've bought in. You've bought into this true statement that Christ died for your sins and you've accepted that. You've bought into this. You've bought into the truth. Does that make sense? But are you still investing in it? Are you investing your time into the truth? Are you investing your time into God's Word? Your resources, your efforts. Buy into it. Buy the truth. It's something valuable. Buy into that. Let me move along here. The truth can be invested in. Now I'm going to get to the second part of that by the truth. We've established the fact that truth is real. Truth is true. Truth is reality. Truth exists. Right? There is such thing as truth. We've established that fact. We've seen that there is value in truth There's value in God's word. God's word is the source of truth. We understand that it's valuable. You can't put a price tag on it By the truth, if you've accepted Christ, you've bought into the idea that there is truth. Keep investing in that. Keep building on the truth But then the second part of that phrase says, by the truth, comma, and sell it not. This tells me that many have sold the truth. If you have something and then you sell it, you no longer have it, correct? Now to be clear, trust Christ as your Savior, you can't get rid of that. Right? But you can sell out on truth. And and it happens pretty often It happens pretty often. And and it's frightening, especially when you see that statistic, only nine percent of teenagers in America believe that there's even truth. They've sold out before they've even bought in They've sold out before they've even bought in. Many have had the truth and sold it. Giving up truth in exchange for something cheap. Trading truth for philosophy or relativity. Trading truth for a lifestyle. Trading truth for something cheap, some cheap junk. Don't sell it. Give it the see you see, w when you give something up, when you sell something, you put something on Craigslist, you sell something to someone else or you whatever You sell a service, you sell a product, you're putting a price tag on it when you sell it. When you're selling out on God, when you sell out on the truth, and you sell out, you walk away from truth. You're putting a price tag on it. You're saying that is not worth the pleasure I want to have. That is not worth the business I want to have, the promotion I want to have, etc. Why in the world would we sell something so valuable for something so cheap? But Christians across America are selling out left and right. They have the truth They were raised in church, went to services on Sunday, memorized John 3. 16, went to Sunday school, and they've sold out. That it's not valuable anymore. This relationship's more valuable. This money's more valuable. Fill in the blank. Many have sold out. Don't give up your Bible. Don't give up the biblical principles that you've learned. To buy into the world's philosophy. Don't give up your biblical worldview for the postmodern worldview. Don't give up your Bible for the secular education and philosophy that this world gives Next thing. Buy the truth, sell it not. That means it's something we better hold on to. We've got to actively hold on to it. If something's precious to you, you take care of it. Right? Something's valuable, you put it in a safe. If it's real valuable, you lock it up so no one can get it. There's things in your house you lock your house when you leave or whatever to be so people can't take what you have. It's valuable to you. You want to hold on to it There's things there's um well your marriage, it's valuable to you, so you work hard to hold on to that. Right? So, you work to hold on to things that are precious to you. If God's word is precious to you and it's valuable to you, if the truth That you've bought into is valuable to you, you'll hold on to it. We need to hold on to it. People are trying to take the truth away. I mentioned this at the beginning. Since the beginning of time, the truth has been under attack. There's been a war on it. Throughout the Bible, we see the war on truth. Throughout all of history, we have seen a war on truth where people are attacking it and trying to take it. Governments, societies, yes, even Christians, will try to get us to get rid of the truth. People will try to discredit it, only to fail, of course. Hold the truth. Guard it. Protect it. Memorize it. Use it. Know it. Hold the truth. Let me move along here. I still have a few more things I want to get to. Don't sell the truth. Don't sell the truth. Christians across our nation are selling out left and right. Means to abandon it. To sell it means to sell out. To sell it means to neglect it. Don't neglect the truth. Don't sell out on the truth. Don't compromise the truth. Don't forfeit something valuable for something worthless. Don't make that unfair exchange that's unfair in your it's against you. Don't neglect the truth. Don't sell it means don't change it. Go to Proverbs chapter four real quick. Verse thirteen Take fast hold of instruction. Don't let it go Don't let go of this truth that you have. Don't let go. Don't sell it means don't be easily persuaded from the truth. Watch out for salesmen that will try to sell you An alternative to truth. Don't sell it. Don't sell the truth for fame, political reasons, peer pressure, influence, money. I've seen this, you've seen this. Someone, when they're young, maybe as a little booster, they'll come in here and they'll they'll buy into truth. They'll trust Christ as their savior. I believe this. They'll buy into it. Someone if someone trusts Christ as their savior, are they saved? Yeah, they're saved. Right? And then they go off, they graduate high school and sell out As if all this truth that they've invested in and that others have invested in for them is worthless One semester in college, they're sold out. One semester at a university, an entry-level philosophy class, and they're sold out. Don't sell out. Don't sell out. So, alright, switching gears. We've established that the truth is real, it exists. We can know that for sure. We get our source of truth from the Bible. The truth is something that we've got to hold on to. It can be sold. Don't do that. If you're with me, say amen, raise your hand, something. Yeah, you're with me. Okay, cool. So I think for the most part, I understand who I'm talking to right now. We're in agreement. There is truth. It's real. Alright, we get that. But most of the world doesn't. According to that survey, the overwhelming majority of the United States does not believe that there is an absolute truth. So, what do we who believe in truth do about it? Well let me just tell you, we give him the truth. We give him the truth. See, how do we as Christians respond to someone that doesn't believe in truth or believes truth is relative? We must understand That most of the world still doesn't believe in truth, but we have got to understand that the fact that they don't believe in truth is wrong. Don't get caught, don't fall into this trap of trying to convince someone of truth without truth. Has someone ever told you when you're when you're trying to share the gospel with them and you'll go through the Romans road with them or something, and you'll you know Romans 3. 23, we've all sinned, 623, 58, 10, 13, you go through the Romans Road And then they'll say, yeah, but come on. Show me without the Bible Has anyone ever said that to you before? Oh all right, now besides the Bible, sh show me, show me. Give me truth without it doesn't make sense. Don't get caught up in the trap of trying to convince somebody of the truth with disregarding the truth. It doesn't work in court. Well, we know that these witnesses witnessed the murder, but besides them, come on. You can't really prove it. I mean take them out. You can't prove it. That's what's happening when people say, try well, come on. You just keep going to the Bible. Show me truth without the Bible. That is truth Don't get caught up in that trap. Now, when someone when you share the gospel with someone, they say, Well, that's good for you, but I just don't believe in heaven and hell. Don't get caught up in that trap of trying to win them to Christ without talking about heaven and hell. Without using the Bible. Oh well that's great, but I I don't believe that book. So that's true for you, but it's not true for me. That doesn't work. It doesn't work. We have got to tell them the truth, regardless of if they believe the truth How they feel about the truth. Remember I could say, well I feel like there should be 40 buses out there. By the way, wouldn't that be great if there was 40 buses out there? That'd be great. I feel like there should, but it doesn't change the fact that there's not. Well, I really just feel like a loving God wouldn't even create a place called hell. Alright, that's your feelings, not facts. Well, I just feel like if you just try to be a good person and it doesn't really matter what religion you are, I just feel like that's your feelings. That's not facts. Truth is truth. Truth is true regardless of whether or not we think it is. Now to illustrate this, we're going to do a little, I don't know if you're going to call it a skit or an illustration. But um, come on up here. Actually, just come right up here This is a glass of water. It's true. This is true. This really is a glass of water. It's true. I'm gonna drink some. No, it's fine. Yeah, it's fine. Yeah. It's fine. Now I know what you're thinking. I haven't put the food coloring in yet. Oh. It's just food coloring. Yeah, it's just street color. But it says antifreeze. It says antifreeze? I know it says it's antifrize. I know it's a U that's antifreeze, but in another language that might say food coloring. That's English. But but it says it says cool. That's cool. It's cool. See? It says cool. Yeah. Maybe a little bit too cool. My body temperature would drop. Yeah. So h what is he doing? He is trying to give me the truth even though I want to ignore it. It's just food coloring. No, it's not. Well I I don't no, it's not. Okay, you're good. Good job. Good job. You want to drink that? Well I just don't feel like to me that's just I know you think it's antifreeze. It might be antifreeze to you. It might be. But to me it's just food coloring. It sounds comical, I think. It sounds funny. Well, I know that you say that There's a hell, okay, but I just don't feel to you, okay. The Bible's true to you, but it's not true to me. It either is or it isn't. And it is. Regardless of how how good or bad the truth is, it's the truth. Regardless of how I feel about the truth, it's the truth. And our job is to go and tell the truth. We're sinners. Christ died for our sins. Trust him. You have a home in heaven. You believe not? Condemned already. That's the truth. And then you'll go and tell the truth, and someone will say, well, I just don't I just don't know if I believe that. That's irrelevant. Whether you believe it or not. And if we're not careful, we'll get sucked into this trap of trying to convince somebody of the truth. By disregarding truth. And you can't. If Edmund would have looked at me and said, okay, I understand how you feel, it's okay. Would I have died? Yeah. That's true. But he wasn't about to coddle to my feelings So I could feel better about myself. He was he wouldn't even let me start to pour it in. He's like, no, no, no. Even before I brought it out, he was like, don't drink anything, right? That's because he knew that he didn't want me to die. Right? Okay. He knew that he didn't want me to die. Yeah, the truth's coming out. And do you want people to die and go to hell? No No. We have got to give them the truth. Yeah, but they j they might not believe it. So Yeah, but they just don't feel the way I feel. So it's the truth It's the truth. Our job is to go give the truth. So, is there truth? Yes. Buy the truth and sell it not. Don't answer this one, but are you selling out on truth? Are you counting down the days till you can sell out on truth? Are you itching till you can get home and sell out on truth? Are you selling out on truth Monday through Saturday only to make a small down payment on Sunday morning? Buy the truth. Don't sell it. Don't sell it. I think in the Old Testament of um Jacob and Esau, right? He sold something so valuable for a bowl of soup. Got caught up in the moment. Don't get caught up in the moment and sell something so valuable. For junk. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a moment. A few questions. First question is this. One. Are you saved? Have you made the initial down payment on truth? Have you trusted Christ as your Savior? You say, Pastor Matt, I know for sure I'm saved. I uh if something happened to me, I know for sure that I would I I would go to heaven. I know I'm saved. I've bought into truth. If that's you, would you raise your hand? I know for sure I'm saved Amen. How many of you would say this? You know what? I'm not sure. I don't know. But I sure would like to know the truth. Would you raise your hand? All right. My next question is this. Are you selling out? Have you already mentally checked out in something so valuable you're willing to just give it up for something cheap If you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, God is working in on my heart about some things. It might not even be specifically that, but God's dealing with me this morning. Would you raise your hand? By the way, my hand's up. Men, you put them down. If you'll stand to your feet in just a minute, she's going to start playing the piano. When she starts playing, that means the invitation's open. But let me just encourage you Buy in, don't sell out. Hold on to the truth And when you encounter somebody that says they do not believe in truth, give it to them anyway. Because it's the truth. Invitations open.