Chapter 23. Our teams had a great trip to uh New Jersey this past week. We praise the Lord for that. A lot of good decisions made. They had a wonderful time. And uh they got there and back safely and one of the most wonderful things about it is the bus didn't break down. Praise the Lord for that. Uh fellow found himself in divorce court and at the judge said the judge said, um I didn't put my mic on the judge didn't say that uh the judge the end of the um uh session the judge said I I'm going to give your wife seven hundred and seventy five dollars a week And the fellow said, Well that sounds fair. I'll try and pitch a couple bucks in too. Proverbs chapter The Bible says, buy the truth and sell it not. Also wisdom and instruction and understanding, the Father of the righteous By the truth and sell it not, also wisdom and instruction and understanding. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our study in your word. I yield myself to you anew, Lord, my will. And I present my body anew. God, with all my heart, I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me. And you'd speak through Speak to each of our hearts that we would grow in our faith and our understanding, our confidence in your will for our lives would be greater, and our witness would be stronger. stronger. And so uh bless now. Bless the folks visiting with us. Pray that um you would meet with all. Amen Amen. By the truth, God says. I use that praise as the title for my message. There is an important Principle taught throughout scripture. I want to call it a life uh life principle. Trying to work the sound out here. Alright, it sounds a little little strong up here guys on this end. A principle, a life principle thought taught throughout scripture, and it's especially seen in the book of Proverbs And it is this. It's called the principle of replacement. And this is the idea. And again, it's taught throughout Scripture, but we see it especially in Proverbs. It's this idea. There are things that we must, if we're going to succeed in life, if we're going to be the people God intends for us to be, if our life is going to be pleasing to the Lord There are some things that we have to put out of our lives. There are some things that we have to avoid to keep away. Sometimes I have a revival meeting and God will deal with somebody's hearts and somebody's heart and they realize there's some things in their lives that ought not to be there. And it happens to all of us. And so they make the decision, I'm going to remove these things from my life. I'm going to put them out of my life. They're not going to be a part of my life anymore. And whatever it may be, you can just fill on the blame. Sometimes young people go to a conference or camp. God deals with their heart. And we associate certain activities with young people sometimes, and God deals with their heart and says, I'm going to put this out of my life. This has no place. I cannot have this in my life and please the Lord. I'm going to remove it from my life. Now the principal replacement says this. When you get those negative, those spiritually unhealthy or unholy things, you put them out of your life. You must replace them With spiritually healthy things. You must replace them. When you put away the bad, you must replace it with good. Or guess what's going to happen? The bad will come flooding back in. It's called the principle of replacement. Now, to some degree, you can see this in the in salvation. Particularly what the Lord did for us for salvation. Now when I got saved, I was so ignorant of the things of God in the Bible I'd been to Sunday school as a kid. We were in a fairly liberal denomination as a child, been out of it for years. And so when I got saved, I was I was pretty green as far as the things of the Bible were concerned I began growing and studying, going to church and learning more about the Christian life and what all was involved. But one thing I often wondered, and it didn't bother me, I just wondered. Why did Jesus have to come down to be born of a babe? Why did he have to live those 33 plus years? Why couldn't he have just shown up, full-grown man, paid the price first? And I understood him needing to become man. But just pay the price for our sins, be buried, and rise again. In my mind, those first 33 and a half years were just of no significance, really. But as I study my scripture, I learned something. Those 33 and a half years that Jesus spent on earth as man are very significant. In fact, I would suggest we could not have salvation. If we did not have that 33 plus years that the Lord Jesus Christ lived on earth, and this is what I mean by that. When Jesus died on the cross He was dying to take away our sins, to remove the unholy from our life, to remove the negative, get the bad out. He paid the price, took God's judgment on us, so we could be forgiven. Now, just having our sins removed is not enough to get us to heaven. You say, wait a minute. If all I have are my sins, the negative removed, then I am neutral. I need to have some positive put to my account. Not only do the sins have to be removed, there has to be some merit, so to speak, put to my account. And that is where. The first, that's where the life of the Lord Jesus Christ comes in. Let me ask you a question. How many commandments of God did Jesus break while he was here on earth None. The Bible says he was without sin. Um So for 33 and a half years, Jesus did only that which pleased the Father. For 33 and a half years, he kept the law of God perfectly. Now, question: Was he doing that for himself? No. He came to be our substitute. So when Jesus died on the cross, he took away my sins. Living He earned, so to speak, and I'm putting this, I'm oversimplifying this, no doubt, but living, he earned merit to go to my account, and dying, he took away the negative from my account. So you had to have both. The bad was removed, the positive replaced. And to give you scripture for that, 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says that Jesus replaced Jesus took our sin upon himself and replaced his righteousness, put his righteousness in our place. So he took our sin record away, took his righteousness, and put it in its place on our account. Isn't that good? And so And we we like to talk about this, and it's a wonderful thing. The fact is, how many folks here, let me ask you this, how many folks here, you're saved, you know you're saved, you trust in Christ, uh, as the Bible teaches? Say amen. Amen. Good. Now, if that's true, I know several things about you. For those of us who have trusted Christ, genuinely been born again, I know this: your sins are all forgiven. They're taken from your account. They're not on your account. I tell you, that's enough to make a Presbyterian shout right there. But the righteousness of Jesus Christ, as far as God is concerned, has been put on your account. So that in heaven, from God's perspective, how many people would agree with me on this? God sees things differently than we do. Praise the Lord for that. From God's perspective, when he sees someone who has trusted Christ as Savior, you know what he sees? He sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ. He sees someone that, as far as the record is concerned, has lived as righteous as the Lord Jesus Christ. I I can hear some what you some of you ladies are saying right now. You don't know my husband. Now In practical living, we don't live up to that. Can I get a witness? We don't live up to that. But from God's perspective, from the spiritual legal standpoint, so to speak That's where we're at. So the negative is removed, the positive is put in its place. It's called the principle of replacement. As I said, it's taught all through Scripture, and it's seen very clearly in the book of Proverbs. Now, in Proverbs chapter 23, as throughout the book, we see God say, you have to put this out of your life. Stay away from this. Avoid this. Put away that. We're not going to break down the whole chapter, but just to summarize it, there are two, there's various others, but primarily there are two Sins in Proverbs chapter 23 that he says we have to put out of our lives. Put and keep out. Don't let them in. That's the negative, removing it. They are adultery and drunkenness. Now that's the subject of primarily of chapter 23. There's some other things thrown in there, but that's the major part. Putting away warning of adultery and junkenness. Now, with the principle of replacement in mind, we find that just avoiding ungodly women and whiskey is not enough. I put the adulteress activities out of my life. I put her keep the strong drink out of my life, but I need to have something in its place. There has to be something positive there. There must be something there to protect me from those things coming in my life. Principle of replacement. Bad out, good in. So what is the good that I have to put in my heart and life to protect me from, in this case, women and whiskey. Bad women and whiskey. It is, according to verse 23, the truth of God must take root in my life. Here's the point. A person can live their entire life, never commit one act of fornication, yet die and go to hell. If they don't have the gospel. A person can live their entire life and never put one drop of whiskey, wine, beer, whatever liquor you want to come up with, and never put one drop to their lip and yet still die and go to hell. It's not enough to simply keep the bad out. I've got to get the truth of God in. And so, now, question, should people drink whiskey? Yes or no? No. Boy, that was awfully weak. I'd feel better if we had a little stronger response than that Should a person drink whiskey, yes or no? You made me feel a little better. I was looking to see if our deacon said no there, but Uh no. Persons shouldn't commit fornication or drink whiskey and that type of thing. But if he never trusts Christ, if he never gets the truth of the gospel in his life Simply not doing those things is not going to get him to heaven. Amen? You follow what I'm saying? And so God says, by the truth, you need to have the truth in your life. The world says, and by when we talk about the world, we're talking about the values the principles that the unsaved society lives by, and the individuals that make up society. The world says pleasure and possessions are the most valuable things. The world's version of Proverbs 23-23 would be by pleasure and with it possessions and prosperity Would you agree with me? For the most part, the world lives for pleasure. Right or wrong? That's what they want. They want to be happy. They want to have pleasure. Would you agree with me? For the most part, the world lives for possessions. Now you might find some exceptions, but for the most part, everybody they want to get as much as they can. They want to possess the things they want. That's the world's view. By possessions, by pleasure I hate to say it, but it's gotten to the point in our day and age where there's a lot of churches have come to the same conclusion. And the churches say the most important thing in our service, the most important ministry of our church, is that people have a good time. That'd be a great experience. And our everything is a celebration. Now listen, we ought to celebrate our salvation. Amen But sometimes we don't need celebration, some mourning and repentance. Uh it's not the most important thing is or whether I have a great time at church or not. The most important thing is that I get right with God or not. Is my life pleasing to the Lord? Am I in God's will? Am I fulfilling God's perfect will for my life? And of course there's we're not saying there's no place for enjoyment and all that. Next week we have a picnic, you know, we'll have a good time. But what we're saying is, God says truth, integrity, my testimony, honesty. That is what is most valuable. That is what I need to buy. That is what I need to invest in. Put the bad out. Get the truth in. The truth of God's word. Now, I want to give you a few thoughts here, just two, real quick. First thing I want us to consider is the product that God is urging us to purchase. The product that God is urging us to purchase. Look with me, if you would, verse 23. Buy the what? Truth. And sell it not. By the truth. Now, like Pilate asked, I asked this morning, and Pilate asked the same question: what is truth? What do we mean by truth? Well, just to define the word, the word truth means that which conforms to fact and reality. Truth is something that conforms to that which is fact, that which is reality. I found another definition: that which is certain, that which is confirmed and established, the truth. God says, buy the truth and don't ever sell it. Buy that which is confirmed, by that which is certain, by that which conforms to facts and reality. And don't ever give it up. The truth. The truth. The truth is the only foundation for success in life. Nobody can ever build a successful life that is not based on truth. Truth is the only foundation for success in any area of life. Without truth, there is no stability. Now that's true in every area of life. Now think about the statement. Without truth, there is no stability. That's true in politics. If a man builds his reputation his political reputation, political career on lies Sooner or later, that house is going to collapse. It's what they call a house of cards. You cannot, uh we need, if you're going to have stability in politics, there must be truth. I believe one of the reasons our government is in such disarray right now, such uh discord, is because it is so lacking in truth. Huh? Now I I'm not I'm saying both parties, I'm saying the whole shebang. Somebody sent me a thing, it's had a calendar, November fourth. Time to clean house. Um but truth and policy. Truth uh in our financial dealings Listen, if I'm not honest with my if I'm not honest in the handling of my money, sooner or later my financial house is going to collapse. I've got to deal with the realities of what I have in the bank and what I don't. I've got to deal with if I get out there and act and live like I'm a millionaire, when in reality I'm not, what's going to happen? My world's going to collapse. My financial world's going to collapse. So truth is the basis of success in politics, in finances, in marriage. Let me just throw this out, and this is not the subject. Listen, in marriage, you have got to be honest with your spouse. You've got to be open and honest with your spouse, or that thing is not going to work. Truth. No stability in finances, in politics, in marriage, in business, and in our spiritual lives. We have got to deal with the realities of spiritual truth. That which is confirmed I tell you, I do a lot of funerals. Some I enjoy, some I don't. But the fact of the matter is, when it comes time to die, Man's theories and ideas and unproven, untruthful hopes Does a person no good. When it comes time to die, I need to know that I'm prepared to meet my God. And that is based on the truth of God's word. The only way. Hey, when it comes to the matter of salvation, I hope you're giving me your ear. When it comes to the matter of salvation, just thinking so or hoping so or going upon what somebody told you If that's all you have in the matter of your salvation, I'm telling you, the most important thing in salvation is the truth. That which is confirmed, that which conforms to reality and uh and uh truth We must never be afraid of the truth. Never be afraid of the truth. Now, the truth hurts sometimes, right? But don't avoid the truth Don't say, well I I don't like reading the Bible, it makes me feel bad. Listen, uh I read the Bible sometimes don't make me feel so hot either. But you know what I found out? I go to the doctor sometimes. I feel great when I go, when I leave. I don't feel so good. Stick things in you and pull stuff out of you. Don't be afraid of the truth. You say, well, you know, I don't I don't want to I don't want to stop and evaluate my relationship with God. I don't want to stop and critique that whether I'm doing is in line with the word of God or not, because if I do that, it might make me unhappy. It might mess my plans up. You know what your problem is? You're afraid of the truth. You're afraid that the truth is going to mess you up. And so you avoid it. I'm not going to follow biblical principles. I'm not going to obey. I'm not even going to read it. I'm afraid of the truth. We must never be afraid of the truth. We must never seek to avoid the truth. Rather, we should face it head on. This is the truth. This is what conforms to facts and reality. This is what established. What God has said is established. And I'm going to pursue it head-on. I'm going to find out what God says is truth, and I'm going to line myself up with it. The product God is urging us to purchase here is the truth. We must pursue the truth. We must invest in the truth. Who is it? Abraham Lincoln said honesty is the best policy? That sounds pretty good. Let's take it another step farther. Let's say honesty is the only policy. It's not just the best. It's the only policy. Truth. God says by the truth. Now, how does this apply? What do we mean here? Well, I think he's telling us to invest in doctrinal truth. truth. Boy, there's a word scares a lot of Christians. Doctrine. Oh, our church doesn't emphasize doctrine too much anymore. Then you're getting away from the truth. The greatest investment we can make as a church is investing in what God's Word teaches. And that is all doctrine is. The teaching of God's Word. Now we should never be afraid of that, we should never avoid that, we should never neglect that. Rather, we should invest ourselves as a church and invest ourselves in as individuals. In the doctrines, into the teachings of God's word. God's word is the standard of truth. Listen to Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 20. To the law and to the testimony. If they speak not according to this word, It is because there is no light or truth in them. In other words, if something states or teaches If someone states or teaches something contrary to what the Word of God teaches, there is no truth in that false statement. You follow what I'm saying? Jesus put it this way in John 17, 17. He says, Lord, speaking to God, he says, confirm them by thy word. Thy word is truth. So we need to invest in doctrinal truth by the truth, the doctrines this book teaches. God's word is the only infallible truth on spiritual realities. He said, well, I had a dream one time. I've had lots of dreams. Some of them are weird. But my dream, somebody says, well I had this dream and God showed me this. Wait a minute. You better not take dreams as the foundation of truth. You're going to be messed up. Huh? You should hear some of the dreams that my wife has. I mean no creepy L. I think it's uh it's funny, it just happened since she married me. They start having these God's word is the only infallible truth. You want to know what spirit is God is? You want to know what God expects from us as His creation? Do you know what our Creator says is right and wrong, what should be done and not done? Don't listen to some man's theories and ideas. Go to the Word of God. It is the only standard of truth in spiritual realities. And we neglect it to our peril. God's word is the only infallible truth on morality. Listen, I'm sick and tired of Hollywood telling us what is moral and what is immoral. I'm sick and tired of politicians, ungodly uh media people trying to tell us what is right and wrong. We are living in a day when what Isaiah said has come absolutely true. They are saying that which is good is evil, and that which is evil is good. Light is dark, dark is light And God's word is the only standard of morality that is truth. Listen, what God says is right is right. What God says is wrong is wrong. Whether it be sodomy, whether it be abortion, whether it be liquor, whether it be drugs, whether it be fornication God is the authority on morality. Not man, not government, not entertainment, not media. God And he's the one we answer to. So God's word is the only infallible truth on spiritual realities, only infallible truth on morality. If everything we do and everything we believe, if it's not based on the doctrines or the teaching of God's Word, it is all in vain It is all in vain. So we need to, God urges us to purchase the truth. The truth, doctrinal truth. And then I put it this way, we need to, God urges us to invest in direct truth. Now what do I mean by that? I mean this. Truth that is applied to my life. Let me explain it this way. Knowing the truth without applying the truth to my life. Simply brings a greater accountability before God. If God has given me the opportunity To be exposed to the true teachings of his word, what is right and wrong, what his will is for my life, what he expects from us, why I'm here And I get that doctrinal truth, but I don't apply it to my life if it doesn't have a direct impact on my life. The only thing it does for me, it holds me to a higher level of accountability when I eventually stand before God. It must be applied to my life. I must buy the truth. I must get the truth. Apply it to my life. Not just have it in my head. Not everyone that knows the gospel has applied the gospel. How tragic How tragic for a person to die and go to hell, knowing The gospel of Jesus Christ, but never receiving it and applying it to their own selves There are people every day die and go to hell that believe John 3. 16 is true. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son, and whosoever believeth him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Oh, yeah, I believe that. Have you believed on him? No, but I believe that verse is true. Have you trusted him as your own personal savior? No, but I believe he's the savior. A person dies and goes to hell. How sad that would be. Now, I I don't think you'll misunderstand what I'm saying. And I'm not trying to be critical. I'm trying to defend the truth. And it's probably true in other communities. I'm confident it is. I'm grateful for other churches. I'm grateful for other preachers. Anybody that declares the Word of God, I'm grateful for it. But I tell you where I'm afraid a lot of places fall short. And it's this. They will talk about heaven and hell. They will teach about Jesus being the Savior. They will talk in general terms about being saved. But they will never bring it to a head, if you understand what I mean. They will never bring it to a point where it is, hey, listen. It's not enough just to have these doctrinal truths out there. You need to receive them for yourself. You need to not just believe in Jesus as Savior of the world. You need to get to the point where you receive Him as your own personal Savior. And confront people with the gospel and challenge people with the gospel and persuade people to come and accept them as your personal savior, not just throwing it out there in general terms. You follow what I'm saying? And you know what I find as I'm out knocking on doors? I'm finding people that agree with everything I'm saying when I go through the gospel, but when it comes down and says, Do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? Oh, I I don't know that. Uh I I d I don't know. I I don't know. It's never been applied. And how sad would it be that a person would grow up in a church and hear the gospel and hear it spoke of and read the Bible, but never receive that truth as their own personal Savior and die and go to hell. Eternity in hell. So by the truth, doctrinal truth, direct truth. And let's apply it to Christians. How tragic it would be for a genuine Christian to know God's teachings on the Christian life and yet just disregard it. God's teachings on what he expects from his children, those who have been saved, and just disregarded. Jesus said in John in Luke chapter 6 and verse 46, Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? So we must invest in doctrinal truth and direct truth, and thirdly, we must invest in what I'm calling displayed truth. What I mean by that, if you are in truth a Christian, then be a Christian. If you love the Lord, then obey his word. Display the fact. If that's what you are, if you've trusted Christ, if you've been born again, if you're a child of God, if that's what you are, then be that. And obey God and do what he says as his child. If you love the Lord as we sing so much that we do, if that's true, then obey him. The Bible says when a person trusts Christ as Savior, the very first thing they ought to do is to be baptized. Now, if I'm genuinely trusting Christ as Savior, then display the truth. Be baptized. The Bible says if a person is saved, genuinely been born again, they ought to be faithful to church. Listen, if you're a Christian, you're saved, you're a child of God, then do what God says: be faithful to church. The Bible says if a person is saved, they're a Christian, they've been born again, they ought to give uh to God and give as He instructs us to give. If that's true, then give. We're to be a witness. If that's true, then let's be a witness. By the truth. In other words, be real. Display what you are One of the reasons the Lord was so hard on the Pharisees, he called them in one place, he said they were like tares among wheat. They look like weed, but in reality, in truth, they were a weed. And basically, if I'm interpreting this correctly, to some degree, he was saying, listen. If you're a weed, then be a weed. If you're weak, then be wheat. But don't act and look like something you're not. I used to when I was youth pastor, I used to uh preach to the kids. And you think I'm mean now, you should have heard me when I preached to the kids. And I said, listen, whatever you're going to be, be it on purpose. Don't just become something that other people make you. Listen, if you're going to be a drug addict, then just decide I'm going to be a drug addict and be it on purpose. Don't let someone else suck you into being something you don't intend to be. If you're going to be a Christian, then decide. I'm going to be a Christian. If you're going to be somebody that commands respect and a person of integrity, well then be that I think God's saying, buy the truth. You just be for real. You love the world, you want the temporary pleasures of a sinful life? Well then choose it and do it. Don't put on some kind of show. So he says, buy the truth, display it, whatever you are, be for real. We need doctrinal truth, we need direct truth, and we need displaced truth, displayed truth. So that is the product, truth. Now, the next question comes to my mind is: how do I procure this truth? How do I get it? The product, the procurement. How do I get the truth? Well, look what he says here: buy the truth. And sell it not. Now I'll be honest with you, I first started studying this. I read this in my devotion the other day. I started digging a little bit on it. That bothered me a little bit. Buying the truth? It's kind of like a commodity, you know, you go to Walmart. Uh where's the aisle with truth on it? It was somewhere. Here. Oh, we don't have any of that here. The word buy in its And its accepted definition is this. To obtain something by financial transaction. I give them money, they give me something in return. I got a funny story about my wife last night, but I won't tell it because I want I want to live happily the rest of my life Now, like I said, I read that buy the truth, buying is a financial transaction, obtaining something through a financial transaction, buying the truth, that bothered me. So I study a little more. And you know the Bible says we're to compare Scripture with Scripture. And I think there's one thing we need to be very, very clear about, and that is this. Salvation cannot be bought. You and I cannot buy salvation with any amount of money, with our good works. With our religious ceremonies, we cannot purchase salvation. Listen to Romans chapter 6 and verse 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the Gift of God is eternal life. Listen to Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Salvation is not something I can purchase. It is simply a gift that I can either receive, accept, and receive, or I can reject it. But I cannot buy it, because the moment if I could buy salvation, it would cease being a gift. And the truth says it's a gift. If I would come home, um, if Ed came in 50th wedding anniversary, and it buys his wife a $2,500 diamond ring. Now he would never do that, but He'll buy a $2,500 rifle, but he ain't gonna buy it I'm teasing, sort of. Um Suppose he comes in, he's got this ring, sweetheart, you put up with me for fifty years. It's a miracle of God. I want to uh I want to express and I've got this ring, $2,500 I bought from Hellbeats. She goes, oh, sweetheart. That's wonderful. He goes now you can have it, but first you gotta at least pay half of it What question, would that be a gift? That'd be suicide. He'd be dead meat if he did that. He goes, tell you what, it's a nice ring, but first wash the car, clean the garage out, and mow the grass. Would it be a gift? No. The only way that can possibly be a gift from him is he if he gave it to her, offered it to her, and all she would do is either accept it or reject it. Salvation is a gift. On May 7, 1979, I reached out by faith and I accepted the gift of eternal life, which is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. God gave it to me. As a gift, I simply received it. And for you, whatever that went and whatever it was. So We must understand salvation from sin and hell, a new life in Christ, is a gift that must be received. So what does this verse say? I believe that God is teaching us here that we must be willing to do whatever is necessary to get to the truth. Now I'm I'm ending with this. If you would turn with me to Matthew chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18. And I'll I'd like- I could just read this, but I'd like for you to see it. And I want you to notice verse number eight of Matthew eighteen. Jesus speaking, if you ever read Letter Edition, this is the lips from the lips of Jesus. Wherefore, if thy hand or thy foot offend thee Cut them off. And cast them from thee. It is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed rather than having two hands or two feet and to be cast into everlasting fire. Now what's he talking about when he mentions everlasting fire? Hell If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee. It is better for thee to enter into life with one eye rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell. Fire. What in the world is the Lord saying here? Is he saying if you did something bad with your hand, you're supposed to chop it off or you'll go to hell? Is God Jesus saying here that if you look at something you ought not to look at, that you need to pull your eyeballs out of your head or you're going to go to hell? No, that's not what he's saying. We know that. What is he saying? You compare scripture with scripture, this is what the Lord's telling us. Whatever it takes to be sure of my salvation, I need to be willing to do it. Whatever it takes. As a Christian, whatever it takes to be sure that my life is pleasing to my God, I need to be willing to do it. I need to be willing to do it. Listen, nobody in the world has to pull their eyeball out to get to heaven. Nobody in the world has to chop their arm off to be right with God. But every one of us ought to be willing to do whatever it is we need to do to be sure of our salvation and be sure we're right with God. Now let me tell you some things I've heard people say. Prayer, if I get saved, if I receive the truth of the gospel, I'm going to lose my friend. I'll lose my friends if I receive that free gift of eternal life. If I receive it, I'm going to lose my friends. God says, by the truth. Buy the truth of the gospel at the cost of your friends. What's the other option? I buy my friends with my eternal soul. If a person will not get saved because they're afraid they will lose a friend, they are buying that friend. With the cost of their eternal soul. And I say to you, there's not a friend in the world that's worth going to hell for That's a bad deal. Christ says, by the truth. Now the truth is free. I just receive it for free. But it may cost me some friends. If I do that, they'll say, we're not going to hang around with a Christian. We don't want no fundamentalists to be our influence. We're out of here. If you're getting saved, we're out of here. God says, by the truth. Don't buy your friends with the gospel. You may have to buy the gospel with your friends. You follow what I'm saying? I've heard Christians over the years Preacher, I'm saved, but if if I start living for God, if I start doing what the Bible says, I'll lose my friends. As a Christian. Hey, I've seen that in Christian youth groups, Brother James. A kid gets right with God. So-called other Christians in the youth group turn on him. If I do right, I'm going to be made fun of. If I do right, I'll lose my job. If I do right, my family will reject me. If I get saved, if I live for God, if I live by the Bible, I'm going to have a heartache. I might lose my spirits. God says, by the truth. By the truth. The truth of God's word has the solution to every problem. The truth of God's word has the provision for every need. It breaks my heart. We have too many people buying friends and pleasure with the gospel, with the principles of Scripture. They're selling out. God's word and truth to have some friend, have a little bit of pleasure Too many Christians selling God's word out for their own will, popularity, their own ease. You know what? There's a high price. If I sell the truth, he says, buy the truth and sell it not. You know, when I sell the truth, there's a high price to pay. You know what it'll cost you? If you sell the truth for friends or for pleasures or for ease, it's going to cost you peace of mind. It's going to cost you the blessings of God. It's going to cost you the perfect will of God. I read just last couple weeks, I don't remember exactly when it was, it wasn't long ago, but it was a Filipino girl, and she was given testimony And she said how tragic it would be if I would make a decision that would cost me God's perfect will for my life I thought, boy, what a wise girl. She's about 20 years old. If I would make a decision that would cost me God's perfect will for my life. How tragic that would be. By the truth. And by the way, this is another message. Our faith promise, you know what that is? That's investing in the truth. It's getting the truth around the world. Buying the truth always pays big dividends. I like that quote. Buying the truth pays eternal dividends