Hebrews chapter 11. I tell you every time pastor asked me to preach, I I really can't believe it. The fact that I'm even at this church, I don't believe it. God has just been so good. Um I I just I really just cannot get over it. Just a just to be a member of this church is a privilege, let alone to uh be asked to to preach. It's just an amazing, amazing Sometimes I can't wrap my head around how good God is. You understand? Um Hebrews chapter eleven. We're going to be reading verses thirty-two, and uh we'll just Get into chapter twelve um at the end of it here, thirty-two down through verse one of chapter twelve. So uh Hebrews eleven, uh verse thirty-two. And what shall I more say, for the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah and David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms. Wrought righteousness, obtain promises, stop the mouths of lions, quench the violence of fire escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in flight, and fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens Women received their dead raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection And others had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder. Whoa, that's kind of intense. If you know what I'm talking about, that's intense. Were tempted. Were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. of whom the world was not worthy, they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens, and caves of the earth. And these all having obtained a good report through faith, Receive not the promise, God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience. the race that is set before us. I'm going to pray and then the message this evening that's just simply I I've just called it by faith. By faith. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this this day, Lord. I thank you for this wonderful church, the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Lord, I just ask that uh you would open our hearts, Lord, and um that that we'd be ready to receive what the Holy Spirit has for us, what you have for us, Lord. And I just ask that you would um that you would be the preacher tonight, Lord, and just hide me behind you. Help me not to say anything that would go against your word, Lord, and that there's something that you'd have me to say that maybe um I don't have my notes, Lord, that you bring that to my mind. And Lord, I just ask that you you you would be glorified in everything that's done tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Hebrews 11 is commonly referred to as the faith chapter, and then people even refer to this as the hall of faith. At the beginning of chapter 11, very famous verse, verse 1, it describes what faith is. It says, Now faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Let me get a water here A very, very good uh definition of the word faith. Now, and when we go through the chapter We see in verse fourth uh by faith uh Abel and by uh he gave a more excellent uh sacrifice than Cain. Verse 5, by faith Enoch And we go on down through it. Verse 7, by faith Noah, um being warned of God of things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. And so on and so on. We get down to verse 20. By faith, Isaac, verse 21, by faith Joseph, verse 22, by faith Moses was hid. Verse 24 and 25. By faith Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, and by faith chose the affliction of God's people. Verse 29, by faith the people crossed the Red Sea on dry ground. Verse 30, we see the walls of Jericho came down. All of these things were done by faith. By faith. And then we get to our text tonight over in verse 32. And then we see all of these people had incredible faith. And he goes even verse 32 even says What more shall I say? The list is endless. It's kind of um the gist of it here. What more shall I say? And he names off a few more people that had uh great faith And one thing I really want us to notice is because of faith, through faith, there are some just absolutely miraculous things that happened and that still can happen. Verse 33, who through faith subdued kingdoms. Of course, right away we think about in the Old Testament, Jericho. How was Jericho defeated? It wasn't by a massive army or superior weapons or anything like that. It was by faith By faith Jericho fell. And we could go on and look at um other instances throughout history where um God delivered kingdoms. And and and really the whole book of Joshua is awesome. We see where kingdoms were um brought down because of faith. And we and we can see more examples of faith in in verse 34 that quenched the violence of fire. And of course, right there I thought about the the the Hebrew bo I don't even want to call them boys, they were really young men. And um because of their faith they made it through uh the fiery furnace. Um and if you remember the story They even said in Daniel, they said, if be so our God whom we serve, he is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. But if not, we won't bow down. And you remember that they had such great faith. They were so confident in God. Amazing faith. Um I was I told Pastor before uh the service this evening it's almost kind of embarrassing when we look at some of the faith that some of these um uh saints of old and some of our forefathers had. I mean we don't even hold a candle to it. The faith that they had. And I don't mean that in a in a derogatory way at all. Please don't take it that way But the point is that these men had faith. Uh very very, very uh large faith if you want to put it that way. And then we go on in um In Hebrews verse 34, they escaped the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in flight, turned to flight the armies of the enemy. We are told here what we can accomplish through faith. Jesus even said, Verily, verily I say unto you, if you have the faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, or move hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible for you. The point the first kind of point I want to make here is because of faith the impossible was made possible. And we say that almost in a cliche kind of way, like, oh, with God all things are possible. Well that is Bible. And just because it's a common phrase, I guess you could say, doesn't mean it's not true. And I I I honestly believe that if we just had if we just had faith We would see things done that are similar to what we read about. And I honestly believe that one reason a lot of churches are closing their doors across the country is because of a lack of faith. One reason that families are falling apart is because of a lack of faith. One reason that um we see that a lot of uh churches aren't running soul winning programs anymore is because people don't have faith to take the gospel like we were commanded to do. And we could go on there, but if we would have faith, I really honestly believe that we could see some of these miraculous things happen again. We complain about our nation probably more than we pray for our nation, I would say. And I honestly believe that if we had faith and placed that faith in God, that He would actually do some miraculous things Like I said, that are similar to what we read about. And um because of faith, we can see some things accomplished. We can see families restored. We can see the nation Restored. We can see uh churches grow, not diminish, and um and things like that. And I and I think this is funny And this is a lack of faith. No matter I I I've been in I was telling I think I f I think I was telling Edmund before church that I've been in I have been a part of a church with eight people and I've been a chur part of a church with two thousand people and I've been and I've been in between It seems like when you're in a really big church they say, oh well you can't soul win. You hear people that say, Oh you can't soul win here in the in the cities. There's just too many people, it's hard to do it, you can't do it. Which to me that doesn't make sense at all. Then you go to a smaller church and they say Oh, thank you very much. You are such a blessing. And then um that is wonderful. I'm gonna take a drink of this right now. That is great. It's cold too. Hmm. Are you thirsty yet? Thank you. And then you and then I've been a part of a small church and they say, oh well we're just a few people. We're just you know country folk. There's no we can't really do much. We can't uh go soul winning like the big churches do. Really, what all of those is on both ends of the spectrum is just a lack of faith. And this isn't where I want to spend most of the night, but I want to get this point across nonetheless. If God's people would have faith in God We would see some things change. And I really believe that. And we can see here in the first part of our text miraculous things that were done because of faith, and we can still see them done again, those things done again. Now, also because of faith, yeah, there were some great things that were accomplished because of the faith that some of these men had, but there's some Not so good things from our perspective that also happened because of the same faith. Because of the same faith. And we read down through it, and you if you're in Hebrews 12 or Hebrews eleven You see all these just incredible, miraculous things, but man, that's awesome. Kingdoms were brought down. They escaped the fire and all this. And then we get to um verse 35, and it said, and others were tortured. Now that's quite a switch. That's quite a turnaround. Others were tortured. Some men by faith conquered cities, but some men, because of their same faith, were tortured And the faith that one man had to get through conquering a city was the same faith that another man had to survive the torture. Understand, there's a lot of people that were tortured for this faith. There's a lot of people today that were tortured for this faith. A lot of times we see the, I want to use the word carefully, the glamorous side of faith. Oh yes, I want to have this faith. Well, which end might we end up on? The good side or the torture? And we read on and we see uh in verse 35: others were tortured, not accepting deliverance That they might attain a better resurrection. Others have trials of cruel mockings, scourgings, bonds, and imprisonment. This is some hard stuff. This is some hard stuff. And we see examples of this in Scripture. And it goes on, they were sawn asunder. A saw. And some people were literally sawing asunder because of this faith. They were slain with the sword Um wandered about in sheepskins and goat skins. They went through torturing tort uh torturing, imprisonment, all this stuff because of their faith in God Because of their faith in Christ. But because of that faith that they were suffering for, by faith they suffered through it. By faith they made it through it. And I tell you, I'd like to have that kind of faith. I'd like to think that I have that kind of faith. To be able to make it through a torture, to be able to make it through imprisonment. And and and this is something I just really can't wrap my head around But we have brothers and sisters that are in jail today because of their faith in various parts of the world If we go back um in in the Old Testament, we see where uh the children of Israel were in slavery in Egypt getting uh whipped and in bondage, and uh their bondage was very great uh even to the point where um the pharaoh uh commanded that the male children uh be killed. How did they make it through that? By faith, that one day they'd be delivered. We go to the New Testament. Stephen, the first martyr, he believed in the resurrection of Christ and was preaching Christ. And because of his faith, he was stoned, but because of the faith he had, by faith, kept preaching through the stoning. He said, I see him standing as they're killing him. Talk about faith. Talk about faith. And we could go on. Um one one book that I I really like to read. It's called America in Crimson Red. It talks about people here in North America that died for their faith or were martyred. Well, Peter, he was crucified for preaching Christ, and he refused to be crucified the same way Christ was, so instead he insisted on being crucified upside down. Because of his faith, he was put to death. But by faith he he was happy to go through that death. Roman Emperor Nero, and many of you have heard these stories, and I won't get too graphic. Um but he he ruled between fifty-four and sixty-eight A. D. and it said that he would capture Christians and uh dip them in oil, and that's what he used to light his gardens. He would also put them in the Colosseums and and he would um uh you know feed them to the lions and things like that. And it was said in the Coliseum that that that the people could hear these saints singing Singing hymns as they were being put to death just simply because they were Christians. And they were glad to do it. There was um I was pastor let me borrow a book, another book I really highly recommend you get a hold of. Pretty intense, uh Fox's Book of Martyrs, and a lot of you are familiar with that. While I was reading that, there was a man named by the name of Polycarp. He was a student of the Apostle John. Later, he went on to be the pastor at the Church of Smyrna. And he was arrested being a Christian And he would have been allowed to go free if he would just proclaim that Caesar was Lord and offer up incense to Caesar. And his response was, eighty-six years I have served Christ, and he never did me any wrong. How can I blaspheme my king who saved me? So he was uh burned at the stake for his stand. Because of his faith, he was arrested and put to death. But by faith He went through it. And if you read through that, there's all these stories, and I I don't need to keep going on about all about all these uh horrible, horrific stories, but if you read through it, there's something that all of them have in common And they were happy to go through that. How is that possible? By faith. See, that was as every heaven was as real to them as earth was. And I think sometimes we are so we're so focused on what's here. We're so focused on what's around us, and this is our reality. This is a small part of reality. Reality is Christ. Reality is heaven. Reality is hell. That's reality, and this is just a small part of reality. I think one reason that these people had so much faith was because they weren't just focused on this. They were focused on their Savior. Even Stephen, when he was being stoned, he was looked up, he was looking to Christ. Great faith. Great faith. And this is just a side note. This is where I want to want to preach tonight. But you say, well, how do I get faith like that? Well, you read your Bible. Faith comes by hearing here by the Word of God. Stay in your book. Stay in your Bible. But through all of human history, people have had faith in God and they have been um they've seen a lot of good things happen, but a lot of people have really suffered a lot because of their faith. And like I said, even today, people are being arrested, people are being tortured, and people are even dying for their faith in Christ. And so as I was going through this, uh, as I was getting ready for this, I was thinking, why would people do this? We say, because they had faith. And they do, but I think there's a couple different reasons people had this great faith. Or, I mean, a couple different reasons things that people had faith in, I guess you could say. One, obviously, people had faith. In Christ. And like I said, that was every bit as real to them as this is. And they understood that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And if you again if you read through some of these things that uh people went through, they were happy just to go be with the Lord. And they had great faith. But look at verse 39 through 40. And this is kind of the emphasis I wanted to get to. That was all a build-up, okay? So verse 39 of Hebrews 11. It says, and these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. God having provided some better thing for us. They also believed that one day that we would be here, a future church would be here They understood that they didn't get the better promise, and I know a lot of this is referring to Old Testament saints, but it can be applied to some of the first century saints as well. I really believe that they had faith that one day things would not be the way they were. They looked forward. To what was coming. Uh to the to the church that was coming. I I I I picture um again, and this is just in my mind's eye, but I picture a man's being arrested and he's about to be uh put to death for simply being a Christian. Or for having a piece of the word of God, he gets caught with it and he gets sentenced to death. He knows that Christ is worth dying for, but I believe he also knew that who came after him was also worth dying for as well. Understand, there's a lot of people that died so that we can have this Bible in our hands today. There's a lot of people that were tortured so that we can have all 66 books in our lap today. There's a lot of people that died so that we could have the freedom to meet in this building today There's a lot of people that had great faith, and I would say much greater than I had, so that we could be in this room with our Bible today And I and I can just imagine that they're that that they're thinking in their mind's eye it'll be worth it. First of all, because they get to be with Jesus, but also so that we can have what we have today. Um the man I mentioned earlier, uh the one by the name of Polycarp, they say that he's uh largely uh he had a big part in putting all of the manuscripts of the New Testament together. So they could all be in one volume. Understand that's a big deal. Can you imagine only having one book of the New Testament or one book of the Bible? And I can just imagine that he thought, you know what, this that's worth dying for. Understand this, there's a lot of things that are worth dying for. One would be my problem, I would die for my wife. I I don't doubt that for a moment. I would die for this country if need be. But how much more valuable than that is the Word of God? There's a lot of people that died for this book, and I know I've said that many times. I don't want to sound like a broken record. I guess the problem is all these people that have d laid down their life and have sacrificed so much by faith Do we take advantage of what they've done? Do we take advantage of the legwork? Not to the extent we should The problem is is I say, you know, they they they died for this Bible, they they died for this book, we don't read it. There was um um At the end of chapter 11, it says, God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. They without us should not be made perfect. What it's saying is without us fulfilling our responsibilities Or taking advantage of what they've done for us, it's almost like we're wasting what they've done. I don't want someone to have died for nothing We we talk about that in terms of our nation all the time. All these people uh uh died for freedom a and I'm so grateful for them, but then there's people that uh uh there's politicians that allow laws to come into place that really shouldn't be there, uh and they slowly take away freedoms. And people died so that we can have these freedoms and we lose them. That bothers me. But what bothers me more is people that lay down their life for our faith. And we let it it slip away. People laid down their life just so that I can have this. And I'm ashamed to admit there's been days when I don't read it. In that day I have wasted what they have done. They without us should not be made perfect. Their sacrifice was not made perfect until we take advantage of what They have done. Why were they willing to endure so much? God, having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. Now here's the application for this. Chapter twelve, verse one Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses? Referring to all these men of faith before All of these men of faith that have seen miraculous things happen, but also have laid down their life or were tortured or were banished, all of these men and women of faith. Wherefore, with all of that in mind, wherefore, seeing we are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside. And I say this way, it's our turn to lay aside some things. It's our turn to make some sacrifices when they've sacrificed so much. Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight Everything that could get in the way of me taking advantage of what all of these men of faith have sacrificed so much for, it's my turn. It's your turn. Let us lay aside some of these weights. And the sins which just so easily beset us, these sins that are getting in the way of us taking advantage of the product of martyrs. Let us take advantage of that. Let us lay the weights aside. It's our turn to make some sacrifices and get rid of these sins that are getting in the way of us reading the Word of God. Let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Can I say it this way? It's our turn to run. There's a lot of people that have run that race before us and sacrificed much. It's our turn. Let's pick it up. Can I say it this way? People have sacrificed stuff so that we can even their lives and their families so that we can have the Word of God if we let that thing go If we let what they've done go, it's going to have to be where we sacrifice our lives for it again. Don't take for granted the word of God. If we put the Bible on the shelf, we don't pick it up, we don't read it, we don't apply it, we'll lose the liberty we have to read it. And then there'll be a whole nother generation of of our grandkids that they'll have to lay down their life for it Let's pick it up. It's our turn. People died for it. People sacrificed for it. People bled for it. Let's pick up the Bible. It's our turn to run with it And anything that gets in the way of us picking up the Word of God, listen, if you're too busy to read the Bible, you're too busy If you're too busy to get to either get up in the morning or before bed, or sometime throughout the day, if you're too busy to read the Bible, you're too busy. And people not only died for the Bible, people died for our faith. I was thinking there's a uh uh uh that book I told you about by the name of a man by the name of uh Thomas Painter. He was uh from Boston. This was before uh the United States was formed, this was in the late 1600s, I believe. Um and and where he was there, it was against the law to be a Baptist. It was against the law. And uh he had a son that was born, and when um he would not take his infant to go be uh uh baptized by the uh State church. They found out about it. They arrested him. They whipped him twenty lashes. And then they banished him because he was Baptist. And that was the law. Actually, let me read you the law. I brought it up here with me The law said, and I'm going to just summarize it because it's a very lengthy thing, but it says it is ordered and agreed that if any person Or persons within this jurisdiction shall either openly condemn or oppose the baptizing of infants or authority to punish the outward uh breaches of the first table, and at the beginning of this it specifically mentions Baptists. The end of it says shall be sentenced to banishment. That's in North America. And here's the point I'm making. A lot of people sacrificed a lot for the Word of God, but also for His church. The church. And then if nothing else, what did Jesus go through for the church? Well he gave his life for it. If no one else laid down their life, Christ did. It's a serious thing. And a lot of people sacrifice a lot. We just need to take advantage of it and uh pick it pick it up and run with it. Let us run. Let us r lay aside. Um Every weight and the sin that does so easily beset us. And um just to kind of sum up, we start out saying by faith great things happened. By faith these men were tortured. And now it's our turn. Can I say how how in the world am I going to run this race now? There's a lot of pressure, a lot of responsibility, a lot of uh these giant men of faith that have gone before. How do I live up to that? By faith. By faith, we're gonna run just like they ran. By faith, we're gonna read our Bible just like by faith they sacrificed for the Bible. I don't want to sound repetitive. This is this is uh I'm done. I don't want to sound repetitive, but if there's something else you got out tonight, a lot of people died for you to read the Bible, and it'd be a shame if we didn't read it. And that that's that's the sum of it. So heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a moment. Um I'm gonna I'm gonna turn the invitation over to Pastor here in in in in just a second. But again It'd be a shame for us to lose what people sacrifice for for us to have. Pastor. Would say, Preacher, I need to uh give that Bible a bigger place in my life. I it needs to hold a higher priority. Reading it, living it, memorizing it and Incorporate in my life, how many say, preacher, I need to have a higher priority. This is a great message, great challenge, and it's our turn, pass on the next generation, what it means to live and act by faith In the Word of God and trusting it. Let's stand together heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's giving the invitation. How about let's stand