The uh last message for this service there you go. Uh okay we got uh we got some chalk drawings done. I got four of them now completed. How many how many how many like the first one the best? Let me see Uh-huh. First one? There's the spiritual ones right there I'm watching you. You better not vote twice. And then back to the last one back there. That's what I thought. I was watching that guy You think, alright. And then we how about this one here? I mean we like that in a bit. Who did? Oh. Okay. I see. Alright, uh well I'm glad you you you you enjoyed the chalk drones. I I enjoyed doing 'em and As long as I can do 'em, I shall be doing 'em. So uh I ke I like this one too. I there's something about waterfalls kind of a misty background and a mountain there and all that stuff. Just just something. And I think you'll like the hidden effect. Alright, uh let's see uh In the back on the table back there is uh some of my prints that uh we've put out uh through the years. And uh my wife will be back there, Miss Nan, and she'll uh uh answer any of the questions you have and if you like to uh get some Christmas presents for some some of your friends that uh those are one way to do it. And I encourage you to avail yourself of the that opportunity All right, uh we're going to go to a very familiar story, uh, very familiar character, and it's found back in the book of Numbers. Numbers chapter fourteen. Matter of fact we're going in thirteen. No Numbers thirteen. Numbers chapter thirteen And let's see, let's start at about uh verse twenty-six, I guess would be a good place to, or verse twenty-four. All right. The Word of God says in Numbers chapter 13, verse 24, the place was called the brook Eschol. Because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence. And they returned from searching the land after forty days. Now we broke in in the middle of the story. But I think most of you are familiar with it, but let me just reiterate just a little bit. Um, Israel has left uh uh the nation of Egypt. They got out of there, remember the you know, the the Passover and um you know, the going through the Red Sea and the Army, you know, uh uh drowned in the Red Sea when they tried to follow 'em and so forth. Now they've they've come to uh Sinai and now they're they're here at uh at this place, at Cades Barnea in verse twenty in verse twenty six. And it says in uh and they went and they came uh and came to Moses and to Aaron And to all the congregation of the children of Israel into the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh, and brought back word unto them unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land Now, what what has happened is they sent spies out into this promised land. God has promised them a land that flows with milk and honey When he delivered them out of Egypt, out of captivity, out of you know, out of uh bondage, uh he promised them a place to go This was a land that uh he says clothed with milk and honey. He says the heathen has been taking care of it for years and it's in good shape, but I want you to go in there and claim this is That's why they call it the promised land. It's his promise to the to the Jews. And so verse twenty it says, And they and they told him and they said uh We came into the land. This is the the uh spies that went in to spy out the land to see if you know if it's uh if where their weaknesses were and so forth, so they can go in and conquer it And it says, and they told him and said, We came into the land whither thou sendest us, and surely it flowed with milk and honey, and Now this is the fruit of it. So it's exactly what uh God promised them. He said it's going to be a land that flows with milk and honey, and it is. And so God's promises are always good. You know, we read your the promises and word of God and if these are promises that's meant for the the children of God, you can count on 'em. Whatever the promises that God makes, He keeps uh every time. And uh so then in verse twenty-eight it says, Nevertheless, the people be strong. Now this is what a group of them said, Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled And very great. And moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. And of course those are the giants. And uh The Amalekites dwelt in the land of the south, Hittites and the Jezbessites and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. And Caleb st uh stilled the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it. Whoops, wait a minute. We got a dissenting vote here. Everybody else is saying, no, we can't go up here and say those are walled cities, the giants are in the land. That's a great I mean it's bad and we don't want to go in that place. It means we were gonna have to fight for it But here's the guy that says, hey, let's go up. We're well able to do it. Or we are well able to overcome it, he says. Verse 31. But the men that went up with with him and said, uh, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we are. And in verse uh thirty-two And they brought up an evil report of the land which should uh search uh which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying the land through which we have gone to search it is a hard uh is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof, and all the people that we saw in it are are men of great stature And uh there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which cometh of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, this is a story that we most of us have read it uh since we were kids, I guess, many of us. But certainly it's one that uh just about all of us have heard one time or another and and uh I trust that the sword is not as we retell it and preach about it why It won't be a a bore to anyone, but uh they they'll just kinda uh hold on to some of the truths and apply them to their own life. So bless our time around your word once again. Lord, we we rejoice when we have the opportunity to preach your word, and we rejoice when uh we have people to preach to. So I thank you for each one of these people who have come out tonight and and uh I pray that you Just speak to their hearts. Every w every one of us in this building uh has some sort of a need that uh we certainly ought to be calling on you about. So I pray that tonight that might be the case. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So the story is that uh twelve spies go to spy out the land. Ten of them come back and they say, we well we can't we can't go up against these people. They're too strong for us. But there's two of them. Uh one of them was named Caleb, the other was Joshua, and they and they said We're well able to overtake them. We're well able. I like I like the way well what's the difference between these two groups anyhow? Well, I think most of us uh understand it that when you when you look at uh a problem through the eyes of faith, you have the you you can see it as God sees it. And God never sees a defeat. He sees victory. And so these two men was looking through the eyes of faith and these other men were looking through the eyes of doubt. They doubted that they could overtake and so they they they didn't want to go it go into that place. Now uh We come to a verse of scripture. It's over in verse 24. And it says, But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him. And hath followed me fully. Him will I bring into the land whereunto he went, and his seed shall possess it. That's the promise of God for Caleb. And I want you to notice something. He says and and and hath followed me fully. That's a phrase that not a not worded exactly like that, but basically it is. He wholly followed the Lord. That's what the uh other places, there's probably about seven different places where that phrase is used that is applied to Caleb. So Caleb is a is a a a guy uh he's a man of faith. Here's a guy that that's uh uh I'm sure he got ostracized. uh you know, for uh being the oddball in the in the crowd. Uh He and Joshua together. But uh here's a guy that d determined in his heart That he was going to wholly, completely follow the Lord. Now, what uh you know what does that mean to to fully follow the Lord? Well One definition I read it makes sense. It says that that he's so close to the Lord that uh there's no separation between them. Whenever Jesus takes a step, he takes a step with him. And he just simply thought wherever the Lord goes, that's where he goes. And It's just a matter of positioning yourself where wherever God leads you, you're sensitive to that move and you move with him wherever he takes you. When you when when God speaks to your heart and and uh saves you and and then you surrender yourself and you say, Lord I want to be like Caleb. And I would hope, I'd hope that every person in here would want to be like Caleb. That you'd want to wholly, completely follow the Lord. I would hope that every one of you would feel that way. But it it it would mean sacrifice, you know. Jesus Jesus uh laid that out back in in the book of uh Matthew in chapter sixteen where where he sa he told his disciples, he said, If you want to be my disciple disciple, he said, You I you're gonna have to deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. It's a m a message that I think I preached that probably ten years ago. Uh but it's that's it's that's what we're talking about. To wholly follow the Lord is just simply to say, okay, Lord, I know that uh what I want to do is to you know to be right where when you move, I move I know it's going to cost me something. But Lord, I'm willing to do that. I'm willing to deny self. I'm willing to take up my cross. I'm willing to follow you wherever you want to go. And so So Caleb, he's a man who is uh he's fully, holy, completely following the Lord whenever he says that we are well able to take him. When we look at at uh the life of Caleb, there's two places that you you go. You can go to the book of uh Joshua and find out what happened 40 years down the road. Or you can, you know, uh you can just blunder through the the forty years of wilderness and uh realize that they wandered around for forty years. And we're going to do both. We're going to talk about both of them. The first thing I want to talk about is the fact that the sites that Caleb saw Did not uh um well, it didn't scare him That's what I wanted to say. I remembered it. The sights that Caleb saw. When he went into that that land and he he looked around, he saw the great walls. He saw those. It didn't scare him. He just mentally just said to himself, Okay, uh Okay, God, there's a wall you have to you have to take down. If we're gonna take that city, we're gonna you're gonna have to take that wall down. I seem as he walked around to other places and he he saw the giants. The giants looking down on him like that. Huh, okay, Lord. That's somebody you're gonna have to fight for me because I can't beat him by myself. See, everywhere that Caleb looked, the things that he saw didn't scare him. Why did he feel that way? Because he's wholly following the Lord. It's so, you know, it's uh When I was when I was in the in high school, and I may have told this story before, but see I when I when you're old like I am and you you can't remember, then you assume nobody else can remember it either. See? And so I can tell these stories over and over and you guys just have to bear with me. When I was in high school, uh I was good in art. And uh but I hated to talk in front of people. I d I just I could not just you know, oral book reports I just did not like to do those oral book reports. And uh and as a result I didn't get very good grades in those areas because I just it wasn't until the teacher figured out a way to get me to read the material Learn it, but instead of talk about it, illustrate it. There's a new thing, isn't it? And so I made a a mural that went from one wall to the other about the Industrial Revolution Yeah. Now that was a that's a good teacher. You get me to to read that much to begin with. But the point is Uh the point is that I hated I hated uh I can't I can't say that enough. I hated. I hated, I really did hate to to give oral book reports. I just didn't like 'em. I I wish you'd made me do it more often. I might be more at ease up here today. But the truth of the matter is I just didn't like it. I was it it scared me. And uh Now see there I forgot where I was going with that. All that for nothing. You got the benefit of it. There you go. All right. So anyhow, it'll it'll come to me in a minute, we can finish it out. But I I need to get going here because we're we're running late. I'm running late. You're you're all right, but I'm running late. So the sights that he saw there didn't didn't have an impact on him to the point where he was ready to to throw in the town and say, Okay God, I we just can't do this. No, because he was wholly following the Lord. He had uh he had uh he had the promise of God. This is the pro this is the promised land. This is the uh land that flows with milk and honey. I've been having the heathen take care of it for you And now it's time for you to go in and claim the promise. And that's what Caleb wanted to do. That was his desire be and the fact that there was Big men there and big walls there and and everything was you know scary to him didn't scare him We need to face things with the same attitude. There's going to be things in life that you're in, listen, young people, You're going to be facing things in life just like I did. And you're going to have to say, okay. I don't like to do a book report, uh oral book reports scare me, but you're gonna have to do them anyhow. I didn't uh I was fortunate enough to have a teacher that found an outlet for me and and you know it saved me, but uh that's there's things that you're gonna be called upon to do that that is going to to scare you. Teaching the first Sunday school class that I that I had, right after I got saved. Listen, I was scared to death But at that point in my life, I had just gotten saved, and in my mind, I was just like Caleb. That's how I felt. Okay, Lord. This is not my thing. You know I hate this. And there's nobody going to come to my rescue. But you're going to have to do something because I can't do this. And so I taught that class. They asked my they shouldn't have asked a a novice to teach that class, but they did. And I did it. I I just said, okay, Lord. Now, some of them s you know, they what they said about the class was that it was one of the worst ones they'd ever heard. That didn't surprise me any. Didn't surprise me because that's that's pretty much the way I felt about it But here was the thing, then later on when I went in the army, they c pulled me as an instructor. Can you imagine that? That's that's the way the Lord is sneaky. He's gonna get you one way or another, so you might as well give in the first time, okay? Alright, let's look at the second thing. I've only got ten of these things, so buckle up. The sinning saints, they didn't discourage him. Here's all these people. Ten out of twelve say, we can't do that. Those people are they're too big for us. There's too many of them. They're used to war, and we're not. We're slaves. You see, part of the problem that they had was that they they had a mental problem. Did you read that one verse there that I read? Verse 33, where the last part of it says, and we were in our own eyes as grasshoppers? They had a mental thing on about this whole scenario. Instead of the eye of faith, they had the eye of doubt, and they saw themselves as grasshoppers and And Caleb, he couldn't figure that out. He didn't see himself as a grasshopper. He's ready to go. So the sinning saints, they didn't discourage him. You know, there's so many things that if you allow it, it's going to discourage you in this world, especially of the Christian. I tell you, I look at this political situation. I'm not getting political. I look at this political situation and if anything is going to dis discourage a Christian It's probably the situation that's going on right now. God's in control, don't worry about it. God's in control. Don't worry about it. If you have that attitude when a when a problem, when you face a problem, then hey, things just sort of smooth out and life becomes fun. You actually start enjoying life. God's got a hand on it. Let's move on down. The suffering that he went through didn't sour him. You'll find that he went through 40 years in the wilderness just like everybody else did The hardships that he had to endure because of other people's problems didn't sour him. You know there's some things in life that's just not fair Did you ever notice that? Some things are just not fair. You're going to be the recipient of one of those unfair situations one of these days. I got a I got a car ticket one time. It still gripes me. Okay. Can't help it. I have to fight that all the time. I got a car ticket one time for speeding. Now I didn't have to pay the fine because I went to the court and and presented my case and I won as far as I was concerned I won. But I didn't have to pay anything. But the point I'm getting at is they they he said he called the the state policeman And I I love 'em, I don't have any problem. In fact I've got a a uh son law a uh grandson that is a policeman in Pensacola right now. So I'm not bad at it policemen But this this officer, I believe he was a new one. He had a guy riding with him. And uh he clocked me, he said, at 70 miles, oh going over 70 miles an hour. I had just come off of the interstate and set my cruise control 155. So I knew exactly how fast I was going. I was just easing up through there. But I looked in my rear view mirror and uh there was two lanes. I was in the outside lane. And uh I was there wasn't any other c other cars. I was I was on a uh a country road near home. I'd already gotten off the interstate. So I'm on this outside lane and I look in the rear rear rear rear view mirror and uh what I see is uh is a truck coming up behind me and he is barreling He's going 70 miles an hour. Okay? And so I pulled over in this lane. Just as I pulled over like this, a policeman popped over the the the hill. I was going up a hill, he popped over the top of that thing. And he clocked this truck behind me at seventy miles plus and he thought it was me, because he didn't think a truck could go that fast, I guess And uh and uh I said, well, I told Nan, I said, well, he got that guy, you know. I was talking about the trucker I saw the trooper turn around and head my way or head toward that truck and I said, He's got that trucker. Yeah, he got him dead to right too, boy. He zoomed past uh Do you know he stopped me? He did. And uh I started to get out of the car. He says, Stay in the car, sir. I don't know. I can't go through this whole thing all over again. Tears me up. Oh, just Word to the wise. There's unfair situations going to face you, and you're going to have to determine whether you're going to be discouraged or not. Don't let, don't let uh Uh, don't let sour with this uh anyway what happened was He stu he stopped sir. He said, uh sir, he says, uh, did you know you were going over seventy miles an hour? I was really, really smart. I said, no, sir, I wasn't. That's the wrong answer to a stage trooper said you're going 70. Yeah. But I that's what I said. I wasn't mad, I wasn't upset. I just knew what had happened. Because I I had already read about uh, you know, this happening to people. So I said you clocked the guy that passed me, that truck that that was he's Coming up behind me, I said, that's the one you clocked at seventy miles an hour. I said, I had my cruise control set at fifty-five, and I knew how fast I was going. You will have un It's there's gonna be times when you're gonna be uh un not guilty and when you're gonna be considered guilty. So I had to go get that straightened out and I did. I wrote a letter and I did all that stuff and uh they put me on probation. So I really didn't get out of it, but in my mind I did. I didn't have to pay a fine, all right. All right. Let me just get back to this. Alright, the suffering that he had to go through, even though it was unfair, he, you know, it didn't sour him. Don't let these situations that come up in life sour you on the whole. Let's see, I've got eight more, okay You're getting nervous. That's two more. Okay, just relax. There's only two more. And uh there'll be fast ones. Uh the strain uh didn't uh didn't scare him. I mean let's face it he he was uh you know there was a lot of troubles that he had to go through And then finally is the is the success didn't satisfy him. And that's one I like. The success didn't satisfy him. Now, this is where we go back to the book of Joshua, because now he's been in the wilderness for 40 years. But I want you to go back to the book of Joshua now. And we're going to be in in uh uh chapter thirteen. And here's what we read. Verse seven. Well, let's read verse six. Verse five. Verse five. Joshua chapter thirty th fourteen. I'm sorry, fourteen, verse five. As the Lord commanded uh Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divide the land. So they've conquered the land now. I mean they've they Finally got into the land and they conquered it. And then the children of Judah came unto Joshua and Gilgal and Caleb the son of Jephunnah the Khezenite. said unto him, Thou knowest the things the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me and thee, and Cadeshwarnia. This was a promise that Moses made He said, 40 years old was I when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from King Shornia to spy out the land. And I brought him word again as it was in my heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt. But it didn't, it didn't uh Didn't bother him. It didn't discourage him. They said, but I holy, there it is, I holy follow the Lord. That's one of the places that's that w that uh raises in there. I wholly followed my God. And then Moses said, I swear on that day, saying, Surely the land where thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. There it is again. And now behold the Lord, you say, well, Brother Williams, is it possible to wholly follow the Lord? Well, is anything too hard for God? Yeah. Yeah, we we can do a better job than what we've been doing, folks. Isn't that right? We could do a better job, can't we? Nod your head if you agree with me. Yeah, all of us, honestly. We could do better. We could do better Nevertheless my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly follow the Lord my God, and Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land where thy feet are trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because they thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. And now behold the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years Even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. How old is that? Eighty-five. I'm a year older than Joshua or the Caleb was. How about that? Wow, man. I oughta be retiring, shouldn't I? Okay. As yet I'm as strong this day as I was the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now. for war both to go out and to come in. Now therefore, remember what I said this was about? That Caleb was not satisfied with success. And he wasn't satisfied. He's already won the battles and and uh got his land. Joshua's already given it to him. But he says, now therefore give me this mountain Well, I wish we could get a bunch of Christians that just say, you know, Lord, I just want to wholly follow you. And by the way, there's a mountain up here I want. I want to take that mountain for you. Maybe that mountain to some of you is uh is is uh passing out tracts. Maybe that mountain to some of you is is talking to somebody about the Lord, is face to face, eyeball to eyeball Visiting, visitation, whatever you want to call it. Maybe just uh just l making a determination, Lord That sin was thus so easily beset me. I'm I'm not going to give in to that thing any longer. I'm asking you for grace to to conquer that sin in my life. You know it can be a lot of different things. That mountain can be a lot of things in a person's life. And the the the wonderful thing is that that when Joshua, when Caleb asked Joshua for that mountain, do you know what happened? He got it. And he went guess what was up there? It wasn't a bunch of grapes. It was giants. And he went up there and slew some giants. You see, the battle's not over no matter no matter how old you are, the battle's not over. We keep fighting, and we keep fighting, we keep fighting, we keep keep working for God. We wholly follow him. As we wholly follow him, he'll lead us to where we need to go. There's more to the story. This part of the story is the fact that he inherited uh of course a good portion of land. But his da his daughter also got part of the the inheritance because uh uh later on she comes to him and she says, Daddy You know, you gave me that piece of land over there but doesn't have a spring on it. And I I'd like to have that spring over there by the point whatever that place was. And I'd like to have that too He said, it's yours. It's like that. How about that? I simplified it maybe a little bit, but that's basically that was it. I'm just saying listen, you cannot outgive God Whenever you wholly follow the Lord, whenever you give yourself finally, you say, Lord, I want more than anything else to be filled with the Spirit of God so that So that I have the see the fruit of the Spirit in my life, so that I can reach people for Christ. When you fully, wholly, completely follow the Lord, He's going to give you a mountain. Might be a giant on it, but he'll give you the wherewithal to to defeat that giant. It'll be up to you whether you want to fully or wholly follow the Lord. But uh Well, he'd like to see all of you. Just make up your mind. That's what I want. Let's do this chalk drawing