Thank you, Pastor. All right. Well we have a good Friday night crowd. Thank the Lord for each one of you. All these These uh bright faces looking up here, I that's good. And uh I tell ya and there's some that's not so bright. No. Well we have our we have six chalk drawings completed now. And uh this is the final one. How many how many like this is the best for the week? Let me see your hands All right, we got a few that like that one, and uh I'm not gonna take a vote on all the rest of them, but uh I'll say this, let me see. Um I've done this is f four of 'em are uh are new that we've done this week. So uh I've done c sort of like the Bambi one there. I did a Bambi but not the rest of the picture. But uh the rest of 'em are good and uh I hope you've enjoyed 'em. I've enjoyed doing 'em and and uh I hope that uh those of you who have won 'em And by the way, let me thank you for all the the efforts you put forth. I wish I could give a drawing to everyone that invited somebody, but that's not the way it is. Can't do that. But we give them away to the people who have brought the most visitors. And uh I trust that uh when you see those pictures in your home that you'll remember to pray for this evangelist and his wife as we travel on the road. Uh uh approaching the uh see thirty nine forty year mark uh before long. So you pre f pray for us. Okay, Dok. Uh you'll I think you'll enjoy this. We uh show it under the lights here in a little bit. Meanwhile, uh let me see. I need to uh if anybody back on the back table is some of my artwork that I've done uh over the over the years. And uh some of them are uh uh chalk drawings I've put in print. Some of them are acrylic paintings that that I've done and put in print. So uh you can talk to my wife back there if you're interested in those. Remember that Christmas is coming up and you need some gifts. There might be uh some uh nice nice gifts to uh pass on to somebody that uh uh you want to uh uh uh bless. I hope they'll be a blessing. Thank you once again for all the labor this week. The this church uh perhaps you know a little bit, but uh you'll never know how much this church means to uh Nan and I. And uh we have s so thoroughly enjoyed uh being here. Of course we were uh back in the beginning of the church when it was uh down there on uh I forget what street it was, uh, but down downtown Oakland there. kinda by the railroad track. And uh so this this church has uh meant something to us uh through the years and we've come to uh love this pastor and and And the p uh tell you the truth, I think I think I know more people's names in this church than I do my home church back in Campbell. That's bad, isn't it? But uh maybe it's because I spend more time up here. Amen. I don't know. All right. I want you to take your Bible and uh go with me, if you will, uh, to the book of Exodus And we're going to be in Exodus verse twelve to start off with Exodus verse twelve. You know the situation as we When you get into the book of Exodus, you know that the nation of Israel has uh been under Egyptian bondage now. They've been in Egypt for over four hundred years and And uh it's come to the place where I Israel is uh is actually uh the people have uh been in a in a uh s a slave situation uh where the Egyptians have b made nothing more than slaves out of them. So they've been in bondage. And uh God has sent them uh a deliverer Guy named Moses. Moses comes and uh you know all the story of uh how Moses and Pharaoh had their battles back and forth until uh and of course the plagues that God sent on to Pharaoh and Egypt in order to uh get him to turn the people loose, to to release them. And the final one was was where he uh took the firstborn. of the nation of Israel. And in verse uh twelve or chapter twelve, uh I'll read a few verses here. And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Speaking unto the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. And if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his never t and next uh unto his house, take it according to the number of the souls. Every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male the first year and it shall take it out from the ye shall take it out from the uh sheep or from the goats, and you shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening And they shall take of the blood and strike it on the two sideposts and on the the upper door posts of the house wherein they shall uh eat it. And uh they shall uh eat the flesh that night, roast with fire and uh unleavened bread and uh with uh bitter herbs, they shall eat it. Eat not uh of it raw, nor sodden uh at all with water, but roast with fire, his head with his legs and with the uh per uh pretendence thereof. And uh ye shall not uh ye shall let nothing of it remain until morning, and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn it with fire. Then down in verse uh verse twelve says, I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and until all the gods of of Egypt uh and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. And the blood shall be to you for a token for the houses whereof yar And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. And here is the deliverance. This is when God delivers the nation of Israel. That is when the firstborn were taken out of Egypti uh the Egyptian Pharaoh said, uh get out of here. We're you know, uh we've uh we've had enough of this, uh your God and the plagues that you've sent and now the uh the the death of the firstborn, he said we just get out and go. And so this was a deliverance But you have to look at at uh what it was that the that the uh Israelites were called upon to do, and that is they were to take this land. And of course the Lamb, the course uh Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. And uh they're to slay the lamb, and take the blood and put it on the door post, put it across the lintel, and on the d side post, which is a picture of the cross. And uh uh so so the the Passover lamb that was slain is a picture of Jesus Christ who shed his blood for our sins. Back in the book of uh uh 1 Peter we have a a verse of scripture that uh kind of uh makes it helps you to look at it that way. And if you call on the Father who without respect of person judges according to every man's work Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. Forasmuch as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, such as silver or gold, from your vain conversations received by tradition from your fathers But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last time to you I mentioned that just simply to bring you up to date to where we're going with this this message, and that is that that that uh I want to speak on a fellow named Caleb. And Caleb was a friend of God. But there's a to be a friend of God, you just can't say, okay, God, I want to be your friend. You just can't do that. You can't post him on Facebook and him be notified that you want to be a friend and then you write, you know, you click back and say, I want to be your friend. It doesn't work that way with God There has to be a relationship. In order to have a friendship with God, there must be a relationship with God. And that relationship is with the Father and Son. As many as received him to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And so that relationship is paramount if you want to be a friend of God. Without that relationship, you are an enemy with God. So if you've never been born again by the Spirit of God, then you are still an enemy of God. You may say, well, I'm not against God. I'm for God But if you've rejected his son, if you've not received Christ as your personal Savior, that puts you on the other side of the fence. You are uh at enmity with God. And so, with that thought in mind, I just want you to understand, Caleb was one of those who who was delivered. And Caleb was one of those guys who who just simply believed God. There was something about him that that uh God said that that that makes it makes a lot of sense to me. The Bible tells me back in in uh let's go back into the book of of Numbers, because in in the book of Numbers Let me find somewhere in there is the book of Numbers. I believe it's in my Bible. Alright. Now we're in fact. In Numbers chapter uh chapter 14. This is where the nation of Israel, after they left Egypt, they came to Kenish Barnea and they they sent out the spies to go into the promised land to see what kind of a land it was and so forth. And here's a statement that God makes in the book of Numbers, chapter 14, verse 24, where he's speaking of Caleb, and he says this. But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully Him will I bring into the land wherein to he went and his seed shall possess it. Did you get that? Let me read it one more time. But my servant Caleb Because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring unto the land wherein he uh he went, and his seed. shall possess it. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, as we bow before you this evening, we ask you once again to to uh speak to our hearts. Lord, open our minds and And I pray that you uh clear my mind and uh that I might uh uh not just stammer and stutter around Lord, but uh that you I would uh preach the message you would have me to to preach in all clarity. And I pray, Lord, that uh it might stir us up and and help us to be perhaps uh one of those that people might say he has another spirit. As one that is wanting to fully follow you. Lord, I pray you bless the chalk drawings. We show it in a little bit. Speak to our hearts. And if there's one here tonight that does not have the full assurance that if they were to die right now that they would go to heaven. I pray that that before this service is over, they would get that taken care of. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. So Caleb has uh the Bible says another spirit. Well, that's uh you'll notice notice the term here in the verse. He had uh another spirit With him. Not in him. With him. Had another spirit with him. You see, the believer today has the spirit of God living in him. We don't have the Spirit with us. We have it in us. If you're born again with the Spirit of God, then the Holy Spirit literally lives within your bosom. That's what the new birth takes care of. When you trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, the Holy Spirit comes to live within your bosom, live within your life. And he he provides them the uh the motivation to serve God and to be faithful to the house of God and and and to love him with all your heart and and soul. So, here in the Old Testament, though, the Spirit of God did not come to live within a person's body. He came upon an individual, just like Samson. For instance, Samson the Holy Spirit would come upon him and he would perform great feats. And in this particular case, the Bible says he had another spirit with him. In other words, he was allowed the uh Caleb was one of those who who followed the the Holy Spirit. The Spirit was with him and guided him, and he was willing to tilt near and listen to the Spirit of God. And as the Spirit of God spoke to him and led him and moved him, he followed the Holy Spirit. And so that's what he's talking about here. He says he had another spirit with him and has followed him, followed me fully. You cannot follow God unless you follow the Holy Spirit. So here we have this fellow Caleb. Now what took place? With these people here in the book of Numbers. Well, what took place was they they uh Moses uh they came up to the King's Barnea there And they said, well, over there's the promised lands across Jordan. We don't know what's over there. So maybe we better find out what's over there. And they In their mind they conjured up the idea and decided that they would send out the spies. And so they sent out twelve spies, one out of each tribe of Israel. And uh Caleb and Joshua happened to be two of those uh uh uh that went over When they came back, they found that uh they gave testimony, all of them, the whole all twelve of them gave testimony to the fact that this was a land that flowed with milk and honey, just like God said it was And so they believed God as far as that part of it went because they had the evidence of it. They brought brought back clusters of grapes that it took two men to carry them uh uh between their uh uh on a stick between the two of them They told about the the you know everything that was there and it was just like God said it was. It is a land that flowed with milk and honey, it was a uh a land of excess, it was a it was a God had allowed the heathen to live in that land and to uh uh cultivate that land and to bring forth all the fruit that that land could possibly bring forth. God allowed that to take place. And he says, Now I've I've let the heathen go over there and take care of it. Now I want you to go in and claim it. This is your land. I had them take care of it just for you. Isn't that something That God would do that? And so when they came back and said it's just like God said, well, the first thing that Caleb and Joshua said, let's go possess the land. They said, we can do it. If God be with us, we can do it. And what happened? Ten of 'em, the other ten said, Huh, wait a minute. This is the this is the land that uh yeah, it has all these big clusters of grapes and all that, but You'd like to have these huge walled cities and there's great armies and there's giants in the land. And so they put fear in the people's hearts. And so because of the fears, they wouldn't didn't want to go in and possess the land. And they said something like this, and I said, oh There's all these these great those giants in there. And we were in our own eyes as grasshoppers. But listen, whenever you see yourself as a grasshopper, you've already lost the battle Whenever you see yourself as insignificant and you don't even, I mean, what did they do? They put themselves in the in the position of having to fight all the battles. And I want you to understand, that's not what God had in mind. God said, I'll go before you and I'll fight your battles. I just want you to go in and claim the land. But they didn't hear, didn't understand, or was afraid to trust God. But there was a guy who did trust God. His name was Caleb. My servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him. And hath fully, hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went, and his seed shall possess it. What is it that makes this man different than the other ten? What was it that made Joshua and Caleb stand up and say, hey, I want, I I let's just go claim the land. Let's let's just follow God. Why is it that there's some people in churches that are gung-ho and they want to serve God and they want to, you know, go out by faith, you know, and claim the land and by faith, you know, do all these wonderful things for God. And then there's a there's those that sit over on the sidelines and say Yeah, well, I mean, yeah, but that's gonna cost money and and uh yeah, but that's gonna take more time and yeah, that's gonna you know and they come up with all these reasons why you can't go in and claim the land And claim the blessings of God, because that's what we're talking about. We need a bunch of Calebs today that has another spirit with him. A bunch of Calebs today that sees the promises of God with the eye of faith is willing to step out and go claim that promise because God said it was there for us and just go get it. We need Christians today that has the eye of faith. For without faith, it's impossible to please God. You'll always have the doubters and the butts, the butters they call them, you know. But yeah, that's right, but yeah, okay, yeah, I know there's big clusters of grapes over there, but you know, there's always that group that's that's out there uh that's gonna do that But there's always going to be some Caleb's and Sha Joshua's that'll say, let's go and claim the let's go claim the land, the promises of God. Well I have I was saved back in nineteen sixty two when I trusted Christ. And there were some things, you know, through the years that I've that I've learned. I haven't, you know, I haven't arrived by any stretch of the imagination. But I've learned a few things and I've seen a few things and maybe there's some things we can learn about Caleb that will help us To become a little more like Caleb. So here's the first thing that I noticed about Caleb's life. And that is the sights that he saw didn't deter him at all. I mean, he saw the same thing the other guys did. He saw the giants. He saw the walled cities, the great armies. He saw everything that they saw, but it didn't stop him. What was the difference? Well, Caleb saw through the eye of faith God's promise. He said, well, wait a minute. Yeah, that's a big army over there, but wait a minute. My God is bigger than that army. He looked through the eye of faith. And listen, when you look through the eye of faith, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. I'm saying we can through the eye of faith. If we have faith, we can do a lot of things for God. The land he saw the land was plush with fruit, just like just like they did. And he was willing to go. He didn't want to uh the sights that he saw did not stop him or deter him from doing what needed to be done. Never let the things you see Determine whether or not you're going to serve God. If you look through the at the physical things, it'll stop you every time. If you look at the barry, listen, every time that God wants something uh done by faith that Listen, there's a lot of things out there that God wants to accomplish, and you can't see it physically. You can't see how it's possible physically. This church is going through I know a little bit of the history of this church, and this church has gone through so many things and and even since Brother Lethman has been here the the you know the radio tower and all the problems that was faced that you guys faced uh just getting the you know the the radio stations and the possibility of a losing and all of that And yet there was a group that said, hey, this is something I believe God wants, and with the eye of faith you moved on and you moved through all the hardness of uh of the things that was hindering you There's always going to be that which hinders the work of God. And we need the eye of faith. Just like Caleb, he looked beyond all the walls. He looked beyond the armies. He looked beyond the giants. And he saw that God's promise was still there on the other side. And he was ready to go and claim that promise. The second thing. Caleb, the saints that sinned did not discourage him. The saints that sinned did not discourage him. No. Uh you're always going to have people who are going to discourage you. I'm talking about Christians. There's going to be Christians that you're people you look up to that somehow or another are going to disappoint you. They're gonna make you feel like quitting. You're gonna say, Well, good night. I thought he was bigger than that, or better than that. I thought well You know, you had him up on a pedestal or her up on a pedestal, and all at once, bang, they fell off that pedestal, and you say, shh. Shh. People always let you down. You can't look at people. You understand that people are just flesh and bone, just like you are. Whenever you start living the perfect life, you can look down your nose at everybody else, but until you live the perfect life, then you have no right to look down at anybody. But you have no right to put people up on a pedestal either. You hold them up before God, you pray for them. And you lift them up that way. But you never put 'em place 'em up on a pedestal where uh where you think nothing can touch 'em, because so as soon as you do that, Satan uh sees that one sticking up above everybody else. He says, Okay guys There's your target and that's where the temptations come in. Don't don't don't get disappointed. When saints fail you. Look at the one who has never failed you, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the one you put your faith in. That's the one that's going to that you're going to stand before in judgment. That's the one that has never let you down. Just look to Him. Look to Him. The third thing The situations in which he suffered did not defeat him. Did you ever stop to think? Now what took place after after they decided they were going to go after you know, they ev they turned on Moses and they were going to stone uh Joshua and Caleb to death and all that and and God had to intervene But they didn't go into the promised land. For forty years they wandered around the wilderness as a result of the fact that they wouldn't obey God and claim the promises of God and the uh promised land, they wandered around for forty years in the wilderness until that generation that said, no, we're not going in, until they died off But Caleb wandered around for forty years too. He could have said Dirty rats. I don't know why I have to wander around here these forty years and and and try to find water and worry about this and worry about I don't know why I have to do it. I mean they're the ones that said that they weren't going in. I wanted to go in. That's just not fair. God's not fair. He could have said that, couldn't he? He could have got all upset because uh but he didn't do that. You know, I think of a we have a guy in our church that uh his name is Wallace And uh Wallace is a is a black man. And uh Wallace is as happy as you ever saw. I like to watch him during service. Now, if he's if he's listening to me on the air, he'd probably get upset at me Wallace and I are good friends. I led his wife to the Lord. And uh but Wallace uh he'll set he He usually sits about the third row from the front. I usually sit over there. He sits over here and and every once in a while I'll watch him during the singing. And he always has a he usually gets a a uh songbook or a hymn book and he's And he can't read it. You know, so he doesn't he doesn't open it up even. He just holds it and he taps it like that. Just you know, he just just to keep rhythm with the music. And uh he's always one of say amen. He just but he's just such a happy guy. And when he when the when the music is going while he's he just I mean just enjoying everything and you'll hear him talking to different people and this and that. Did I tell you he was blind? He's blind. He was blinded when he was a teenager, if I remember the story. But he he just is happy. When you talk to him, you know I never have heard him gripe about being blind. A matter of fact he told me, he said, Don, he said, uh I w he said you You don't know what a blessing it is to be blind. If the blessing is that I got saved because uh I got blind. I got saved because of it. And so that to him was the blessing. It wasn't a uh uh you know something to gripe and complain about. You know, we have a tendency to the little things that you ever notice how that people get upset over such tiny, trivial, insignificant things? And not only do they get mad and upset at it, but they they cut to the point where they don't even come, you know, they'll quit coming to church on some little gripey thing that don't mean anything I never could understand who they're mad at. Are they mad at God? I mean they quit coming to God's house. Are they mad at God? Is that the reason they quit coming to church? Well, Caleb went through the same thing everybody else did, but he never let it dis discourage him We can't let the things that that we see, or the things that we have to go through, that may seem unfair to some people, but we must look at those things and things that God has placed in our life to build and strengthen us faith-wise. Caleb, what a guy. You know this guy isn't a spring chicken either You know, he was like uh, what was he? About uh 40 years old, 40 years old, when he was wandering around the wilderness. Then he goes to Joshua at the end of after they go over and they claim the land and they fight. He's 85 years old and he's saying, Joshua Give me that mountain where the giants are. I want to go up there and whip a bunch of giants at 85 years old. It makes me feel terrible. I can't even climb a mountain at seventy-eight, you know. You know what I'm talking about. The situations in which he suffered did not defeat him. Life is full of situations and circumstances that seem unfair. I can't help but think of two fellows up in New York State. Name is uh Tim and Andy. Tim and Andy. How old are they now? You figure they're about forty? Forty-five. Huh? Forty-five years old. Well. Tim and Andy, they're unusual guys. But what a blessing. Both of them are are retarded. They're about uh what, ten year old, mentally, something like that. I forget which one it is. I think it's Tim. Uh led to singing in a couple of the weeks that we were uh we We preached meetings there, Tim would actually lead the singing. They didn't have a song leader, and so Tim did. They would always win a chalk drawing. Those guys would go down the street and they'd pass out these flyers and invite people to church and people would come. I'm just saying, these are guys that uh, you know, the parents could gripe about that, couldn't they? Why did God give us nah you know that's not it at all? You talk to their uh brother Cole and his wife and and uh They're such a blessing to them. Such a joy in their heart. And the boys are such pleasant gentlemen. I mean, I love those guys. They're just special, special guys. People could look at them and you know find all things but to complain about, but Uh you won't find it in the family or the people that know them. There's nothing to complain about. There's just something special about them. I'm just saying that that the things in life that seem like are are things that where God is kind of uh thrown you a curved ball. Maybe those are the very things that he wants you to to uh uh learn to understand that it's a it's a something of his love that you just need to understand better Then there's something else. Caleb, we're talking about. The difficulties he submitted to didn't uh did not de-energize him. You know, he was like the Energizer Bunny, that guy. He just kept on going. He fought the battles. He I mean when they went back into the promised land, you know, they came to the place where where they uh finally went back and crossed Jordan, you know, and And the walls of Jericho came tumbling down and they went into the land, you know, and they fought the battle after that first generation had died off. The only two that got to go in there was uh there was uh Just Joshua and Caleb, that was it. Even Moses didn't get go into promised land. That's something. But Caleb and Joshua Many times war the warfare that we're in the battles that we fight, spiritual battles that we fight. Uh maybe that's why God says uh that we need to Be not weary in well-doing. He realized that there is a a weariness that kind of overtakes us. But that didn't seem to affect uh uh Caleb. And I think there's a reason for it. Here's three things that I believe was was uh that kept him moving, kept him uh going on, and kept him focused on a goal that he had and and kept him uh claiming the land. And here's here's the here's Here's what I what I saw. He was encouraged, first of all, by God's word. God's promise was you went here and claimed the land and the feet that you've you've trod, uh the land that you've trod with your own feet. He said, I'm going to give that to you and your inheritance. You and your children are going to have this land because of your faithfulness and the fact that you fully followed the Lord. So the Word of God is one thing that encouraged him. The second thing is that he was energized by the Spirit of God. Since he walked with the Spirit. The Spirit of God energized him. You want to know something? You Christians here, and some of you kind of get in the bully grub and you get down and you uh you've you've started getting lazy You don't go out soul winning anymore. You don't uh have a burden for the lost. You just uh you don't just come and fulfill your duty to sit in the pew for an hour or two a week and and then go home and and you're you're satisfied. What's your problem? You need to be re-energized by the Spirit of God. You've quit following the Spirit. You've not been encouraged with the Word of God. Probably you've quit reading your Bible. I suspect that'd be one of the big reasons why you quit serving God. Why you've got kind of laxodical in in what you call service. Encouraged by the Word of God, energized by the Spirit of God, and enabled by the grace of God. I'm going to tell you, 85 years old, and he's saying, give me that mountain up there, he's going to have some grace. Amen. He's gotta have some grace. And Philippians chapter four says I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. You know When you have a goal set, and I believe there was a goal, he had his eyes set on that mountain, and he said, That's that's mine, and Joshua, I I want that mountain. I like that song, don't you? Man, I want that mountain. I want that mountain. The mountain that God has given me. And then there's the final thing, and that is the successes that he sustained did not satisfy him. You say, well, hmm, that's a strange one. Well maybe it is. But you know, here's what I found, that sometimes people, when they have um uh spiritual successes in their life They have a tendency to rely on them to carry them through and so they they back off. They have a spiritual battle and they wage it and and they've done good and they have a victory in that spiritual battle, whatever it is. Maybe it's a temptation, maybe it's uh winning somebody to Christ, or maybe it's witnessing or whatever it is. But but uh uh The question that you have to ask yourself is is, are you satisfied? The successes he sustained did not satisfy him. Even though he'd won all these battles and everything, he's still standing there in front of Joshua saying, I want more. I want more. I'm not satisfied. You know you can't live in the past. The past is dead, it's over. You know, I like to I like to reminisce, I like to get with people my own age and And particularly uh perhaps somebody that's gone to school with me or something. I yeah, I enjoy sitting talking about, you know, and and uh reminisce a little bit and uh so forth. But you can't live in the past Let's face it, the pa the past is gone. You say, well, at my age, well, you know, you don't have anything except the past, and that's why I like to go back and visit it. I'm hey listen, you know what I I found If you know Christ as your personal Savior, if you love the Lord, you're looking to the future. And that day when you see Him face to face, that's where your focus ought to be on. You don't worry about the you don't worry about the past. Uh you live in the day, but you look forward to the future. That day when the trump of God will sound, and we're taken up to meet him in the air, or that day when When perhaps death comes and claims our life. And we wake her open our eyes and there is the Lord looking at us. And we smile, he says, Hi. You didn't think it was going to happen like this, did you? I imagine he'll have a lot to say to us in that first moment when we see him face to face. The future is bright for the Christian. We have something to look forward to. I don't worry about the past. I don't live in the past. Things I like to look, you know, I yeah, I remember days when I deer hunted and did this and did that. in my younger years. That's exciting. And today, you know, I but today I enjoy what we have today. But I look forward and I find myself more and more, more and more. Longing for that day when I'll see my Savior face to face. I really mean that. It's good to have friends, and I claim all of you as friends and dear friends, dear friends But I look forward to that day when I'll see Jesus face to face. I hope that's what you're looking for. I hope that you you have this relationship with Jesus Christ so that when the time comes and the trumpet sounds that you'll go up to meet him in the air. But if you've never trusted Christ, understand this. I want to make it clean uh very clear to you that if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, when that trump of God sounds and the Christians go up You're going to be left behind. You're going to be left behind to receive the mark of the beast. You're going to believe a lie. The Bible says in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, you'll believe a lie and be damned. I'm going to tell you something If you're not saved here tonight, then tonight you need to walk this aisle. Come on, let somebody take a Bible and show you from the Word of God how you can be saved and how you can know that you're saved beyond a shadow of a doubt. Maybe there's some Christians here and you've got lax of basic in in serving God. Perhaps you're just like some of those, uh maybe some of those ten spies that could find all the reasons in the world why not to serve God Now I'm tired when I come in the evening. I work hard every all day and and uh and Sunday's the only day I can rest you. You can just throw all those that garbage you want to at the Lord, but none of us are gonna stick I can tell you right now, when he when he when you stand before him one day, none of those excuses are going to help you. None of 'em. None of 'em. So the question I have for you, number one, are you saved? Do you know beyond a shadow of the doubt if you was to die right now, you'd go to heaven? Can you know that? You certainly can. Paul said, I'm confident of this very thing. He which hath begun a good work in me shall perform it till the day of Christ. I These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life, John says God made it plain that the believer does not have to go through life saying, well, I hope so. Well, I hope I'm saved. Well I think I am. Well I I might be. I remember one time when I uh I think If that's one if that's you, hey, I wouldn't give you a nickel for your salvation. I wouldn't. What you need to do is walk this aisle. When you come up here, the pastor will be standing here, you just say, Pastor I need to make sure about this thing. And you'll see that somebody with the Word of God will show you how to be saved and know it beyond a shadow of a doubt. But there's a lot of Christians out here that you've just been sitting around. You've just been just been going through the motions, getting getting by with as little as you can do. What you need is to be, number one, encouraged with the Word of God and the promises that He's made you. And you need to be energized by the Spirit of God. And you need to claim the grace of God and say, God, I need your grace to get out of this slump and begin to serve you again. And the first step in that for the Christian is to go to 1 John 1 9 and say, Dear God, I have failed you and I know it, and I confess to you that I've that I've failed you. And I'm asking you to Forgive me, cleanse me, get me back on my feet, get me back in the game, get me back fighting the Philistines again. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's what his promise is, if you come. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing.