And um that's good stuff in there. We're not looking at that tonight. Um I'm going to start reading in verse 20, actually, and we'll skip around a little bit But we're we'll we'll we'll just dive into it. Verse 20 of chapter 5. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, shall no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. It's a pretty significant statement. Think about who the Pharisees were. Think about now he's he's he's preaching to a multitude of people here But he's referencing the Pharisees. And and and think about who they they had the monopoly on religion, you know? Um they were it. They they were the standard. They were the They they they were the the as as high as you can get in the religious world, you know what I mean? And so um he's addressing them and he said, Except you exceed their righteousness, then you can you can't get to the kingdom of heaven. You can't get to the kingdom of heaven unless you exceed their righteousness. So he's setting a pretty high standard from our perspective. And so I'll keep reading here. Verse 21, he's now going to elaborate on that statement. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old, thou shalt not kill. Whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you Whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Go to verse twenty-seven. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. Verse 31, it hath been said Who shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. But I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication. causeth her to commit adultery, and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced, committeth adultery. Verse thirty-three. Again ye have heard that hath been said by them of old Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but thou shalt perform the Lord thine oaths. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven For it is God's throne. Look at verse thirty eight. Ye have heard that it hath been said, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, but I say unto you That ye resist not evil. But whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, let him Have thy cloak also, whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with in twain. Verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, hate thy enemy, but I say unto you, love your enemy Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them, which despitefully use you, and persecute you. So you see a theme You heard this, but I say this. You've heard this, but I say this. He's referencing the law of the Pharisees, and I'm going to get elaborate on that here in a little bit. But um the title is Let's Just Call Things What God Calls It Let's just call it what God calls it. So Lord, we thank you for this day you've given us. I pray now that you would fill me with your spirit, God, as I um um present these thoughts Um Lord, I want to be true, faithful to your word. If I'm about to say anything that is contrary to your word, I pray you keep me from saying it, God. I pray you direct all of our hearts, help us to Help us to not only learn tonight, Lord, but apply what we've learned. And Lord, I thank you so much for many blessings, most of all for yourself, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. So again, Pharisees, they had their kind of uh monopoly on on religion. They were they were the the top dog, right, um, in the spiritual realm. And some of this stuff just cracks me up. If you do some study on it, it's hilarious. Uh and he's referencing some of their laws. Now the law, you know, the the the the first five books, you know, you have the written law. And within the law there Within the the books of law there's various types of law. Some are civil laws, some are moral laws, and you know there's different laws. Some um You know, in the New Testament, uh God address Jesus addresses them and and and we're good now. We don't like we can eat shrimp. You know, that's a good thing. Amen. Praise the Lord for that. But that's not one of the moral laws. You know what I'm saying? There's different types of laws within the law. Um but the Pharisees they elaborated a whole lot on simple things, like for example, honor the Sabbath, keep it holy. Right? They had so many laws within that law. So like one of their laws was you could not take so many steps from your house on the Sabbath because if you do, that means you're working. Of course conveniently they found a way around the law and if you study look it up they would take a piece of their house with them, piece of brick with them and once they would kick walk so many steps They would drop a piece of that brick. They'd break off that piece of the brick and and and so then they could start over because that's their house and then they could take that many more steps. Very convenient. Actually, um pretty smart. But um they would find ways around their own laws and things like that. Um he references here uh two of these that hath been said Uh verse twenty seven, you've heard that it was said by them of old thou shalt not commit adultery. I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, commit adultery with her in his heart. And he references that again also in verse 31 and 32, he said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. But I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, save me the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery. Whosoever shall marry her that is divorced commit adultery. He's referencing that. Another thing the Pharisees would do is they took what Moses allowed because of the hardness of their heart. He took what they allowed, um, they took what he allowed, and they ran with it And so they made it very, very easy for themselves as Pharisees to legally get a divorce, but then they would hold the people to a stricter standard. It was messed up. They were living double standards. They were living double lives And um it it's it's uh not unlike a lot of politicians are now, you know what I'm saying? And uh so that's that's kinda how they operated And so they would hold and then and then if you look at this in verse um uh thirty eight, you had heard that it said eye for eye, tooth for tooth And I say unto you, resist not evil. And if you look at verse 41, he says, Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twenty. Um Jesus standard was way higher than that of the the Pharisees, and that's where I wanted to get to. So they're saying, oh, these are the checks. You gotta do this, don't kill, don't do this, don't do this, don't commit adultery. You know, in the they he was going they go down the list But his righteousness, and that's where I started out, verse 20, exceeded the righteousness of the Pharisees. His standard is perfection It I mean so you could keep the whole law and and the written law and and then the or even the oral law and all that, and you could go down through that and keep all the checks and ballots, which you can't by the way, but you could go down and keep all those check marks. But your righteousness is still not where his righteousness is. You know, one of the ro verses in the Romans wrote, All sin comes short of the glory of God. with that of the Pharisees, we're like, oh maybe I can attain that. But if we compare our righteousness with that of of perfection I mean you you can't get it. You can't attain it. And so he's addressing this and what Jesus is addressing here is is the main thing is he's addressing their heart. Again, you might not actually physically commit the act of adultery, but you look at a one with lust in your heart, and then you've committed adultery in your heart You know, and and and and and if you're angry with your brother, it's uh it's like it in your heart it's like committing murder. His standard is so much higher than even that of the Pharisees Which would have been a slap in the face to them because they're thinking in their mind how strict we are and we're this and we're that and we're the height and Jesus' like, No, no, no, no, no, your heart's messed up You know, you you teared good on the outside, but on the inside full of dead man's bones. You know what I'm talking about? That's that's that's the what he's addressing. The whole issue is the heart. So but anyway, as I was going through this, as I was thinking about this What Jesus is saying here is you're you're calling things what the wrong thing. Now let me explain this. Um I'm gonna use fifth or sixth grade English because that's the level I'm on, so please forgive me. But he he's saying he's like you got this thing all messed up. You got this thing all messed up. You're saying that this is murder. Well I'm saying this is. You're saying this is adultery. I'm saying this is. You you understand what I'm saying? You're saying that I'm saying this And he's trying to make a point here. And as I'm going through this, I'm getting a little bit convicted. I'll be honest with you. Not a little bit, a lot bit convicted. And so take all that, put it in your pocket, we'll pull it out at the end, okay? So we'll come back to that thought. But now as as I'm thinking about all this, as I'm going through this The the world we live in, the current world we live in, current society we live in, it's very um squishy, wishy-washy, you know you know what I'm saying? Again, fifth, sixth grade English, help me out here. But it it's it's it's It's all over the place. It's all over the place. So Evan might say, well, I really believe that this carpet's green. And then Isaac says, I really believe this carpet is blue. And then and then Aubrey's like, well I don't even believe this is carpet. You know, what's true for you might not be true for me. You know what I'm saying? That's a very common thing right now. It's like, well we can't really be sure of anything into that. What always cracks me up, I always respond, are are you sure? You know. Um so the the that's kind of where we're at as a society. We want to call things what we want to call them And I think that's dangerous. Words have meanings, words have definitions. And so if today I call something an apple and tomorrow I call it an orange Did it I mean it's it is what it is. If it's an apple, it's an apple. You know, if it's an orange, it's an orange. And that's something silly. It's that's the first thing that came to my mind. Maybe I'm hungry, I don't know. But that that's just Things are what they are, but then where do we get the definitions from? How do we how do we what's the standard of truth? And this isn't the message, but the standard of truth obviously is God's Word. Without God's Word, there's no standard. So, as a Christian, I think it just makes sense to use the Bible as our standard. In fact, that's what not just that it makes sense, that's what we're supposed to do. And if you're a non-believer, you're still using the Bible as your standard, you just don't know it. Because without it there is no truth. Without it, you know what I'm saying? There's there's just People use biblical principles and yet they're against the Bible. It's just uh it makes no sense. But so I think it's important to call things what God calls them. Now, um, as I'm talking about this, as I'm thinking about this, I think one one area that we've really messed up By say we, I mean Christianity as a whole. We've allowed ourselves to call things what the world calls things. We've allowed ourselves to call things what the enemy calls things. And I'm going to elaborate, I'm going to give some things. Okay, again, fifth grade English, help me out, just bear with me. But as Christians, if we're going to be Christ-like, then I think it's just important to use God's words. So I got I got three three points tonight. I'll give them all to you and then we'll go back through 'em. Point number one is we need to use God's vocabulary. We need to use God's vocabulary, his word choices. Words mean things. We need to use his vocabulary. Point number two is we need to use God's point of view. I'll come back to that. We'll elaborate on that. But if we're going to look at things from a certain perspective, why would I look at things from the enemy's perspective? Why would I look at things from the devil's perspective, the world's perspective? I'm a Christian. Look at things from God's perspective. Number three, I think we need to have God's heart. We need to have God's heart. I'll go back through this. So number one, we need to use God's uh vocabulary. If you fight on the enemy's terms, you're gonna lose. You're gonna lose. During World War One is when the the shotgun, God bless America, when the shotgun uh became real popular in combat, it was trench warfare, so you have a trench, you know, narrower than this and you have a bunch of the enemy lined up And you have double A buckshot and you slam fire that and you just ph right you clear the whole trench. It's wonderful. It's I mean it's that's Wonderful. It's good. I mean it's an effective weapon. You know what I'm saying? And so actually uh Germany c uh said it was a war crime. They declared it a war crime if you used a shotgun. Um they used mustard gas though, so But anyway, so if they caught someone with a shotgun or with any shotgun rounds on them, they were executed immediately. They weren't taken prisoner. They were executed immediately if they were caught with a shotgun because it was they were trying to scare us and but we had shotguns, so it's okay. Um and so that was their terms. If you're gonna fight a war, you cannot use shotguns. So you know what we did? We used shotguns. What if we would have said, oh, I'm sorry, sorry, we're winning too much. I'm sorry about that. We'll stop winning. No, if you fight on their terms, you're gonna lose. And if we we probably would have lost if we would have done that, right? So, I mean we told them to quit using mustard gas and they kept using mustard gas, and we they told us to quit using shotguns and we kept using shotguns and we well we won And if we would have fought on their terms, we'd have lost. And somehow over the past I don't know how many years um We have just allowed the enemy to dictate the terms. We've allowed the enemy to dictate the vocabulary. We're not using God's words. We're using their words. Now, words have meanings. There can be a lot of strength in a word. There can be a lot of weakness in a word. And you can have one thing, one act, and depending on what you call that one thing, it can be viewed as something that's just an atrocity. were viewed as something good based off of what you call it. Me and Verne have this theory, and I think I'm incorrect because I tried it on someone else the other day Um and same thing. But I was convinced that no one really actually likes buckwheat cakes. They just like to say buckwheat cake. It's cool, you know, hey. I like buckwheat case, you know. Anyway, but then I was proven wrong, and then I tried on someone else, I was proven wrong again. But anyway, pretend I wasn't proven wrong Um words mean things. Do you like buckwheat cakes? You do? Does anyone not like them? Oh, okay. So I'm in the minority, but I'm not alone. That's okay. Anyway. They're sour, you know that right? But they're supposed to be, I guess? Yeah. Anyway. I'm not talking about that tonight. If you want to know how I feel about buckwheat cakes, I'll tell you later. But um it depending on what you call something You know, the there was the the the poem of rose by any other name, would it smell sweet or something like that? Okay, so let me give you a more applicable example here. Should we call it Mutilation or should we call it health care? See the difference? I'm gonna get I'm gonna really get up in some people's grill, okay? Um Should we call it um chopping a person up, sucking them out, or women's health care? You understand what I'm saying? But we should use Bible terms. Murder or health care. Killing, murder, punishable by death, or right to choose. You see, it's the exact same act. But based off what you call it, and so we're losing the fight. We've had some big victories though in that area, by the way. Praise the Lord for that. That's awesome. But we've been fighting this for so long, fighting against abortion. I think that's one of the biggest mistakes is calling it abortion. I think that's one of the biggest mistakes saying, yeah, I'm I'm against this Healthcare Act. I'm I'm against I'm not going to get graphic. I'm against that violence towards children. I'm against that. Why? Because God is. You call something one thing. I mean it's the same act. It's the exact same thing. But if you call it murder or if you call it health care, it has a totally different spin on it. If you call it, again, I don't want to get graphic, I know there's little kids in here, but if you call it what it is versus what the world calls it, we're fighting on their terms. No, it's time to get the shotgun of God's word back out and clear that trench. No no don't don't let them dictate your terms. God dictates our terms. We're using his terms. So you can have one act, one thing, and you can call it sodomy or an alternate lifestyle. You can call it love. You can call we're using the wrong vocabulary. We can use the word reprobate, or we can use the word love. And we're s we're using the same word to define the same act. I see where I I see where sodomy is referred to as reprobate, uh inconvenient. In Romans 1 it says that um um I I I can I see the word lust. Are we gonna call it that, or are we gonna call it what the enemy calls it? If you start saying the words that they're if you start using their terms, if you start using their vocabulary, you're gonna lose that battle. Because you're fighting on their terms Quit calling it that what they're calling it. Call it what God calls it You can have one act, you can have one thing. I'm saying you're doing the exact same thing. And you can say, Well, yeah, we're living together right now. Or you can use the word fornication. You can say, oh yeah, well uh well we're we're gonna get married or you can call it what b God calls it. You you are you with me? And I you could go down a long list of these things. You could call you could call it um tipsy. Or drunk. You know what I'm saying? You could it's the same word that describes this I mean it's it's we're talking about the same thing. And that's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, no, no, no, you're using this standard. You're using the standard of the Pharisees. Use my standard. I don't want to use their vocabulary. I don't want to use their words. I want to use God's words. And I think one reason that we have been fighting some of these battles that really aren't even battles. Well shouldn't have been. It's because we allowed the enemy to take the hill and we allowed them to dictate the terms of the battle, that of the war that they started So i i you know, Pearl Harbor attacked. Uh out of nowhere. We were we were we were attacked Pearl Harbor out of nowhere. I said Pearl Harbor attacked. No, no, no. You know what I'm saying? We were attacked out of nowhere. Surprise. December 7, 41. And um we declared war. Right thing to do. Now what if, what if um Japan would have said, you know, no no before no, you can't just come attack us like this You gotta get you gotta do this, you can't use this many planes, you gotta use this many ships, and um you can't invade these islands over here, but then yeah, you can come to war That would have been dumb. Excuse me. That would have been dumb. You don't fight on their term terms. Sorry. Ms. Diane thought that was funny. If you fight on their terms, you lose. You gotta fight on our terms, fight on God's terms. You've got to use God's vocabulary rather than use the term and I'm telling you, this is where I got under a lot of conviction because I'm using their terms. I had been. I've been saying, oh yeah, I'm against abortion. Why even use the word? The word has a meaning and it existed before we were slaughtering them. To abort means to quit something. You know what I'm saying? Gay marriage isn't even a thing unless you're talking about my marriage because I'm happy in my marriage. That's what it should mean. I have a very happy marriage. I mean, don't use their terms. Are you for or against gay marriage? I'm all for it. I think you ought to be happy in marriage. You know, you know, you know, that's Why are we letting them dictate the vocabulary? Why are we letting the enemy, the world, and the devil's vocabulary, why are we using that? Don't use their vocabulary. Don't use God's vocabulary. What is God's word to define the thing? What is God's word to define that act, whether it be something good, whether it be something bad? God has words, use God's words Use his vocabulary. When you're addressing things at work, when you're addressing things, you know, people will end up at uh uh um On the job or whatever in school, people might bring things up and they're talking maybe in the political area or in the personal area or anything in between Don't use their vocabulary, use God's. Okay, number two. We ought to have God's point of view. This makes sense Again, I think we're trying to look at everything from the enemy's point of view. And okay, you could make the argument, there's you know strategy, knowing what they're gonna do, all this stuff, I understand, whatever. But my point of view Should not match that of the world. My point of view should not match that of the enemy, of the devil. And by the way, people aren't the enemy. We understand that principle. That's a different sermon. People aren't the enemy. And Jesus even says in the same thing, love Love love them. Love your enemy. Pray for them. Um despitefully use you, persecute you. That's a that's a th he said that. That's a thing But we're using the enemy's vocabulary, but I think we're looking at things from the enemy's point of view. Aren't we? Man, you and I You look at things from the world's perspective, you flip on the news, no matter if it's Fox or CNN, everyone's talking about there's all kinds of mess going on. Now I don't need to get into it here, but you know you all know what's going on. There's all kinds of mess going on. And we're looking at s our perspective is becoming that of a political perspective. Our perspective, because we watch Fox News so much or CNN news, which whatever, pick your flavor, it's like it's kind of like Coke and Diet Coke. They're both bad for you if one just claims to be better. Okay. I just thought of that. Anyway. And then you think you're being healthy when you drink Diet Coke, but it's really never mind. That's fine. Write that down for me. I'm not Anyway, um you're watching if you're not careful, you're you're gonna get that perspective. And you're a whole I mean everything you do, when you when you wake up in the morning you you're you you you're looking at the perspective of Fox and you're looking at the perspective of whatever you're watching you you get up in the morning then then when you go to work that's what you're talking about And you get home and that's all you talk to your spouse about, and then then that that's your whole thing. You're looking at everything from that perspective. But at least this diet coke, it's still bad for you It's still bad for you. That's still the wrong perspective. Our perspective should not be that of Anything other than of God's perspective. Now, how do I get God's perspective? It's his word. It's his word. Someone asked you, Evan, what is your position on fill in the blank Now, I don't know if you always have your Bible with you, especially when you're like putting pepperonias on the pizza. It'd be kind of hard to do that. But if someone said like what's your perspective on the thing? I understand you can't do this, but work with me here for a minute. This should be our response. Randy asked me, uh Pastor Matt, what is your view on Whatever. Hang on a minute. Let me tell you. Um, let me see. Oh, um I'm for it. Oh, what's your perspective on this? Oh hang on, let me look. Um I think that's back here. Um, I'm against it You understand the illustration? My perspective is this. It should be. Not always. But when it's not, I know it's not, and I know I'm messing up. This should be my point of view. This should be your point of view. This should be our perspective. The sermon that we're reading in Matthew chapter 5 is Jesus' sermon, right? You've heard this, but I say this. Therefore, as a Christian, my responsibility is to look at things from his point of view. The things he mentioned in here, yes, were examples Um those examples he used. Yes, that should be our perspective on those examples that he used, but that thought applies to all of his word because he is the living word. It's God's work. That is my perspective. What is your view on this? What is your stance on this? And it it can be anything, it could be in the private world, the political world, the family, the whatever. Business. Should we do this in our business? Hang on. Let me tell you. Yeah, we should. Yeah, we should do that. We should invest. Should we do this in our business? Hang on. Let me look. Um no, no, it wouldn't be a good idea to go into that much debt. You you understand what I'm saying? Because it's in here. So it's not and and we we're we were going through Baptist distinctives with with the teens and a few weeks ago we looked at the um at the at the Bible, authority of scripture. This isn't just our authority for how to get to heaven, it's our authority for how to live. So, like my relationship with my wife, my relationship with you, my uh relationship with God, but not just relationships. Um The way I plan my my my week. The way I plan my finances. The way I you understand what I'm saying? It's everything. It's every aspect. And if we are so stuck on looking at things from the perspective of CNN or Fox, or I'm going to bring it down to millennial and Gen Z. We're so stuck at looking at all the the the the the perspective of that of an influencer, of that of someone on Instagram or something like that. That's our perspective We see the world the way that person that has fifty thousand s uh whatever uh likes or whatever, that the way they the way they view things is the way we view things. It's messed up They don't even know me, first off. And I don't even know them. I only know the the fifteen, twenty seconds of them that I see. I don't see the all the other stuff behind the door. That's a different sermon. I don't see the heartache that they have with their relationships, the struggles they have with their parents, the struggles they have with their addictions. I don't see any of that. I just see the cute little uh that's that's a yeah, look at this picture, whatever. That's dumb. It's dumb. But I look at everything through their perspective. He does know me. He does care about me enough to die for me. I think I ought to look at things through his perspective. So one, I need to use his words. Two, I need to use his perspective. So what is my view on fill-in-blank? Let me tell you. It's that. Um now number three, this is where I wanted to get you. Remember I told you to put that in your pocket and pull it back out? You can you can reach in there and grab it now, okay? Gotta have his heart. His heart. Now, okay, work with me. Yes, we should use God's vocabulary. Obviously, we already established that. We ought to call sin what it is. We ought to call I mean and don't just say the word abortion, call it murder, call it uh genocide, call it well you want don't just use don't use the word gay marriage. That's not even a thing. It's not possible. I saw an article that talked about these two guys getting divorced. I'm like, no, they're not Because you have to get married to get a divorce. And they can't get married because they're two guys. Anyway. Um that's to me that was like anyway. But use God's vocabulary, correct? Now here's where I wanted to get to. Do it with God's heart. And this is where it really I told you I got convicted. I'm getting convicted again. We're saying, oh, we need to call that what it is. Yes. But Jesus is saying, no, no, your heart. I I should not be judging someone on a different standard than I'm judging my own self, correct? That's a thing. So if I'm going to be saying, oh, well, we need to not use this word, we need to use the word murder, same word he used to describe the way you treat your mom and dad or your brother. Hate. Ouch. Yeah, you ought to use his vocabulary, including how you deal with yourself. That's right, that's that is not right. That is uh that's adultery. Yeah. Just like when you looked at someone with lust on your phone Oh, that's just that's just wrong. This isn't right. We need God's vocabulary. That is murder. They're killing those children. Just like when I hate my brother. I already said that one, didn't I? You get the point though. See, if I don't have the right heart, then man, what a hypocrite I'd be What a hypocrite I'd be. If I don't have the right heart, and my relationship with my spouse is not right. It's a little hypocritical for me to go attack someone else that's in the same sin. Because it is. That's his standard. My relationship with m I hit the microphone. My relationship with my with my wife isn't right and I'm not faithful to her, it'd be pretty hypocritical for me to go address someone else in the exact same sin Be hip pretty hypocritical for me for me to say, oh, this isn't right, we should we shouldn't be murdering our children, which we shouldn't be And at the same time, I'm so angry. So angry at Evan. Example, okay. Example. I'm so angry And I use the word I hate him. I don't. I hate him. Wrong heart. Wrong heart. I think we're losing the war for these three reasons. The battle. We lost we won the war. We're losing the battle for these three reasons. We're fighting on their terms. And we're looking at things from their perspective. And we're fighting our own selves because our heart ain't right. I told you I got convicted a little bit. I say the w if I If I said the words, I hate whatever, my brother, my wife, my whatever. I hate someone in my family. Well then, my righteousness has not exceeded the righteousness of the Pharisees. Verse twenty. I'm no better than a Pharisee. That hurts The Pharisees are the bad guys. I don't know if you knew that. I don't want to be one of the bad guys. And he he Jesus gave a few examples here, that of murder, that of adultery, that of um Uh what were the other ones? I don't even remember. We read them. Um Love your neighbor, hate your enemy. He said, Love your enemy. He gave some examples. But that examples are just that. It applies to all scripture. Are we going to use their vocabulary? And hand them the victory. I don't want to win the victory on abortion. I want to win the victory of the genocide. We need to quit killing them. I'm I'm I'm praying and I I I really believe that this could happen. Everyone I've heard people say, oh that'll never happen. I I think that the homosexual marriage is going to be reversed the same way Roe vs. Wade was. I think that'll happen. We're talking on a grand scale. I think that can happen. But it won't if we use their terms. It won't if we use their perspective. Oh, I just think everyone should be able to love who they want. No, that's not. That's their vocabulary and that's their perspective. Use God's. But the main thing, and the whole point he was making, the whole reason for this section was he's addressing our heart. He's addressing our heart. The point Jesus was making was to not be like the Pharisees, but to address the heart. So I'm done, you can close your Bibles. Are you Really it's three things. Are you using the world's terms, their vocabulary? Two? Are you using their point of view? Or is this your perspective? Is this your point of view? How's your heart? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a few minutes. Pastor's gonna do the invitation for us.