Getting the gospel of Jesus Christ out. And uh someone gets saved in New Zealand, they've made a decision to trust Jesus Christ, but also to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. And they get involved. We have a hundred percent in Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, hundred percent when we go out and everything that we do unless someone is working. We have some nurses at a swing shift. But other than that, everyone is involved. We get out on our Gospel Track Blitz Month. I go all day long. If anyone's not working, all night we go through the evening and we just blitz our town. Uh every house in our town gets Four gospel tracts. Justin at one month, uh month of March puts us out to twenty thousand gospel tracts and uh just a small group. Each of us can be doing the same thing. And I want to encourage us with that tonight. Um So Little Time. And that second verse in that song, So Little Time, how many of us have failed? And we often fail from the pulpit all the way down Uh when the man of God stands up here, your pastor stands up here, he has just as much flesh as you and I. And uh when he does, he can fail just like you and I do. Each of us need to be encouraged and God did not give us a dis Discouragement, but he left us with great courage, great power, great love, and a great sound mind. And that's what we're going to look at tonight real quickly in 2 Timothy chapter number 1. And uh see how we can be encouraged and uh doing all that we can uh to get the work done for God, for Jesus Christ, before it's eternally too late. In 1 Timothy, Paul was dealing with Timothy as far as the church is concerned and the order of the body of believers, the entire church church, everyone the functionality of the church. the uh uh the the qualifications of the pastor, the deacons, uh, the orderliness of the church. That was in uh Paul was dealing with that in 1 Timothy When he gets into 2 Timothy, he's dealing with the orderliness of the church, but he's narrowing it down to the individual. And that's each one of us. And as a body of believers and as a church, you've got a lot going on You got a lot going on with your missions program, with your soul winning program. And as a church we can see and we see that from New Zealand, uh how much is going on as a body of believers But in order for that to happen in the most effectiveness from the body of believers, each individual has to be dealt with. And that's what I'll look at today is challenge you individually. Are you doing all that you can for the Lord Jesus Christ? And if not Then let's see how we can do it according to how Paul dealt with Timothy. In verse number seven, the Bible says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of a sound mind, uh and of love and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God, who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. Verse number nine applies to every one of us. Every one of us were not called by our own works. Your memory verse this uh this month in uh Ephesians 2, verse 8 and 9. It's not of works lest any man should boast. But you get to verse number 10 and it tells us why we are saved by the work of Christ, that now we can go out and do the good works for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. And here when Paul is dealing with Timothy, telling him to go out and do the work of God, he's telling them in verse number nine that he he he was saved by the works of Christ. But also everyone that's saved by the work of Christ is also called to do the work of Christ. Every one of us here are a missionary. We're a missionary, we're fulfilling each one of us fulfilling that great commission in Matthew 28, verse 19 and 20. You right now, you are in a mission field right here in the United States of America. Where you work at today, God has called you to that workplace, to the schoolhouse. He's called you to this church and to this community, just as he's called us to go to the other side of the world and to fulfill that great commission. We all are missionaries, and as we go out and we do the work of God, we have to do the work of God in Christ Jesus. No more are we cannot do the work any more in ourselves than we can work to save ourselves. And I want to look at that today, how we can do uh the work of God. If I was to give it a a title to the message, I always forget to give it a title. I know there's a lot of fancy titles out there, but I just say how can we be a courageous soul winner? to be a courageous soul winner. And I'm going to get that out of one verse, one word in verse number seven. But let's ask God's blessing on his preached word tonight. Father, we love you. We thank you, Lord, for this day. We thank you for the Word of God, for the power of the Word of God that saves us by the work of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary. That same power of the Word of God can call us and has called each one of us to do a mighty work. You saved us, Lord. You didn't take us away, but you left us to do the work of Christ and the power of Christ. I pray tonight that each of us can glean from the message today what you would have for us right where we are in a Christian walk, whether we're a young Christian, an old Christian, a backslidden Christian. Or one Lord that's right where we need to be for you, that every one of us can be encouraged, and each one of us can walk out of this church tonight a better Christian than we walked in as. In your precious holy name we pray. Amen. And verse number seven, and my my met my points, I got three points that I'll give you out of verse number seven. But in introduction, the first part of verse seven says, For God God hath not given us the spirit of fear. There's much fear out there. You remember the first time that you went out, you had soul winning training? Uh you had a partner that was working with you, then he put one of these in your hand, and you were the one that was supposed to do that right there. You remember how when you remember w how you felt that day? If your hands weren't shaking, it was shaking on the inside, and you thought for sure when you were going to put this And to the hand of that person that was going to open up that door, their hand their hand was going to come out like a big alligator and it was going to take your hand right off. You know when we go out and we do the work of God We still have to battle this same flesh that we always have had. We still have that same sin nature. Jesus told us in Matthew that with the the uh the spirit is willing But the flesh is weak. And our flesh or uh the spirit is willing to go out and do the work of God. But if we go out and we do the work of God in the flesh, then we have got what's called that spirit of fear God told us, or Jesus told us here in verse number seven, that God has not given us the spirit of fear. Doing a little word study to understand this word fear. This word fear right here, uh the word fear is used five hundred and twenty-four different times in our King James Bible. And as I do it, the best thing, the best commentary on the Word of God is the word of God. The best dictionary on the Word of God is the Word of God. And as we do a word study on this word fear five hundred and twenty-four different times, the one of several times this word fear is used in an aspect of of what we would all consider fear. I would think of fear instantly as being something where I'm trembling and shaking, standing at the door, ready to give it to someone, to attract to someone. Or you think about little children all on this end of the spectrum, if you're looking at a scale of like one to ten on where the uh fear was all about. On one end of it, we would think of fear as being something that's going to make us shake and tremble like a child afraid of the dark. Or uh that day that you knew that you needed to trust Jesus Christ. Christ is your Savior. Maybe like me you put it off and purposely put it off. You didn't want to be saved. Maybe you woke up in the middle of the night dreaming that you're in the pits of hell and you're shaking, you're trembling, and Fear. That's what fear is on this end of the spectrum. But that's not the only way the word fear is used throughout the Word of God. There's many times the word fear, I would put it on this end of the spectrum, is used with the word God or the Word Lord. We have the word fear of the Lord or the fear of God that phrases throughout the Word of God. Now that when fear is put with the fear of the Lord or the fear of God, it's not speaking about trembling and fear as something over here. We're not trembling From a great God that's up in heaven, that's ready and willing just to reach down and squash us like some big monster simply because we sin against God. That's not what the fear of God is all about When you study out the word fear with that phrase the fear of God or the fear of the Lord, that word fear it falls into a definition of being a reverence or great awe or a great respect for God Almighty. I think about an easy way to explain it is I had the fear of daddy Anyone ever have the fear of daddy? Okay. I was talking to someone uh just recently, maybe today, that uh we spoke and we knew what it was is it child that as we were growing up and we knew that if we did this we got this many licks and we would uh balance them out. Is this worth it to get this? And how often did we do this because the licks was worth it? Now the fear of daddy doesn't mean that my dad was some ogre or some monster uh uh that would just Abusive father. My daddy was not an abusive father. My daddy disciplined me. It was called bloodshed and the woodshed. He would take us out And he would take us over to the tree. He would have us pick the switch off of the tree. After he was done with the switch, then he would tell me whether or not I picked the right switch. And if I didn't pick the right switch, guess what I had to do I had to go pick another switch. I did not have I had the fear of daddy, but I had a reverence and awe for my father. He was not an abusive man. He disciplined me for sinning, and when I would sin, uh he would take care of that. He would then hug me, he loved me, and I loved my father. That's what the fear of God is or the fear of the Lord is We fear God not because of who he is, but because of who we are. We don't fear God because he's just gonna willing to just squash us. We fear him because we know that we sin against him and we rightfully deserve all that he's going to bring against us. So we develop this the the reverence and awe for God that we do not want to sin against an Almighty God So you have the word fear on this end that means a reverence or an awe. You have fear on this end that is speaking of trembling and shaking and really scared or afraid of something. Then we have the word fear here in this text. Where God said, For God has not given us the spirit of fear. When I did a search, now it came out five hundred and twenty-four times the word fear is used. But there is only used this one time. in this one verse right here. This word here, used for this word fear, is not used anywhere else in Scripture. So I opened up my Webster's 1828, took a look at the definition, and this word fear right here means to lack mental or moral strength. to lack mental or moral strength. If we're going to put it into one word, that means that word fear would mean to be discouraged What that verse is telling us right here before we get into the message is that God has not given us the spirit of discouragement He did not give us what this flesh wants to do to us and discourage us from going and taking and doing the work of God that He would have for us to take the gospel out to a lost and dying world. How many times we are discouraged? The day's been long. It's time to go soul winning. The day's been long, the day's been hard, and we're just out, not in soul winning, but we have so many that we can give a track to. And our flesh has gotten us down and gotten us discouraged, and we don't do the work of God. Jesus said right here, he did not give us that spirit of discouragement or that spirit of fear. So what did he give us? He gave us three things in verse number seven. That will help us if they're manifested in our lives. It would help us to go out and do the work of God with great courage Knowing that we're going out into the enemy's territory, knowing that when we go out into that territory, we can go expecting results. Because of Jesus Christ, because of his work, and not because of us. If it was up to my flesh and my own work, I wouldn't be saved today. If it was up to me in my own work, I would not be able to keep myself saved today. But Jesus, He saved me by His work. He keeps me saved by His work. And he called us to do his work and his power and his love and with his sound mind. So the three points today, how are we going to be a courageous soul winner? The first thing we need to have is a spirit of power. The spirit of power. The verse says in verse number seven, for God hath not given us a spirit of fear. but of power. So the first thing we need is that spirit of power. What is that spirit of power? Well this word power right here is where we get our English word dynamite. The English word dynamite, you go word study, etymology, our word dynamite comes from this word power. Throughout the Word of God, the word power is used in different aspects, just like the word fear. But this time it's used as the most explosive form of that word power. Now if we took a stick of dynamite and we know what dynamite is, first thing I thought of was the Acme Company. No one know no one know what the acne company is? Beep meep. You know, Roadrunner. Okay, never mind. Um the spirit of power. Okay, this power, this dynamite. Okay, put it this way. If I had a stick of dynamite right now And I threw it out the window right now, what would we expect that dynamite to do? We would expect a my a massive explosion A mighty work to be done by that dynamite. Now think about me and my flesh, and I've doing it in the spirit of God, in the spirit of his work. If I go out To do the work of God in my flesh, and I do it in my own power, my own work. I'm not that sticking it to money. What I'm going to be is a firecracker. I might be able to muster up enough to where I can be in a mating. But all I'm gonna be is a flashbang and a pan and that's gonna be it, and the work of God is not going to get done. If we're going to do the work of God and do it courageously, we need to do it in the spirit of God, the spirit of the dynamite power of God, because we will get discouraged When my firecracker goes off, that's it. There's nothing else left. If I can muster up enough to where I'm an M eighty, that's it. And it's gone and it's over with. It's a flashbang. I think every one of us can think of somebody That's not sitting in church today. That at one time they were on fire for God. They got saved and they got they just got played. They started humiliating everyone else because no one else is as on fire as they are They went out and did something, but they were just a flashbang in the pan. They were not doing the work and the power of God. They were doing the work and the power of their own flesh. They're not here to be seen today But as we continue to do the work of God and the power of God, we can go out and we can do it with great courage from God Almighty. Now but Paul told Timothy in verse number nine Each one of these things, the power, this love, and this sound mind, they all come from Christ Jesus. Not from you, not from me, but from Jesus Christ. So look real quick at Matthew 28. We see where this power comes from. Matthew chapter 28 and verse number 18, this would be the Great Commission. Better said is the Great Command A commission can be revoked, but a command cannot, and this is a command of God for you and I. They go out in the power of God, not in our own power, to do the work of God in a lost and dying world In Matthew chapter 28, the end of verse number 18 talks about this same dynamite power. This is Jesus speaking of himself, where he said, All power is given unto me. In heaven and earth. Now, this is Jesus Christ speaking. Jesus is God Almighty. Jesus is God robed in this flesh. You know what flesh he robed himself in? This same flesh that we're defeated by. He knows what it was to hunger. He knew pain. He knew weakness and the flesh. He knew what it meant to be hurt. He knew what it was to have a close loved one to die. He knew what it was to be tired and not have somewhere to lay his head but on a rock. He knew all about this flesh, but the Bible says he was tempted in all points as you and I, yet without sin. He was a sinless son of God. He could not have sinned. There was no possibility that he could have sinned. Yet he came and he robed his flesh for you and I. Here in verse number eighteen it says, All power is given unto me. How could all power be given unto him? Because he was God Almighty. And he had all power, but not only that He then gave us all his power to go out. Look at that first word in verse 19. He said, Go, and that go means we are going in all the power of God. Not some of the power of God, but every bit of that stick of dynamite, every bit of the power of God Himself that Jesus Christ had in heaven and earth is given to you and I as a born-again believer. All we have to do is manifest it in our lives. All we have to do is go out and do the work and the power of God. He said, All power is given in me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. You know what he did right here He gave us his power with a command to take his power to go confront Satan on his terms. Confront the prince and the power of this air out in the prince of this power in the air. But he didn't do it with but he did it For us to go out and expect results. When we take a stick of dynamite and we throw it out the window right there, are we going to expect that dynamite to do something We're going to expect a massive result. We're given that same power of God to go out and expect a result from God Almighty. When we go out in our own power, Are we really expecting results? When we start to think and muster up our own power, how often do we think, will that person really be saved How often we do we go out just wondering if something really going to happen? But when we go out with the dynamite power of God, we are given his power to go out and expect Mighty results from God. Verse number 20 ends by saying, And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. He said, He'll never leave me nor forsake me. I've got all power right here because I'm a born-again believer. What am I going to do with it? Am I going to subdue the spirit or am I going to subdue the flesh? The spirit is willing. But the flesh is weak. The second thing that he gave us in 2 Timothy, it says, first of all, of we need the spirit of power. He gave us butt of power In verse number chapter one and verse seven, but also of love. So we need the spirit of power, but we also need the spirit of passion. If we're going to be a courageous soul winner We need to have the spirit of passion. Now, this word love, just like power, is the strongest form of the word love in the word of God. This is where we would get the word agape. I think most of us have heard that word agape before But there's other forms of the word love. There's a city in Pennsylvania called Philadelphia. Philadelphia is the city of brotherly what? Love. Yeah, Phileo is in that. Phileo, Phileo love. And it's called the city of brotherly love. That's not what this word love here is. When it comes to Phileo love, you know what I have? In my flesh I have Phileo love That means I have brotherly love. But who do I have brotherly love for? Those I choose to have brotherly love for. I may go out, if I go out, and I'm not careful and I'm doing take doing it in my love. Not the love of Christ, but I'm going out in my love. You know what I'm going to start seeing? I'm going to start seeing the color of skin. Or I'm going to start seeing nationalities. Or I'm going to start seeing different parts of town. If I'm going into my own love, I'm making my own choices by my brotherly love. Who I am going to present the gospel of Jesus Christ to, who I am going to go and work for God to go out and take the power of God to. But this word love here is the word of gothing The word agape is the most powerful form of the word love. It is a passionate love. That's what I have for my wife, what I have for my children. I have an agape love for them that cannot be taken away It doesn't matter what they would do in their lives, I still would have had the same passionate love for my children. If you're a parent, you know what I'm talking about. So we need that same love of Christ to go out into a lost and dying world. The love of God, but not my own love. Now when we think about love and we think about power, this right here is all power And if we're not careful and we only take out the power of God and not the love of God, then we're condemning whoever we give our gospel to top. What does this power right here do? Revelation 21 and verse number 8. It talks about the fearful and the unbelieving, the abominable whoremongers, sorcerers, idolaters, murderers, and all Liars, who here is a liar? Every hand ought to be up. He didn't say just some liars, he didn't say white liars or black liars. He said all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone Which is the second death. You know what the power of this word does right here? It condemns us all to hell. It don't matter what we do, the Bible tells us if we offend in one point We're guilty of it all. That means we all deserve the pits of hell. That's what the power of God does to mankind. It sends us to a place called hell. God knew that since the beginning of the founding, before the foundations of the world, he knew what his power was all about. He would not change his word He was not going to redefine that word li uh uh uh lie to be white lies and black lies and say that all those that commit black lies Shall be condemned to the lake of fire, which burneth the fire and brimstone, which is a second death. He could not change his power in the Word of God. So because of that He had to send his love. And since before the foundation of the world, he had a plan laid out. The love of God was going to temper the power of God. And we get John chapter 3 and verse number 16. The Bible says, There for God so Love the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We all can have a home in heaven because of the love of God The power of this right here condemns us to hell. But the love of God, that agape love of God, gives us an opportunity to be born again. If we take out only the power of God, then we are condemning them to hell. We have to do it With the love of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I thank God for John chapter 3 and verse number 16. That's the love of God. That gives us all hope I'm a liar. I won't go down the list of everything else that I am, but I'll say that I'm a liar, and since all liars have their part that burneth in uh uh uh in the lake of fire, that burneth with fire and brimstone, I'm condemned to hell because of the power of the Word of God. But the love of Jesus Christ gives me an opportunity to be born again. He would not change his power, and we don't change the power. We do not avoid preaching on sin. We do not skip over sin. We do not uh drum down sin in this flesh. We do not do anything to change the fact That homosexuality is homosexuality, that lying is lying, that murder is murder, that we go through this, every sin will be sinned. You know what the power is designed to do of this word? We have a verse in Acts chapter 20, verse 21. It talks about this word that's so uh confused in our Independent Baptist movement, the word repentance. You ever hear the word repentance? If you're going to be born again today, you have to repent. There's so many different definitions of that word repent today. But the reason we have to repent is because of the power of this right here When the power of this hits this right here and tells me that I deserve a place right there, this power, I have only one thing that I can do, and that is turn to the love of God. Acts 20 and verse 21, it tells us repentance toward God. Why would I repent toward God? Because I see this power is condemning me to a place called hell. But repentance has to be uh go along with faith. And that verse says, repentance toward God, but faith in what? Our Lord Jesus Christ. What did Jesus do? For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish But have everlasting life. We have to take out the power. We have to take it out and let a sinner know they are a sinner by the authority of the Word of God. And this authority of the Word of God should make a sinner know that they are doomed and hopeless and helpless. Repentance is not about cleaning that up, but it's about realizing that this has condemned me to a place called hell. I have nowhere to turn but to God Almighty And as I turn unto God Almighty, I turn from that power that condemns me to hell to the love of Christ and put my faith in what he did on the cross of Calvary. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter three and verse number twenty five that the object of our faith is the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. When we d when w if we try to keep all of the law And we try to keep all of the power that's in right here. We will not find a home in heaven because we cannot keep the law. We have to turn To God Almighty and put our faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's the only hope that we have. Now, Paul dealt with a church, the church of Ephesus, who had all power. But they lack love. He told them speak the truth in love. That's as Ephesians 4 and verse number 15. The truth is all power. But they had to speak it in love. You know when we go to a homosexual Or we go to an alcoholic, or we go to a liar, and we are giving them the power of the word of God, we can speak it to them in love. We can give it to them in the love of Christ and let them know you are a dirty, rotten, wretched, vile sinner Or the authority of the Word of God, but the love of God, because of that, you can have a home in heaven today. All you have to do is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that what the Philippian jailer was told? Yes it is. He was told that all night the Philippian jailer heard the power be sung in that prison. He heard the preaching Be preached in that prison. He knew what it was. He knew he was condemned to a place called hell. All he had to do was turn and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what he did. And he was born again. Then Jesus dealt with that same church. Look in Revelation chapter number two. He dealt with the same church because they had all power, but they did not have the love of Jesus Christ. When I study the Ephesian church, I see a pretty sound church They're doctrinally sound. They knew the Word of God. It reminds me of a sound fundamental Baptist Church, Independent Baptist Church. They had their standards right, the music right, they had everything right, but they were lacking in one thing. This is the same church that Paul dealt with. He said in verse one, Under the church, under the angel of the church of Ephesus Right, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in the right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, I know thy works. Now here Jesus is uh he he's congratulating them for thy works He's saying you got the right works, you've got it right. I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Up to verse number three right here, we have a church that's got it all together They've got their soul winning program. They're out there laboring for the Lord. They're not fainting in the labor of God. They know the doctrines of the Word of God so good the false prophets don't even make it to the pews. They can't even stand evil. They can't stand the evil of this world. The things that are happening in this front country today ought to make us cringe But we also ought to cringe just as much when our Lord and Savior's name is taken in vain. We want to ride some soapboxes on homosexuality or big sins in this world But what about our n the name of our Lord and Savior taken in vain? The Church of Ephesus right here. They couldn't stand it. They had all the power and they had the power right. However, look at verse number four. He said, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee Because thou hast left thy first what? Love. They had the power right, but they had the love that was not right. They needed to have the love. What does that love do? The love does not change the power of the Word of God Love does not remove any one's sin from the power of the Word of God. What love does, it tempers down the power of the Word of God. It allows us to be born again by the blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What's that blood do? The blood covers our sins. You go to Romans 3 verse 23 down through 27, you'll see that our sins are forgiven. Past, present, and future. That's the blood of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You know, we have an adversary, the devil. He's up in heaven day and night, and he's the accuser of the brethren And as he accuses us day and night, he's going up there right now. And he saw something that I did today. I don't know what it was. Maybe it's something I forgot or maybe there's a sin I committed today. And he's up at the throne of heaven today. And he says, Hey, you got that missionary down there. He look at him and look at the sin that he committed. He goes and accuses me of something that I did wrong and I sinned against Almighty God. Then God takes a look down at me and you know what he says What sins are you talking about? I don't remember them anymore. You know what? That's the blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's the love of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And that's what we are taking out to a lost in the dying world. We have all power. But with this power, we have to take out the love of Jesus Christ. The power will cause that repentance. But they need the love to put their faith in the blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The last thing we see in second in 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 7, we need all three of these. We can't have any power We can't have only love. You can't have only one or the other. They both have to go together. But we also need that last one called a sound mind A sound mind. So first we need the spirit of power, then the spirit of passion, but now we need the spirit of prudence. The spirit of prudence. Where do I get the word prudence? You have to blame W Webster for that one. The word sound mind is two words together. The dictionary says it means prudence. If you're like me, I had to look up P and find out what prudence meant. Prudence just simply means self-discipline. Self-discipline. If we are going to get the work of God done, we just have to be disciplined in getting the work of God out. The power of God and the love of God. You know what self-discipline means? Self-discipline means you're here when soul-winning time is here, when Bible time is here. You're here and you're just out doing the work of God. Self-discipline means when you're out and no one else is watching, you're still doing the work of God. You know you may hand out a thousand of these right here before you ever get that opportunity to open that right there. You may hand out ten thousand of these. We hand out thousands of gospel tracts. We look for opportunities to speak to people and give them the gospel of Jesus Christ. What happens if we don't give these out? And God sends that opportunity along our path to give someone the gospel of Jesus Christ, and we are not self-disciplined. We haven't been memorizing the Romans Road. We haven't been just faithfully doing it. Then we are not just going to do it without question and give the gospel out to them. We would second guess ourselves. We would do something where we would think twice about whether we should be giving it out. You know what that means? The flesh is what's winning over. The flesh is winning over. Instead of the spirit. We've let the flesh win over on you and I. It needs to be second nature. There was an airplane recently, it went down into Hudson. Yeah, you remember that one? Hudson River. When that plane had to go down into Hudson River, um uh a pilot's name, I think his name was Soly, he got on with the air traffic controllers. They told him that he was crazy, he didn't need to go there He could make a back. He didn't think twice about it. He went down, he knew what he had to do to turn the engines down. He knew where he had to hit the flaps He knew the nose that he of how much he had to pitch the nose, how fast he had to come in on that water to make a perfect water leaning. How did he know all of that? He had thousands of hours, thousands of hours of stimulation, so that when the time came, it was second nature. He did not have to think twice. He did not have to go to the owner's manual. He did not have to try and reach for something and say, give me that checklist and go down. What do I have to do? How am I going to lead you to the Lord Jesus Christ? It ought to be with you and I that we are so disciplined. We've been in the simulator week after week after week that when the time comes, it's second nature. We don't have to think twice. We can just rattle it off the Romans road. We have the gospel track ready to hand to them. That's what that word sound mind is all about. That's what prudence is That's what being self-disciplined is all about. Now this message today, this church, and most churches that we are in on our debutation, I'm going to think one or two that I'm questionable about But all that we've been in on furlough right now, every one of them I can say, as a body of believers, they're doing the work of God. They've got the power of God They're taking the love of God. They've got their uh uh uh scheduled times of going out soul winning as a body of believers. But remember, 2 Timothy is about the individual. It's about you and I. Individually, where are you? Are you going out? Individually. And you've got it right with the spirit of power. Do you have the spirit of passion individually? And do you have that self-discipline outside of any organized time of soul winning? Outside of being with the pastor of anyone else or anyone else? Are you out there in that simulator of this world? Just doing it, just doing it, just doing it. What happens if God has for you only one soul to the lead of the Lord Jesus Christ in your lifetime? I believe we all have many more than that. But let's just say for sake of illustration One soul God has for you. You're not out there doing it. You're not disciplined. That one soul crosses your path. God knew when he was going to cross your path. He put you in the church you needed to be that taught the power, that taught the love, that had all the tools and the utilities for you to get out there and get it the job done. But you're not in personally out there doing the work. Well this person God has put in your path. He finally came down thirty, forty years later in your life. He crosses your path and all he says to you is Beautiful day out today. It's not so humid today like it was earlier in the summer. And you look at him and you say, Yeah, the sun's shining nice, the birds sound good, you go that way, he goes that way. You didn't even put one of these in his hand Let's say that person was going to be the next DL Moody, the next Billy Sunday, the next person to go on and leave thousands and thousands and thousands to the Lord Jesus Christ. He drops off in the pits of hell and you go off. You're you're saved, you're born again, but you have no rewards for all of eternity. But then think about it also now, you're self discipline. You're out there, you're doing it. You may question sometimes, Lord, I've handed out so many of these, but I still haven't talked to anybody. I've knocked on so many doors and they've all spit in my face. I haven't been able to talk to any one person. You may even question, should I keep doing it, but you're disciplined. You get out there and you do it and you do it. And God has that person cross your path. When he crosses your path, you simply do what you've always been doing. You have no great words to say. He just said something real quick as he was passing. You slipped the track in his hand as he went that way and you went that way. And you never saw him again But you get into heaven one day, and there's thousands of people lined up waiting to shake your hand. Thank you for sharing the gospel with us. Thank you that I'm here in heaven today. And they thank you for that. And you look and you say, Well, I went my whole life. I didn't even talk to no one. I didn't even have anyone listen to me. I tried and I tried and no one even came to church with all the times that I I I tried to get them. into the house of God. But it was that one person. You put the tract in that soul's hand that they trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Where are we at personally? Individually. Paul's dealing with Timothy individually right here in our text verse. He says, For God hath not given us a spirit of fear. What a power. Dynamite power. It only comes from Jesus Christ. He gets the spirit of passion, that love. Let this mind be in you which is Christ Jesus. That would be the sound mind. He gave us everything we need, but what are we doing with it Or are we just out there getting the gospel of Jesus Christ out? Speaking individually. I know the church has got it together. You're well organized. You have well well well defined plans For getting it out, for going around the world, for having your times as a church to get the gospel out. But where are you at individually? That's the question that we have for you today. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we love you. We thank you, Lord, for this day. We thank you, Father, for your word and the power of your word unto salvation. Lord, we thank you for the word, Lord, and as much as we fail, Lord, if we simply put a track in our hand, the power is still going into that heart and that life. We pray, Lord, that that soul will be born again before it's eternally too late. Help each one of us, Lord. We have all failed from the pulpit down, that we've let the flesh take control. But I pray today that every one of us will walk out of fear. A better Christian, Lord, on fire for you, ready to step out into a lost and dying world in the spirit of your power, in the spirit of your passion, and the spirit of prudence, Lord, as we take out your gospel message to do your work. In this lost and dying world, in your precious name we pray. Amen, preacher