Alright, 1 Peter 2, verse number 20. We began this last week. Our message tonight is going to overlap a little bit from last week, not too much. And then we'll look at some new verses. 1 Peter 2. I want to begin reading in verse number 20, and I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. 1 Peter 2, verse 20. For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? And we know last week there's no glory in that. Just if you deserved it, then there's nothing special. But If when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were ye called Now notice this, for even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Then he goes on down here and describes Christ's suffering for us, what Christ did for us. Who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, reviled not again When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Then he goes on and explains the crucifixion, who and his who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that's the cross, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye are healed For we are as sheep going astray, but are now returned unto the bishop, uh unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. I want you to notice In verse number 21, it says, For even hereunto were ye called. Called to suffer. Called to suffer. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to teach us tonight. Father in heaven, I come to you again at the end of the Lord's Day with a grateful heart, the blessings of this morning, and to be around your people and sing these songs that bring glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. Exalt the Savior. And Lord, it's been a good day. Now, as we finish out the day, I ask that you would meet with us tonight. We know you're here. We ask your presence would be made evident in our hearts and lives that you would speak to us and challenge us, encourage, convict, direct us. And prepare us for the coming week that we can be a good witness to you and we can have the joy of the Lord and we can have the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. Again, with all my heart, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. You be the preacher. Speak through me to all of our hearts. Here at church. And folks out around the world listening in. We ask this, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. First Peter is kind of, if I got studying this I come to this conclusion. 1 Peter is kind of a manual on suffering. Kind of a manual. If you're going through some suffering, going through a hard time, I'd suggest go to 1 Peter And get that book down and start saying. It's a manual on suffering, and it teaches us, it gives us instructions on how to suffer well. How many people here enjoy suffering? No. How many people here would try to avoid it if at all possible? I try to avoid suffering. Yeah, I do too. But it's inevitable. Suffering is going to come. In fact, we're going to see here a few things about it. But 1 Peter is kind of a manual, instructions on when suffering shows up in your life and my life how we should respond to it, how we deal with it, and really how we can understand it and look at it. My first point tonight is this. I'm going to get right into it. When suffering comes First Peter, God tells us through Peter that we are to number one be patient. Be patient when suffering comes. Look at verse number 20. And again, as I said, this overlaps a little bit into last week's message But he says there, what what glory is it if when you be buffeted for your faults you take it patiently? No glory in that. But when you do well and suffer for it Ye take it patiently. This is acceptable to God. Now, what is our human nature? When something comes, we're treated unfairly, we have a something is done unjustly, we're treated unjustly, our natural tendency is to what Strike back. That's what I got written down in my notes. Our natural tendency is, oh yeah, you're going to treat me that way. We want to react. We want to strike back. We want to retaliate. To those that are making us suffer, those that are causing us this heartache, those that are causing us this distress, bringing this pain into my heart life, we want to re-retaliate, we want to react, we want to strike back We were down at Burgu a number of years ago and we enjoyed our men's mountain getaway. We're going to have to make some changes to that. We'll announce that. Very exciting things upcoming. Uh so stay tuned. But uh we were down there a few years ago and uh we had gone later in the year that year for some reason And uh Tom, I think it was Tom and I, and I think maybe, anybody here remember Brad Renard, old brother Brad Renard? Uh it might have been him with us, I can't remember who all it was But um uh we were coming down this stream, we were we were brook trout fishing down this little stream. We cut across this little meadow-like thing, this clearing. And uh we're walking across there and uh we got about 20, 40, 50 yards into that thing, and I heard Shh old rattlesnake down in that in the some rocks and in the grass in there and and uh woohoo and uh we stopped in our tracks and um we treated it with great respect and love and uh kindness and um it was dead when we left. But anyway don't tell anybody This is just a parable, but um Well, what does a rattlesnake do if that rattlesnake feels threatened or that rattlesnake thinks that somebody is going to injure it or hurt it or do it harm? What does a rattlesnake do? Man, that thing strikes back. Man, that thing comes at you. You and I are not to be like rattlesnakes. We're not to strike out. We're not to react. We're to bear things patiently. At looking through the Bible, particularly the New Testament. And we're instructed over and over, and then back in Psalms also, we're instructed over and over to have patience. To endure as Christians. It's a common theme, as I said, particularly through the New Testament. Patience and endurance. Be patient. Don't react. Don't retaliate. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I will repay. Put it in the Lord's hands. In fact, if you would turn with me. Now keep your place here. It's not too far away. Go to 2 Timothy chapter number 2. Paul is writing to this young man, Timothy. He's a preacher boy. He's called to the ministry. He ends up pastoring some churches back in the early New Testament church. And Paul is giving him some instructions as a young Christian, as a young preacher. And in 2 Timothy 2, verse number 1, notice what he tells Peter. uh how to respond. He says in verse 1, thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Boy, what a good Good admonition there. And the things that thou hast heard of me, verse 2, among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others Now look what he says in verse 3. He's talking to a young man, young Christian. Thou therefore, look at this, endure hardness. as a good soldier of Jesus Christ, endure hardness. No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. He says, endure hardness. That's a theme through the New Testament for disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. When you're suffering unjustly, you're being mistreated, there's pain and heartache, somebody's doing wrong, and it's costing you. Don't retaliate. Don't strike back like a rattlesnake. You endure that. You be patient. You trust the Lord. In fact, in this patience and endurance coming back to 1 Peter here, we notice, and again, we touched on this last week, but uh this is highly praised of God. It says, but if you take it patiently, this is acceptable to God. Patient Christians are pleasing to God. God is pleased when one of his children experiences maybe some mistreatment, experiences some heartache, somebody breaks their heart, somebody disappoints them uh somebody uh inflicts pain, somebody does them wrong. And rather than retaliating, rather than striking back They're very patient. They endure it. They trust God. And God, our heavenly Father, looks down at that disciple, that child of his And it pleases him. He's grateful. Not again, as I said last week, not that they're being hurt, but that they're responding in a mature uh spiritual manner. And uh and so number one, when suffering comes, when heartache comes, when difficulty comes, Well, first of all, we're instructed: be patient. Take it patiently. Take it patiently. I asked myself this question: what is my motive in life? Now with this idea that that pleases God when we are patient, we endure mistreatment, we don't strike back, we we don't retaliate. And that pleases God. He's thankful for that. It's acceptable to him. I asked myself this question: what is my motive in life? My overall motive in life. Is it To please myself? I want comfort? I want to be treated justly. Is it to please myself or is it to please my Lord Please my Lord. Now the answer we would all give is what? Please the Lord. That's what we would all say. But I wonder this, as I study this, I will ask, I wondered of myself, is that really what my motive is? That'd be the answer I would give, but is that the motive? And so when some mistreatment comes or some heartache comes or some suffering comes or difficulty, injustice comes, what I want, if my motive is to please myself, if my motive is my own pleasure and my own my own uh uh happiness and they're interfering with that. But if my motive is to please the Lord, and the drive of my life is to please my Heavenly Father The Bible says, be patient, take it patiently, take it patiently. Number two, my second thought is this. Number one, we're instructed to be patient when suffering comes. Number two, we're told to have perception. Now I use that word on purpose. The word perception means to see clearly or to understand something. I have a right perception. I see that from the right angle, from the right perspective. And notice with me verse number 20 in the first part. For even hereunto were ye called. We are called, according to that statement, we are called to endure suffering. We are called to suffer But we're called to suffer patiently. Suffering's going to come whether we're patient or not. I've been in this thing long enough, got saved in 79. Some of y'all saved longer than that Uh but I got to say 1979. I've been around long enough that I noticed that heartaches come to Christians and non-Christians. Difficulties and suffering trials come to good Christians and not so good Christians It is life. We live in a fallen world. How many people have realized that? Yeah. It's inescapable. And so God has called us. That when this injustice comes, this mistreatment comes, this unfairness, this heartache, this difficulty comes, God has called us as disciples of Jesus Christ. To endure it patiently, to take it patiently. So if I can understand that that is what God has called us to, this perception, have a clear perception of that One of the first questions that comes to our mind when something bad happens to us, when something that hurts us, one of the first questions comes to our mind is what? I have people ask it all the time. Somebody said, why? Why? Preacher! Why? See years ago a lady, one of our church ladies, older ladies, is many years ago, probably 20 years ago She had fallen and injured herself and a sweet lady, good, faithful, and um I heard about it. I went and checked on her and she said this to me, Preacher, why did this happen to me? Here's my question to you tonight. I want you to think with me. Why do we ask why? What are we trying to accomplish by asking, why did this happen to me? We want to have a what An explanation. We want to understand, see if you agree with me, we want to understand that there's a reason behind this. There's a purpose for this. It's not just some random, meaningless thing that has happened to me. Are you with me on that? We want to know that, hey, this is there's something to be accomplished in this. There's something that's that's there's a part of a plan here. Um we go to a doctor, and the doctor says, Alright, uh, I want you to go to the hospital next Tuesday morning and check in and go up to the second floor there to surgery prep and go back in there. They're gonna uh put IVs in ya and uh they're gonna take all your clothes off, put this embarrassing robe on, you're gonna feel like an idiot and uh they're gonna put IVs in you and we're gonna take you back into the operating room and we're just gonna cut you open and uh and then for two, three weeks you're gonna be in pain and you're gonna can't work and all of that My first question to be the doctor would be what? Why am I doing this? Why am I going to let you cut me open? Oh, he said, I forgot to tell you. You've got a tumor. We've got to take it out of there. If we don't get it out, you're going to die. Does that change my whole perspective on it? Yeah. Yeah, I understand. Oh, okay, there's a purpose I'm being cut open. There's a purpose I'm going to lose a month of work. There's a purpose I'm going to have incredible pain. Take all these medicines that mess me up. I understand there's a reason behind it, there's a purpose behind it, then I can endure it patiently. Am I making sense? You all with me? I hate wait a minute. I don't hate the dentist. I love everybody. But I hate going to the dentist. They're cruel in me, and I suffer. Terribly. I was there this past week or a week ago. And uh you know what? I just I don't want to go to that Dennis. I don't want to go years ago. I'm a little better now at it being careful, but back when I was younger I didn't care. I uh I'm not going. I am not going to that dentist. Until I get infection down inside a tooth. Anybody here have an infected root, the root canal, uh infected tooth? Brother, I was begging the d dentist to let me come. I had a different perspective. By going there, I understand, hey, there's a reason. She's going to make this pain go. I'm going I'm going through all this. I'm going to let him cut on my jaw and do all this. Um and uh but uh here's the point I'm trying to make. I got distracted by the dentist. Here's the point I'm trying to make. If we understand that there's a purpose behind it, if we understand there's a reason behind this pain. There's a reason behind this suffering. There's a reason I have to go through this valley, this storm, this heartache. And there's something to be accomplished. There's some uh a reason behind it Then that changes my whole perception of it. Are you with me? God is instructing us here in his manual on suffering. He's saying, listen, I've called you to be patient through this. There's a reason for this. I'm in control. I'm trying to accomplish something. And if we can if we can go to work and that boss is making our life miserable, and that boss is just all over us And man, we want to retaliate. We want to strike back. But I stop and remember, wait a minute, God is allowing this He's told me to be patient in this because he's called me to suffer this patiently. He's got a plan and a purpose And I said, okay, all right, God. All right. This isn't just some God being a difficult, but this is something part of it, it's part of my experience as a disciple. This is part of my development. This is part of my growth. And then we have a little better perspective on it. So number one, be patient. Be patient. And then have perspective. If I can understand there's a reason, a purpose behind it, I can accept it a whole lot better. Verse 21 here, the first part tells us that uh explains us that believers, as believers, we have been called To suffer. We've been called to suffer. It's part of the Christian life. I tell you, there's some things, um, I tell you one thing that gets under my skin. Well, more than one thing. There's a lot of things. But these guys, these preachers on TV, I'm telling you, you've got to be careful about these yardbirds on television. And I saw some uh a week or two ago, I was doing something, this one thing came up, and I thought, I want to see what this guy has to say, and he's going off on this prosperity gospel. How many people are familiar with that term? Prosperity gospel. In other words, if you'll trust Christ and you have enough faith, and this guy's talking about all these jets he has and He can't fly on just public airplanes with other people because it's so tough. And he has all this. And God has called, and he made this statement, God has called us to prosperity You know what? I've searched that book high and low. I can't find one place where the Bible says it's called His disciples to prosperity. You read the Sermon on the Mount, what's he say? Rejoice when you're persecuted. Do good to them that bless you. You're going to go through trials. You're going to go through heartaches. In fact, here he tells us very clearly: we're not called to prosperity. We're called to suffer. This world is not our home. We live in a fallen world that is anti-Christ, anti-God, anti-Bible, anti-Christian. We expect that this in this world we go through as disciples of Christ in enemy territory, that we're not going to have heartaches and difficulties. We're mistaken. Take your Bible with me. And turn with me. Now keep your place. We're going to look at one more thing here. But come back to Romans chapter number 8. Romans chapter number 8. Some of y'all are saying, I knew he was going to end up here. I knew he was going to go there. Romans chapter 8. If we can understand there's a purpose behind what I'm going through, we will allow a doctor to cut our chest open. Saw through our, what's that called there? Sternum. Saw that thing open, bend those ribs back, get in there, cut around our heart. Cut stuff out of our veins, out of our legs, and stick it up in there and sew it, then sew that back. We'll let a doctor do that, and when we're done, we'll say, thank you, doctor. You know why? Because he's got a purpose behind it. Because we know and believe and understand, I just grossed out all the kids, but um, but we know and understand that there's a reason I'm going through this. Are you with me? Now look at Romans chapter 8 and verse what? What do you think? 28. And we know That all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to this purpose. Now don't stop there. Look at verse 29. For whom he did foreknow, that's just believers, he also did predestinate. Now look at this next statement to be what? Conformed to the image of his son. Now take the all things. We know all things of verse 28 And come down to the being predestinated to be conformed to the image of his son. You know what this verse is telling us? It's answering the question why? Preacher, why does this happen to me? Why am I being treated this way? Why did this, why, why? All things work together for good. What's the good? That I can be conformed. In the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. Every heartache, every difficulty, every disappointment, all my suffering is allowed by God. And He's calling me to be patient and to endure it. Why? Because he's molding me, he's developing me, he's chipping away those sharp edges, he's forming me into be a Christian, little Christ, being conformed to the image of Christ. So, number one, I need to be patient. Number two, I need to have the right perception, understand why God allows me and calls me to go through this suffering. Every experience in life, the all things. is designed to mold me into the image of Christ. Now last of all, I give you this. Number three, we need to follow our pattern. Follow our pattern. Come back to 1 Peter. And look at the second half of verse number 21 of chapter 2. Be patient. Have perspective. Understand God's Molding me into the image of Christ. God's working. It's not fun. It's not enjoyable. It's not pleasant. But I'm going to be patient. I'm going to take it. But I have a pattern to follow. You say pr you say, preacher, how in the world are you patient? How in the world am I supposed to be patient when I'm being so mistreated? How am I supposed to be patient when this person is so hateful? How am I supposed to be patient when it hurts so deeply? Second half of verse 21 tells us, because Christ also suffered for us. Leaving us a what? An example that we should follow in his steps Listen, I'm not trying to minimize anybody's heartache. I'm not trying to minimize anybody's difficult, but I'll say this right now: not one of us has gone through the suffering that Jesus Christ went through. We haven't even come close to it. The only person in the Bible that I can find that comes even close to what the Lord Jesus suffered is Job back in the Old Testament. And that never touched the hem of Jesus' suffering. But he left us an example. What we need to do is study the life of Jesus As given to us in Scripture, study the life of Jesus and see that pattern that He left, that example He's given me, and then follow in those steps. When he was reviled, he reviled not again. He answered him not a word when Pilate and the Pharisees were making these false accusations against him. There's two key words in that last phrase, and I'll end with these. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. I think that's a key word. The word example there, this is I found this interesting. The word example there is comes from a word that they used. uh to describe how they taught little children how to write letters. And the way I understand it, what the teacher would do is he would take some papyrus or whatever they used back in the day, whatever writing instruments they had. And he would very, very lightly draw out the letter, just real light print, put the letters down. And then they would have the child come with another writing instrument, and they would write heavier over top of what the teacher wrote Anybody here remember when you were little? They'd have the letters, but it was in dotted, little dotted A's, it wasn't, and then you'd write over top of that. That is what that word example means there. It's in other words, Jesus Christ has given us a pattern, and we follow that. We write over that, we do it, we we follow that pattern. Um uh uh refers to the method of teaching a child how to write right over that. Or sometimes they would put the letter here And then beside it, the child would write that letter. Anybody remember that? Or they teaching that? The Abba letter, and then beside it, alright, write that I'm still working on mine. I've just about got it finished, the alphabet. But um uh an example to and then look what else it says, leaving us an example that we should what Follow his steps. And it means exactly what you think it does. Some of you dads know what I'm talking about here on this You have a child that's small. You're walking through the snow and say, Come on, come on, boys. Uh we gotta go put corn out at the tree stand. And you're walking through the snow. And what do those little boys doing that snow? They're doing what? They're stepping right in that footprint where daddy did. They're stepping through. They look back and they're following that. I tell you what, that'll humble you as a dad, huh? That'll sober you up those little kids following my steps. And that's what he's telling us when you suffer, when I suffer, when we go through these things, we're treated this way Or hurt people are hurting us. We're to go and look in the Bible with the Lord Jesus Christ and find that example And then follow in those steps. The way he responded, I respond. The way he reacted, I react. So we're not left on our own to try and figure out how do I do this? No, no, no. We study the life of Christ. He's given us a pattern for us to follow when we're suffering. So, two things. When suffering comes, say, how am I patient in this? How do I endure this? As a good Christian, as a disciple of Christ, preacher, how do I do this? Well, study the life of Christ. See how he reacted and then pattern yourself after that. Follow that example. Step in those steps that he gave us. And I have another one, this is another message. I just want to throw it out. But I think also, along with studying the life of Christ, even that in them ourselves, you say, preacher, I can't I can't be like Christ in this. I can't, I don't have the ability to do what he did. Ah But we have the Holy Spirit. And if we had time, we'd go to Galatians 5. We'll have to do this another time. But Galatians 5, we have the fruit of the Spirit. You know what the fruit of the Spirit is? I think it's Christ living his life in me. Of joy, peace, long-suffering, long suffering. That's what Christ did. And so He's, we had the Spirit of Christ, we had the Holy Spirit of God indwelling us. And he enables us, fruit of that, fruit of the Spirit is us living out the life of Christ. The life of Christ. In 1962, a publishing company put a study out, published a study Of four hundred and thirteen famous and exceptionally gifted people Now these are exceptional, these are smart people, these are very, very gifted people, and they wanted to do a study of them. The study was called Cradles of Eminence. They spent years attempting to understand what produced such greatness in these people's lives. And they were trying to find these people who are so gifted and so talented and so exceptional in so many ways. What is it? Is there a common denominator in these people's lives that made them so gifted? You know what they found out? It had nothing to do with what part of the country they were from. Some of them were from cities, some of them were for country areas. Some were from north, some were from south. Some were in cold, frigid Arctic places, others were from warm tropical places I like to be There were all different regions, all different backgrounds. They said there was uh uh some were farms and villages, north, south, midwest, east, west, every continent in the globe. Some had strong, healthy homes, upbringing. Others came from dysfunctional homes. Do you know what they found one common denominator through all of them? Nearly every, I shouldn't say all of them, the vast majority of them, common denominator was this. They had all suffered. They had all had trials and heartaches and difficulties as they were developing. And they learned from those trials, from those heartaches, they learned. They got stronger. They developed these exceptional abilities. Now, if the world can benefit and learn from reacting to suffering in a correct way, how much more as you and I as a Christian? can grow. I thought about getting I have a bunch I have a ton of biographies of missionaries. I'd like to go through that and look at these great men and women that God used. You know what I think I'd find? Common denominator? Suffering. Patient endurance. Trusting God, not retaliating, not reacting, but trusting God, letting it mold me, letting it change me, letting it develop me, deepen my faith. And God used them. Adornairam Judson said this, I will not leave Burma until the cross is planted here. He was the first foreign missionary that planted churches, established schools, and trained preachers, completed a Burmese dictionary and Bible. And he did it all while being tensely persecuted for his faith. Preacher, how do I suffer? Patiently. Follow Jesus' example. And he'll mold us and make us. He's got a plan. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to follow Peter's instructions here, your instructions. Help us, Lord, when that heartache comes, that injustice, that hurt, that suffering. Help us, Lord, to be patient. Help us, Lord, to remember. You're trying to do something in our life. You're doing something. And then let's help us follow Jesus' example. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many say, Preacher, I need God's patience. Can I get away anybody at all? Yeah, my hands raised. Goodness. I want to retaliate. I want to react. I want to speak back. I want to be sharp. How many of you say, preacher, I need to learn to be patient in that. I need to trust God. I want to follow His example. Maybe make a commitment this coming year. I'm going to study the life of Jesus Christ. Pay attention to how he responded, how he reacted, and then follow that pattern. Father, bless our imitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.