To Psalms 145 again. Do you notice there's an empty place up here on the platform? Brother James Kent, as most of you aware, has uh moved over to West Virginia and And uh he's involved in Brother Bowman's church over there. He's getting married on the nineteenth, two weeks from yesterday. He'll be a marred man I mean a married man That wasn't nice. But they're excited, and uh we're excited for them, and so you keep Brother James in your prayers and pray for the church as we uh seek the Lord's direction concerning someone to replace him and help us out here and help us go forward. Psalms 145 and verse number 18. It just happens to be our memory verse for the month. And I wanted to preach on this and uh ask the Lord to speak to hearts. Notice what it says. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. I want to speak on that phrase calling On the Lord in truth. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, thank you, Lord, for a good service this morning. Starting off the new year, it's been a blessing thus far to be in your house. I'm grateful for so many folks who are so faithful and have come out together to worship you, sing these great hymns and fellowship together. Now Lord, we're at the most important part of the service as we look into your word and we're asking you to speak to our hearts. We want you to transform us and renew our minds, dear Lord, that we can see ourselves and others in this world from your perspective. And understand your will for our lives and the resources you've given us. Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew this morning. And I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you would start this year off right, that our focus would be on you, and our commitment and determination would be fresh and new and full. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There's two areas that I am seeking to devote my life to. Um I I wish I could tell you I've attained that I'm at the level that I want to be. I'm certainly not. But each year that goes by, and as I look I've just renewed my commitment to, as I said, devote my life to these two areas. One I want to speak on this morning, the other I want to touch on just to introduce it. Number one is I want to devote my life to world missions. I want to study what it means to take the gospel into all the world. I want to know what the Bible means by that. Everything the Bible says about it what the needs of the world are, what the what what our options are in getting the gospel out there. Of course years ago we've adopted Kazakhstan as our uh our missions nation. And uh focused on reaching that country. You say, Preacher, what have we done to reach Kazakhstan? All humanly, or may not look like much, but I tell you there's a lot of prayer going up for that country And we're investing money in folks, getting missionaries there and efforts. And uh so I want to study what world missions is. I want to understand what it means. I want to give myself to it. Um I was thinking this week, uh, what if this is my last year on earth? What if what if next year, this time, I'm in the presence of God? Something happens, whatever. What would I like to have said at my funeral about Dennis Leatherman? What would I like to have somebody say? One thing I would like to have said, and I would like to have it said genuinely. I'm not asking people to say this. I'm s I uh this is one thing I would like for someone to think. He gave himself to reaching people with the gospel. I would like that to be my life. Whether it's here in Garrett County and Oakland getting folks saved, getting the gospel to the lost, or whether it's around the world, he gave his life to getting the gospel to those that need it, that never heard it. It's another area I really want to, I'm seeking to devote my life to, and that is the area of effectual prayer. I've been studying the last probably two years. God has stirred my heart on this matter of prayer. I want to study and understand what the Bible teaches about getting a hold of God in prayer. Communicating to God and having God respond in a clear, definite way. Biblical prayer I want to understand what all is involved in it. I want to be effectual at it. You understand what I mean when I say that term? I don't want to be a Christian that just goes through and just says prayers. I want it to have an effect. I want it to, I want God to respond to my prayers. And not just me throwing words out into the sky. And I'm giving my life to it. Again, it would be nice to have said at my funeral, and I'm sure I there's a lot of folks here in the service, you feel the same way about this as I do But I would like for it to be genuinely be able to be said he gave his life to prayer. He was a man of prayer. He was a man that prayed and had answers to prayer I thought as came across this verse a couple weeks ago in my daily Bible reading, and God began to stir my heart here with this and Uh and then I felt his leadership and to bring a message on this passage this morning as I was studying it and looking it up in other passages Uh my mind went back to a lady I met years ago, back in it was probably 1983. I was down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I was in Bible College. Uh we were working a bus route. This is before I met my wife and I was fairly new down there in the school. It was my second year, I believe And uh I was marking a new bus route in the inner city projects of Chattanooga. Just rough, all government housing, just trashed. destroyed housing, but there was thousands and thousands and thousands of people in these uh housing developments, tens of thousands no doubt. And the church I was in, the Highland Park Baptist Church, had an afternoon Sunday school bus ministry. And they would send out about 25 buses every Sunday afternoon into these inner city projects And we bring the little kids in into the buildings. Of course they're all empty. The morning service is over, the evening didn't begin. So we'd bring these kids in and we'd preach to them and uh we'd try and love them. And and one of the men was the the fellows in Maldonar was getting more involved in the bus ministry and he said He asked me if I'd consider taking a bus route into this one project. And I said, yeah, uh I would like that. So I'll go he said, I'll take you out Saturday and I'll Show you around, introduce you to the riders and the show you the area and then that's going to be your responsibility. By the way, I just thought of this. At the time I didn't have a car. I had sold my cars and everything so I'd go to Bible college. I had a bike and that got stolen the first week I was down there. So life was great. And uh so I said, Well, I'd love to do it, but I don't have a car. He said, Well, let's pray that God provide you a car within two weeks One of the fellows had graduated, was moving to North Carolina. He said, I got an old Gran Torino here. He says, uh, would you be able to use it? And I said, sure And God provided me my blue grandeur, you know. And uh so God provided the car. So anyway, we got out there and he's showing me around these projects, and I mean they are just what you would imagine a ghetto would be like. Syringes, literally, syringes out on the streets. Blood was not it was very common. Blood on the sidewalk from the night before there's a fight or a shooting or something. I mean it was rough. He said one thing he said, he said, listen, brother Dennis, when you uh go out here, uh one thing I would recommend is get you the biggest, blackest Bible you can find. And so you said you carry that thing under your arm. He said, You're gonna be the only white guy there. You're gonna be dressed in a s uh tie, and they're gonna think you're the Narcs or the FBI or somebody He said, get you that big black Bible and carry it around. They'll know you're a preacher and they'll respect you. I bought a Bible about that big, you know. I carry that thing around. I'm a preacher, man. And uh And he introduced me to Mrs. Anna Nixon-Tate. This dear lady, she had to be in her late 80s. Little black lady lived in a ghetto project there. And he says, I want to introduce you to the woman that's going to be the greatest blessing you've ever met. Knocked on the door and this little lady about that tall, all wrinkled up, gray hair, and uh the guy that was introducing me, his name was Ken, and he said, uh he said, Mrs. Kate This is the new bus captain out here. His name's they call me Brother Denny. Don't you do that. And uh said, this is Brother Denny, and uh he's got and I want to hand he said she said, Well come on in here. And that began a relationship I had with Mrs. Tate that lasted about three, four years. The most godly woman I have ever met in my life. As poor as dirt. She had nothing. But she had the Lord. And I tell you, that woman could pray. She knew what prayer was. There wasn't a professor in Tennessee Temple University that understood prayer even remotely like Mrs. Anna Nixon Tate understood prayer. Ms. Tate. And she had a profound influence on my life. My wife was able to meet her. She has to be in heaven. If she isn't, she's 190 years old or something. I mean Uh but uh what a precious, precious woman. And I learned about prayer from Mrs. Tate There was every Saturday we'd go out and visit that bus trout. We in about three, four hours, we'd knock on doors out there and try and get riders and wind souls, and we never without fail we'd go by Mrs. Tate. She'd invite us in Just an old sofa, a light hanging from the ceiling, clean as could be. She'd have the Christian radio station playing. And we'd pray. She'd say, Brother Danny, what do you need prayer for? What do you need? What's going on? And she'd take my hand, her little bony hand, and she would pray. And God was in that place. Look what this verse says. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. The Lord is nigh. Here's a few thoughts I want to give you. I is am I on here, Sam? I feel like there we go. Okay, thanks. A few thoughts here. Number one, I want us to consider the priority of prayer. The priority of prayer as we begin a new year. Let's determine that we're going to study prayer. That it is going to have a priority in our life. I don't care if you're eight years old or eighty years old, prayer must be a priority in our lives. Notice he says here, the Lord is nigh unto all that call upon him. That phrase calling upon the Lord is another way of expressing the idea of prayer. It simply means to cry out to. It has the idea of somebody drowning and there's someone up on the shore or on a boat nearby and they're crying out, help, help! Save me, help. They're calling, they're looking to, they're praying for someone to come and meet that need in their life and in their situation and rescue them out of your situation. The Bible says that God is nigh unto all those that call upon him. Lord! The Bible says that is to be a priority in our lives. Calling on the Lord, looking to God, praying, seeking God's leadership, his direction, wisdom. Looking to God to have our needs met It is to be a priority in our lives. So I study the scriptures, I see that prayer was a priority in the lives of the men and women of God all through the Bible. You name any man or woman in the Bible that God did anything through, and that person was a person of prayer. Women, children, men, kings, peasants. God used them all, and every one of them were men and women that prayer was a priority in their life. Now let me ask you a question. Do you want to be what God wants you to be? Do you want your life to be what God intends for it to be? Do you want God's blessings on your life? Do you want to be able to stand before Jesus Christ someday and hear him say to you, Well done? Well, if that's the case, if we want our lives to be what they're supposed to be, if we want God's blessing and God's approval on our lives, then we must be people of prayer. Must be a priority. You don't find one person in the Bible that was used and blessed of God that was not a person that had prayer as a priority. Let's make it a priority in our homes, in our personal lives. Hey, let's make it a priority in our church. Can I tell you what I believe the most important service of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is. I mean of all our services, Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, uh all the services, all the conferences, remain, the most important service we have is Wednesday night prayer meeting. You say, oh, it's just Wednesday night prayer meeting. Oh, it's not just Wednesday night prayer meeting. It is absolutely vital and a priority in this church. Prayer must be a priority. Listen to 1 Chronicles 16 and verse 11. Seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face continually. Luke chapter 18 and verse 1, Jesus said to his disciples, Men ought always to pray and faint not. You know what he's saying? He's saying prayer must be a priority in your life and my life. We must stay at it. Make it a priority. 1 Thessalonians 5:17. Pray without ceasing. I got studying. I've been mentioning this. I mentioned this, I believe it was uh Friday night to our deacons and trustees in the meeting, and I mentioned this uh in recent weeks and months. But it's gripped my heart as I study the book of Acts and the New Testament churches that are mentioned in the book of Acts. You know what I find? I find they preach the gospel constantly. They were in the highways and hedges. They were in the cities and in the countryside. They were preaching the gospel to everyone they could possibly that would even listen remotely. They even preach it to folks who didn't want to listen. In jails, in the palace. But behind all of it, there was something they did even more diligently, and that was prayer. And it never dawned on me until just recently that the New Testament Church spent as much, if not more, time in prayer than they did in any other activity. I'm challenging Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I mean us as a body of believers that this coming year we make prayer a priority in this church Seeking God's power, seeking God's direction, seeking God to meet our needs, a priority must be a priority. You say, well, preacher, you've got to do more than just pray. Yeah. But you can't do much until you do pray. I'm convinced. You say, well, we got to get out there and reach the lost. I'm convinced if a Christian will genuinely pray for the lost, I mean call unto God. For the salvation of the unsaved, it won't be long until they get up off their knees and go out and start witnessing. That prayer will prompt the Christian to take action. Well, preacher, we need giving. You get the body of Christ, you get the members of a local body of Christ praying for the needs of a church. I mean genuinely calling out to God. God meet the needs of the church. God eliminate that debt. God raise our faith promise. And genuinely in truth calling out to God. You know what's going to find? That Christian will start opening their wallet to start contributing to that need. Prayer, genuine prayer, always produces action. Without a doubt, God stirs the one that prays. Uh praying for the loss, praying for needs, praying for purity. I've had scores of people over the years say, Preacher, I'm struggling with it. I just in the last two weeks I had uh person uh talking with me and trying to help them uh get victory in an area of their life. And I am absolutely convinced the key, the secret to having victory over sin in your life and my life Begins with making prayer a priority. When I pray, God deliver me from this sin. God break this habit in my life. Oh God! I get a hold of God in prayer, it won't be long until I get up and start cleaning things out. Straighten things up and things start to change. The priority of prayer, the highest priority for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must be prayer Must be prayer. Highest priority in our homes. You say, preacher, my marriage. Oh God, my marriage. You start praying, you start seeking God. Oh God. You make that a priority. Finances, struggles, battles, habits, prayer must be a priority. So my first thought is this: let's make prayer a priority Make prayer a priority. Second thought is this not just the priority of prayer, but as I got looking at this verse and looking at other verses and studying the subject of calling on the Lord. Not only must prayer be a priority, but there are certain perks that come along with prayer Now what do I mean by perks? If you get a job and they say, yeah, there's certain perks that come along with this job, what are we talking about? There's certain benefits. There's certain uh blessings that come along. There's something you'll get out of it. There's there's perks. Hey, I got some news for you. There's perks that come along with prayer. There's certain blessings. Look at our passage here we just that we're memorizing. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. I see a perk right there. We have the special nearness of God in our life. Now, the Bible says the Lord is nigh unto them. Now, our first thought, when we look at that, my first thought, as I started to really focus and study this passage. Was well God is very physically close to the person praying. He's nigh, he's within range, he's nearby. The more I studied it, the more I came to the conclusion that's not what he's talking about here. If you'll take the Bible and study it very carefully and study God, you'll find out that God is everywhere all the time. You and I cannot escape the presence of God. Now, this has kind of captivated my mind and my imagination lately. And I think I mentioned this last Sunday morning's message, but I want to say it again. We are, whether you're aware of it or not, whether we're aware of it or not, we are right now in the very presence of God. He sees us. His mind is on us. He's aware of what we're doing. He's focused on what I'm saying. Hey, he's focused on what you're thinking. He knows if you're been good or bad. He knows if you're awake or asleep. So do I, by the way, right now God is so when he says he's nigh unto them, he's not saying that he's Closer in presence to me than you. We cannot escape his presence. By the way, you are just as much in the presence of God tomorrow at work at eleven o'clock as you are now in church at eleven o'clock Can't escape his presence. Cannot escape his attention. Cannot escape his awareness. So what does he mean? The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him. Well, if he's whether I call on him or not, he's floating, he's omnipresent, he's everywhere. Can't see him, can't feel him, but he's here. He knows I'm talking about him. Right? So I got looking up that word nigh and how it's used other place in the Bible and the word it comes from and all that. And I found out. That's what he means by this is he doesn't mean nigh as in the presence of God, but nigh in a relationship with God. You know, you can be very close to someone and not be very close to them. Follow what I'm saying? You can be sitting beside somebody and not know a thing about them. Have no relationship with them whatsoever. This praise, he is nigh unto them all them that call upon him, they're all that call upon him in truth. He's talking about in a relationship fashion. He's uh Did you ever hear someone say this? Yeah, oh oh brother, so-and-so and I, we're tight, man. We're tight. You know? See, I know these cool terms and stuff. I real I I know them really well. I know a lot of cool things. It's what makes me so cool. Says we're tight. That's the idea here. The person that learns to get a hold of God, the person that makes prayer a priority, and they look to God for wisdom and leadership and meet their needs and victory in their life. And they communicate with God, and God answers and responds. That person has a tight relationship with the Lord. They're close to the Lord. They're really close to each other. You've you've said this. Even young people uh in school to say, boy, so-and-so, believe we're really close. He's we'll say something like this. He's a close friend. She's a close friend. We've got a close relationship. And that's the idea here. The presence of God, a relationship. I tell you, we would go to Mrs. Anna Nixon, Kate. And we knock on her door and she would invite us in. Now I'm not big on feelings. I I hope you've picked that up over the years. I don't put a lot of confidence in feelings. Feelings come and feelings go, and feelings are deceiving. So don't base a whole lot on feelings. But I'll tell you what, when we walked into that ho that little uh uh apartment of Mrs. Tate, there was the presence of God there in a way. And I've experienced in very few other times. The nearness of God. That woman was tight with God. She had a relationship, a close relationship with God that was amazing to me. That here it is 20, 30 years later, still stirs my heart. So there's a perk with coming with. You say, oh, God just seems so far away. Well, you need to study and develop your prayer life. And learn to call on God and look to him and trust him and let him lead you and direct you. You know what? God will get closer to you And you'll start understanding things about God that you never understood before. And you'll start seeing God working in your life in ways you never dreamed you would see God work. A nearness So that's one of the perks getting close to God, being near to God. If you want to get close to God, pray. There's another perk in praying, and I put this put it down this way. A fulfillment of obedience. Now here's something that blows my mind. That God has to command us to pray. Can you imagine going to uh oh what's a store that sells lots of stuff and just uh different things and uh Kmart Can you imagine going into Walmart with your little kids and saying to them, now I am commanding you to ask me for stuff? How many people ever had to do that to your kids? I'm commanding you to ask me for things when we go in here. No, what do we say? If you ask me for one thing, so help me Right? God commands us to ask him for stuff. What's the matter with us? And when I pray, I'm obeying God. What you're crying, Mark. And um Oh, it wasn't Mark Hotova. Here's the thing. When I'm praying to God, I'm obeying Him. You say, Preacher, I don't know, I couldn't ever do anything that to please God. Yeah. You pray. You're obeying God. Hey, husbands, let me challenge you this coming here. Now some of you are going to think I'm crazy I want to challenge this coming year. Sometime, every day this coming year, grab your wife and say, sweetheart, let's pray before we go to bed. Let's pray to start out the day. Let's just pray together. God bless our marriage. God help us. Help me to be a good husband. Well, purely a good wife. Or meet our needs, help us. You know what? God likes that. This is what he commanded us to do. Get the kids together. Kids, hey, let's get together. What are we doing? We're gonna pray. Huh? Yeah. Lord bless our family. You don't have to, our Father, who art from everlasting to everlasting. Just bow your head and say, God help us. That pleases God. You know what? You walk away from that. I made God happy. I obey God. There's a joy in that. There's a fulfillment that comes from that. So some of the perks of prayer is the nearness of God, a near relation with Him, fulfillment. I like, would you would you turn there? And I pointed this out in the past, and I brought this out to the man at prayer breakfast yesterday morning. Go to Mark, if you would, chapter 14. I really want you to see this. Mark chapter 14. In fact, we're talking in my Sunday school class about studying the Bible, how to get something out of the Bible. One of the things is underlining verses. This is a good verse. to underline your Bible or make a note here some way around this. It will help you. Mark chapter, what'd they say? 14. Look at verse 38. Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, he's about to be taken and unj and uh unjustly condemned and crucified. We know the story. And he tells the disciples to pray, and he steps off. Then he comes back and he confronts them. And notice what he says in verse number 38, Mark chapter 14. Jesus speaking to his disciples, look what he says. Watch ye and pray. Alright, that's right in what we're talking about. He's commanding them to pray. Tell them to pray. But notice what he says, one of the benefits of doing that will be. Look at the next phrase. Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. What's the implication here? If they don't watch and pray, it implies what's going to happen? They're going to face temptation. They're going to have to deal with some temptations, some issues that they would not have had to dealt with if they would watch and pray. And the whole idea here is The whole idea here is that one of the perks of prayer is that it shields me From some temptations. Now, I'm not going to stand here and tell you that if you make prayer a priority in your life and you pray, you're not going to face temptation. There's no temptation, but is common to man. We all face temptations. But I will say this. That if we will genuinely pray, we won't have to deal with as many temptations as what we do if we don't pray. I'm simply saying there are some things that prayer will keep me from. And I am genuinely, sincerely praying there are some temptations. I'm talking to some folks this morning. You're facing and you're fighting temptations. You would not have to if you would learn to pray. Call him saying. I'm saying there are some of us facing battles, spiritual battles, and we're not growing, and we're defeated in some areas of our life simply because we do not pray. Jesus said, watch and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The whole idea here is there's some temptations I don't have to face. There's some battles I don't have to fight. Hey, there are some battles that God will fight for me if I learn to pray. There's some temptations God would keep from me if I would learn to pray. I can't speak for God on this. I'm speculating here a little bit, but I wonder if it isn't like this. Alright? You don't want to trust me? You don't want to look to me to help you? You deal with that yourself. You struggle with that sin yourself. Go ahead and face that world. Now I'm being a little more harsh than what I think God is. The idea here is God is saying, listen, I'll fight some of these battles for you. I'll protect you a little bit here. Trust me. Look to me. Depend on me. You ever say to your kids, listen, you can listen to me or you can do it your way? Do you ever say that to your kids? Sometimes we let them, alright, go ahead and do it that way. You've got to deal with it. Or you can look to me and let me help you. You want me to help you with that or you want to do it yourself? So one of the perks of prayer is I have a tight relationship with the Lord. I I know God. We're closer together. Another one is that I've the joy of fulfillment in my life, knowing I'm doing what God's commanded me to do. I have I'm shielded from temptation. 2 Chronicles 7:14: if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and Pray! Turn from the wicked ways, and then will I hear their land and forgive their sin and uh will heal their hear answer their prayer. And uh you know what he's saying? He's saying he'll send revival in response to prayer. Another one of the perks of prayer is revival. The fascinating thing about 2 Chronicles 7. 14, he doesn't say pray for revival. He just says pray. He doesn't tell you what to pray for, he just says pray. I'll forgive your sin and heal your land. I'll send revival. America needs healing. Good night. I've never been so disgusted with our country as I am right now. Can I say that? I love America. But when our when our community Oakland Celebrates a sodomite marriage on the front page of the newspaper, God Have Mercy. Come on now. You say, well, it's newsworthy. I'll give you that. It's newsw newsworthy. But it is not to be celebrated. And that's what the front page this week was in our Republican paper was a celebration of sodomy. Amen. Our country needs healing. Our community needs revival. What's the answer? Protest! Yeah, I'm all for protesting. Write letters, brother. I've been writing letters this week to my senators and representatives like I never have in my life. I've been calling them I tell you what sends revival is prayer. When we start, when we learn to get on our face before God and cry out to God, Then one of the perks of that is revival. Can you imagine, can you imagine the world, and let if God doesn't change things, if a revival doesn't come Can you imagine the society that my grandchildren are going to grow up in? If this is being celebrated in Oakland today! What are they going to be celebrating fifty years from now? We need prayer. We better take this seriously. Perks of prayer is the nearness of God, fulfillment of obedience, shielded from temptation, revival. Hey, here's another perk of prayer, benefit of prayer. I like this one. Answered prayer. What's uh Matthew seven, seven said? Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it Shall be open unto you. Now you can study that out and make all kinds of application, but the message of that passage is God answers prayer. God answers prayer. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be. I like Jeremiah 33. 3, God's phone number. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee what? Great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Listen. You study what the Bible says about prayer, and you can come to no other conclusion than the fact that God loves to answer prayer. God promises to answer prayer. In great ways. So one, we said prayer must be a priority. Number two, we said there's a lot of perks that come with prayer. One of them being that God answers prayer. We get the things we ask for. Now here's the problem, and brings me to my last point. Then why aren't our prayers answered? Why aren't they answered? Now don't answer your don't let me rephrase that. Many of us have prayed for things. Have prayed prayers that were not answered. I'm like, come on. I've asked for things that I didn't get. I've asked God to not let things happen that He let happen. Why is that? Is the Bible wrong? The Bible's not wrong. My third point explains it. The prerequisites for prayer See, God's promise to answer prayer is not just a blank check. Whatever you want, I'll give it to you. Whatever. You want a great beer party Saturday night? Sure, just ask me. I'll give it to you. No Christian with an ounce of maturity believes that God would give someone just whatever they wanted. The Bible doesn't say that. The Bible says there's some prerequisites. Years ago, this was it had to be at least ten years, maybe fifteen years ago. Fellow had nothing to do with our church. As far as I know, he'd never been in this building. He came by my office. Reverend Leatherman, I gotta talk to you. I knew him from out visiting door to door and whatnot. We had crossed paths. I knew some of his family members. Reverend Leatherman, I gotta talk to you. I said, come on in. Sat down across the desk from me, started crying. So, what is it? I'd been through the gospel and he'd professed faith before. He said, I love another man's wife. So, what are you talking about? He said, I think it's God's will. And he starts crying. And I mean literally there's water, teardrops are on my desk, little puddles of teardrops. I had to wipe it up after he was gone. He's crying, crying, crying. And I'm asking God to give me this other woman. I won't tell you what I wanted to do to him. I said, listen, that's one prayer God is not going to answer. I said, you're crazy. I said to him, I said, why are you even coming in here telling me this? What are you wanting me to say to you? You want me to say it's okay? Yeah, divorce your wife and go with him. You want me to tell you that? I said, I'll tell you this, what you're doing is sin. It's wrong. He said, Well, I just love her so much. So that is the least, that has nothing to do with this. And he just went on and on and on and was determined to have me tell him this was okay. I finally said, listen, you're not going to get that out of me. I showed him passages of scripture. I said, this is adultery. This is wrong It's fornication. I showed him Hebrews 13, 5. The bed is undefiled, marriage is honorable, and the bed is undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge Finally, I just told him I said, listen, you want a preacher to tell me tell you that what you're doing is okay. I'm give you the name of a few that will probably do that. But this preacher ain't doing it. God doesn't say, well just ask for whatever you want and I'll give it to you. God says there's certain prerequisites. Certain things have to be in place if you're going to have an answer to prayer. One of those prerequisites, and I've got to give them to you quickly, is a pure heart. Psalm 66:18, David said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. He doesn't say the Lord won't answer my prayer. He said the Lord won't even hear me. There's sin in your heart, there's sin in your life, you won't deal with it, you won't repent, you won't make it right, and I am not listening to your prayers. Isaiah says the same thing. The Lord's hand is not shortened that he cannot hear, but your sins have separated me, he will not hear. We have got to get to the point where God answers our prayers. Our country is defiled. Our churches are so worldly, they're anemic. Our Christianity is so powerless, we have no influence. We have got to learn to pray. We have got to get a hold of God. But we will not get a hold of God until we get our hearts pure. So we get sin out of our lives, disobedience out of our lives. We can pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. But God says He will not hear us if we regard iniquity in our hearts. Now I don't know what your needs are in your life. Some of you I do know what your needs are. But I don't know what all your needs are. I don't know what all your situations are. I don't know what you need God to do for you. But I do know this. Until we repent of sin, we will not have our prayers answered. Now that's not Joel Ustein popularity. That's not the best-selling Christian book in the United States, but that is Bible truth. Why won't God answer my prayer? And meanwhile, we're living in sin. Uh when I was ten. My parents bought me a mini bike. Amen. A rough roadster. Anybody remember those? I told you I was cool. Every cool kid had a roadster. And I don't know what I did, something like the day before my birthday. It was out in the garage, it was all wrapped up. I knew what it was, they knew I knew what it was. Everybody knew what was going coming down here. It was birthday the next day. And there it was, and I couldn't wait. And I don't know what I did. I did something stupid and they said, You're not getting that present. Now I know it was my sister's fault. I know it was. Whatever it was, it was her fault. And my parents said, you're not getting it because this is not right. Now eventually I did get it. But that's kind of the way it is with God. God says you have that sin in your heart and life. You're not getting the answer to your prayer. Now, some of us right now, the Holy Spirit is already pointing out what it is in your life. It's there right now. You don't need me to go down a list. The Holy Spirit's already done it in your heart. You know what it is. That's keeping God's from answering your prayers. Why don't you confess that, forsake it, get it out, make it right, and learn to pray? Get a hold of God. Pure heart, faith, James 1. 6 says, uh uh he says, let them ask in faith, nothing wavering. He that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think that he shall receive anything from the Lord. You don't believe God's going to do it in the first place, and You've got to believe. You've got to have faith in God. James 4:3 says that our prayers should be unselfish. Ye ask and receive not, that ye may consume it abundant your own lust. One of the reasons we don't get our prayers asked answered is because all we do is ask for stuff for me. We don't have a heart for others. One of the things Mrs. Tate we go in there and she would pray, that gal would pray. And I don't remember all these years, I don't remember her one time asking God to do anything for her. It's always others, always others, always others, always others. Now I take it back. There was a time she prayed for protection. I'll tell you about that in a minute. We go in there. What do you need? Brother God, please meet Brother Denny's uh school bill. Give them souls. He's out there trying to reach these kids. And give them power of the Holy Spirit. Unselfish. We need to pray according to the will of God, 1 John 5. 14. We ask anything according to His will. I have to stop. Alright, this is God. I need this. I want this. Is this according to your will? Does this square up with Scripture? I can tell you this: prayer for victory over sin is according to the will of God. Ask God. All right, does it match up with scripture? You say, well, I don't even know what the Bible says is God's will or not. Ah, that's where church comes in That's where daily Bible reading comes in, studying the Word of God, find out what God says. So, number one, I've got to uh have a pure heart, I've got to pray in faith, unselfish, according to the will of God, pray in patience. Bible talks over and over, wait on God, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord. God doesn't work on our schedule. God's got his own schedule. I got thinking this week. If I pray and ask God to do something or ask God for something, and two minutes later I get it, or he does it, it's like, wow. Can I get a witness? Anybody here ever pray something? And immediately, like I mean just almost immediately, God does it. Anybody here ever have do you? And it's like, man, a lie, this thing really works Well, I want to suggest to you that if you pray for something and God does it two years later, it's just as spectacular as if he did it two minutes later. Time is not a factor with God. And He knows when the best time and best place and best situation to bring that thing together. So you're praying for someone to be saved. You're praying for a need to be met. You're praying for this. And God doesn't do it tomorrow. And you think, oh, well, God doesn't answer prayer. Well, wait on the Lord. Keep praying. Keep praying. Pray without ceasing. Keep praying that God has his time and God has grace. You just trust them. And wait on him and let him bring that thing together. I'm talking to some folks, you've been praying for family members to be saved for a long time. You just keep right on praying. Talking for some folks, you've been praying that God would help you get out of debt or whatever for a long time. You just keep right on praying. Now you trust God, do what he says, but you keep right on praying. Come on now. Whatever it may be, be patient. Wait on the Lord. We rush around and tear things up before we even give God a chance. And then gratitude. Gratitude. When we're grateful, I've found, I believe, in my experience and from studying scripture. That when I'm grateful to God, he has a tendency to answer my prayers much more readily than when I'm not grateful. I think I got scriptural support for that. I can give you illustrations over the years, folks that we did things for. They were very ungrateful, and it's kind of tough to do it again, you know what I mean? Miss Tate. We go in there and she just constantly thanking God for everything. Thank God for this. Thank God for that. She had uh came in there one day and she said, Brother Leatherman, uh, Brother Danny, God answered prayer last night. I said, What was it? She said, uh somebody was breaking into my window in the middle of the night. I could hear them. I could see their shadow. And she said, I prayed, got out of my bed, got down on my knees, I said, God, please protect me. Don't let them get in. I don't have anything. And she said, they went away. I said, really? She goes, yeah, they never got it. She goes, go look, see see if there's any damage window. And sure enough, I got over, went outside, came around her little apartment there, and sure enough the screen was bent back. You could see where they were scratching and prying and trying to get in there. She said, God protected me. That's great. I'd rather be a Mrs. Tate than a Donald Trump any day. Near God, answering prayer, working. Hey, I'd rather I'd rather stand before God in Mrs. Tate's shoes than Donald Trump's shoes. Huh? See we live for now. We think everything is here and now it's not. Uh F. B. Meyer was a great preacher. If you ever heard of him, great, great preacher years ago. He followed actually at the Metropolitan Tabernacle for a while. And he was traveling to America from England on a steamer. And he was holding services on for the passengers while they were traveling. It took several weeks. And there was an agnostic came to listen to one of his services and he preached on prayer and you have to be saved. One of the points was you had to be saved to have your prayers answered and The agnostic mocked it, God and all that. Well the next day or later on he was having another service and uh the agnostic was going to his other service and he said he just wanted to hear what he had to say. Yeah, right. While he was walking, he just happened to have a couple oranges in his uh pockets. And he walked by, and there was a lady on the deck on one of the little um What do you call those seats? Lounge seats. And uh she was sound asleep and her hands were like this. And uh atheist walked by and he sneckered and he got two oranges. So he took the two oranges and put them in the ladies' hands. He went off to the service and had the service. Afterward they're coming back, and a lady woke up, and there was two oranges in her hands. And she came up to F. B. Meyer with the agnostic was there by him, and she said, Mr. Meyer, God answered prayer. And he said, what are you talking about? She says, I was so my stomach was so upset from traveling. And she said, I sat out here and I asked God if I could just have an orange. That would settle my stomach a little bit and I wouldn't be so sick. And I just asked God for my. She said, I woke up and God gave me two F. B. Meyer said he was able to lead that agnostic to the Lord because God answered that dear woman's prayers. Prayer. Let's make it a priority. Let's enjoy the benefits of prayer, but let's make sure we meet the prerequisites. Make sure we meet God's conditions. Father, bless us, I pray. I pray that this year would be a year of prayer where we see you do great and mighty things in our lives personally, in our families, our church. Lord, I'd like to see you send a revival to this county. I mean a God-sent revival of repentance and faith and humility. Lord, let it begin in us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need to develop my prayer life? I need to give attention to this matter of prayer as a Christian. How about it? Any at all? Uplift the hand. God bless you. Of course. Goodness. Now this is I'm gonna get a little personal. I want to meddle, but I do want to challenge I don't know what it is. This is between you and God. But how many would say, preacher, there are some areas in my life that I am not meeting the requirements for answer prayer. God has pointed it out. The Holy Spirit of God, whatever it is, it's between you and God. But you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. The Spirit of God has showed me that there's some areas that need to be lined up that I need to make right so that I can be a man or woman of prayer. And you'd say, pray with me, I'm gonna make I'm gonna take action on that. I'm gonna respond to what the Spirit has dealt with me, I'm gonna obey Him And make those things right so I can be a man or woman of prayer. It's between you and God, but I want to pray with you. How about it? Uplifted hand. How many say, yes, the Spirit of God has dealt very specifically with my heart and life Areas that need to be made right so I can see God answer prayer. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Now that is being honest, that's the Spirit of God speaking in our heart and we're saying, yes, Lord, I hear you. I know what you're saying. I'm responding to that