Peter chapter 1, I just want to look at verse 17. I want to give you a few uh thoughts about this, maybe challenge us for this coming week and to live for God and be a witness. Notice verse 17. And if ye call on the Father Who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's work, past the time of your sojourning here in fear. He says, if you call on the Father, uh Without respect of persons, judges every man according to his works, then pass the time of your sojourning here on fear. I've just entitled it Calling on the Father. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us here. Before we dismiss. Father, we do come to you. I'm so grateful for the day. What a blessing this church and you through this church have been to me today. And the songs and the fellowship and the uh ministries. I pray as we finish out this Lord's day, and we're looking in your word here briefly, I pray you'd stir our hearts to live for you this Week, tomorrow, Tuesday, all through the week, just to honor you and serve you, be a witness, trust you. And uh I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. Be the preacher tonight, Lord, Holy Spirit, through me And fill me, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Peter's writing to these New Testament believers who are being persecuted. And he's challenging them. We noticed in verse 13, we kind of there's a little transition in the letter in the book of 1 Peter, and he's beginning to challenge them to develop and maintain a godliness. even in the midst of their persecution. Now they were rejoicing in the Lord. They had assurance. They uh, you know, he did all of that, but he's saying, listen, you guys In the midst of all of this, as you're facing this intense, violent, in some cases, persecution, don't lose your godliness. And um and so I've I put I thought of this We must be careful. We must never let someone else's treatment of me affect my walk with God Um been pastoring here a number of years, been in the ministry a number of years. I've seen a lot of people. Somebody speaks unkindly to them Somebody crosses them a little bit, looks at them a little crossed eyed, doesn't shake their hand right. They get all bit out of shape and they walk away from their fellowship with the Lord. Anybody know what I'm talking about? We must not let that happen. I think that's what Peter's urging these New Testament believers, listen, the world is beating you up, literally. And uh don't let that interfere with your walk with God. You maintain your godliness. You maintain that walk with God. And so, and then the other hand here he's addressing, they had tremendous joy. Look over there at the end of verse 8. We looked at this. He says, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. I mean, they in the midst of it were just rejoicing and praising God. They had the joy of the Lord Now here we've got to be careful. Sometimes we uh get happy in the Lord and we neglect our holy walk with the Lord There's two extremes there. Some people are all happy and excited and carrying on and rejoicing and all the privileges and blessings of being a Christian, but they neglect the responsibilities of being a Christian. And then the other side is some people all they focus on is you've got to be holy, you've got to be godly, and they don't have the joy of the Lord. You follow what I'm trying to say And there needs to be a balance here. So Peter is addressing both of those. Verse 15 and 16, he was pretty blunt. Did you catch that? We preached on this last week. He said, Be ye holy. Even as your Father, which is in heaven, is holy, for he has said, Be ye holy, for I am hell holy. How many people agree with me? That's pretty blunt Just be holy. And uh we looked at that. Now he's getting a little more personal. He's kind of coming in and he's uh uh he's getting a little bit more personal. My first thought is this He appeals to their relationship with God as their father. Now he's addressing this matter of godliness, sober thinking, controlled thinking, holy living. That's the context. But he's appealing to them in their relationship to God as their father. Look at the first few words of that verse. And if ye call on the Father. If you call on the Father. Now he uses that term if. He's not doubting whether God is their Father or not. He's not questioning your salvation. He's saying it in a sense kind of like this: because you call on God your father. If that's the case, and again not questioning it, just laying a premise, if you call on God as your father So he's not doubting their salvation here. And when he uses that term, call on God your Father, has this idea, you're identifying yourself as a child of God. You're calling on God your Father. They're declaring that God is my Father. And so he's making this appeal to the relationship with God their Father. I think one as a Christian, one of the most One of the most most spiritual views I can have of God, one of the most spiritual mindsets I can have about God is to view God as my father, as my father. Now, for you and I, we've heard that our whole lives. That's for thousands of years. God has been referred to by Christians as the Father. But in the Old Testament, it was a little bit different. For the Jews under their economy, you find very seldom do you find the Jews in the Old Testament referring to God, Jehovah, as their father. This was a new, somewhat new. There's a few references where they see God as their father. But in the Old Testament, it's pretty much God is the sovereign, God is the King. God is the uh uh the uh uh uh uh the ruler over Israel. And he is, and he was, there's no doubt about it. But Jesus showed up, God's son And he begins introducing to the New Testament Jews, the disciples, he begins introducing this concept of God being a father. And all through his earthly ministry, Jesus continually emphasized the believer's relationship with God as a father. How many people are somewhat familiar with the Lord's Prayer? Anybody know what I'm talking about, what's known as the Lord's Prayer? How does it begin? Our Father, which art in heaven. That was a bit of a new concept for those New Testament Jews, for those under listening to them, disciples. God is my Father And so he introduces it that way, and he's trying to develop their understanding of their relationship with God, that they're not just a servant of a king, they're not just a um What do you call in a kingdom? You have the king and then you have the subjects. Alright? We're not just subjects of this creator king But through the Lord Jesus Christ, I am now spiritually born into the family of God and this creator of this universe, this King of kings and Lord of Lords, now I see him as my what? My father. My father. How many people agree with me? That changes the relationship a little bit. That changes everything To view God not just as a king and the creator, almighty God of gods and king of kings, but now he's seeing my father, he's my father. My father. And so Peter is appealing to this concept that they are children of God, that God is their father. Actually, as a believer, to some extent I have the same relationship with God the Father as Jesus Christ does. Now not completely, not in every aspect But to some extent, I do. The Bible teaches over and over. Well let me back up. How many people understand Jesus is God's Son? How many people just thought, duh? Of course we know Jesus is God's Son. That was a stupid question. But did you know this? That the moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I was in the eyes of God, now in Christ? I am in Christ. God sees me in Christ. And to some extent, now I have a relationship with God the Father. Similar, or I have the same relationship with God the Father as Jesus Christ does, me being in Christ. That's an amazing thing. How many people knew this? God loves Jesus Christ, his son. How many people just said, duh, preacher, we know that. But Jesus, God loves you and I just as much as he loved Jesus Christ because we are in Christ. How many people knew Knew this. Jesus has complete access, unhindered, unfettered access to God the Father. Duh. Say it with me. Duh. We know that. But you know, in Jesus Christ, in Christ, you and I in Christ, we have the same access to God the Father as Jesus Christ does So, in many respects, you and I have the same relationship with God our Father as Jesus Christ does And what did Jesus say when he told the disciples how to pray? He says, hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name. And what he was teaching them is to pray in the name of Jesus. In the other words, pray in the place of Jesus Christ, as if you were Jesus Christ, with his authority, standing before God, coming to God and praying. uh with his access, I should say, coming to God and praying, just as Jesus Christ has access. What a relationship with the God of the universe that we can come to him and approach him with boldness. Because he's our father. He's our father. When I was about 12, 13 years old, I worked for my dad's, I think it was his cousin, Danny Leatherman And he had a dairy farm, milked about forty, forty five cows. And so I worked there and after school and during the school year and then all day in the summer And um we worked there and one time, I don't remember all the circumstances, but one time he had dropped me off at the feed shop, feed store I think it was, and he had a list of things he needed ordered. And he had to do some stuff, and so he dropped me off and I said, run in there and order these things and just put it on my account. So I'm here this thirteen, maybe fourteen year old kid. I walk into a feed start and I got this list of stuff that he wants And uh I went up to the counter, I said, well, I'm here, uh uh Danny Leatherman, and we need this and we need that, and we need so much of this, that, and I read the list off to the fella And uh he says, okay, I said, put it on his account, he did all that. And I was able to access the resources of that feedback. store, not in my own authority, not in my own name, but coming in the name of what who was at my boss at that time, Danny Leatherman. with his authority. I could have full access just as if I was Danny standing there making that order. And when Jesus says we have access, we pray in his name, we can access God the Father in His position, we can come to God with that same access He has. How many people that makes you glad? Praise the Lord for that. So Peter is writing to these New Testament believers and they're under intense persecution. They're they have a supernatural joy that is pouring on them. But he's challenging them. He says, listen, you guys need to live godly. Keep your thoughts under control. Be sober. Gird up the loins of your mind. You be holy. Don't lose this. Don't lose sight. Don't let this persecution lose sight of doing right and living right. And he says, now I'm appealing to you. You call God your Father. You have that access to your Father. So he makes this appeal to them. God is far more concerned about our spiritual well-being. God our Father is far more concerned about our spiritual well-being than any earthly parent or child ever could uh any earthly parent would ever care about their child. You follow what I'm trying to say I thank God for a daddy that prayed for me and and was a testimony to me, had tremendous influence on my life. And as much as I thank God for it, I love him, and uh I'm not trying to build him up, even though I'll w I'll accept any gifts that he gives me for saying this. Um I have a heavenly father that cares for me ten million times more. Ten million times more intensely, more thoroughly. So how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. God is your father. You have access to him, the love and compassion and concern for him. So he appeals, he's making this personal appeal to holiness, and he's appealing to the relationship With God as their father. Then a next thing I notice real quick, he explains a revelation about God as judge Now you call God your Father, let me remind you something about this God. Look what he says. And if you call God, if you call on God the Father, who without respect of person, what Judgeth according to every man's word. Um, I don't know about you, But that seems a little bit surprising to me. Now if I didn't know this, if I hadn't read it before, and I was just coming down there and if I and and if I read where he's saying If you call on God your Father, I would think he would say something like this, who loves you so much. You call on God your Father, who is committed to meet your every need and provide for you. You call on God your Father, who cares so deeply about you, and he pities you and he's gentle and loves you. You call on God your father, but he doesn't say any of that He says, you're calling God your father? He's a judge. He's a judge. He's reminding them that just that he's reminding them, though God is my heavenly father, and all that implies. He has not abdicated his attribute as judge. And I still, God, listen, what he's saying is this: God is my father and my judge. I'm held accountable. I'll stand accountable before him. My understanding of God very much determines the quality of my spiritual life. If I have a misconstrued idea that God is just, oh, he's just giving and he's lax and he's just, oh, he's a daddy, gives me whatever I want, lets me do whatever I want. Oh, he just uh uh pays all my bills. He does all the oh well God's my father wait a minute that's not exactly a clear understanding of who and what God is. God's a Father, but he's also the judge. He's also a judge. What did Jesus say when he introduced the Lord's Prayer? Our Father, which art in heaven, what? Hallowed be thy name. Holy be thy name. The Father, but he is holy And he holds us accountable. So he's approaching it from this. Notice what he says about our Father who is a judge. He says he judges fairly. Look, without respect of persons, judgeth according to every man's word. Without respect of persons. What does that mean? Without respect of persons. What what's that mean? Somebody talk to me. Blind justice? How else would you say it? Treats everybody same. Here's the word I was listening for or looking for. No favoritism. God judges fairly. Uh in our society and fallen man, and we sometimes I think they try many of them try to do the best they can. But now within man's judgment, a lot of times appearance is a factor on what the judgment is You ever notice that? Tom could probably speak to this. You'll have some guy, he's rough as can be, you know, he's a he's a thug, he's a uh criminal, he's uh uh a uh What else would you describe him? Uh bad, rough thug. He's all this. But when he comes before the judge, what's he do, Tom? Then he gets a haircut, he brushes his teeth, he takes a shower, trims his nails, puts a suit on. He walks in there like citizen of the year. What's he doing? He's trying to influence the judgment, right? With appearance. And you know what? Sometimes it works. Anybody here ever look at someone and say, man, that's a sharp gal right there. You got to know him. They weren't so sharp Sometimes appearance in man's judgment will be a factor. Sometimes the title will be Now I don't I to be honest with you, I'm embarrassed by this, and I very seldom, if ever, use that other people do, but years ago there was a school in in um Philadelphia uh bestowed on me an honorary doctorate Thank you very much. Now I respect it and I you know I just very grateful and you know and all that, but I I certainly didn't deserve it But you know what I do sometimes. If I need to uh impress or do something, accomplish something, I'll say, well I'm Dr. Leatherman Oh, doctor. Uh there was um one time years ago, uh some my boys had been hunting somewhere and the people that lived there it was everything was illegal and um uh they were doing But one of the neighbors gave him a hard time and everything was perfectly and boy that got under my skin. And I went over there and uh I knocked on the door, the lady came to the door, she and I says, uh I'm Dr. Leatherman And I understand you had a problem with my boys. And they were like, Oh no, no, it's fine, it's just a misunderstanding. I said, Well you here's my number. Call Dr. Leatherman here. What was I trying to do? I was trying to impr I was trying to affect their judgment of me. What they thought of me and and accomplished and use it to m my end. Uh what I'm trying to say is this. That may work with man sometimes, but I'm telling you what, you ain't gonna pull that off on God. Doesn't matter what your titles are, doesn't matter uh how your appearance may be. Uh anybody learned this? Man man's pretty good at putting on a show What do we call it? Putting on the dog sometimes we'll say that. Putting on a show. I'm telling you, our God without respect of persons. makes judgment. Doesn't matter what titles we have, doesn't matter how much money in the bank account or little. Doesn't matter uh what kind of show we put on, what we look like God judges fairly. He judges truly. These are often factors in man's judgment, but never with a holy God. We have a lot of privileges to be a child of God. How many people realize that? We just talked. Access to God. All the privileges. Of God our Father. He's a good Father and He cares for us and provides for us. He protects us. But one of the privileges we have is not the privilege of sinning. God is our Father. We have a lot of privileges, but that does not give us the privilege of sinning. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth every son. And God doesn't let us get away with sin. His children. God doesn't let his children get away with dishonesty and disobedience to his clear will. And so God, He is our Father, yes, and there's tremendous privileges But he's also our judge. And with that becomes responsibility. We have many privileges as a child of God, but sinning is not one of them I put this down. We have many privileges as a child of God, but selfishness is not one of them. Not one of them. God is our judge and he judges fairly. I noted this also, he judges our fruit. Look at verse 17 there. And if you call on the Father, who without respect of person, judgeth according to every man's what? Work. Judges according to every man's work. That word work there has this idea: undertaking, deeds, what I produce with my life. What I did with my life, my works, you know what God judges his children? He does it fairly. No respect of persons, doesn't matter. But what he does judge is what are we doing with our lives? What am I investing my life in? What am I living for as a child of God, as one of God's children? What's my life producing? What am I investing my life in? What am I doing with this gift of eternal life that God has given me? How am I using that? What am I doing with that? That's what He judges. Now did you notice what it doesn't say? Without respect a person judgeth every man according to his sins. Doesn't say that Where are our sins judged at, as believers? Where are our sins judged at? When and where are our sins judged at? On the cross. Jesus Christ was judged in our place. Jesus Christ tore the jore the wrath, the judgment, the condemnation for my sin. He bore on the cross. Then when I trusted him as Savior, that was applied to my account. Now the righteousness of God in Christ and my sin was laid on his account. And so he's not, this judgment that's being referred to here is not a judgment for sin. As a child of God, as somebody that's been saved, all that sin, past, present, future, has all been judged in Christ. Say, oh, well then what judgment is this? A judgment of works, of how I lived as a child of God. What did I do? Because of this for great forgiveness God has shown me. What have I done with my life? How have I invested it? What have I done with this gift of eternal life that God has given me? How have I used it? That's what the judgment is. Does anyone tell anyone want to tell me when does that judgment take place? Anybody take a guess? What is that judgment? The judgment seat of Christ. The judgment seat of Christ. When does that take place? Immediately following the rapture. Right? Now if you didn't know any of that, you need to come to Bible Institute tomorrow evening. And this is a paid advertisement for Bible Institute tomorrow night. And we study all of that. But what he's judging here is, I think he's referring to the judgment seat of Christ, where how we lived our life is going to be judged by God. Not whether we go to heaven or hell, that's settled when we trust Christ. But the rewards in heaven. The crowns that are presented. And so he's saying, he's reminding these believers that are in persecution. Oh, they're rejoicing, they have joy unspeakable, full of glory But he says, you listen, don't lose sight of the fact that you've got to live a holy life. You've got to live godly. God's your father. I don't doubt it. You claim God's your father. Well, just remember, he's also judge He's also judging. We got to do right. We got to live right. We need to take our lives and invest it in the in the things of God. Then last of all, I just want to point out he addresses their responsibilities to God as their father and judge. Look what he says. He ends the verse. Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear, in fear. Reverence. Respect for God, reverence for God. That word sojourning means to travel through a foreign land. I like that old song. It comes to my mind every now and then. This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. I'm so journing through this old world. This isn't my home. This isn't your home. God's our Father. He's the judge We're just passing through down here. We need to be careful that we live our lives, invest our lives, use this gift of eternal life that God has given us to bring glory to our God, to be uh to advance the gospel around the world. Because we're just passing through. And because of that, we're going to end up before God, our Father. We're going to stand up before the judge. And um and therefore we need to have fear. That word fear has the idea of reverence, awe, respect. A holy, reverential respect for God Almighty. In other words, we need to take our Christian life very, very seriously We can't be horsing around with it. Now I said earlier, I want to mention again, there's two there's two extremes on this You get certain crowd of Christians, certain crowd of churches, and man, it's all hoop and holler and everything's just uh uh you know rejoicing and praising. And listen, we ought to rejoice and praise, amen, or not? Yeah But there's more to it than that. Then you have the other extreme, someplace all it is is doom and gloom and judgment and wrath and fear and Oh man, the Christian life is a life of fear and morbid. I've got a and uh and listen, there is judgment. That's what he's saying. There is accountability, there's no doubt about it. But the Christian life is a mixture of the two Rejoicing and praising God my Father, but remembering and reverencing and respecting and fearing God As the judge of all the earth, he'll do right. He's not going to judge according uh with respect to persons. He's going to sit and he's going to give an account for how we live our lives. God the Father. We were uh uh back in uh a previous ministry, and there was a young fella came come in on the buses. And he came from a a very, very horrendous home, and I could tell you the details. It was just a terrible situation. My wife and I talked and prayed about it. God put on our heart that we ought to bring this young man into our home. For a period of time, let him live there and try and help him. And we prayed and talked to his just his dad is all he had. And uh we talked to him and got it arranged, and uh he moved into our home for about a year He had been in the public schools there, and um out of what is it, 180 days required for school, am I correct? Out of 180 days, he had attended school twice I saw his record, end of the year, I saw his report card. Attended school two days out of that whole year. You know what the report card said? Passed. This moved him on to the next grade. We said, this is terrible. The guy got saved. He was baptized. He showed a love for the Lord. We talked about it. We prayed. Got arranged. We brought him into our home And uh when he moved in our home, uh he had all the privileges as if he was one of our own children. In fact, he called me dad. He still to this day, we still communicate. He's a adult now, has his own kids grown up out of school, I think. But um to this day he'll still call me Dad. Dad He had all the privileges. He we had food, he could access the food, he had a nice bedroom his own, he could stay in there, shower, everything, all of that. But he moved in the home. There was also some responsibilities. It wasn't no more just doing whatever, living wild. I was going to be in church. When he was, it wasn't a problem. He's going to be in church He's going to bathe regularly. He's going to do all these different things. He's going to go to school. We raised up support. Got money. Folks in the church supported. We got him in a Christian school in the south end of town. And he went there and and finished out there if I remember correctly. And um what I'm trying to say is this the privileges of of having a father Also come along with that, there are also responsibilities. Follow what I'm saying? And God and and Peter's appealing to these believers were saying, listen, you call God your father. Oh, praise the Lord. What the privileges and joy going through persecution. You've got his care and his concern. But wait a minute. There's also a judge And we need to be very, very careful how we're living our lives. Don't let all this all this you're going through, don't let that derail you. You keep your fear of God in place. You keep in mind, we're going to give an answer to God someday for how I use my life. What was good for them back then, I think, is good for you and I today. Rejoice in the privileges. Thank God he's my father, but he's also my judge. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to have a clear and correct understanding of who you are and what our relationship to you is. Oh, the great love you have for us of a Father. But the holiness as our judge also has responsibility. How many people would say this morning, preacher, I just need to remember how much my heavenly father loves me I just need God to remind me how good he is to me. Anybody like that, I need that. I need that. Sure, sure. How many would say, preacher, I also need to remember that he's the judge. That I'm accountable to him and I have responsibilities to him. How many people say, preacher, I need to remember that also. We need to take our Christian life very seriously. We can't horse around, play around with the world and stuff We've got to be very, very serious about it. Father, bless our invitation tonight. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are