Peter chapter one verse thirteen my wife says don't explain it, just say it and don't explain it. Um look at verse thirteen Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind Be sober. Hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust of your ignorance, but as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation Because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. I want to speak this evening on the call to holiness. the call to holiness. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our time in your word. It's been a good day. I just love the service tonight, the testimonies and And sharing together and fellowshipping. Now we look in your word, Lord. We've got a few minutes. I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak to us and challenge us. And God, on this matter of holiness. And uh this call to each of us to live holy, be holy. And Lord, I'm so, I feel so inadequate to speak on this. I wish uh my heart and mind and life was more holy than what it is And so I ask you to use your word tonight to do for us what none of us can do for ourselves, and that is convict us and challenge us, provoke us to live these holy lives and make the decision To be holy. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will and present my body. Pray your Holy Spirit would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. A young daddy was getting his boy ready for Sunday school one Sunday morning, and the boy asked his daddy, he says, Daddy, why do we go to Sunday school? Now think about that. Why do we go to Sunday school? The daddy thought for a moment. He says, well, we go to learn the Bible. We want to learn about the Lord Jesus and God. And we want to learn how to be good Christians, be like Jesus. And the boy said, Daddy, did you go to Sunday school when you were a child? And he goes, yup, I sure did. Mom took me, as Jennifer sang, mom took me every Sunday He says, then he says, looked a little disappointed. He says, well, it probably won't do me any good either. And Now I don't know how that daddy felt when he heard that, but uh that would uh pierce my heart uh to hear that, don't you think? Little child say, Oh, it didn't do you any good I believe I'm sincere in making this statement. I'm sure many of you all feel the same way. I really want people to see Christ in me. I want to be the Christian God wants me to be. But uh, you know, that doesn't come easy. How many people have found that to be true? That doesn't come easy. It doesn't just happen. And that's what Peter is addressing here. He had up to the verse 12 in our study through this book. He had been encouraging these Christians. Now they, as you as we point out every time, they were facing intense persecution. I mean to the point of martyrdom And loss of home, loss of life, livelihood, run out of their families, and they're all scattered. And Peter's writing out to these believers, and no doubt one group would get the letter, and they'd pass it on to others in this these regions he mentions at the beginning of the book. And he's encouraging them, in the first part, to uh uh to stay grounded in their commitment to Christ. They've got reserved seats in heaven, God's with them, they're rejoicing. They have a tremendous testimony, all this. Then you get to verse 13 and down on through here, and he shifts ears in his approach, and now he's exhorting them to be godly In the midst of their persecution, to not lose their godliness. And we pointed out in verse 13, to gird up the loins of their mind, keep their thoughts right Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought to you. And stay confident in your commitment to Christ. Keep your mind pure and clean. Keep it on the right track. Keep your mind stayed on Christ. And now he comes and he makes a statement. I don't know about you. But as I studied this and read it over, and any time I come across these statements, it's a little bit intimidating. And notice again there, he says Verse 15, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy. And then he says, in all manner of conversation, every area of your life. He references Leviticus chapter 11, verse 44. He says, Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. That word holy is a little bit intimidating to me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Holy You think about that, and it's something that uh for a lot of us, I think the term and the concept of holiness is something that almost induces a sense of fear and reverence of a holy God Isaiah chapter 6 refers the angels cry out, holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord God Almighty? And the temple is filled with the smoke of his glory. And Isaiah falls on his face before God. The holiness. That's an intimidating thought that God says to you and I, just ordinary folks like us, Dennis Leatherman, Matt Treesice, others, Matt Ringer He says to us, be ye holy, even as I am holy. Phew. It's tough just being a decent Christian. You know? Some of us we're just, it's like, man, I'm working hard just to be a decent Christian. I'm working hard just to have a decent testimony. And then God comes along and says, you be as holy, you be holy even as I'm holy. And it's like, wow, how in the world Can I do that? How can I be that way? Well, I think if we understand what holiness is and what God's telling us here, it'll help us, it'll encourage us a little bit. And maybe Maybe first Sunday night of 2020, maybe this could be a year in your life and my life, a year of holiness. holiness in my home, in my life, my heart, my mind. Holy. And uh so let's let's think about this a little bit. And I I say we're we're running a little late, so let me just give try and give these as quick as I can Number one, I put this down, the call to holiness. The call to holiness. Verse 15, first part. But as, you've got to pay attention to the words here, but as he which hath called you is holy, So be ye holy. As he which hath called you. Now that I got looking at that word called, and uh it means pretty much what we would think it means. It means to call someone, but it has this idea. It's not just, uh it's not just, did you ever see somebody, maybe you're at Walmart and somebody's on the other aisle at the end, you come by, you see them, and you go like this, hey Anybody ever know what I'm talking about? Hey! A lot of times I do that and they duck and run. But uh I don't know why. But um uh th it's not that idea of just getting someone's attention, hey! It's not that all the idea at all. It's this idea. It means to summons. He calls us. Hey, come here. Come on up. Hey, come on. Come on. A few weeks ago we preached on the call to discipleship. And when Jesus saw the disciples, he said, follow me. He was summoning them. He was calling them, hey, come on, fellas, come on. Hey, come here. Come, come here. And that's the idea behind this word here. God is calling us. He's calling us to holiness. Now notice the wording here. He says, but as he which hath called you is holy I think the thought here is this: in the same way that God calls us to salvation, he calls us to holiness. How many people hear God saved you against your will? Anybody hear God saved you against your will? No, God doesn't do that. We have to agree with him, right? We have a role in our salvation, not to earn it in any shape or form or perform some work or anything. But I have to make a decision whether I'm going to accept this gift of God, which is eternal life. I've got to decide, am I going to accept it and receive it by faith, or am I going to try and earn it or somehow get it on my own or worse yet, just reject it. And so there's a decision to be made in our salvation. He says, even as he which hath called you is holy. And I think the thought here is: in the in uh in the same way he calls us to salvation, once we're saved, He calls us to holiness. And the idea is, listen, you've got a role to play in this matter of being holy. I can respond to that call. I can try maybe ignore it. I'm not interested in holiness. I'm glad to be saved. I'm glad to have my sins forgiven. I'm glad to have eternal life and escape hell and have a home in hell. I'm glad for all of that. I don't know about being holy, living this holy. I'm not interested in that. See, we've got a decision to make. And we've got to decide, am I going to respond to this call of God? As a believer, to be holy. To be holy. What do I want? What do you want? You want to be a holy Christian? You want to be that Christian that God's calling us to be? Or do I just do I want to fit in with the world? We'll talk about that here in a bit. I just want to go through this life and not give it much thought. But God is calling us. There's a call of God, a summons And we have a decision to make. Am I going to answer that call? Am I going to respond in faith and say, sure, Lord, yes, Lord, I'll live that holy life. I'll be holy as you're calling me to. And so I think we'll never be holy Christians. We'll never be holy as this passage is addressing until we make a decision. Yes, Lord, I'll heed that summons. I'll agree to it. I'll respond to it. Just like he called the disciples to be his, uh called his men to be his disciples, and they had to make a decision. Yes, I'll follow you. God calls us to holiness And we have to make a decision. Yes, Lord, that's the life I want that you intend for me, that you've instructed me. That is what I want as a believer. To be holy. Holy. So you have this call. And then um uh God wants all God wants all people to be saved. Do you agree with that statement? God wants everybody to be saved. Oh, it just irks me sometimes. Pastor Matt and I get worked up. Uh this idea, this teaching that some people or God's calls, some people to be saved, and other he's called to go to hell, and God elects some to get saved, and God elects some to go to hell. I don't know about you, but that just gets under my skin. God wants all people saved. He's not willing that any should perish. He wants all to come to repentance, for God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth on him. God wants everybody to be saved. Let me make this statement. God wants everybody to be holy. He wants to save us. Then he wants us to be holy. He wants us to be holy. It is God's will that his people be holy. Now listen, uh some things I can't be too dogmatic. If I make a statement and I'm not sure of it, I'll say, well, I believe this is the case. If I make a statement, it's my opinion. I try and say this is what I think. Uh this is Leathermanism, I'll say that type of thing But there's some things I can be very dogmatic about, and I can be dogmatic about this. God wants everybody all of his people to be holy. God wants these young people to be holy. God wants the little children to be holy. God wants the old uh the senior citizens to be holy He wants us to be holy. That's his will. That's who he's calling us to. To be holy. Now what is holiness? What does he mean? Be holy? What is that about? Anybody let's let's have a little participation here. The word holy itself. Uh anybody have an idea? What is the simple uh uh technical simple meaning of the word holy? Anybody want to take a shot? Set apart. If you want to boil it down to its most basic definition, it means to be set apart. It is, we get the same word sanctified, comes from the same word, to be set apart, to be sanctified It means to be set apart. But it means more than that. You put it in the context of Scripture coming from God and you add to that meaning. There's more depth to that meaning than simply set apart. It means to be this. to be set apart from, this is a definition I came across, to be set apart from that which is profane. Set apart from that which is profane, and set apart to that which is pure. So there's two aspects to this concept of holiness, to be set apart from something, to be separated from something that would be profane or what other terms could we use? Uh set apart from profane or what Sin, right? Anything sinful, anything unspiritually, morally unclean, anything that is contrary to purity and righteousness Set apart from that, that's all removed, I'm separated from all of that, set apart, but I'm set apart positively to that which is pure and good and righteous and godly. So there's two aspects to this matter of holiness. When I was younger early in my Christian life, Uh, I got saved right at the end of my teen years, one in my twenties, and then in c in Bible college and and working with young people for years after Bible college There was a, and and maybe I misunderstood, maybe I misread what was happening, but it seemed like within our movement, within a lot of our churches, there was a lot of preaching against stuff. Some of you that were back then preaching against uh rock and roll music, preaching against liquor, against this, and again you just have a list you can go down We're against this. Don't go here, don't go there, don't do this, don't say that, don't watch this, don't listen to that, don't, don't, don't, don't, Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. And I say, Amen, we need that kind of preaching. I would have said amen there. Let me try that again. Preaching aga let me put it this way, it might be more palatable for you. There ought to be preaching against sin. Amen. Or to preach against fit. But that's only that's only part of it. That's only half of it. If that's all we do Then we're going to have shallow, self-righteous, holier-than-thou people, because we don't do this and we don't do that. Holiness is more than being separated from that which is sinful, from that list of whatever you can come up with. It's more than being separated from. It's being separated to that which is good. That which is godly, that which is pure. And so when he says, be ye holy, that call to holiness is a call not just to uh to separate from that which is displeasing to the Lord, that which is contrary to God's character, but it is a separation too, that which is pleasing to the Lord, that which is uh is uh uh uh is in line with God's character, integrity. And purity and righteousness and goodness. And so there's two aspects of this. Holiness is the central theme all through the Bible, all through the Bible The central theme, the holiness, holiness, God's holiness, God's call to his people to be holy. Now, what how does that play out? You say, well, how do I do that? How do I be holy? Now I may be oversimplifying this. I don't uh I probably I probably am a little bit. But I think to be holy, if you just want to put it in a bite-sized chunks, in a chicken McNugget size chunks Um it means simply this, to think the way God thinks Or let me put it this way, to have the same perspective that God has, to see things the way God sees things. Here's some things the world says are fine, the world enjoys, the flesh wants so badly, and you have all these lists of things, but the whole God from a as a holy God He sees those things differently, those activities or whatever, values, he sees them differently than the way the world sees them. And God sees these sinful, impure, profane activities or behavior, or lifestyle, whatever you want to call it. God sees that and he sees that as something to be rejected, that is harmful, that is not uh good for our spiritual well-being, that contradicts his integrity and character. And when I'm holy, then I will see that the same way God sees it And I will see righteousness and purity. I tell you, we live in an upside-down world. The world, I say this often, this society we live in, this world we live in, has perfected has perfected the ability to make that which is right seem so wrong. And that which is good seems so bad. And that which is is uh is uh uh uh uh uh uh uh godly to seem so ungodly Our morals in our society have been turned upside down when you compare them to God's holiness, to God's standard And what's happening in many of our churches, in many of our Christian homes, or in our own hearts and minds, is the same thing that happened at the church at Corinth. They adopted the world's perspective on these moral issues. They adopted the world's view and estimation of these moral issues rather than God's view of it, God's perspective, and they became unholy. And we're becoming unholy because we are allowing the world to determine our perspective on that moral, spiritual, and moral things. And so to be holy is to adopt God's perspective to see it from God's perspective, to think about it the way God thinks of these things. I'm telling you, uh in some societies, taking your Bible to school is a terrible, terrible uh thing to do Christians in our world, and let me just bend here a little bit, in our society, Christians are becoming the enemy of the state in a lot of people's minds. Turning it upside down. And so to be holy, I see it from God's perspective. I see what is good from God's view, and I see what is evil from God's view, not by what the world says, not even what my flesh says. Anybody hear your old flesh give you trouble sometimes? Yeah. Our flesh is Satan's greatest enemy. And if we allow our flesh to control our thinking, man, we're going to start having an obscured perspective on what is right and wrong, what is pure and good, and what is impure. And so holiness is seeing things the way God sees it. It's thinking the way God thinks. I put it this way: it's to love that which God loves and hate that which God hates. You say, oh preacher, God don't hate nothing. Uh read Proverbs, I think it's chapter six. I'm going off the top of my head. But God has a hate list. Six things doth the Lord hate. Eh, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look, a lying tongue, and I forget the rest. But God does hate some things. God loves righteousness. God loves purity. And so holiness is to love that which God loves and hate that which God hates. It's to value things as God values them. Again, holiness is the central theme all through Scripture. I thought this was interesting. I looked up the word holy here in Peter. And uh I looked up the word it's translated from and how it's translated other places in our Bible. And I found out that 61 times That word holy is here is translated other places in the Bible get this saints Holy Saints. Who are saints? When the Bible refers to saints, who is it talking about? Who? Christians, born-again people, you and I We're considered that's God's term for Christians is saints. Um the word Christian came from uh the world called making fun of the early believers. Oh, they're Christians, they're little Christ That was actually a very great compliment. They meant it interrogatory. But God's term for you and I is saint. I would like to introduce to our church Saint Ken. And and uh I had this Catholic guy told you this, worked at the meat packing plant, and I found this out, and um I said uh I said I learned something at church Sunday. I said, What's that? I said, I'm a saint. He said, What? You know, Catholics, saints are weird. But um Isn't that interesting? God's term for a believer is holy ones. Those that are separated, set apart from all that is evil and that which is right. Let me ask you a question, how saintly are we? Hmm. Well, I think when God refers to us as saints, he's saying it for two reasons. One, in his eyes we are. But two, he's saying that because that's what he intends for us to be. What happens do you say to a little child, you're such a bad boy. You're so naughty. What's that child end up being? Bad boy. You're reinforcing it. So you're telling them what they should be. And I this is leathermanism, but I wonder if God doesn't call us saints because he wants us To be holy. Holy ones. Hey, you're my saint, huh? Me? Yeah. Separated from that which is evil. So we have this call, this call to holiness. God's saying, that's what I want Be holy. See things the way I see things. Value things the way I value things. Have the morals that I in my perfect, pure holiness, share those values. Saints, the holy ones. The conduct of holiness, bear with me here. Look at verse 15. How am I supposed to be holy? Well, how's this play out? But be as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy. In all manner of conversation, I put it this way, how what's the conduct of holiness? How does that play out in my life? Well, first of all, I pattern my holiness after the Lord. As The Lord is holy. In the same manner as, let me ask you a question. Can I or you be as holy as God is? No, I can't be so holy to the degree that God is. He is perfectly holy. I'm not perfectly nothing. God is per. So I can't be holy to as holy as God is, but he doesn't say, be ye as holy as God is. He says, be holy even as I am. A little different take to it. It means this: in the same manner that God is holy, I should be holy. Let me put it this way, is God as holy as he can possibly be? It's not a trick question. Yeah, he's perfectly holy. God is not lacking in any one of his attributes. He is everything an omnipotent, eternal God can possibly be in every one of his attributes. So God is absolutely as holy as it is possible for God to be, which is perfectly holy. So I'm to be holy even as He is in the same manner. So how does that what does that mean I should be holy as it is humanly possible for a person to be. I can't be as holy as God, but I ought to be as holy as I can possibly be. And I don't know about you. I've got room to grow. I'm not even close to being holy as I could be. As I could be. So even as, so how does this play out? Means, well, first of all Uh, you know, I've got to work on it. Uh uh Nobody arrives. God is fully holy, God is completely holy. In every area of his being, he is holy. His love is holy, his mercy is holy, his judge judgments are holy. And so I am to conform to that. All right, as God is as holy as he can possibly in every single area of his being, I need to be holy as much as I possibly can. And I evaluate my life. Can I be more separated unto the Lord here? Are there some things I gotta get out that I need to separate from here and this area of my life and this area of my life and this area of my life Instead of conforming to the world, I need to be transformed into the holiness of God. So it's a pattern holiness. Number two, it's a personal holiness Be ye holy in all, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. That phrase in all means every single area, no exceptions, every area of my manner of conversation. What is the manner of conversation? Well that word conversations means we use it to talk. Brother Heinbull and I had a conversation before about backyard birds and different ones we saw. We had a nice conversation. But that's not what that word is limited to. It means my entire life. every area of my being, in all, manner of conversation, in every area of your life Without exceptions, every single area of your life, be holy, be holy. As far as God is concerned, there is no difference between secular and spiritual. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? The sec well, this is my secular life. This is where I work and my job and uh then this is my spiritual life over here And I got my spiritual in my here's the spiritual rooms in my life and I got little church here and little thing here and I got my devotions here and I got all my spiritual stuff over here. And over here, this is my secular and this is God doesn't have anything to do with this, and this doesn't, uh, there's no spiritual and God says, I don't that's not the way it is at all. In all manner of conversation, every part of your life you ought to be holy In other words, I ought to be as holy on Tuesday at the job as I am on Sunday morning at church. Amen. I ought to be as holy in my home when the preacher ain't there as I am when he shows up. I tell you, it's sometimes it's fun being a preacher. You show up at someone's house, knock on the door, they open up, oh, it's a preacher! But you can hear the music gets turned off. Oh hey, Grature, come on. The Bible's there all You know, it's like, oh yeah, great, good to see you. Uh I had a guy, I told you this before, I had a guy down in Tennessee, uh, it's a bus family, and we were working with them, and uh I knocked on the door and he answered the door and his hand went like this. And I'm talking to him and it wasn't just a moment or two, smoke started coming up behind the back of his head And he's hiding it and uh I just kept talking and talking and after a while he's mmm Being holy in all matter of conversation, it means being holy if the preacher is there or not. Saturday night, just as pure and separated from the world and stuff as I am Sunday night at church. And all conversation, all my God wants us to be holy in every area of our life. Hey, even when the doors are closed, no one's around. Oh, nobody sees. Uh I think it was Bob Jones Sr. said, your character is what you do when no one is around. How you behave, how you God's holy. I ran my devotions this morning. I posted on social media. I ran my devotions this morning. Um Now it it it says uh that God uh basically it says this God sees us all the time. God is aware of us all the time, we're before his eyes all the time. That'll help you be holy And so the call to holiness and then the conduct of holiness, I pattern it after the Lord. As much as God is holy, I should be holy as much as He can possibly be holy. In every area of my life, holiness is not an outward show. It's not some thing I compartmentalize. I'm holy on Sunday mornings. Oh, I'm holy all the time. And then it's progressive holiness. In other words, you never arrive. It's for the rest of my life I'm working on being holy And then last of all I am with this, the command to holiness, verse sixteen. Because it is written, Be ye holy. For I am holy. He's quoting Leviticus 11. 44. He's speaking to the nation of Israel. But now he's applying it to New Testament believers. New Testament believers have been persecuted. And he says, y'all be holy. Two reasons. Number one, he commands it, for it is written, be ye holy. But then he adds another one on. He says, For I am holy, for I am holy. I noticed as a dad, being a dad is an overwhelming responsibility. Amen? Can I get a witness? That can be overwhelming. And I noticed when the boys were small, um, and it was more uh uh evident then, but I noticed when the boys were small, they would imitate daddy. They'd see what daddy was doing, they'd imitate him He'd walk there, they'd step in my steps in the snow. If I was working on something, they'd get it and they'd want to work on it also. They're imitating daddy. One of my boys texts me, it's been last summer or something. He texts me, he said, Dad, I'm starting to laugh like you do. I said, that's a wonderful thing. Praise the Lord. God is our Father. God's our Father. And he says, My Father, my heavenly Father is holy. He says, You be holy. Why? Because I am. You be like your daddy. You be like your heavenly father. Be holy. Be holy. I've used this before, but it I think it applies here. There's a college freshman girl. She had met a fellow. She was a Christian girl, loved the Lord, loved her family. She got dating this guy, and he wasn't everything he ought to be. He uh he wasn't as committed to Christ as he should have been, and he was pretty worldly and carnal in his in his desires. And as they uh got to know each other, spent a little more time, one night her parents were away. The house was empty, and she had gone out with this guy. And the whole night, the whole evening, he pressed her and pressed her and pressed her that they would go back to her house and spend the evening upstairs in bed. I mean he pressed her, put the pressure on her. And finally she says, No, I can't. I'm not going to do that. And he goes, why not? Are you afraid of what your daddy will do? She goes, no, I'm not afraid of what my daddy would do. I'm afraid of what this would do to my daddy. How badly it would hurt my daddy if I did this. I thought of that, my Christian life. I wonder if we would stop and evaluate what we get involved in and what we do. We wonder, how does this affect my Heavenly Father? Does this grieve him? Does it quench his spirit? He says, you be holy, for I'm holy. To keep that fellowship. Let's be on one same page. Come on now. Come on. Be holy. What are you gonna do? You're gonna decide. Are you gonna you gonna heed that call or are we gonna are we just gonna neglect The call to holiness. Father, I pray you'd help us and stir us from the young people on up. That we just decide, regardless of what this old world does, what my own flesh wants. I want to be holy. I want to be separated unto the Lord. Pure and holy. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many like me, how many like me would say Say, I want my life to be holy. I want my life to please the Lord. I want my life to represent my heavenly Holy Father. Any like that? Anybody like me? That's your desire. Sure it is. I can't imagine not. Now God's calling us to this. Now we can decide. Are we going to act on it? Or just brush it off and go on. How about it, young people? Are we going to act on it? Or just brush it off? Senior citizens, middle-aged, how about us? Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Help us to decide right, Lord. Holy Spirit, help us. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed eyes