While seeking the Lord's will for the service tonight. Luke chapter twenty-three and verse number thirty-three. Before my part of the service is over, I do want to thank Pastor Leatherman again for the invitation to have been here. My what a joy it has been to get to know him, to get to know you precious folks here at the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church I want to say to everyone that had a part in the meals last night, today, lunchtime, thank you, thank you, thank you, not only from the bottom of my heart, but from the bottom of my stomach I'm telling you it was just great. I enjoyed putting all those goodies in the ministry just a few hours ago and looking forward to more of that after this service tonight. Would you stand if you're able? Thank you for the wonderful place to stay. Thank you for the wonderful fruit and goodie basket in the room. You've just gone the extra mile to be so welcoming. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I want to say thank you to Brother Fox and Brother Smith. What a joy it has been to be in to have been with them during these days. You know, the older I get in the ministry, the more I appreciate friends that are not high maintenance. And what I mean by that is this. You can go two years and not even see them, and once you see them again, you just pick right back up where you left off the last time. I like that Because we're all busy. We're all so busy. And if you get upset any every time somebody doesn't retweet you or like something on Facebook, well you're going to be upset a whole lot in this business, amen. So I appreciate my friends. I really do. And I've enjoyed this day with Dr. Smith and Brother Fox, and I love them, and I appreciate them more than I can tell them. Luke chapter 23, verse number 33. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary. There they crucified him. And the male factors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. With the help of the Lord tonight, I'm going to preach on this simple thought, compelled by Calvary. If what I just read within our hearing tonight doesn't motivate you, To serve God, to live for God, to be a soul winner, to experience real revival in your heart, then I doubt nothing will We ought to be compelled by Calvary tonight. Father, as we bow our heads and hearts before you, I want to thank you. For sending your son I want to thank you for his shed blood. Lord, it is through that blood and that blood alone that I have the hope of heaven. Therefore, as I begin to preach tonight, I want to let you know a fresh and anew, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross. I cling. Lead and guide and direct in this service tonight. Be with the man of God as he comes to preach later And we'll give you glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for standing. You can be seated As you study your Bible, you'll discover that there were many places that played a role in the earthly ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. There, of course, was the place of Christ's birth, a little place called Bethlehem, or the house of bread. There was the place called Nazareth, where our Savior would grow into a man We also read of important places that Jesus visited during his earthly ministry as well. There were those Judean hillsides as well as the shores of the Sea of Galilee. There were the synagogues in the villages as well as the great temple there at Jerusalem. Oh, but I believe it's vitally important that each of us remember tonight that all of the places that I've just mentioned were merely steps along the way that would eventually lead the Lord Jesus to the place that we've read about here in the text before us. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was the place called Calvary. Now we know that because the Word of God teaches us that every step that Jesus took on this earth was a step that would eventually, as well as ultimately, lead him to an old rugged cross on a hill just outside of Jerusalem. Called Calvary. Why even the Savior Himself alluded to that truth? Matthew chapter 16 and verse 21 says, From that That time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into Jerusalem and suffered many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. The Bible goes on to say in Matthew chapter 17, verses 22 and 23, and while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. While the very morning of Christ's death, Jesus spoke of this place called Calvary. When he told Pontius Pilate according to John 18 and 37, to this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world Therefore, yes, I'd be the very first to agree with you if you were to try to convince me tonight that Calvary was prophesied by the Scripture. I say that because I believe that the Word of God reveals that Calvary really was prophesied by the Scriptures. But I want you to know that just as sure as the Bible teaches us that sobering truth. The Bible teaches us that Calvary was also proclaimed by the Savior. Now, the reason that I want to drive that point home tonight is this And it assures us, ladies and gentlemen, that Calvary did not take God by surprise. Calvary did not slip up on God. Absolutely not. As the Lord Jesus was suspended between heaven and earth on an old-regged cross, the thrice-holy God of glory did not lean over the banister of heaven And with a furrowed brow, say, oh no, what in the world am I going to do now? Absolutely not. The Bible teaches us in Revelation chapter 13 and verse number eight that our Savior, the Lord Jesus, was a lamb slain from the foundation of the earth. That truth in and of itself assures us tonight that God had a plan to carry out at this place called Calvary. It assures us that God had a purpose to fulfill at this place called Calvary. It also assures us tonight that God had a people in mind to deliver by what would ultimately take place on a hill called Calvary There he who knew no sin would literally become sin for us, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him There, Christ's sinless, spotless, satisfying blood would be shed for your sins, for my sins, and for the sins of the entire world. There, He would become like us, so we Could become like him. Did you know it was on the cross of Calvary that Jesus would hunger so that our hunger could be fed? He would thirst and cry from the cross, I thirst, so that our thirst could be quenched. There on the cross of Calvary, Jesus would be stripped naked, so that you and I could be clothed in his righteousness. Someone said on one occasion, and I agree, God gave heaven's best for the world's worst, so that the world's worst might know heaven's best. And brother, if that's ever been made clear and true, it's been made clear and true, not only in Titan and foreshadow in the old testament, but in truth in the new. And therefore I must say tonight I may be getting older, and I'm certainly getting older. That you're looking at one preacher tonight that'll never be over the hill. Because the hill that I'm talking about is the place that we've read about here in the text before us, where the Bible says, and when they were come to the place which is called Calvary. There they crucified him. You ought to know something about Calvary tonight. Calvary was a place of vicious suffering No paintering has ever adequately described the vicious suffering that took place on a hill called Calvary Calvary was a place of vicarious substitution. Jesus took our place there. Oh, but I want you to know tonight Calvary was a place of victorious splendor because it was there as only God could have done, and he turned tears into triumph He turned darkness into light. He turned suffering into splendor. Can I tell you about Calvary? God took glory and He turned it around into glory and He did it. On a cross on a hill called Calvary. And when you begin to understand those truths, you'll begin to understand how that a man by the name of William Newell in the year of 1895 pinned these words that not only found their way into our hill. But even more importantly in our hearts. Years I spin in vanity and pride Caring not my Lord was crucified. Knowing not it was for me, he died. On Calvary, mercy there was great, and grace was free. Pardon there was multiplied to me. Now my raptured soul can only sing how Of Calvary When you begin to consider those truths, you'll begin to understand why that God used the apostle Paul to pin Galatians six and fourteen when he said, But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross. of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. It was also the same Apostle Paul that God used to pin 1 Corinthians 1 and 18 when he said for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish Foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Do you remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter Chapter two. Upon the time he got to verse two of that chapter, he said this. For I am determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. But wait a minute, Paul, did you hear what so-and-so said about, for I am determined, that's what Paul said, not to To know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him. But Paul, do you understand what's going on in the NFL tonight? For I am determined not to know anything among you. You save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Do you know what that assures me of tonight? It assures me, ladies and gentlemen, that Paul was compelled by Calvary. Paul was motivated by Calvary. Paul was moved by Calvary. Calvary and the ultimate sacrifice that was made there so that he, a one-time persecutor of the church, could be set free from his sin. And hear me tonight. Now, after all these years, Calvary is still motivating us. Calvary is still compelling God's children to reach a lost and dying world with the gospel Of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, tonight, I want you to notice just three compelling factors concerning Calvary that ought to still motivate us tonight. First of all, I want you to know number one, the reason for Calvary compels me to be saved. Now let me back up and say that again. Now if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, listen, I hope you've tuned in to all of the message. I hope you'll listen to point two as well as point Number three, but if you hear nothing else I say tonight, I trust you'll give clear ear to what I'm getting ready to say here The reason for Calvary compels me to be saved. And the reason that I say that tonight is because ever since our forefather Adam's fall in the Garden of Eden God has allowed but one way, and may I say only one way, for sinful man to approach him And that is through and by the blood of sacrifice. Now that point in the Bible is made from the very beginning. As early as Genesis chapter 4. Where we read of God accepting Abel's offering while rejecting Cain's. The Bible says this in Genesis 4. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground and offering unto the Lord. And Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering. But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wrath, and his countenance fell. Now I realize I don't have a lot of time here, but let's address this question quickly, shall we? What's the problem? Why did God accept Abel's offering while rejecting Cain's? Was there a problem with quantity? Maybe Cain didn't bring enough. No, that wasn't the problem. Well, if there wasn't a problem with quantity, then maybe there must have been a problem with quality. Maybe Cain didn't bring the best fruits of the ground that he had to the Lord. No, no. I I believe with all of my heart I believe that Cain brought the best that he had. I did I I really believe. I think the Bible teaches that. So there wasn't a problem with quality. There wasn't a problem with quantity. So is there a problem with quickness? Maybe he was late in getting the oh no, there wasn't a problem with quickness. So, if there wasn't a problem with quantity, quality, or quickness, why did God reject Cain's offering? Are you listening tonight? Say amen. It was a bloodless offering. It was an offering, just to put it in a nutshell, that represented the best that Cain had. While Abel's offering represented the best that God had. Because when Abel brought the firstlings of his flock Abel brought a picture, he brought a type, he brought a foreshadow of the one that John the Baptist spoke of. As he saw the Lord Jesus standing on the banks of the Jordan to the point that he said, Behold the Lamb of God Which taketh away the sins of the world. Now, how would Jesus do that? He would do that by shedding every drop. of his precious, personal, powerful blood on the cross of Calvary. Can I say this and I'm moving to my second point tonight Regardless of what the liberal modern-day media would have you to believe, there are not many ways to heaven. There's one way. One way. And it's through and by the one that said in the book of John, chapter number fourteen and verse number six, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man, me, you, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. I'm gonna preach real plain right here, and I hope you get it You'll get to heaven through and by the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, or you won't get there. Can I tell you another lie of the modern day media? Not everybody goes to heaven. Let me say that again. Not everybody goes to heaven. Did you know tonight that hell is actually full of good people? They've never drunk a beer, never smoked a cigarette, never hung out with the wrong crowd. Never shot up with LSD. Never sniffed glue. Never smoked a marijuana job. Hell Is full of good people that brought the best they had to the Lord while failing to turn to Christ. For their soul's salvation. So let me ask you this that I'm moving. What are you dependent on to get to heaven? You say, well, preacher, I'll have you to know that's a personal. I'll tell you what. Let me ask myself then, Brother Caudle, what are you dependent on to get to heaven? Well, I'll tell you what I'm not dependent on. I'm not dependent upon my membership. I'm not dependent upon my morals. I've been scripturally baptized, but I'm not dependent on that to get me to heaven Now, please don't misunderstand. I think that every born-again blood-bought child of the living God ought to be scripturally baptized. And by the way, there's only one way to be scripturally baptized, that's to be baptized by immersion I believe every child of God ought to be baptized by immersion. And I believe every child of God ought to put their name on the role of a local Bible-believing independent Baptist church. I believe that. But I don't do those things to be saved. I do those things because I have been saved. I'll tell you what I'm dependent on. I'm dependent upon Jesus. I'm dependent upon his shed blood. I'm dependent upon what I'm preaching about tonight. And I'm getting Jesus measles up my arms as I preach tonight, and I'll tell you why. Ain't nobody ever dying going to hell believing what I'm believing in to get me to heaven. I'm going to heaven, not because of what I have done, but because of what Christ has done. The reason. For Calvary compels me to be saved. Secondly The reaching of Calvary compels me to serve. The reaching of Calvary, oh, I love to serve the Lord. But again, let me say. I do not serve the Lord to be saved. I serve the Lord because I have been saved. But Brother Brett, there's something that motivates me. I'll be honest with you tonight. I appreciate your pra your pastor. I have come, since I have met you precious people, to know you a little bit better. I appreciate you. But I'm just going to be real honest with you tonight. I'm not here just because of you. I'll be honest with you, I'm looking at some of you tonight. Miss Cassie hooks well, it's a whole lot prettier than any one of you in here tonight. That's my wife, by the way. Figured I'd make that clear, Brother Smith, since they don't know who Cassie is. It's my wife. And uh just this early, early Monday morning we got up at five o'clock and she took me to the Knoxville, Tennessee. uh airport and I flew from Knoxville to Atlanta and from Atlanta on here at another two-hour drive to get here and as much as I love and appreciate you folks, it's not you that motivated me to do that. Brother Fox, the thoughtless, sinless son of God left the portals of glory for me. He was born of a virgin named Mary, and he was wrapped in swaddling clothing that That first Christmas morning, but that little baby in the manger didn't say in the manger nosed her. He grew up and he lived thirty three and one half years and he walked up Calvary's hill and he laid his life down. No one took it from him. He laid it down willingly so that I, so that I, so that I through him could not only have life But thank God have it more abundantly. That's what I'm doing here. I want you to understand that It's not the paycheck, it's not the plaque, it's not the pat on the back. That's what I'm doing here. I'm motivated, I'm compelled by what Jesus did for me on the cross of Calvary. The reaching of Calvary compels me to serve. Boy, when I think about serving him I ought to remind myself often that Jesus not only died for me, Jesus died for whosoever. Jesus not only died for the mayor, he died for the meter maid. Jesus not only died for the prince, but he died for the pupper. And Jesus not only died for the white man, but he died for the black man, the yellow man, the red man. There is not a door in Oakland, Maryland, or beyond that you knock on. But what if there's someone on the other side of that door? That's living and breathing that Jesus did not go to Calvary for. You do believe that Jesus died for whosoever, don't you? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. You say, well, preacher, where should we go in Oakland? Just take your pick. Any door, any house, any apartment. Share a gospel track with the bank teller. Share that gospel track. Boy, I picked up some of these today, preacher. I love these. I don't know many people that would turn down a smile So why don't you just go up to some friends, some acquaintance, when you go through the drive-thru like me, as I often do on the road? Share a smile with them and then at the same time share the gospel with them because if they are living, breathing, so Jesus shed his blood for them on the cross at Calvary. I'll tell you this true story. I give it my last poet and I'm done. When I was pastor of the Canaan Baptist Church, when I first got to the church, we had a little van and we started picking up young'uns and And bringing even a few moms and dads to church on the van. And well God blessed the van route and uh we went from a van to one bus and God blessed that bus route and God started sending more people into the church and We started recruiting more help for the bus ministry. And so we went from one bus to two buses. And about the time we got to bus number three, a fellow came up to me one day. He pulled me aside And he said, uh preacher, have you got a minute? I I I'd like to voice a concern to you. And uh listen, as a pastor. Ninety-nine percent of the prime when someone wants to pull you aside to voice a concern is it's usually not good And it wasn't that day, Brother Smith. And fellow pulled me aside. He said, preacher, he said, I just want you to know I'm a tithing member of this church. I said, well, I appreciate you letting me know that. He said, I just want you to know, as a tithing member of this church, I'm a little bit concerned about the kind of people That we're bringing in on these buses. And he went on about 10 or 15 minutes. I just let him go on and let him talk. And when he got done, I said, you know what, my brother, I appreciate at least you came to me face to face. I appreciate that about you. Doesn't happen a lot these days, and I appreciate it. I appreciate you coming to me face to face And I want you to know, I've listened to everything that you've just said. Now, I hope and pray you'll give me the same opportunity to voice to you how I feel. Here's what I've decided. From this moment on, we're only going to bus in one group of people And he backed away and he said, Well, preacher, he said, I thought you would see it my way. I said, absolutely. I just want you to know, from this day on, we're only going to bust in those that Jesus shed his blood for. That's the only kind of people that we're gonna bust in. So you know what we continued to do? We would run the buses to the high end of town, and we'd run the buses to the low end of town We'd pick up red folks on the bus. We'd pick up some white folks with purple and green hair. We'd pick up some folks that looked like they would They fell into a tackle box. They had piercings and tattoos everywhere. We only from that moment on, we only Bust in people that Jesus shed his blood for on the cross of Calvary. And therefore, as a result of that, since Calvary not only reaches the white but the black, we started reaching everywhere. Everywhere we can get somebody to get on. That old yellow bus. We brought them to the house of God. We gave them the word of God. And many of them were saved by the good grace of God. Why? Because the reaching of Calvary. Listen, if you are here tonight. You can't outrun the long arm of Calvary. Calvary reaches whosoever. The reaching of Calvary compels me to serve. And finally, the rejoicing of Calvary compels me to shout. I said it before, I I I believe it bears repeating. Yes, Calvary was a place of vicious suffering. Yes, Calvary was a place of vicarious substitution. But Calvary was a place of victorious splendor because there is Jesus hung on the old rugged cross. He would reach up with one hand and take the hand of his thrice-holy heavenly Father, he would reach down with the other hand and take a hold of you and take a hold of me, take a hold of in fact whosoever, and bring the two together at this place called Calvary And when you begin to understand that truth, you'll understand why the songwriter of old put it like this The tree was won at Calvory Isn't that a blessing? Victory that gave me liberty Now I can live eternally Because victory was won at The rejoicing of Calvary compels me to shout. You've listened so well. Would you bow your head? Oh dear Father, I want to thank you tonight for Calvary. In fact, Lord, we're way behind on giving you honor and glory and praise for the finished work of Calvary Oh God, I realize tonight if I got what I deserved, I'd be in hell right now. But I'm so thankful for that precious, powerful blood that was shed. Because that blood enables me tonight to have life and to have it more abundantly. Lord, should there be one within our midst that's lost, I pray they give heed of what's been preached tonight. But I pray they also know that the long arm of Calvary Reaches them. And oh God, may we be compelled tonight by that. To reach our community, to reach our country, to reach the world. with the glorious gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The preacher's coming to close this part of the service as he sees fit. I encourage you to do what the Lord would have you to do tonight, preacher.