Last uh eighty-five years in the United States of America, there have been three events that were so monumental So significant that if you were alive during any of those three events, you remember them clearly. You remember them now. You couldn't forget them if you wanted to. You remember what you saw You remember what you heard, and you remember what you felt. The first one, of course, is December the seventh, nineteen forty-one. If you were alive, the day the Imperial Air Force of the Japanese Empire attacked our forces, our navy there in Pearl Harbor, and our army there in Pearl Harbor. If you were alive on that day, you were probably sitting in school or sitting at home You watched as your parents or your teachers became emotional as the news began to break. You watched as people began to cry. You huddled around the radio that night to hear uh any kind of news story that you could. You remember what you saw, you remember what you heard. You actually heard weeping from your family. You heard the President of the United States Franklin Delano Roosevelt referred to that day as a day that would live in infamy. You remember watching normally polished newscasters lose their composure as they read the news Remember, you were afraid on that day. Remember, you were concerned on that day as a child. And no matter what happens, no matter what other things you might forget, no matter what other things. might slip your mind as you've gotten a few years older. You're never going to forget the events of that day. If you closed your eyes right now, you could picture it just exactly like it happened all those 82 years ago Most of us, or very few in this auditorium, would have even been alive on that day, but many of us or many of you would remember another date. Remember November the twenty-second, nineteen sixty-three When the President of the United States in his motorcade driving through Dallas, Texas, was assassinated. You remember sitting there in school as the announcement came over the loudspeaker. You remember watching your teachers become afraid. You remember watching class be dismissed and going home early. You remember seeing the reaction of a nation as an entire nation mourned. Remember watching the newscasters that night, these once again polished newscasters who give good news and bad news all the time and are supposed to be emotionless, but they couldn't be emotionless. They broke down in tears on national television. Remember watching for days as the president's body laid in state. You remember watching that funeral procession going down through the streets of Washington, D. C. And who can forget the heart-rending image of little John John Kennedy standing there saluting his dad's casket as it went by What I'm saying is you remember that day. You remember what you saw, you remember what you heard, and you remember what you felt. I know exactly where I was on November the 22nd, 1963. See, I was born on November the 26th, 1963. So I was in a little place about this big right there. But most of us, uh many of us would not remember that. We weren't alive then or old enough to comprehend. But there's another date that we'll never forget. September the eleventh, 2001. You know where you were on that day. We had a few years ago, uh about uh about two year a year and a half ago or whatever it was, they had remembrance services and they would they would have these memorials and all of that and I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that at all What I am going to say is this, we don't really need reminded about september the eleventh because we couldn't forget it if we wanted to. We remember everything that happened that day. We remember the the blue sky with just a few flu few cro clouds. We remember everything that happened that day. We remember what we saw on that day when all the news all the television programs were interrupted And they brought us breaking news, and we see a building there. One of the two of the larger two towers of the World Trade Center of the I believe seven or eight buildings that make up the World Trade Center. Those two towers, one of the twin skyscrapers has been hit with an airplane. And remember what you saw when you saw that? You saw smoke billowing out. The cameras did their best to get close ups and you can see people in those towers. fifteen or twenty floors, waving and hoping someone was going to come by or bring a crane or a helicopter or something to come and get them Remember watching just a few moments later, as another plane hit another tower. Once again, the people screaming, the people Waving, begging for help. Remember now as the news media begins to cover all the first responders. And by the way, let me point this out. Up until September the eleventh, two thousand and one I don't know that we ever use the term first responder as a part of our natural voc national vocabulary. We just called them the fire and we called them The the the police and we called them the ambulances and we called them all of those things but now we've lunked them all and there's nothing wrong with that. We lunk them all Into that category of first responders. Remember those fire engines parking right there in front of the World Trade Tower? And we watched as those firemen ran in and ran up the stairs where everybody else was running out Remember seeing the police cars with their lights there? Remember what we saw on that day. Remember what we saw when all of a sudden they broke in again and told us that a plane had hit the uh the Pentagon, the symbol of the United States military might right there. They had hit our Pentagon. Then we remember watching in horror. As after uh after some time with those people not seeing a helicopter come Not seeing Ukraine coming to rescue them, knowing that the firemen can't get there to them. We remember watching as some cameraman even followed it as people decided they were safer jumping than waiting to be burned alive. You can still nowadays see the video of people leaping from the tops of the towers, and you can watch them in slow motion hitting the ground, coming down to the ground. And if that wasn't enough, just a few moments later, we saw that first tower begin to implode, collapsing upon itself in a giant pile of concrete and steel and rubble. Crushing the very fire engines and police cars that were there, signifying those men that were giving up their lives to try to rescue those civilians that were there We watched as people began to run from the smoke that billowed through the streets of Manhattan. Remember seeing those images? The people that had gathered around and were looking up watching the buildings on fire, certainly never even comprehending the fact that there's a possibility that a building would collapse when the building began to implode They began to sprint through the streets, running, getting hit by stratinole and by debris and by glass and things like that. And we watched as the second plane hit the second tower. I mean the second but the second tower began to implode and come down into a giant pile of rubble that takes up most of a city block or took up most of a city block in downtown Manhattan. Remember what we saw on that day. We couldn't forget it if we wanted to forget it. We remember what we heard on that day, don't we? The sounds of September the 11th The screams and the screeches and the sirens. Remember what we heard on that day. Never forget watching Rudolf Giuliani, the former mayor. of New York City during an interview a few years later. He was talking about that day being the mayor of the city when he heard that the first plane had hit the first tower. He got had this Motor K drive him over there and he couldn't get within a couple of blocks and so he stopped and got out of the car. News station saw him get out of his car And they ran to him as one of the radio stations and he said, Listen, we'd like to do an interview with the mayor to see if we can get some information out. And Mr. Giuliani agreed to do so immediately They began to ask him questions. They began to interview him. And every time, he said every time it seemed that he opened his mouth to give an answer. Anytime he began to respond to the question from the reporter, he would hear a loud pop go off behind him. He was upset. He was very frustrated. He didn't know why the engineer hadn't fixed the problems before they interviewed the mayor of the largest city in America. He was planning as soon as they took a commercial break to let them have it for not having their equipment in the right way, that it kept making a popping sound every time he would speak. When they went to commercial before he could say anything, and one of his aides whispered in his ear and told him that the sound that he was hearing wasn't part of the equipment. It was the sound of bodies hitting the ground from over two blocks away. Remember watching as the President of the United States sat there. Remember watching as he's reading to those children and Andy Card, his chief of staff, walks up to him and whispers in his ear and tells him about the first plane hitting the first tower. Then a few moments later he whispers in his ear and told him about the second plane, hit the second tower, Andy Card in his biography as he spoke of this day. He said this. He said I told him first what the President needed to hear. He said I told him second what I felt at the moment. He said I told him, Mr. President, a second plane has hit the second tower. And we're at war Who can forget the sound of Todd Beamer's voice as Flight 93, those men had figured out, it found out by calling home that these Planes were not being hijacked so they could be taken to a former country a foreign country and be held as hostages. They were being hijacked So that they could use those planes against our own citizens and those men on that flight ninety-three decided they were gonna retake the plane They each called their families, and Todd Beamer's famous message is still out there. You can still hear it. As he told his wife goodbye, told her, left the message that he loved her And then as he hangs up before the phone disconnected, you could hear him say to those other men that were going with him into the cockpit, he said, let's roll. Former President George W. Bush referred to Flight 93 as the first counter-attack in the war on terrorism. Remember what we saw on that day. We remember what we heard on that day. But even more than that, we remember what we felt on that day. At first we felt confusion. How could a pilot of a commercial airline be so inept and so incompetent that he would fly a plane into a building It didn't occur to us that this was a terrorist act at first. We just thought this is terrible. What kind of accident is this that has just happened? Truly there's got to be some kind of no-fly zone uh protecting, if you will, those large buildings there in New York City. Then when the second plane hit the second tower, what started out as confusion turned into, if we're honest for just a moment, fear. We were being told by the FAA that there were hundreds of flights in the air. As a matter of fact, up to two hours later, we were still being told that there were four flights still missing, unaccounted for, when all the airline traffic had been grounded. How many planes were going to get how many buildings? How many Americans were going to die on that day? And there was a little bit of fear. We saw that first building collapse. Couldn't help it. What started out as confusion and turned into fear, though, eventually turned into something else When we started to realize that this was an attack of terrorists, and I can only speak to myself about this, but I think a lot of Americans agree with me What started out is fear and turned into confusion turned into fear, eventually with me turned into just raw anger. These were my thoughts. How dare you! You sniveling cowards! And by the way, that's what they still are to this very day. You snivelling cowards, you didn't have the audacity to attack our soldiers or our sailors or our airmen and certainly not our Marines. The only people you could attack were stockbrokers and insurance salesmen and a daycare. But what started out is confusion that turned into fear. It turned into anger for a while. I think all of us would agree it eventually turned into just sheer raw patriotism. You just punched the most powerful nation in the world in its nose. It didn't matter who you voted for in the evenly divided election that year in 2000. It doesn't mat didn't matter if you cast your ballot for President uh vi uh President Bush or Vice President Gore. It didn't matter on that day. For just a little while, you weren't a Democrat. You Ken, you weren't a libertarian, you weren't even an independent. Do you know what you were? Just for a little while, we were just Americans. And whoever you voted for in 2000, when the President of the United States went to ground zero and was giving a speech, by the way, the backstory to that is He was giving a speech later in the day. So he thought, as he's standing there ground zero, with no no amplification to his voice except for a bullhorn, he thought he would practice the speech he was going to give later in that day New York City construction workers who've been working around the clock are not known for being compassionate and polite. You may already know that. So they began to complain. They said, we can't hear you. The President of the United States climbed on top of a crushed fire engine. But the Secret Service had not even checked to see if it would hold up his weight. He climbed up on there. He had that bullhorn in his hand. He pulled up another construction worker. And when they said we can't hear you, he responded this way. He said, But I can hear you. And the people that knock these buildings down, they're going to hear from all of us now. And it didn't matter what party you held hailed, it didn't matter who you voted for. For a few moments you stood in your living room and you cheered to the top of your lungs And when he stood in front of a joint session of Congress and he said, We will not tire, and we will not falter, and we will not fail in this war against terror, we cheered. For a little while, we were just patriotic Americans. Oh, it didn't last long. Just a matter of weeks. We were back to fighting about everything. Back to debating on what an American really is and things of that nature, but just for a little while. We were Americans. We remember that day. We remember what we saw. Remember what we heard. And we remember what we felt. But there was a moment on that day. Remember the president is in a secure location, the vice president is someplace else, and the cabinet has been secured. All of that is going on. Nobody knows how bad this is going to be, how many Americans are going to die. But the doors to the Capitol building opened And perhaps, in my opinion, the most poignant moment of the entire day. You know the Cap Capitol building. On one side are the four hundred and thirty-five members of the United States House of Representatives. On the other side is the the the chambers for the one hundred members of the greatest deliberative body on the face of the earth, the United States Senate. They certainly were not all there on that day, but many of them were. The doors opened up and they all began to pile out and stand on the steps of the Capitol building itself. Now we know these people. Whether they're your favorite politician or the politician you loathe the most, it makes no difference. They all have a few things in common. They all want to be on the news. They all want to have this sound bite that leads the nightly broadcast. They all want to look really good on the camera. They all want to look just exactly right. If they're going to a disaster area, they want to look like they're ready for a disaster area. If they're going to be in this give a speech, they want to look like they're there to give a speech. They all want to make sure their hair is just right. They all want to tell you that they have the right answer and anyone that disagrees with them is completely wrong. While the other side is saying, no, no, we've got all the right answers, and if you disagree with us, then you're completely wrong. We know who they are. Whether they're your favorite, by the way, if they're your favorite, then their answers aren't the right ones. If they're your least favorite, their answers aren't the right ones. That's what we believe. They all lined the steps. It was interesting that they did not line the steps with the Democrats on one side and the Republicans on the other and the Independents down the middle. No, they just started filing out. They filled one step and then the next. There was no special place for leadership, no special place for the the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House. No, they just lined the steps. They didn't check their hair. They didn't grab a microphone. No, no, none of them. Look for a news reporter so they could tell everybody that they had the answer I know this is a dark day, but if America will just listen to me, we can figure it out together. Nobody said that, because nobody had an answer. The president didn't have an answer. The vice president didn't have an answer. The members of Congress didn't have an answer. We'd seen the images of bodies being carried out of our own Pentagon. We'd seen generals and admirals and the Secretary of Defense carrying stretchers. No one had an answer on that day. No one wanted to get a soundbite. No one was worried about their hair. No one was worried about who they were standing beside just for a few moments. I don't know if you saw it, I don't know if you remember it, but they lined the steps and no one gave a speech. You know what they did? They sang They didn't just sing a song together. They sang, according to the song itself, a prayer. This is what they sang. God. Bless America. Land that I love. Stand beside her and guide her through the night with a light from above. From the mountains to the prairies to the oceans, right with throne. God bless America, my home, sweet home. You understand this The Congress of the United States of America stood on the steps of the Capitol and said, the President doesn't have the answer. The Vice President doesn't have the answer. The Cabinet doesn't have the answer. The Congress doesn't have the ans But Almighty God always has The answer. And they stood there shoulder to shoulder and begged God to bless us. What a phrase. God bless America. Presidents have ended their speeches that way for all my life. They'll finish whatever they've gotten through saying, sometimes with great applause, sometimes even with boos and jeers. But they've ended in, may God bless America. Some of them meant it with all their heart. Some of them choked up every time they said it. Others of them, it was just a good way to end the speech. But whether they meant it when they said it or not, doesn't it prove the importance of God's blessings? Doesn't it signify the necessity of God's blessing? Shouldn't it indicate our willingness to do whatever it takes to receive those blessings from a holy God? Can God still bless us? Do you realize last year that almost two-thirds of all adoptions in the United States of America went to same-sex families? You realize we can't decide who uses what bathroom and when they use it. We can't define what a woman is. We say that men can actually bear children. Listen carefully. Is it possible that God can bless this mess that has become our nation? Can God still Bless a nation that celebrated. Listen, that is not my wording, it's their wording. They celebrated the 52nd million abortion. They celebrated it. Can God still bless that Oh no for the RC, you don't understand. What we've got to do is we've got to get our our guy, our party, our our our guys elected, our ladies elected. That's what we've got to do. If we do that, that'll save everything. Let me tell you something. And I I'm not this is not in any way a partisan message. in any way, shape, matter, reform. But I want you to understand this. In the year two thousand, the United States of America had a Republican president We had a Republican Senate, and we had a Republican majority in the House of Representatives. And I don't know whether you missed all the newspapers or not, but we did not have a revival In 2008, we had a Democratic president, a Democratic supermajority in the Senate, and a Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. And in case you missed it We didn't have a revival. Revival does not come about because we elected the right guy. Revival comes about is when God's people do what God's people are supposed to do. You will not change the spiritual climate in the United States of America, no matter who gets elected president, no matter who's the head of the Senate, or who's the head of the House of Representatives. Say Brother Harper, should we not be concerned about that? Of course we should be concerned about that. Remember that political uh political lives and righteous lives are different. And let me just say this for a moment. You won't change the country by what party you vote for. And when you go to that ballot box, no one's allowed to watch you. No one's allowed to see inside. No one is supposed to know for whom you voted. No one's to know whether you pulled the lever for a Democrat or a Republican or an Independent. But I'm here to tell you something. When you walk in that ballot box, somebody goes in there with you if you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And you need to remember this. Whatever party you hail to whatever group of people you support, when you go into that ballot box, you're still a Christian and God is still standing right there. And if you're voting for some thing or someone that supports something that is directly opposite of the word of God, you better pray about that thing and vote for somebody else. It's just that simple. Can God still bless us? I mean, is it possible that God could bless us? It's certainly not true that He can bless some of the things that we're doing. God will never bless some of the things that the United States has become. And if you're here today and you're my age, you're even younger than me, you remember a completely different country than we have right now Things that now are accepted are things that would have been completely shunned just a few years ago We had a country that the number one television show in America featured every now and then a country sheriff sitting on the front porch singing Church in the Wildwood or singing at Charlene Darling's wedding underneath the oak tree as they sang, leaning on the everlasting arms, in the number one television program in America. You think that would happen today It's not the same place. But God is not going to limit his blessings just because we're just like we used to be. There's something else that brings about God's blessings. Notice what the Bible says in this passage. Now remember when we read this passage that its primary interpretation is about the nation of Israel. But the words that are said here are general and apply to any nation, and have always applied to any nation. Look at you, Psalm thirty-three, beginning in verse eleven The counsel of the Lord. By the way, you can't get to the blessings of the Lord without starting at the counsel of the Lord. The counsel of the Lord changeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom we have chosen for his own inheritance. This evening I want to answer that question, can God still bless America? Have our heads bowed and our eyes closed, no one looking around. Hello in Heavenly Father, we thank you for the privilege to stand in this pulpit. We thank you for the guaranteed freedoms in our Bill of Rights. It gives me the power, the privilege to stand here. And even criticize the government that grants me those freedoms. Father, we pray that you'll help us to be the Christians that our country needs Father, have your will and your way in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice as we get right into the message, the first thing we see is the counsel of the Lord. There are lots of words used in the Word of God to describe the Bible. Phil, you find a bunch of them there in Psalm one nineteen, the the statutes of the Lord, the commandments of the Lord, the judgments of the Lord, the precepts of the Lord. But one that is used over and over is this phrase here, the council of the Lord, the counsel of the Lord. Understand this. God loves his name. Remember this? That it's at the name of Jesus. That every knee should bow of things in heaven and of things in earth and of things under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Philippians chapter two, verses nine through eleven. The fact is God loves his name. He honors his name. He expects us to worship at his name. But then, as was mentioned just a few moments ago, as pastor was praying over there, Psalm 138 and verse 2, the Bible tells us, For thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name Let's talk about the Word of God for just a moment, the counsel of the Lord. First off, notice this, the Bible endures. The Bible endures. Throughout history and in throughout some of our own lives, we have seen dictators that tried to make the Bible illegal. We have watched as as uh as governments We have seen as people have rejected it, criticized it, and mocked the But long after that dictator is gone, long after that ruler is gone, long after that government has crumbled, the Bible is still standing With all of their efforts and all of their uh attempts to try to do away with the Word of God, the Bible's still here and it will always Be here, Psalm one nineteen, verse eighty-nine. For forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Luke twenty one thirty three. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Man Matthew chapter five and verse eighteen. Really, really I say to thee, shall heaven and earth pass, not one jot, or one kittle, shall in no wise fast on the law. Till all be fulfilled. Isaiah chapter forty and verse eight. The grass withereth and the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Luke chapter sixteen and verse seventeen. It is easier For heaven and earth to pass away, than one jot of the law, one tittle of the law to fail. Over and over and over, the Bible says this book's going nowhere. Your government will collapse before this book goes away. Your nation will crumble before this book goes away. Notice the Bible endures. Every generation that has ever that has lived in the past 2,000 years has had at least something to do for some part of the Word of God. The last 500 years we've had it in our own language right in front of us. This nation was founded based upon its principles. Now watch carefully. This Bible endures. It's always going to endure. But not just that. The Bible doesn't just endure, but if God loves his word and magnifies his word above all his name, isn't it true that God is going to bless those that love his word? If you look down through history, the nations that have been blessed the most are the nations that have propagated the Word of God. And no nation, except maybe the nation of Israel, has done more to publish, print, propagate the Word of God than the United States of America. No nation has done more to translate it into multiple other languages than the United States of America. And because of that, we have seen God's blessings. We have seen God pour out his manifold glory on this No nation in the history of the world has risen to the prominence of the United States of America in such a short time. Oh but too over two hundred years old. We're getting close to two hundred and fifty years old. We're not young. Oh yes, we're the babies in the world Every nation looks up to us militarily, financially, they look up to us politically, they look up to us. Even when they hate us, they hate us because they look up to us so much. They don't want to admit it And you wouldn't want to if you were their leader, but that's the way it is. We've been blessed beyond measure. Because we've had some great preaching about this book right here over the years, haven't we? Some preachers have stood up in pulpits and said some amazing things about the Word of God. Consider this statement right here. Listen carefully, please. Hold fast to the Bible as the sheet anchor of your liberties Write its precepts in your heart and practice them in your lives. To the influence of this book we are indebted for the progress made, and to this book we must look to as our guide for the future. I'm here to tell you something. That is good preaching right there. That wasn't a preacher. It was President Ulysses S. Grant said that. How about this statement? Once again, not by a preacher, but by President Andrew Jackson, the Bible is the rock on which our republic rests. How about this uh his prophetic statement uh from statesman Daniel Webster who said this If we abide by the principles taught in the Bible, our country will go on prospering and to prosper. But if we and our prosperity neglect its instructions and authority No man can tell how sudden a catastrophe may overwhelm us and bury all our glory in profound obscurity. Continue to hear. Uh uh the great statements from the past. Dwight Eisenhower says the Bible is divorced endorsed by the ages. Our civilization is built upon its words. In no other book is there such a collection of inspired wisdom, reality, and hope. George Washington in his farewell address said this, it is impossible to cover the world without God and the Bible. William McKinley put it this way: The more profoundly we study this wonderful book, and the more closely we observe its divine precepts, the better citizens will become, and the higher will be our destiny as a nation. To Brother Hopper, all those guys were long gone before I was even born. I understand. We had a president in my lifetime, though, that made this statement. He said, within the covers of the Bible. are all the answers. Your politicians aren't supposed to say that, are they? Within my platform are all the answers. In my publications are all the answers. In my party are all the answers That's what they're supposed to say, isn't it? Wasn't it a wonderful thing that we at one time had a statesman who actually said, listen, I don't have all the answers I don't know anybody that's got their all the answers, but I do know this. The Bible's got all the answers. Within the covers of the Bible are all the answers. Who said that, Brother Harper? Ronald Wilson Reagan said that God has blessed our nation because we have loved this book. God has honored us like most nations do not get honored. Today, though, I read an article about a protest where they ripped a Bible to shreds. Just today Never forget in Sissonville, West Virginia, had a little guy there named Daniel Frame. Daniel Frame had really, really red hair, and he had a crush on my daughter. I remember one day he came to the house and knocked on the door, scared to death to knock on my door. Knocked on my door, I think he was in fourth grade at the time He said, Can I open the door? I said, Hello, Daniel. He said, Can charity come out? I said, no. And just shut the door. Left him standing on the front porch of my house. Yes, I'm a mean individual when it comes to my little girl Daniel went to Sissonville Middle School. He was a scrawny little guy. They began the bullies began to meet him every day when he showed up for school and they would take his lunch The same old story that we've heard all our lives. He didn't say anything. But he came up with a plan. He decided that since there was really nothing he could do to stop them from taking his lunch. He was going to make sure that they got something special with his lunch. He began to put gospel tracts in with his sandwich and his potato chips and his snack pack pudding. The bullies, when they stole his lunch that day, went straight to the principal's office and complained that Daniel Frame was giving out gospel tracts on school property He was suspended for three days. You can write a paper in Colorado and tell uh tell uh tell the uh write a paper that Joseph Stalin is your favorite person You could write that that Joseph Smith is your favorite person. You could write that Chairman Mount Dung is your favorite person, but a young man wrote an article, wrote a paper In his class that Jesus Christ was his favorite person, he was given an F and forced to rewrite it This is the nation that was built upon the Word of God that has turned its back. You want to get some people mad? Just put the Word of God in your front yard and they'll come out to get you And God still blessed this. If God blesses us because his word endears Then how long can he bless a nation that thumbs its nose at the Word of God? How long can he bless a nation that embraces on a daily basis? the reprobate mind as spoken about in Romans chapter one. The Bible endures. The Bible endears. The Bible educates, doesn't it? You can't get to the blessings of God without going through the counsel of God. The Bible teaches us what we are. I am glad. I don't think I've said this this week, but I am glad that I don't have to stand up and say, I think you're a sinner. I'm glad that I don't have to say, Pastor Leatherman told me to tell you that you're a sinner. This church believes you're a sinner. If you're sitting here today, you're a sinner because the Bible says you're a sinner. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 19, for the scripture hath concluded all under sin. Romans chapter 3 and verse 10, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. The Bible tells us what we are. The Bible tells us what we deserve. The wages of sin is death. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You earn hell. Did you realize that? You earn hell. Heaven's a gift. The Bible's clear. You can't get to the blessings of God without going through the counsel of the Lord. The Bible endures, the Bible endears, and the Bible educates, tells us what we are. Tells us what we deserve for what we are. But I want you to notice number three number two, please. Not just the counsel of the Lord, but notice the compassion of the Lord. The counsel standeth forever. And then it says this: the thoughts of his heart to all generations. I love the fact that we have a compassionate God. Yes, he is just and yes he is holy, but his compassion is all through the Word of God. We've seen his national compassion over the years, haven't we? We've been fortunate to watch as God blessed our nation through trial and through tribulation. Think about how wonderful it is to be an American just for a moment. If there's a fire, there's a fireman ready to rush into the flames. If there's a a crime, there's a police officer ready to give his life. If there's a riot, there's the National Guard ready to quelch that swelch that thing If there's a foreign oppressor trying to get us, we have our army and our navy and our Air Force and our Marines that have always been ready to come to our defense. We've seen God's compassion throughout our nation on battlefields. We've seen His compassion in our nation in all kinds of different ways. We saw it in our founding, did we not? The United States had just won the Revolutionary War. England had just surrendered. They met in Philadelphia to form the Continental Congress. Their goal was to write a constitution. They'd already uh they'd already written the articles of f confederation uh federation with those th those were those were very weak. It's a very weak document. They're gonna write something better than that They came together for the very first meeting. These are the patriarchs, these are the founding fathers. These are men that have risked everything to defeat the British. They began to debate. See, two uh two sides had been already formed. One side wanted to have only one branch of uh of government, uh one branch of Congress that was based upon the population. The larger state should have more of a say so in the government. The other wanted everybody to be represented equally. By the way, the end result is we have two houses, one that represents every state in equally, one that represents every state by population. They began to argue. They began to fight. It got hateful back and forth. One historian later wrote that it looked like everything that they had fought to secure was going to come to naught because these men could not agree. It was at that moment that Benjamin Franklin rose to the floor. Now, Mr. Franklin, please, as much as we uh respect him and as significant as he was in the founding of our nation, he was not a godly man. He was not a Christian. He was actually a very worldly man But he stood up and probably cleared his throat. Remember, some of us are old enough to remember those old commercials about E. F. Hutton You'd have a whole you'd have a whole restaurant and they were all talking about all these different things and someone says, Well my broker says this and then she says, What does your broker say? And this person would say, Well my broker is E. F. Hutton And everybody would stop talking. They would lean in. And the tagline would say, when E. F. Hutton speaks, people listen. When Benjamin Franklin spoke, people listened. He rose to the floor and he said this. Many people know the quote. I have lived a long time. And the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth. That God governs the affairs of men. He said this. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it possible that an empire can rise without his aid? Most people, many people know the quote, but they don't know why he said that. Benjamin Franklin, he's just sitting there listening to the rancor and the argument and the fighting going on. He realizes something was missing He realized that they'd made a mistake. He realized that they had opened up the Continental Congress without anyone praying He made a motion, it was agreed to after a few minutes of debate. They brought in the chaplain. The chaplain bowed his head, and everybody bowed their head. And he prayed and he begged God to guide the Continental Congress. When he said Amen, it was as if a sweet peace had filled the room. Within just a few more hours, they wrote probably the sweetest words ever written by human pen. We the people In order to form a more perfect union, establish justice and secure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, and promote the general welfare To secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, to ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. Was it long before we had the Bill of Rights giving us all of those freedoms that we still cherish and hold dear? But it didn't happen. Till God was invited into the room. We saw his blessings in our beginning. We saw his blessings in our trial. I've made a couple of comments about the nightly news. I don't like the nightly news. I don't think anyone should lie to me that many times all in a row. But I love it when they get all sanctimonious, don't you? There they are in their suit sitting behind their desk and they're talking about all the rancor in Washington and how These people are protesting and these people are disagreeing. And if you protest on one side, then it's a riot. You protest on the other side, it's a peaceful protest. It goes through all of that And then they get to that moment in the newscast where they lean forward and they almost as if the microphone is still there in front of them, they lean forward and they say this This may be the most divided time in the history of our nation. Apparently, none of them have ever read a history book about the eighteen sixties. Apparently they don't know about the Civil War, the war for states price rights, the war of northern aggression, the war between the states, whatever term you choose, whatever part of the country you're in, whatever you choose to call it. Brother fought against brother, father fought against son, uncle fought against nephew. It was during that dark time that the President of the United States made this statement. He said, I have been driven many times to my knees. By the overwhelming conviction that I had no place else to go. My strength and all about me seemed insufficient for the day. We saw God's compassion in our founding. We saw it in our division. We saw it in our trial As the President of the United States in 2011 on September the 14th actually said this, we have been assured neither death nor life nor angels nor No principalities nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height nor depth can separate us from God's love. May He bless the souls of the departed, may He comfort our own, and may He always guide our country And may God bless America. We've been blessed through trials that other nations would have collapsed when they faced them. We've seen his blessings on battlefields all around the world. Have we not? We've seen his blessings in places like Tarawa. Remember, if you've read much about World War II, Terra was an island in the South Pacific. Iwo Jima was the most deadly battle in the South Pacific, 28,000 casualties in 31 days. But the most deadly 24 hours took place on the island of Terawa. Tarawa is in an unusual place geographically. the tide does not come in in a regimented way. And so we had planted uh we had uh parked some uh naval vessels loaded down with marines ready to attack the shore when the tide came in. Three days went by, the tide did not come in. Finally, the Marines were ordered to attack even though the tide was still out, which meant they came onto the beach after being clearly visible by the Japanese for several hundred yards. Within the first twenty-four hours, nine hundred and seventy-two Marines died on the beach of Tarawa. By the time the seventy-two-hour battle was over, of the twelve thousand that came ashore, one of the Third, four thousand were either dead, missing, or injured in battle. Finally, the commander, the marine commander, came ashore with his XO, for those of you With military experience. That means his man Friday, if you will, his assistant came ab ashore. They walked on the shore of Tarawah and they saw bodies everywhere. The Marine XO became emotional. If you know very many Marines, they try not to become emotional. And he stood there, held his hands out, and said to his commanding officer, He said, Sir, with lawsuits like this, how can we win? His commanding officer shoot over a young Lance Corporal from Kentucky, who was laying face down dead in the sand. In his outstretched hands, though, with his last ounce of strength, he had gripped the base of the Star-Spangled Banner. Because in its history, the United States Marine Corps has never dropped their colors. With his last ounce of strength, he made sure the flag would never hit the ground. The commanding officer stood over him and motioned and looked toward his XO and says Son, you asked me with losses like this, how can we win? He said, I ask you, with boys like this, how can we lose? We've seen God's blessings. We've seen Him honor us. I remember I was visiting my dad My dad was two tours in our in the US Army, uh two tours in Vietnam, twenty-one years in the army, actually four years in the Navy and then seventeen in the Army. We were there visiting him, my wife and my daughter Charity, my brother and his wife and their two children were there, and my sister and her husband and their three of their children were there. All three of their children were there My dad said, let's go out to eat. And I said, yes, sir. I said, where you want to go? He said, Shoneys. Now understand this. I'm not a big fan of Shoneys. I wasn't a big fan of Shonies then. I'm not a big fan of Shonies now. It's just that simple. I'm just being honest. I'm not paid to do endorsements or advertisements, all right? But my daddy said we're going to show me's. Do you know what that means? It means we're going to Shonys We've gotten to the place now where parents are considered people that just make suggestions Well went to Shonies and I got to the door first and I held it open and my dad walked in and my s my wife and my daughter and the rest of the family walks in and I looked 'cause it's one of those places where you have an outside door and an inside door and there on the inside door a man is holding the door for my family. And as he's holding the door for my family, he made a mistake, sort of, if you know the protocol. He hasn't put his hat on as he saw the last couple walking in. When I saw his hat, I saw what it said on one side. It said Iwo Jima. On the other side, it said Congressional Medal of Honor. He stopped as my last family member walked in and he motioned for me to come in. And I said, no, sir I said, I'm afraid I can't let you hold that door for me. But it would be one of my highest honors to hold this door for you. He walked out, I snapped the very best salute I still know how to give because I was meeting Woody Williams from Fairmont, West Virginia. Woody Williams was the chaplain for the Medal of Honor Society He won the he was r uh received the Medal of Honor after taking out three Japanese uh machine gun turrets in an island in the South Pacific with nothing but his M1 Some C four and a flamethrower. He'd run completely out of ammo by the time he got to the third machine gun turret, so he ran straight in and stuck the edge of the nozzle of the flamethrower in and pulled the trigger. What I'm telling you is on every battlefield there's been a sailor, there has been a soldier. There's been a Marine, but there's been an airman ready to give their lives to protect our rights and to protect our freedoms. We've seen the compassion of the Lord on this nation like very few nations have ever seen. The only possible exception, once again, is the nation of Israel. Notice, we see the national compassion and we see the individual compassion. This same book that tells us that you're a sinner and you deserve what you're going to get also tells us that God commendeth his love toward us. And while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Notice, number one, we saw the counsel of the Lord. Number two, we saw the compassion of the Lord. Number three, though, quickly, and I want you to see this and we're done. I want you to see the conclusion of the Lord. The counsel of the Lord endureth forever. The compassion of the Lord, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. And then this conclusion: Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The object of their worship is Jehovah. It used to be us. See, we're patriotic Americans. There are very few groups of people as patriotic as Bible-believing Christians. I'm not saying that to criticize anyone else But we Christians, we wear our patriotism on our sleeves, don't we? We love our country, don't we? I don't know about you, but if I go to a game of some sort and I'm sitting there and the star-spangled banner is playing Now look there and see that young nineteen-year-old punk, excuse me for putting it that way, wearing his hat seated during the national anthem. It's all I can do not to slap him. I'm sorry And yes, Mr. Pro-Football player or pro-basketball player, whatever you are, our Constitution does give you the right to protest And you can protest for one hundred and sixty-seven hours and fifty-seven minutes every single week. No one is stopping you from doing that. But when you kneel during the national anthem, you are not just protesting, you are disrespecting a country, you're disrespecting every hero, you're disrespecting You're disrespecting every sacrifice life on every foreign soil. You're disrespecting every person that died to give you the right to kneel. Stand up and kneel some other time. It's that simple. We can't help it. We wear our patriotism on our sleeves. We've almost been told that being patriotic and being Christian Or two different things. It's the white David Eisenhower that said this. Without God, there could be no American form of government nor an American way of life Recognition of the supreme being is the first and the most basic expression of Americanism. I think he knew what he was talking about. The truth is, we have gotten to the place where we've decided that it is politicians that need to bring about God's blessings. That's not what this verse says. That it's soldiers and sailors and airmen and marines that bring about God's blessings. That's not what this verse says. It's the Christian that ought to be doing this. See when that Marine or that airman gets assigned to go to uh Okinawa, Japan, and he gets a three-year tour over there, he is over there defending our rights, defending our freedoms, and protecting our liberties, is he not? But he can't bring about God's blessings. That's our job. See our job is to make sure that when he comes home three years later, that the nation he was willing to serve on foreign soil is still a nation worth dying for. It's our job to secure the blessings of the uh the blessings of Almighty God. It's our job to make sure it's still there. We've gotten so used to sitting around and waiting for someone else to do it. We expect the soldier to low crawl as part of his IEEE T, but we won't get out of our seat and kneel at an altar for three minutes. We expect our soldiers to memorize their general orders and memorize their chain of command when most Christians haven't memorized the scripture verse in fifteen years. We expect a sailor to get up and load up on a ship and kiss his wife goodbye and be gone for nine months, only to come back for two weeks and be gone for another nine months But we won't walk across the street to invite someone to church. We expect them to train. We expect them to sacrifice when we don't sacrifice a single thing for God. Anything that pops up becomes more important to us than God. Well, I can't be there. I've got to do this. I can't be involved in that. This came up. No, no. Blessed is the nation whose God, the one we worship, is the Lord. That's how to get God's blessings. Stand and sing patriotic songs, and we mean them with all of our heart, but we forget that the only way a Christian can really be patriotic is to be the Christian we're supposed to be. Well, patriotism will not save America. But being a Bible-based Christian could. Oh, we love this country. I remember the first time I went to China. I'm here to tell you, if you fly a little bit and you know who TSA is, you don't like TSA. I'm sorry. It's just there's just a thing. Now, I will tell you this, Raleigh Durham Airport has the best TSA agents I've ever seen anywhere in the entire world. But next time you want to get mad at TSA Just think about the time I got off the plane in China and you're greeted by military uniformed individuals carrying machine guns. That'll change your viewpoint of the TSA. Make you not complain about taking your shoes off anymore. Remember when I came back from China, landed in the States, I wanted to get down and kiss the ground, but then I remembered I was in Detroit, so I decided against it. But the truth is, practicing patriotism will not save this country. Practicing Christianity will. We want God's blessings or not. Stop pretending or depending on Nancy Pelosi or Speaker McCarthy. Or Chuck Schumer or uh uh or or uh uh uh I forgot is it m Mitch McConnell, or President Biden or Kamala Harris, or Donald Trump or Mike Mike Pence or any one of those people, stop waiting on them to bring about God's blessings. That's our job. It's our job to make sure that this country stays blessed. Soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines can make sure it stays free. We make sure it stays blessed. So here's the question. Are you willing to be the Christian that God expects you to be? And that this nation needs you to be. Brother Harper, you are playing on our patriotism. Absolutely. If this country is worth singing about, and if this country is worth dying for, it's certainly worth living for the Lord for, isn't it? And God bless America. That depends on us. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around.