In Matthew chapter 16, verses 21 through 23, it says, From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem. And suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. Then Peter took him And began to rebuke him. Every time I read that, that is an amazing statement to me. Because just a few verses before. Peter, when asked who he thought Jesus was, he says in verse 16, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now he was correct, and he believed Correctly. But if Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, where do you get off thinking you can rebuke him about anything? This is serious. It says, Rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee But he turned and said unto Peter, and I don't think it was with a smile on his face, get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savorest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. Jesus had just praised him a few verses before. And now he's calling him Satan. And he says, Peter. You're savoring the things of men, not the things that be of God. For a few moments, I want to speak to you on carnal cravings. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. And God, I thank you for this time together. Thank you for these preachers that are here, church members that are here. And I long to be a blessing as I preach your word. So, Father, I pray you'd take these words, fill me with the Spirit of God, and use them to help someone today. For we ask it in Jesus' name Amen. You know, our taste buds are funny things. There are people who really like sour things. When I was young I did, but I don't now. There are people who really like sweet things, and of course that gets us in a lot of trouble, and all I have to do is turn sideways, and you'd understand that There are some who really like hot things. My dad loved hot peppers. You couldn't make it too hot for him. He just, anybody here like that? You've just got taste buds for hot things. I never have understood Eating something so hot that you can't taste the food. What is the point? Just pour the hot sauce straight in your mouth. I don't see any reason to do it otherwise. Just the thought of some foods. If I began to mention certain foods, people would be sitting there wishing, I wish we'd start eating now. Saliva would be running, all of that kind of stuff And and then there are some things that you just wonder how can anybody one of those things for me is uh sauerkraut. I can remember My mama coming when I get home from school and having the house smell of sour. That is the nastiest smelling stuff in the world. Now I know there are people here that like sauerkraut. How many of you like sauerkraut? Man, you can have all of it. I'll give my portion to you. I still can't stand the smell of it today. Got a good preacher friend of mine by the name of uh Walt Schmidt. We were going to uh Kentucky Fried Chicken together one day, and I said, listen, I'm buying today. Order anything on the menu that you want. And he went up and he said, I'll take a cup of chicken livers. Anything you want? Chicken livers! I mean, there's just no accounting for some people's taste. When I was young, the what besides sauerkraut, one of the things I hated most, I still remember the very first time I had it My mom had brought home from the store chicken pot pies. Now, I didn't know what a chicken pot pie was, but what I did see was wonderful pie dough. And what I knew about paido is there was usually something sweet inside, and as a kid I was looking forward to it. And so I put my fork in there and cut it up, and there was gravy And carrots and peas? What a terrible joke to pull on a child I mean, I sat there, my parents were the kind that if you didn't eat all that you had on your plate, you sat there until you got it gone And that's just the way it was. And that day I learned a second lesson. There was only one thing that was worse than a hot chicken pot pie. And that was a cold chicken pot pie. Now obviously since then I've taught myself to eat chicken pot pies and I I even enjoy them. As a matter of fact, if you were to put a steak right here And a chicken pot pie right there, I'd eat both of 'em. So there you go, I'd just take care of it. A few A few years ago we were taking our Sunday school class up to East Tennessee and we stopped by Cracker Barrel and my wife as we're coming out she had a hankering for some black licorice. Now I love Twizzler, strawberry, red licorice. I hope you're taking notes. I love Twizzler, strawberry, red licorice, but I don't care for black licorice. And so to please my wife, as husbands need to do from time to time, I bought her a pack of those black licorice cubes. And so we get in the car and we're driving on. And for some reason, you know, I'm driving. Got nothing going on. Nothing in my mouth. I reached down and I got me a black licorice cube and I put it in my mouth and I ate it. Well, that made me want to eat another one, so I ate another one. You know, my wife only got two of those. By the time we got to East Tennessee, I had eaten. I would never just eat a bunch of black licories, but I had a sudden craving It wasn't my norm, but I had a sudden craving. I paid for it for two days. That was not a good trip for me. I spent most of it in the bathroom. It was a bad situation. Now, here's Peter. He just has a very spiritual conversation with the Lord. He acknowledges a right conclusion about the Lord his. And he's complimented by the Lord for it. And then he makes a comment like this. He rebukes the Lord when the Lord tells him that he's going to Jerusalem to be slain And to be buried, and to be raised three days later from the dead, that's why he came. And Jesus has to rebuke him. Now that ought to teach us something about some carnal cravings that I believe anybody could have, and as a matter of fact, that we preachers get all too often and don't recognize it. About spiritual things. Now just follow along with me if you would please. Who can have carnal cravings? Think about the life of Peter a second, because Peter is one of the key apostles. In the four list of the apostles. Peter is always the first one mentioned. Always the first one mentioned. And this is a special man. Jesus had a lot of dealings with him. He was within the inner circle. But here is a man who had had spiritual insight. He had mentioned it just before when he said, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Later in John chapter 6, when many of Jesus' disciples left him for what he had said He turns to the twelve and he says, Will you also go away? Well, Simon Peter speaks up. Where should we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. So here's a man with spiritual insights. I got news for you. That preacher that just preached that dynamite message that thrilled your heart. The scripture was real and live. The truth is an hour later, he might be saying one of the dumbest things in the world. A carnal craving. You see, Jesus lets us know about what had happened to Peter all of a sudden. He had had right cravings to make the decisions he had made. to say the things that he had said, but now all of a sudden he's got a carnal craving, savoring the things that be of men and not the things that be of God. Not only that, Peter had sacrificed much Remember, it's Peter that Jesus came by while they were mending nets in Luke chapter 5 and said, Follow me, and also in Matthew chapter 4, follow me, and I'll make you to be fishers of men. And the Bible says that they left their nets and followed him. He sacrificed his livelihood. He sacrificed all to follow Jesus, and here he is having a carnal craving. So you understand there are people, it might be a deacon or a Sunday school teacher, who's one of the best Sunday school teachers you've ever heard, but they're not immune to having carnal cravings. It may be a fine, wonderful preacher, but he's not immune to having carnal cravings. He may have sacrificed much For the Lord. But he's still not immune from having carnal cravings. How about people who are filled with the Spirit? I mean Peter is one of the disciples that went out In the book of Luke, they went out on a mission and came back saying, Listen, even the devils were subject to us. Here's a man who would be filled with the Holy Spirit, and according to Galatians chapter 2, evidently he had another one when he went up to Antioch. And he had been eating with the brethren, the Gentile believers that were there, but when the Jewish believers from Jerusalem came up, he separated from the Gentile believers, and Paul had to rebuke him to his face I don't believe that Peter meant to do wrong, but he had a craving that was not right, and he had to get rebuke for it. We don't take rebuke well, do we? Peter did. I mean, you look at what Jesus said to him, get thee behind me, Satan. He said that in front of everybody. Thou art an offense unto me. He doesn't go running off. He didn't get upset and mad and go over and sulk. He gets right. He follows him. What's the difference between Saul, King Saul, and David in the Old Testament? When the prophet came to David, David said, I have sinned. When the prophet went to Saul, he said, I've obeyed the voice of the Lord. And then he tried to blame the people. I believe the secret to the Christian life is taking a rebuke that you deserve. What we want to do is we want to justify how good we are, how much we've given to God, how how wonderful we've been in serving the Lord, but that carnal craving, hey, get right about it You see, good preachers here could have carnal cravings. Good Christians right now could have carnal cravings People who've been used of the Lord. Demas was a man that was used of the Lord, but when he departed, he departed because he had gotten a craving for the things of the world. We have to understand that about ourselves. I like what our brother was preaching about the flesh. We've got a battle going on every day. And sometimes it's many times in the same day. Well now, since even those real spiritual Christians that we know can have carnal cravings, how can we detect it in ourselves? That when one of those carnal cravings has come along, how does it show itself? I mean, it's easy for me to detect it in other people. But it's really hard for me to detect it in me. Well, I think we get some examples from Peter's life. One is picking and choosing what doctrines you like. Now, we want to all believe true doctrine, right doctrine, but there are some that we like more than others. It's obvious from this verse that Peter did not like to hear what Jesus was going to be doing. That he was going to Jerusalem, be slain, and be raised again three days later. He didn't want to hear that. As a matter of fact, you remember when Jesus appears on the Mount of Transfiguration And you've got uh the three disciples, including Peter, that see Elijah and they see Moses. Man, they're having a great time. According to the book of Luke The Bible says that Moses and Elijah spoke with Jesus of his coming decease. What did Peter do? Went to sleep. He didn't want to hear it. You know, we've got people in our churches. Oh, they'd love to hear hear a thrilling message on prophecy. Oh, they'd love to hear a thrilling message with funny illustrations. Oh, they'd love that. But you get them to start preaching about justification. Sanctification. And they're going or asleep. You start picking and choosing doctrines, man, you are headed for having some carnal cravings. So, look at yourself. Preacher Kitsubvi's preaching on subjects not quite as exciting as some of the other things that he's preached Might be talking about the tabernacle, and the tabernacle's just never really done anything for you. And uh it might he might know all the types. Matter of fact, might even know more types than what God knows. Uh there I've got a couple books like that in my library. All the types of the tabernacle, and boy, they've got every little nut and bolt as a type of something. Well, if if you're that way, that's fine. I don't see some of those things. I guess I'm just not that bright. But picking and choosing doctrine, number two, picking and choosing practices. In Matthew chapter 18, the Bible says, Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him till seven times? And what did Jesus say? 70 times seven. Peter thought he was being spiritual. How often shall my brother offend me? And I forgive him? Seven times? Man, not many people go seven times. In uh the book of Luke, he says, seven times in a day, forgive him. You see, that's the way the Lord is. It is of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed. Verse compassions fail not, they are made new every Morning. Can you imagine when Peter heard seven times in a day? Or seventy times seven, four hundred and ninety times? You mean I gotta put up With that knucklehead John, every time he says something that upsets me, yes, forgive him. Of course, if you understand what forgiveness is, it's taking it off the account I don't believe Jesus really means you can count up 490 times. I believe because if you take it off the account, you're starting over again every time. When you forgive, you take it off the account not to be mentioned again. It's done. You forgive them. Most Christians don't forgive. They'll say, Well, okay, I'll forgive that one. But then the next time the person does wrong, they bring it up again, which means they never took it off the account. But here's Peter, you know, he thinks he's being pre- he wasn't. He wasn't. Didn't come close to it Peer pressure. We know that Peter had trouble with peer pressure, I already mentioned in Galatians chapter 2. Now, hey, I know that peer pressure is supposed to be the strongest pressure there is on teenagers. Don't kid yourself, it's the strongest pressure there is on adults, too. And don't look so spiritual, it's the strongest pressure there is on preachers. What do they think of me? You know, I I know the Bible says this, but with some of the guys I know, they're not gonna like this. You know, for instance, if you're talking about separation. If you're talking about we shouldn't do this or we shouldn't do that or we shouldn't do that. Now say I'm one of those guys. I hate to hear if a preacher is more separated than I am. Because I know I've got it right. You know who the legalists are? The legalists are anybody who's got a conviction I don't have. That's a legalist. I mean, let's be honest about this thing, isn't that right? I mean I know this people I preach for instance to to men and women and young people that you're not to touch till you get married. I believe the Bible's real plain about that. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 15, he talks about fleeing fornication. He says there's one sin against the body, and it's not drinking a Coca-Cola. One sin against the body is not eating white sugar or white flour. One sin against the body is fornication. And after covering that, he says, Now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it's good for a man not to touch a woman, nevertheless to avoid fornication. Let every man have his own wife. Now I think that's as clear as can be. And so that's my standard. That's what I preach at our church. If they touch, you see, God is the one who set up the line. If they never touch, they'll never commit fornication. Just make sense. But I know preachers that I love that say, no, no, that means touch them sexually. Well, I think they're just, you know, full of baloney. Uh they're not to touch. The Bible says of the woman that she just sought to touch the hem of his garment, exactly the same word. Doesn't mean that she wrapped it around her. See, foolishness of preaching. That's what I'm talking about right there. Alright. Also, priorities. You remember, here's Peter in the garden. The night before the crucifixion, Jesus says, Pray for me. Can't pray an hour, he goes sound to sleep. Jesus, after waking him up, goes back to pray again. He goes sound to sleep again. He says, Well, the spirit's willing, but the flesh is weak. Have you ever fallen asleep praying for somebody who was about to have surgery? Then you get up and you're not going to tell anybody that you've been sleeping. You're down on your knees. By the way, that's one of the reasons. I know the weakness of my own flesh. So What I do, I like to get in my auditorium and I walk round and pray because I've never fallen asleep while I was walking. But I get on my knees, I'll drop straight off. And then I got to feel bad about it. So I walk around. Now also I pray out loud. I love praying out loud. It helps me Now you may not, a man, you may be able to pray on your east for six hours. I know if I did that, I'd be sleeping for five and a half of those six hours. That's that's one of my weaknesses. But priorities How many times have I failed in those areas? Well, how do you develop then right cravings? Well, I think that's why Jesus says what he says next in verse 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. And take his cross daily and follow me. He says, first of all, it's a path of self-denial. There are a lot of things that I really love. But if I'm going to be surrendered to God, I've got to be willing to put it all away. To serve the Lord. I love Pastoring Madison Baptist Church. I love it. I've been there twenty-nine years. I love it. But I've settled this thing a long time ago. If God called me to the mission field tomorrow, I'm resigning and going to the mission field. Matter of fact, every year, every year at missions conference time, Lord, if you want me to go, I'll be glad to go. I mean, to me, it makes sense To me it makes sense because, hey, I do speak Spanish, and because I speak Spanish, I know that if I could go to one of those, I don't know how many cities, but there's scores of cities in Latin America Of a hundred thousand or more that don't have one gospel preaching church. I'd love to go where there's not one gospel preaching church and present the gospel. I could do that. And besides that, if I resign tomorrow, you know that within the next two weeks there'd be 200, what do you call those things, resumes on the desk of the church of preachers feeling called the Madison. So they'd get a preacher, that wouldn't be a problem. And man, I'd love to go and do that, but God hasn't let me go. Now, if he called me to Uganda, I think I'd go. Matter of fact, as much as I love warmth, if he called me to Alaska, I'd go. They don't speak Spanish there, but he's not required to send me someplace to speak Spanish. I mean the reality is, self-denial, whatever it may be. We ought to be willing to serve him no matter what. We have a man in our church, Jim Davison. Jim David didn't get saved until he was 46, 47 years of age. He went to our Bible college at the age of 52. He felt God was calling him to preach. He spent three years in the Bible college Wanted to go out as an evangelist, and I said, Jim, now I want you to pray about this and uh what God would have you to do. I had in my mind what I thought God was calling him to, but I wasn't going to tell him He gave me a call about two weeks later and he said, Preacher, he said, I I think I missed it. I think God wants me to go to the prisons. Well, that's quite a thing from being just an evangelist to going to the prisons. And that's what he's done with Rock of Ages now for the last 12 years. But see, he didn't start until he was in his fifties. And he just decided to surrender to God. Hey, Moses didn't do God's will until he was 80. What difference does it make how old you are? You are as young as you're ever going to be, and if God calls you to do something, you better do it. Just be obedient to the call of God. You've got to deny yourself another thing he says then he says and take up his cross now he didn't say take up my cross He said, take up his cross. Because the truth of it is each of us have different crosses. Now I don't know what yours may be. I think of a preacher friend of mine by the name of John Bishop. Some of you know the story about how he was good pastor out in Arkansas, good hard preacher, all of that, and boy He got hit with that meningitis. It wiped his mind clean and his ministry now. He's blind now, by the way. He has these starburst migraine headaches that are terrible. All of that, and he started a ministry called God Is So Good Ministry. His English isn't good. And God used him in that way. I said, Lord, I thank you that that's not my cross. I think I know what my cross is. I'm not going to tell you that. It doesn't matter. But there are certain things. It might have something to do with your calling. with where you're at in the ministry. I I look at the man who founded Madison Baptist Church, Tony Stark. Been a missionary for the last um Good night almost thirty years to Uganda. But he's had so many strokes he can't be in Uganda now. But he and when sometimes he can't even preach because The words just don't come. I know I seem to have the same problem at time, but not as bad as what he does. And yet he's still faithful at serving the Lord. He hasn't backed off and said, Well, God, if you're not going to give me good speech, I'm not going to serve you. No, sir. He has stayed faithful to God. That's his cross. Right now that's not mine. I don't know what it may be for you, but just stay faithful. To the Lord. You've got to deny yourself, take up your cross, whatever that may be, and follow him. Jesus said, Follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. Follow him. When Paul writes in Philippians chapter 2, let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of man, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross You see, if you're going to have the mind that Jesus has, it's going to be about doing a work that gets other people saved. And we all are to be about that. Getting other people saved. Thank God I'm saved, but I don't want to go to heaven alone. We're about winning people to Jesus Christ. That's what the whole church is about. That is the number one thing at Madison Baptist Church. We have a Christian school, not about the school. By the way, school to me is a secondary ministry at our church. Because in so many churches, school is the one ministry that takes the most time, costs the most dollars, and does the least. As far as the main work of the church is concerned, are winning the loss to Jesus. I believe in Christian education, but it's not going to be the main thing at Madison Baptist Church. The main thing is going to be winning others to Jesus Christ. Our youth ministry, it's winning others to Christ. Our bus ministry, winning others to Christ. Our missionary work, winning others to Christ. That's why the church is here. Because we're taking up his path to follow him always. Now, I know there are good men of God here, but you're not immune. Peter wasn't immune to having carnal cravings. Matter of fact, I find as I get older that I get to craving things just naturally, like ice cream. Candy. I go to the airport and they've got those Cinnabon things. Those Cinnabon pretzels, cinnamon, sugar. Man, that's so good. I just want to rub it in my hair. That is great stuff. I have to say no to that stuff. Well, that may not be a spiritual decision, but the problem is this flesh has other things it wants to do. But I'm to serve him completely. To help me with that, I ask him, Lord, please, please let me know. But I'm starting to get a craving. That's contrary to your will. Appreciate that statement. I want to finish right. I mean, I've I got saved in 71, called to preach in 74. And I want to finish right. I don't care if it's tomorrow or if it's another 10 or 15 years that God lets me live. I don't want to blow it now. So for that, I've got to make sure and recognize the carnal craving when it comes and get right when it does. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. Lord, I know these are simple thoughts and simple words from The Apostle Peter, the Lord, I've seen it too many times in my life. God, please, show us ourselves. May we not make excuses like King Saul did. But Lord, when you show us, may we be quick to confess it and get it right as David did. And Father, we'll thank you as you use us in our lives. In Jesus' name, amen.