What I want to do is just kind of really give you a thought from the book of Acts. And then we'll come over to 2 Timothy and see with that thought how do we actually make it happen? And in Acts, we really kind of get an understanding of what needs to happen. But then I think as Paul wrote to Timothy, he gave him the how-to. And so that's how we'll kind of tie these together here just in the next few minutes. Acts chapter 2 and verse number 41, probably a verse that uh you're familiar with But Acts chapter 2 and verse 41 says, Then they that gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day there were added unto them About 3,000 souls. Wouldn't it have been something to be a part of the Church of Jerusalem about that time? Can you imagine meeting on one day and having 120 people in an upper room And then the next day the church grows from 120 to 3,120. And I don't know how the logistics of that work. I don't know exactly uh how they figured out how to do everything. I think it would have been interesting just to try to watch them baptize three thousand people in an afternoon. And uh I mean just the the excitement that must have come And uh I was uh we were actually just recently at a church that had a uh baptism. They baptized thirteen people, another that baptized Or have some people signed up to be baptized in a couple weeks, being here and hearing of people being baptized this morning. It's exciting to watch the way that God is working And uh to watch them working not just in one church, but in many churches and uh the great blessings and people are being baptized. But think about this, what if this morning you'd have three thousand people baptized? Can you imagine how exciting it would be tonight to be in church? And can you imagine hopefully you're excited as it is, but uh can you imagine what it would be like to just show up and and have all these new people that need to be trained and they need to be taught and they need to be discipled and And I don't know about you, but I think that uh if I was pastoring a church and we had 3,000 people saved and baptized one baptized one day, I probably would say, you know, we still need to win the world and we still need to go soul winning, but We really have to figure out how to care for these 3,000 people. And I don't know the next day. The first thought on my mind might not be getting out and knocking on doors. It might be, Lord, how are we going to deciple all these people? And logistically take care of all the things that are going to be coming up and starting to just try to figure it all out. But here in the church at Jerusalem, if you look down just a couple more verses, verse 47 If this praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily, such as should be saved. So now they're running 3,120, and every day they're seeing more people coming in, and more people are being saved, and more people are being added to the church. The reason is these people are coming, they're so excited, they're going and telling their friends and neighbors and loved ones, and people are just coming and they're being saved. And man, it would have been an exciting thing to be a part of the Church of Jerusalem at this point Then uh turn over with me just uh a few pages, a page or two to chapter five. And notice uh if you notice there, verse number forty one it said there were three thousand that were added, and verse number forty-seven we just saw It said they were daily added. Very important words there. Chapter 5, verse number 14. It says, and believers were the more added to the Lord. Multitudes, both of men and women. It's interesting, it doesn't just say there were multitudes of people, but there were multitudes of men and multitudes of women. So now we have multitudes upon multitudes. If 3,000 didn't classify as a multitude, I don't know how many we're talking, but there's a lot of people. And they're being still added to the church. And so again, the excitement of the day, the excitement of all that's happening must have been there And uh so people are being added, they are coming in, and then look over in chapter six, if you will, and we're gonna see a different word Chapter 2, they were added 3,000. Daily they were added. Chapter 5, there were multitudes that were added. But in Acts chapter 6, it says, And in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied They've been being added, and what was happening is they were going out, they were winning them to Christ, and new converts were being added to the church. But when they first got saved, they were not yet disciples They were not trained followers who were committed followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. But now by chapter 6, there's been training that has gone on. They are teaching them all things, whatsoever I've commanded you. There's discipleship that is taking place. And now what we find are some believers who have been saved, but now those who are discipled or disciples or faithful followers of Christ The disciples, the twelve, have multiplied themselves in these people through training who have then trained others and trained others so that now in the Church of Jerusalem, it's not just New Christians that have come in, but it's disciples that have been multiplied. So the work that is being done is being spread amongst many The way that the uh the functioning of the church is taking place, they are uh jumping in, they are serving, they're a part of it, they are uh a part of spreading the gospel, they're a part of what is taking place. And it's a great testament to this church, even just looking around and seeing the faith promise giving uh that has come in last week. And and you can see that probably didn't come from one person, but there are many that are a part of the work. You can look at the sign in the back and uh the building fund, and many I'm sure have been a part of that, and and there's work that takes place, there's labor that takes place, and one of the exciting things about a church like this and a church like in Jerusalem is it's not only new believers, but while there are new believers, there also are multiplied disciples who are there for the purpose of worshiping and serving the Lord Jesus Christ. What we find is that the church here in Acts chapter 6 has become a place where the worship of God is multiplied over and over. And what happens is, we uh and we do this today, we have individual worship, or at least hopefully you do uh the songs that we've sung tonight. What a great joy it is to be able to gather together and sing those songs. And and I hope those are the songs that go through your mind as you're at home through the week. As you run into trials maybe along the way or great blessings come. And I hope that there are times where you find yourself, as I do, just I don't do it real loud because I'm afraid I'll scare someone, but uh singing those songs, and those are the songs that run through the mind, and we sing the songs of victory, and we sing praises to our Lord, and what a wonderful thing to do that on an individual level. Hopefully we have time where we get in the Word of God and we're studying the Word of God and we're growing in Christ and we're winning others to Christ and we're worshiping Him. We're adding to His worship in that. But then as we gather together And we sing those songs together as a church a few times a week. What we're doing is all those who have individually worshiped him, now we come together so that the worship is multiplied in this place. It is all of those individuals gathering that we might worship Him as one. And then we share testimonies as we did just a few minutes ago. What a blessing to be able to share a testimony by ourselves in the car and praise the Lord with it, but oh to be able to say in front of others the goodness of our God. And the greatness of our God, that we lift him on high, we magnify him, we worship him in that it. We go as a church to win people to Christ and We know that herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. And so the primary motivation for winning people to Christ is that the glory of God might be exalted, that He might be the one who's lifted And really, as a church, our primary function is to multiply the glory and the worship of our God. And everything we do really is about Him. It really is all about Him being exalted and Him being lifted on high. And it's all about Christ. It's all about our God And so the church becomes a multiplier of the worship of God. And that's what it's supposed to be. And so people get saved, they come. They're a part of worshiping Him together. And we have a testimony. We encourage one another and we worship and we multiply the worship of God in a local church. Well you know the Church of Jerusalem and you know the story probably as well as I. Some problems began to come. It was an exciting time to be a part of the church. All these people were being saved, now disciples have been multiplied, but Acts chapter six we start having some problems within the church and They're complaining about the Grisha. Widows not being taken care of. And so some of those things have to be dealt with. And then in Acts chapter 7 This man named Saul steps onto the scene and uh Saul comes in and of course puts Sathan to death and uh they laid their clothes at Saul's feet, uh their coats at Saul's feet, those who put him to death. And so Saul begins by chapter 8 to wreak havoc on the church, and he's going into houses, hailing men and women dragging them off the prison and and great uh damage really is coming against the church as we come into chapters 7 and 8 And uh even into chapter 9 somewhat, as uh chapter 9 of course is his conversion, but he's heading uh down to Damascus to wreak more havoc on the church. And and all of this is happening over a span of time And as you know, that church in Jerusalem, they did a great job of winning people. They did a great job. They were growing. Things were happening. But when Christ went back to heaven, he had given a job, he had given a commission, and he told them to go into Jerusalem And Judea, and Tamaria, and the uttermost parts of the world, all at the same time. And so the uttermost part we would understand that's foreign missions. And Jerusalem, we would understand, that's soul-winning. We understand those But sometimes uh Samaria, Judea and Samaria we might struggle with, how do we define what those are? Judea and Samaria were places, Judea of course, friends of Israel, Samaria enemies of Israel, and One application that I think makes sense is we should win our friends and we should win our enemies to Christ. But Judea and Samaria were places that were far enough away, since they were especially having to travel by foot that they needed somebody to go from Jerusalem to there to start a jer a church there. And so really Judea, Samaria, would have the idea of somewhere too far for people just to travel to church They need a church, and so it would really deal a lot with church planting. And so the church at Jerusalem was seeing God working and moving in a great way. Disciples were being multiplied. But they really didn't get out like they were supposed to. And so persecution came. And really, it's one of the great testaments to the Church of Jerusalem and the multiplication of disciples there Because they were scattered by this persecution. And yet while they were being scattered for preaching the gospel, they didn't leave and say, well, I guess we better not do that anymore. Rather, they left Jerusalem and everywhere they went, they took the gospel. And they preached the gospel to everybody. And now churches were being planted and uh people were being saved and they were starting to organize and So then the rest really of the book of Acts is churches planted and uh they they're gonna send very soon now Philip down to places like Samaria to go and uh see what's happening there and organize the church there and so it was under the right authority and all that is going to take place but all that happens as we come down through these next chapters. And so skip over with me if you will. And this is the thought I want to give you. Acts chapter 9 and verse number 31. Everything's been growing, everything's been happening. Now the persecution has come But in Acts chapter 9, verse number 31, it says, then had the church's rest. Throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria. And we're edified. It's amazing. Now we see more churches and more places, and there's rest now. It says, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost were multiplied. That's significant. Because we saw the church at Jerusalem as it grew, it was added, added, added. But they multiplied disciples within the church. But now, chapter 9, verse number 31, we see the multiplication. of churches themselves. And so what happened is each individual local church is to be a multiplier there of the disciples of Christ who are worshiping and bringing glory to God. So it's a multiplier of God's glory. But now we see Acts chapter 9, a multiplication of the multipliers themselves, who are now in many places multiplying the glory of God by being a place where Christians are gathering to glorify Him. So it's the multiplication of the multipliers. I believe one of the reasons that we're in trouble as a nation is because we have not multiplied the multipliers as quickly as we've needed to. And too many churches have come to the place of closing their doors that have not been able to be replaced by churches that are coming in and being started. We really live in a nation now where uh even many places in the Bible belt are in great need of churches. And uh they may have a church on every corner, but they're not going out and influencing their culture with the gospel any longer Uh really they are being influenced by the culture in many cases. And so uh the reality is we need churches that are saying we're not just going along with our culture But rather we're willing to stand in the face of our culture and say, uh, we're not here to stand against them. That's not our purpose. But if they're not going the direction of Christ, and I think we can clearly see that that's not the case then the reality is we're not going to be swayed by the culture either. We're standing firm on the word of God for the Lord Jesus Christ to carry the gospel into a culture and impact that culture with the gospel. So here's the problem. We have the truth to offer. And we all recognize we live in a nation that increasingly has no desire for truth. So how do we influence a nation like the United States of America in 2022 with the truth of the gospel When they really don't want the truth. And I believe Paul gave Timothy that answer here in 2 Timothy chapter 4. And so if you turn over there with me. 2 Timothy chapter 4 is where we'll be the rest of the time, but really we're talking about this, how do we multiply the multipliers or the churches For God's glory, that God may be more greatly glorified in this place. And so, 2 Timothy chapter 4, and beginning in verse number 1, Paul says, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only But unto all them also that love his appearing. Father, I pray that you speak to our hearts tonight. I pray that you would open this passage, help us to make application to each of our lives individually. We thank you for it in advance. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we come to this book of 2 Timothy, Paul is writing what I believe he knows is really his last letter that he's going to pin. And he's chosen to write it to Timothy, and I believe part of that is because Timothy is his son in the faith. He loves Timothy, has a relationship with Timothy, and And really I think they had a relationship that was almost like a a physical relationship of a father and son. There's a love, there's a genuineness, there's a closeness between these men And so as he sits down to pen these final words that he'll pen in this life, he is writing to his son in the faith, to Timothy. But I really believe he's also writing this in part, and he's chosen Timothy in part because Timothy is about to step into the realm of being one of the leaders of the early church. Timothy traveled with Paul. He knew Paul. And so as Paul passes off of the scene, people are naturally going to come to Timothy and say, Timothy, what would Paul have said about this? I mean, he's the one who wrote us letters. He's the one who encouraged us. And in many cases, he's the one who planted our church. And so, Timothy, we need some direction, some guidance. What do you think Paul would have said here? And so Timothy was going to be a leader, and he did become, uh and already really was a leader within the uh early church. And and so far Timothy had been that But he'd always been that with a little bit of a safety net. I had the privilege of having a very godly pastor, and uh I got to serve under him. I still call him my pastor, and I'm thankful for uh the pastor that I was able to serve under and And to this day, he's alive, and I have the privilege of being able to call my pastor. Man, it's a great blessing. Every now and then I run into something, and I think I don't have any clue how to handle this And so I call my pastor and I find out, you know, you've been in ministry uh much longer than I have. How would you handle this? And he always knows exactly what to do, exactly how to handle it has great wisdom or uh he'll say, well I encountered something like that twenty-five years ago and you know that kind of a thing and and what a great blessing to be able to do that and uh be able to call. I called him about COVID. I said hey What are we supposed to do with this thing? I've never uh they didn't have a class in college on pandemics. What am I supposed to do with this? And he said, I don't have any clue what you're supposed to do with this. I've never had one of these either, so let me know what you come up with And I said, that's not how that's supposed to work at all. Amen. But it's a great blessing to be able to call someone and talk to them that knows what to do and things. Well, Timothy's always had that. Now they didn't have phones, but he could send a letter, he could send a messenger, or he could travel and go visit the Apostle Paul. And so when he ran into something He could go and say, hey, Paul, how should I handle what's the wisdom here? Or as the landscape of things might change just a little bit within the culture, He could get a hold of Paul and say, how how can I handle this? Or what's right here or there? And he's always had a little bit of a safety net. So Paul writes him a letter and says to him things like, Timothy, God hasn't given you a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And he's going to write him to him things in these in these really two books, but he's writing him things like hey Timothy, don't back off. Timothy Don't slow down. And in large part, 2 Timothy is saying, Timothy, this is not the time to step back. This is the time to step up. This is the time to go forward. Timothy, don't be discouraged because my time of departure has come. Yes, I'm going to heaven, and yes, there's a crown for me there. But Timothy, you can earn a crown too. And so, Timothy, now's the time to be a leader within the early church Now's the time to go forward for the cause of Christ, and in essence what he's saying to him, uh really through the book, but especially as we come to chapter 4 He is in large part he is he is passing the torch to Timothy and saying, Torch, uh, Timothy, it's now your time to carry the torch. It's your time to go into your culture with the gospel And Timothy, you need to lead in that direction. And so he's saying to him, Timothy, don't slow down, don't back off, don't put it in neutral, kick it into high drive and go do something for God. And so Timothy is receiving this. And the first thing I see tonight is just simply this thought, there is a torch that we must carry. And our torch is that same torch. Paul passed it to Timothy, who then would pass it to the next generation and the generation after. And we can look back through the annals of Baptist history and we can see those who have faithfully served God. We could probably go around the room tonight and find people who would say, I knew this person or that pastor or this grandmother or grandfather and now they've gone to heaven. They ran their race well, but they influenced my life while they were here And there are people who have run their race well because they carried their torch well. And Paul is writing to him and saying, Timothy, it's now your time. That torch now today, 2022, has been handed to us. It's the torch of the gospel, the responsibility to carry the gospel into our world and our culture And can I just say, and I know that you know this in this church, but the reality is this is not the time to complain about where we are as a nation This is the time to say how do we go forward with the gospel and impact our nation instead of worrying about what's happened or why we are where we are I'm not saying we shouldn't learn from history. I'm just simply saying if we spend all of our time looking back and saying, how'd we get here, instead of saying, let's just go out there and win them. And so he is writing to Timothy, and he's saying, Timothy, there's a torch that you must carry. And Timothy, everything that is about your mission, everything that you're called to do, it all flies right in the face of the culture. But, Timothy, you have a mission. It's been given by God. Go carry your torch in your generation. And so, first of all, I see the torch that we carry, but then secondly, tonight, I see the turbulence in our culture. Look at verse number three, and certainly we could study this much further and deeper, but for sake of time, let's just say right here. In verse number three, he says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. And I don't know, maybe Timothy read this and stepped to the side and said, Wow, I am glad I don't live in that time. I mean, I'm glad today everybody loves truth and in Ephesus in year number whatever. I'm glad everybody just is on board with whatever is actually, factually true, and we can go forward. I'm really glad I live when I live. But I don't really think that's the case. I think when Timothy read this that he thought Paul was talking about Ephesus. Because when Timothy read this He was living in a day where those early first century believers, they all read definitions like this and said, wow, Jesus must be coming back in our lifetime. We lived in. And so they looked at it and they said, This is today. This is now. This is the time we are living. Not only that, but I really believe, and and don't do it right now, but if you go back and read Acts chapter 19 You can read the story of the planting of Ephesus Baptist Church, if you want to call it that. The church here in Ephesus. And so as they are getting ready to plant this church and they're coming into Ephesus, Paul comes in with a team. And part of that team is a young man named Timothy. And they came into town and they just start winning people to Christ. And man, it would have been exciting to be a part of. People are being saved. Not only are they being saved, but their lives are being changed by the power of the gospel. And because their lives are being changed, they're taking their old idols, they're getting rid of them, they're throwing out the idols, they're turning from the idols to Christ from all of their religion to a personal relationship with him. And it's all about this relationship that is found in Christ Jesus. And so there were some people who started getting a little concerned. You might remember them. They were called the silversmiths. The silversmiths weren't real happy because the silversmiths were very wealthy people, and they made all their money by making the idols that people worshipped. And they started looking at it and they said, you know, these guys are coming around and they're telling everybody about this God and they're calling him the one true God. And by the way, if they were adding Jesus to their religion, they'd have been fine with it But when they started turning from their religion and getting rid of their idols, that's when they started getting stirred and they said, uh, here come these guys, and they're telling people about this Jesus. And now they're all worried about this relationship with him instead of serving these little silver pieces of metal that we've been making. And so since they're not serving these idols anymore, that's going to affect our pocketbook because that means they're not buying them anymore. So we really don't want that. I don't know if you've noticed, sometimes people really like money. And so they really liked their money. But not only that As they have excavated the area of Ephesus, they found plaques and different things that speak to the political power of these men. And the silversmiths were very politically connected. They were of great power politically. You may have noticed in our culture, sometimes people like power as well. And so these men were kind of upset because they recognized everybody turning to Christ and having a relationship with Jesus, that means we're going to lose our money and we're going to lose our power. So they went out into the streets, and in essence, again you can read the whole story, but in essence they went out into the streets and they started getting people all stirred up, and they said, These men have come here preaching this other God, and that's not the God of the Ephesians. In fact The Ephesians serve a goddess named Diana, and they all started getting all riled up and chanting and jeering that uh about how goddess uh that Diana was the goddess of the Ephesians, and they went and they packed out the Colosseum the second largest Colosseum in the known world at that time, uh second only to the Colosseum in Rome. And they packed it out such that it was said there was an uproar in the city, and they all got in there chanting about how Diana is the goddess of the Ephesians. And they all got stirred up. And what did they do? They heaped to themselves teachers having itching ears. Whatever they wanted to hear, those people were able to stir up a whole city because they came out and really they didn't tell them any truth. They just told them an element of truth, but really what they wanted them to hear and got them all stirred up. And I wonder when Timothy read this, if he didn't read They'll heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. If he didn't look at it and say, okay, Paul's saying there's going to be a rejection of doctrine. Hmm. I see that in Ephesus. Not only that, there's going to be a reception of delight. That's what they will receive. So they're going to put away whatever's true, and they will only receive whatever makes them feel good. I wonder if Timothy didn't look around Ephesus and say, well that's where we are now. And that's the culture that we live in. And then finally Paul says to him, there's going to be the reassurance of duplicity. In other words, they're going to turn to fables. They're going to heap to themselves these teachers. In essence, they're going to go find the people that'll tell them what they want to hear. You know, we live in a culture today in the United States of America where the most hateful thing that you can do, according to our culture, is to not approve of what somebody else thinks. It's no longer even just don't disagree with, it is now you must approve of. in our culture. And we live in a culture where if we simply make a statement like we can biologically tell the difference between a man and a woman. That that's an offensive statement in our culture. Why? Because they've heaped to themselves teachers having itching ears. We live in a country where you can go to a television And you can turn on liberal news stations and you can find people really saying about the same thing, and very little of it really is news. What they're doing is they're getting ratings by telling people what they want to hear. And people will go tune into that. I hope I don't make anyone mad by saying this other side, but we actually have the same thing a lot of the time on the conservative side where you can go and you can find a lot of channels where they will tell a conservative really whatever they want to hear because they know they'll get ratings by telling people what they want to hear because they'll heap to themselves teachers. And I'm not saying we should never listen to anything that's going on in our culture. I think there's wisdom in being aware. I am saying we shouldn't listen to Fox News over the Bible. We ought to just go get in the Bible. Amen? And so that takes place in our culture where you can go to either side and you can hear whatever you want to hear because that's what gets ratings We live in a culture where we have turned to fables, we have heaped to ourselves teachers, and it's really all about what do I want to hear, what makes me happy, who will agree with me and approve me. And so living in the middle of that culture, how do we step in and say, we have the truth of the Word of God And how do we step in in a manner that it can be received and we can win people to Christ and say to them, hey, we are here to give you the absolute truth. It doesn't matter if you agree with it or not, it is absolutely true. Because that is the task that we have in this culture and for us that is the task to go into a city like Kansas City and say, hey, we are coming with the truth of the Word of God into a culture that's not real interested in truth, and we're going to come. and present the truth. And by the way, that's the same challenge that you have here. It really doesn't matter the population, it really doesn't matter where we're at in our country. That's the nation we live in. That's the culture we're surrounded by, and it's the task that we've been given is to carry the torch of the gospel. So I see the torch that we carry. I see the turbulence in our culture. It's really like theirs. And I really believe our culture is not so far different from every other culture that's been impacted greatly with the gospel. So how do we do it? Paul gave the answer, and then he went down and dealt with the problem, applied it to the problem. We've basically started at the end. We've seen the problem. Now we're coming back to the answer. So look at verse number one. We'll be done in just a few moments, but don't miss this. This is the key to the whole thing. Chapter 4 and verse 1. I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice who he charges them before. I charge you before Jesus Christ. In other words, Jesus, who is God, he is the witness, Timothy, that I am giving you this charge. He's the one who's the witness. Not only that, he goes on and he says, not only is Jesus the witness, who shall judge the in the middle of the verse, who shall judge the quick and the dead of his appearing in his kingdom, he's the judge of the world. So he says to him in essence, Timothy Jesus is the witness and he is the judge. He's the one who's everything. He is the key witness in the case. He is the key judge in the court. He is the one who has it all. He is the one who carries it all. Hey, Timothy, it's really all about Jesus. And then he goes into verse number two and he says, So Timothy, here's the answer Preach the word. Jesus is the witness. Jesus is the judge. But not only that, Jesus is the message. So Timothy, go preach Jesus. That's what he's saying. Timothy, go preach Christ to the world. Timothy, go get the gospel message that he died and that he was buried and that he rose again and that he's coming again one day. And go get the message to all the world around you. And Timothy. You live, yes, in the second largest city in the known world at the time. Ephesus was two hundred and fifty thousand people in this day. Timothy was looking around a little and saying, how do we impact a city like this and a culture like this? And Paul wrote to him and said, Timothy, here's how you do it. Remember there's a torch that you carry, and there's turbulence in your culture, but remember this, the transcendence of Christ. He's the one who's above it all. He's in control of it all. He is powerful over it all. He's not sitting in heaven worried. He knows exactly the answer, and he's the one who can do it So Timothy, you don't need a new strategy, you don't need a new plan, you don't need to come up with some way to entertain the world. Timothy, just Go preach the word. Go preach it in the highways and byways. Go preach it door to door and in every house. And then Timothy on Sunday and Wednesday and whatever else the church meets. Get up in the pulpit and Preach the word with some passion and with some fire. And Timothy, preach the word all the time. And yes, there's other things you'll do, and yes, there's other ideas, and there's things that are okay Within the pounds of Scripture but Tennessee, the focal point must be the preaching of the Word of God. And you say Timothy Paul, Brian, I mean, how in the world do you go to a city like Kansas City? How do you go to a place like this? How do you reach a nation like America? Just by preaching the word in a culture like this And if the hope is truly not in the White House and it's not, and the hope truly is in the church and implanting churches, how in the world are we going to win them fast enough to change our culture? And I would just simply say to you, humanly speaking, I have no answer. It makes no sense whatsoever. Do you know how we know it works? We come back to he's the transcendent one. He's the one above it all. And he's the one that when his people go preach the word, he's the one who empowers it. And he's the one who does it all. And that's why when we gather, we glorify him, because nothing we're doing here makes any human sense whatsoever. How do this many people get together in a church setting like this and actually get along That's a miracle itself. It's an absolute impossibility. There's too many backgrounds, there's too many ideas, there's too many different thought processes and personalities There's no way that we should all be able to gather in local churches across this land and get along in a local church. How in the world are we going to impact a nation like America? And the only way by having churches like this, everywhere in every culture, in every community, that we might be able to go and say, Lord, We don't have the ability. It can't be based on our power or our personality. It has to just simply be you empowering the Word of God and empowering your people as we go into that community with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And though we can't explain it, we step back and we see churches like this and churches all over America and the last three or four churches we've been in Seeing people baptized on a regular basis and seeing lives being changed and seeing people being added to the church and and I mean just incredible work that God's doing. And we step back and say, it's it's all Him. Doesn't have anything to do with our plan and our personality. It's all him. Because only he can empower the word. Timothy, remember the transcendence of Christ. As we go out into this culture, as we go out into this community, I think Paul, if he could be here today, I think he would stand up here and say, you people live in a really weird time. You've got some weird things going on. But you also live in the time that's maybe the greatest opportunity there's ever been. To get the gospel into this world. I think Paul would say, you know what I could have done with a cell phone? You know what I could have done with the ability to contact people without even having to go and take a ship to seal? You know what I could have done with an airplane and a car? I mean no more shipwrecks? You know what I could have done with the opportunities you have today? I think Paul would say it's a weird day you live in. And there are some strange things that you have to figure out how to deal with. But at the same time, this is perhaps the greatest opportunity there's ever been. To go preach the gospel in the world you live in. And we have great freedom in our nation still. I don't know how long we'll have it, but I do know this: as long as we have it, we need to use it to go win people to Christ. So I simply close with asking you this question, what does it look like for you to carry your torch this week? It's going to be different than us. Our torch for our family is to go and plant Fountain City Baptist Church and win people to Christ in Kansas City and to go to a city like that and plant a church, Fountain City Baptist Church. That's God's plan. For our family. That's our torch to carry. That's not yours. In fact, if God does call you to Kansas City to plant a church, we would encourage you at least name it something different. Amen? It's not the same torch. But it might be for you, it's as simple as baking some cookies and taking them to a neighbor and handing them a track and just working to get to the gospel and saying, hey, we just want you to know we love you. We just want you to know God loves you Has anyone ever told you how much God really loves you? It might just be as simple as that. It might be something as difficult as writing a letter containing the gospel, trying one more time to get the gospel to that family member that you know is going to be upset. I think that might be the hardest place to preach the gospel. I don't know. But the reality is this: it's different for all of us So who this week does God have, maybe somebody's putting on your heart even tonight, to say, hey, carry your torch, carry the gospel. To that individual and look for an opportunity to get the gospel to them this week. What does it look like for you? Father, we love you. We thank you for this evening. We thank you for your goodness. Lord, I pray tonight that you would help us to truly bear the torch of the gospel as we go into this world. Would you help us? We live in a world full of turbulence and our culture and all kinds of problems But there's no excuse there. It's really no different. Really, it's just a great opportunity to go preach. Would you help us to preach Christ and remember you're the one who's transcendent above and beyond all of it? We love you. We thank you for it. In Jesus' name I pray.