First, uh we just want to read the first two verses. Ecclesiastes chapter eleven. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. I want to talk about cast thy bread upon the waters. We actually looked at this, started this a couple weeks ago, and I want to get down to the meat of this text here now tonight. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, Lord, it's been such a good day. Lord, we recognize you are in charge of the weather, God, so we don't question that, and uh we just give you the glory. And uh I pray now as we uh bring this day to an end And then a little bit we'll head out into the snow, home, and then our work week. I just ask that you would stir our hearts this evening. I pray that you would prepare myself and everyone here. That you prepare our hearts for this coming week. Lord, I pray that our witness this week would be effective in the workplace, in the community. in our home, that we be good testimonies of the grace of the Lord and the presence of Christ in our lives. So help us to make good decisions tonight. Help us to be attentive to your word I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me to each of our hearts as you know we have need. So I yield myself to you now, Lord, my will, present my body. And pray that your will be done now in this message. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out the other week that there's a subtle change taking place in Ecclesiastes. This is Solomon. It initially starts out with a sermon he preached at Jerusalem, and he's kind of recounting what his thinking was, what his mindset was That led him from being the wisest man on earth to a fellow that had completely pushed God out of his life, out of his thinking, out of his living And he was trying to find fulfillment and purpose and peace in life without the Lord. Now he makes it very clear, and I think Most of us, no doubt, would agree with me, we know from experience we cannot find fulfillment and purpose in life without the Lord Jesus Christ. There is a God-shaped hole in our soul that until the Lord is there and the Lord is in his proper place in his life, There's going to be frustration, there's going to be emptiness, and uh there's going to be vanity and vexation of spirit. Frustration But now we see a subtle change. We get to these last chapters, at least I see it, and I don't believe I'm reading into this anything. I see this subtle change where Solomon is kind of coming around in his thinking and he's coming back to the mindset of his youth When he was wise, when uh when uh he was walking with the Lord, when he was what God intended him to be And um a lot of us that are in the second half of life or uh we're up on that end of life, I think uh I'm at least I'm finding this true for myself as I get older I'm kind of looking at the things under the sun a little differently than I did, say, twenty, thirty years ago. Everybody know what I'm talking about The things that I held so tightly to twenty, thirty years ago suddenly uh they're they're not that important. Things that I thought I had to have. Things that I thought had to be in place as a 20, 30 year old young man. Now I look back and say, you know, that probably wasn't as important in my life as what I thought it was. Can I get a witness? You know what I'm talking about And I kind of see that now in Solomon's thinking as we're getting here in the later part of this book of Ecclesiastes. He's starting, I think, he's starting to view life from above the sun, where before it was under the sun, right? And I think he's kind of getting his perspective back here again a little bit. And um uh he's viewing things more from God's perspective than someone who has pushed God completely out of their life. Now I gave a little outline. I don't know if you remember this, I just kind of uh broke up the chapter into uh number of observations. Let me give that real quickly. Then we'll look at these couple uh verses here. But I noted in the first several verses he talks about being generous That's what we're going to get to tonight. Cast thy bread upon the waters. He talks about generosity. Then verse 4 he talks about ignoring circumstances. In other words, and we'll look at this more in detail later But don't let circumstances stop me from doing what God has called me to do. And what I mean by that, and I think I mentioned this before If you wait till everything's in place, if you wait till all the ducks are in a row before you try and do anything, you ain't never going to get anything done. Right? The illustration I use and said before, if Kathy and I would have waited until we had all our resources in place before we get married, we wouldn't be married for another thirty years probably And uh, you know, you just gotta do what God's called you to do. We've seen that in the ministry here. We talked about different things. Master Club, we talked about that for a couple years. Well, we don't have the workers. We're not sure, not sure. Finally we said, well, let's just go ahead and do it, and God blessed and brought that together. So he talks about that there, I believe, in verse four, verse five and six He addresses living by faith, operating by faith. Verse 6 he he mentions uh he talks about continuing to sow. Keep sowing, don't quit. And then uh verse 9 and 10, we're going to be held accountable. in our lives. We're ultimately going to be held accountable. And that's an important concept. Now I want to come back to verse 1 and 2 in particular. And I want to look at this matter what he talks about casting thy bread upon the waters. I believe what he's talking about here is giving The giving aspect of our Christian life. And by the way, you and I can never be the Christian God intended us to give intended us to be if we do not learn to give. Giving is an important part of the Christian life. Now let's look at this. The first thing I notice here, first of all, this is my first point. We need to learn to give freely. Give freely. Look at verse 1 with me. Cast thy bread upon the waters. Now, the word that catches my attention first off is that word cast. Cast thy bread upon the waters. What do you think of? When you think of somebody casting something, what what what alright, fishing. I always think of fishing, no matter what we're talking about. I think about fishing But uh you have the idea of slinging it out there. What does it mean to cast something? And these are obvious, these aren't trick questions, they're just very simple, obvious answers. You're throwing it out. You're throwing it out. The idea here has that exact concept in mind, the word cast. It means and and the it's kind of a specific definition. It has this idea to cast But cast with an open hand. With your hand open. So what does that mean? If I'm casting something, but I'm casting it with my open hand, what does that imply? Yeah, I'm not holding on to anything. Right? If you cast your fishing pole with an open hand, you're gonna have to go to the store and buy another fishing pole. I was uh fishing there on Yakagani River, like you're going out to um uh Harrington Matter, you know, little bridge there, you go down, I forget what that's called down there. What is it? Right. And uh I went back up there. There's you can walk back up there a little ways and there's an old dam there. Any of you guys ever been back up in there? There's an old dam. And uh there's train tracks, you gotta get across the train tracks, you get down, there's this whole thing there. And uh somebody had told me there's a bunch of carp back in there. There's carp fishing, and my grandpa uh was a a great carp fisher, man. He was expert at catching carp. So I thought, I'll go back there. I was by myself one day. I went back and I threw a line out for the carp and I put a little stick there. I had it setting there and I was using another line fishing away and I heard a little movement. I looked over and I just saw my line going the whole fishing pole, everything. Out into that and I'd wait it out, tried to get it. And so if you want a free fishing pole, there's one in that old thing there But the idea of casting here is casting something but with an open hand. That's where I get the idea of giving freely. Giving freely. I don't think they're allowed to do it anymore. You ain't allowed to blow your nose anymore around here. But they used to on the parade the firemen be up on the truck and they would sling candy out. Anybody remember that And they just throw it everywhere. Kids would run underneath the truck and get run over and everything. And that's the idea here. Just throwing that out. Throwing that out. Throwing that out. Giving, giving freely, giving boldly, not holding back. As I was studying that, um the parable that the Lord told in Mark chapter 4 came to mind. Where he said a sower went forth to sow. And he cast the the seed, and some fell on the wayside, and some fell on the har rocky soil and the thorns and the uh good soil. But the word there that is used is the word where we get our word broadcast from. Broadcast. Now when we think of the word broadcast, we think of what? Radio station. We're broadcasting. But that's where it comes from. It is just going out freely. Freely just going out. That old tower out there. I was looking at that thing this past week one day. I just got looking, I was praying for it. And I thought that old thing's been up in that air there going on twenty years now. Isn't that something? June will be twenty years And that old tower and those old uh antennas up there, Brother Dave climbs them about every other year and checks them all out, makes sure the bolts are good. And um that thing's just just broadcast, it's casting. That signal out freely, just everywhere. I've always viewed that tower as a gigantic spiritual gospel sprinkler. You know, it's just watering the area with the word of God. Just then we go out and knock on doors. Oh yeah, I've been listening to your station. And so when he says here, cast thy bread upon the waters, it has this idea of just slinging it out there, just giving it freely. Boy, this is a change of mind, change of uh uh uh different tune that one Solomon was singing a little bit earlier. Would you come back to chapter two with me and looks let's look at what he was saying earlier in this book. This is what I'm saying. He's looking at things a little different perspective now at the end of the book than what he was at the beginning. Ecclesiastes chapter 2. Look at verse 24. Notice what he says about our possessions here. Verse 24, he says, um There is nothing better for a man. This is looking at life from under the sun as if God isn't a factor. It's just what's here and now. All you see is all you get. That's all there is. There's nothing better for a man than he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy what good in his labor This also I saw that it was from the hand of God. What's he saying? Here he's saying, he's looking at life from under the sun. There's no God. God's not a factor. I'm not thinking about eternity. I'm not thinking about beyond this life, just here and now. It's all I'm living for. And he says, listen, the best thing for you to do is the stuff you work for and the goods you get by working, you just eat it up, you spend it up, you enjoy it, uh, because that's all there is to it. That's a little different tune than what he's saying in chapter 11. Cast thy bread upon a water. Come over to chapter 3 and verse 22. He mentions it again. He says, Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his own works, for that is his portion. Or who shall bring him to see what shall be after him? What's he saying? We already looked at this um uh a year ago, but uh he said uh He's saying, listen, you worked hard for it, you got it, you don't know what's going to be after you. You just live it up, spend it up, enjoy it, it's yours, you just keep it for yourself Now he comes, chapter 11, he says, hey, cast your bread upon the waters. Give. Give freely. A change of tune for Solomon. You know, there were some bold givers in the Bible. You read through the Bible, you find some folks that really gave of themselves tremendously to the Lord freely. In Esther chapter 4, for sake of time, we won't turn there. Esther chapter 4, verse 14 and 16. She's there in the court of the king, and the Jews, a decree has gone out that all the Jews should be slaughtered. I mean, we're talking uh we're talking genocide here We're talking Holocaust. All the Jews slaughtered just for no other reason than the fact that they're Jewish. Slaughter them all. And Esther, she's a Jew. And she's the queen. The king doesn't know she's a Jew. And Mordecai says to her, you gotta speak up. You gotta say something. You're in a position God is putting you to a position where uh you can you can have some influence and stop this and turn this around. And uh she goes, Well I can't go in there if he doesn't hold that scepter out, man, my life is at risk And um Mordecai makes an interesting statement. He says, hey, if you don't speak up, you're going to die anyway, basically, is what he says. And he says, God has put you, and he makes a tremendous statement, what is it, for such a time as this. He says, God's put you there. This is not coincidence. This is the providence of God that you're in this position to have this influence at this time. And she made a great statement. She goes, okay, I'll do it. And this is what she said. And she said, if I perish, I would Paris. You know what she was doing? She was casting her bread freely. This is me. I'm just giving myself to the Lord. I'm going to throw it all out there. I'm not holding anything back. I'm going to do what God has called me to do I'm going to do what God has put me in a position to do, and if it costs me my life, so be it. You know what that is? That's casting. That's giving of ourself fully and freely to the Lord. What a testimony. Uh casting. Um Acts chapter fifteen, we see the uh New Testament believers and they say that uh he says, you know, if I perish, I perish. He says that I'm willing to go and die at Jerusalem. Paul said, I'll just give my life, give my life. You know what we desperately need in the church today? We need folks. I preached on this last Sunday morning. We need folks. Not so much willing to die for the Lord. We need people that are willing to live for the Lord. Say, I just give myself freely. I'm not going to hold God I'll give you this, God, I'll give you that. I'll give you this part. I'll give this. I'll give that, this part of my life. I'll give you a little bit of time here. I I'll give you a little bit of resources here, I'll give some of my abilities here. God says, He's telling us here, listen, we need to learn to give freely God just Lord I'm throwing it all in your hands. And what a difference that would make. But we you read you read um uh missionary stories. I was reading, I had a uh go out of town this week for a couple of days and uh while I was traveling I I was reading uh about Mary Slesser Anybody recognize that name, Mary Slesser? What a great woman she was. She was in, I think it was England, somewhere, Ireland, I forget. But just a young girl, probably uh twelve, thirteen years old, maybe a little older, not much And she was working in a factory, and she would read about Hudson Taylor, not Hudson Taylor, in Africa, David Livingston. She read of David Limiting and she would read these great exploits and how God was using them in these little magazines they had back then. And she said she'd worked with some machine and she'd have the book there. uh the magazine they're reading about uh I keep wanting to say Hudson Taylor um David Livingston she was reading of David Livingston in Africa and then at the end of the article it made this appeal we are asking for folks People who would give their whole lives to reach people in Africa. And she said as she read that little article and that challenge to give herself freely to take the gospel into Africa, she said her heart was stirred and she says, I I can do that. I want to give my heart. I want to give my life. Cast my bread. I want to give it freely And God stirred her and stirred her and stirred her. And finally, she made the contacts. She got a little older. She made the contacts and she ended up in Africa. And you should read how God used her in amazing ways. Isn't that something? Just giving herself. And the thing that struck my heart about that was nobody was twisting her arm. It was nobody over her beating her, you need to give your life commission. It wasn't a mother, father, you need to give your life to me. No, it was God stirred her heart. And she said, I'll give myself. So Solomon says here, he says, Cast your bread upon the waters. Cast. Toss it out with open hands. Toss it out freely. Just give it. When's the last time you gave yourself freely and boldly to something God would have you to do? Has God ever stirred your heart? Has God ever touched your heart about some area that I can give of myself for the cause of Christ? I tell you, I believe God speaks to hearts all the time. But the problem is we're not willing to cast. Well maybe we just want to hold on there. Do you know what I'm talking about? We just kind of hold on to that a little bit. I don't want this to get away. I don't want this to get care. I don't want this to get crazy on me. God says, oh no, you just chaos. You throw that out there. So let's come back here. Ecclesiastes chapter 18. It says, Cast thy bread upon the waters. Now that that I had to work on this a little bit, think this through and pray. I did a little research What does he mean by casting your bread upon the waters? Like we said several times now, if you throw bread on water, the only thing you're getting out of that is soggy bread, right? So, what does he mean by casting your bread upon the waters? I got some commentaries out and got looking what other people said. And the first thing I think we have to notice here is what he means, what bread is Bread is a product that is made from grain. Right? Bread is a product made from is everybody alright? Everybody with me here? Alright. You all look like you got snow blowing through your ears. Bread is a product that's made from grain. What is grain? It's what? It's wheat, or it could be any number of things, but it's what is it? It's a C See, so I got reading these commentaries, I thought, what does he mean throw your bread upon the waters? That doesn't make sense. He just gets soggy bread. That doesn't make sense. What does he mean? So I read what some of these other guys, a lot smarter than I am, they said what he's talking about here is when the Nile River in the spring would flood. And it would go up on these plains, the water would go up in these plains, and the uh farmers and and fellows would go out there and they would have their seeds, their grain And they would toss it out on the water, then as the waters receded, that grain would settle down into the fertile soil around the Nile River and it would grow And that is how uh they would do their crops. They'd cast the seeds out on the water. It would settle down, take root, germinate, and have their crops. And um and I got looking at that and and then a couple others said this is talking about in some of the Asian countries there and Middle Eastern countries, they would take rice and they would flood a field And they'd throw that rice out there, and the rice would take root and uh produce a crop. My only problem with that is this. He doesn't say, cast thy seeds upon the water Right? He says, cast thy what? Bread upon the water. And there's a difference between seeds and bread. Right? You can put bread in the ground. There ain't nothing growing. There ain't gonna be loaves of bread coming up out of the ground, right? So I don't believe he's talking about throwing these seed out there. So I thought, well, what in the world does he mean by bread? Bread is a product that has to be produced. Yeah, it's to be produced. When somebody produces bread, uh is everybody still with me? All right? Somebody produces bread, what do you do with that bread? Besides eating it, if that's your business, you make bread and you do what? You sell it. That's your means of income. That's your resources And he says, Cast thy bread upon the waters. This is what I think he's talking about. All right, this is me. I think he is using a business principle here In addressing the concept of giving. He is saying, listen, you produce bread, you've got your ovens, you've got your little uh grain um uh rollers and you're making this bread, you're you're kneading it, the dough, you're cooking it, and you got this uh you've got this product You take that bread and you freely invest it, you send it out on ships, and it goes to other ports and marketplaces. And you get that bread out there as many places as you can, many waters. You get in as many markets as you can. You invest it out there I think it's a business principle he's addressing here of getting your product out there into key places where it's going to be most beneficial. You follow what I'm saying? We were in St. Lucia the other year on a mission trip, and one of the missionary brother Bartley said, I want you to meet a guy. He makes bread in St. Lucia and he ships it all around the world And he said some of the most uh fanciest uh places in Germany buy his bread there and sell it in their places. So he took this by it's just an old wood furnace and he cooks it on a in a woods uh oven and it was amazing. And that guy has specific markets around the world where he sold that bread. Now, what does that mean? He's talking about giving. Give freely. Don't hold open hand. Cast it out there. So he says, first give freely. This is what I get from it. Number two, give intelligently. You don't you don't invest, you put a lot of time and money and effort into making that bread and marketing it, you don't you don't send it to places where it doesn't where it's not going to be beneficial, where there's not going to be a profit. So I think this way he's saying, this is what I get from it, is we ought to give, give freely, but we ought to give intelligently As a Christian, what's the most important commodity that we can invest in as a Christian? It's what? The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. What are we told to do? Go into all the world and Preach the gospel. So as we cast our bread, as we're casting, giving freely, we need to be very, very careful that we are investing our giving wisely. or wisely. We must not give though we give freely, we must not give indiscriminately I wanted to take time and time's getting away from me here, but in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 9, if you would mark that down, I'd like for you to look at that when you get a chance. But he says that we are to love In knowledge and in all judgment. So we're to be wise in what we love. Did you know there's some things we should not love? There's some things we should not be endeared to. There are some things that we should not commit ourselves to. We're to use judgment and knowledge in what we love. And I think that principle is what he's talking about here in our giving. Can I say this? There are some organizations we ought not to give to. You ought to be very careful. I've had people come to me over the years and say, Preacher, I got this thing in the mail, they're asking for money. You think I should send some money to that? And my answer has been many times: absolutely not. That is not going to advance the gospel. That is not of God. That is not scriptural. And so, though we give, and I want to challenge each of us, I want to charge each of us. When we give, we ought to be very intelligent in our giving. We ought to be very, very careful. There are some organizations you can give to, and they will take that money and they will use it to advance abortions Around the world, some of these social things, advance uh uh sodomy, and advance all type stuff, and it's all behind the guise of charity. Behind the guise of charity. Cap and I made a decision years ago. Our giving, our giving, and we're and I'd like to believe we give freely. But our giving is to advance the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the focus. That is what we give. Now, occasionally we'll help something good. We'll give a little bit. But our giving, we cast our bread. Upon the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That which advances. We get calls. If you ever get anybody here get calls, we'd like for you to help us give towards this here or this cancer thing or that Listen, a lot of those are very good. My pat answer to that is thank you very much. I appreciate what you're doing, but we give all our charitable giving is through our church. That's where we give it, with few exceptions outside. He's saying here, number one, we ought to give freely, but we ought to give intelligently. We should not just give indiscriminately whatever I this is the three criteria I put down. It must be scriptural. It must be moral, which it if it's not sc if it's not script if it's scriptural, it'll be moral. But then I put three down. It must be in to advance the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I'm not saying there are not other things that are legitimately to give to, but that's the way we approach it So what I want to urge you here, I believe what he's teaching us here is to give freely, but give intelligently. Let me give you a cup last two here real quick. Number three, I put this down, give confidently Look at the last part of verse 1. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Thou shalt find it after many days. The word find it means secure, acquire it. Luke chapter 6, verse 38, the Lord Jesus Christ said this. Listen. This is not a this is a statement of fact from the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to what he says. Give and it shall be what? Given unto you, good measure pressed down, shaken together, shall men give unto your bosom. Here's what I believe he's teaching us. We, if we give freely And we give intelligently according to Scripture, we can be absolutely confident that God will honor that and God will take care of us. Amen or not? We can give confidently. You say, oh good. I'll give a bunch of money to the missions and advance the gospel and God will get me a million dollar house and I'm going to have a Maserati. I saw a Maserati for sale the other day. I thought about it for about two seconds and then I went on Oh, God's gonna give me a fancy car and a big house, a swimming pool. I don't know why you'd build a swimming pool in Garrett County, but Uh, you're gonna I'm gonna have all these wonderful things. Listen, that's not what he says, but God says this I'll give to you, I'll give you blessings. I'll give you fullness in your heart, purpose, and fulfillment. And sometimes God gives us material blessings also. He sure does. He sure does. And so we can give confidently. Thou shalt find it after many days. Let me give you the law, a couple laws of sowing and reaping. Let me give it to you real quick. I reap only what I sow. I reap only what I sow. Thou shalt find it, the bread that I've kissed. Number two, I reap later than I sow. Number three, I reap more than what I sow. And number four, I reap in proportion to what I sow. If I sow a little bit, I reap a little bit. If I sow a lot, I reap a lot. Christian giving is an act of faith, untrusting God's promise. That if I cast that bread upon the waters That I'll receive it again after many days. God will take care of that. God will bring it back to me. Hudson Taylor said this: unless there is an element of risk in our exploits for God, there is no need for faith. There's no need for faith. Um I've been guilty of this in the past. I hope I try to be careful about this, but so this is how some people give. Well they'll get their calculator out and let's see, I may Alright, that's what my income is. Ten percent sh all right. Five dollars and thirty seven point five cents All right. And then uh, okay, I can probably spare, I gotta get a Starbucks coffee every day this week, so let's see. And they put it all down and they'll figure it out right to the penny. God says, hey, why don't you just cast that out there? And just trust me Now I'm not saying view foolishly, but he's saying cast it. Let go. Let go. Let God take care of that. Be intelligent how you do it and be confident God's going to bring it back. Am I making sense? Okay. It's by faith. Let me give you the last one here real quick. And give generously. Give generously. Look at verse two. He says, Give a portion to seven and also to eight. For thou knowest not what evil may be upon the earth. I look at that first part. He says, Give a portion to seven and also to eight He says, give generously, give generously. He that soweth sparingly shall what? Reap also sparingly. He that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he that soweth generously shall reap also generously. For God loveth a cheerful giver. I think one of the most godly things we can do. I think one of the most godly things we can do is give. For God so loved the world that He gave. God gives and gives and gives and gives. And Solomon has challenged us as he's reaching the end of his age, end of his years. Chapter 12, he's going to talk about being an old man. And he says, hey, you cast your bread upon the waters. Be smart. Don't be stupid. Be smart what you invest in. But you give it, you give it freely, you give it confidently. And you give generously, and I'm telling you, God will take care of you. God will take care of you. Amen? I hope this made sense. I hope this was a challenge to us. I know it challenged me. Let's pray. Father, I ask now that you would teach us and help us. I know this is a giving church. I'm preaching the choir tonight. I know that. But I pray you'd stir our hearts that we give this thought and be sure that this aspect of the Christian life is in place in our hearts and lives. Maybe this week we can give the gospel out. Give of ourselves. Lord, maybe you're speaking to a heart about giving their life and everything to advance the gospel of Christ. Hear us, Lord, take us and use us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many pray say, preacher, God stirred my heart about my giving of myself to the Lord? Any like that by the uplifted hand? God has stirred my heart. And I pray that's true. Help us, Lord, we ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together