I well I'm going to read a little bit of it and then do a little Bible study with you and then hopefully there'll be some preach in the mix here somewhere. Jeremiah twenty, beginning to read in verse seven O Lord, that's Jeremiah, Thou hast deceived me And I was deceived. Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed. I am in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil, because the word of the Lord was made a reproach unto me and a derision daily. Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name. This is the great Jeremiah. This is the prophet, the weeping prophet Jeremiah, saying to the Lord, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name. But his word was in my heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay. For I heard the defaming of many. Fear on every side. Report, say they, and we will report it. All my familiars, meaning all my buddies. Watched for my halting. They just couldn't wait to see me fail. All my familiars watched for my halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed And we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him. But the Lord is with me as a mighty terrible one. Therefore, my persecutors shall stumble And they shall not prevail. They shall be greatly ashamed, for they shall not prosper. Their everlasting confusion shall never be forgotten. But, O Lord of hosts, that triest the righteous and seest the reigns in the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them, for unto thee have I opened my cause. Saying unto the Lord, Praise ye the Lord, for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers I call attention to that ninth verse where Jeremiah said, Then then then then I said, I will not make make mention of him nor speak his ma any more in his name But his word was in my heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay. No, Jeremiah is a good man. He is a truly good man, and by the way we measure things, we would say that Jeremiah was a great man. His ministry came about in a time of waywardness in his nation. People that had been so blessed. That it had so much of the good things of God, and yet they had turned away. And Jeremiah is serving in a time like that. And he came to them in a confrontational manner. His message was very strong, and he was announcing judgment and telling them the consequences of their terrible choices And letting them know where it all was going to head. His manner did not win him Man of the Year Awards Uh it did not get him some uh prestigious uh note of diplomacy uh that was emblazoned on billboards somewhere But he was pointed with his message and per provocative in it, yet at the same time he was warm and weeping in giving it When we get to this chapter here, and the one preceding it, chapters 19 and 20, we find him on an assignment in Tophit Still faithful with his duty, but apparently quite discouraged. And there is a bit of complaining here to God. complaining to God, and uh it's almost like for a little bit that he's ready to throw in the town. Now I don't know whether you have been so discouraged that you wanted to quit sometime or not. I don't know whether you've ever just looked around you and said, what's the use? I don't know whether you've ever found yourself in a place where you said I have invested myself. I have given everything that I can give. I have poured my soul into this. And it's not going anywhere. It's not developing like I dreamed that it would. And and and I and I just can't do anymore. But I think Jeremiah had just some little little hints of that here that he was he was uh really concerned about where all this was headed. But uh if you look carefully at the circumstances, uh look at verse 14 and 15 of the previous chapter. Chapter 19 says Jeremiah came from Topit, whether the Lord had sent him to prophesy, and it's always important to know that God puts you where you are And he stood in the court of the Lord's house and said to all the people, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all the evil that I have pronounced against it. Because they have hardened their necks that they may not hear my words. Now, we see the circumstance here, and there are circumstances. Let's not be so naive as to say we don't have circumstances, because there are circumstances, and yet what we learn here in these verses I just read is that Jeremiah did his duty in spite of the circumstances. Maybe nobody was listening. Maybe he had critics. Maybe he was casting around doubtfully in his mind, but in spite of all of that, he did the duty that God had called him to do. If you read on into the beginning part of chapter 20, you see a little bit of the difficulty that he has. Verse 1 of 20 says, Now Pashur, the son of Emur the priest, who was also chief governor in the house of the Lord, heard that Jeremiah prophesied these things. Seems like the politicians uh they they get around to hearing what we have to say. And Pashir smote Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the Lord Came to pass on the morrow that Pashir brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks, then said Jeremiah unto him, understand, he's got him imprisoned here. Has him incarcerated, and he brings him out, and as soon as he comes out, Jeremiah speaks up to him and he says, The Lord hath not called thy name Peshur, but Magor Mishabi. It's like saying to him, you know, you think you're this, but you're really that. You think you've got the world, as my mother has been famous for saying by the tale with a downhill drag, you think you've got everything going your way. But Jeremiah said, But I'm telling you, even your name is going to change. You're going to find out that it's not like you have pictured it And here again, Jeremiah, in spite of his circumstance, is still dutiful. He is still right there doing as he's supposed to do. Verse 4, thus saith the Lord Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself and to all thy friends. Now, here's a biblical case of terrorism. God said to Passure, I will make thee a terror to thyself, to all thy friends, and they shall fall, but the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive unto Babylon, and shall slay them with the sword. Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city and all the labors thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah, will I give into the hand of thine enemies, which shall spoil them and take them and carry them to Babylon. And thou Pashur, and all that dwell in thy house shall go into captivity, and they shall come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die, and shall be buried there. Thou and all thy friends to whom thou hast prophesied lies, so the difficulty is laid out And uh Jeremiah continuing to do his duty. And even though he is facing this wall of opposition and he is in some despair because of doing the will of God and of being in the service of God and uh and he's uh well we use the word discouragement And so he begins to complain. Verse 7 he said, Lord, you deceived me. You called me, but you didn't tell me it was going to be like this. You didn't tell me everything. Now very honestly, I'm I'm just real glad when I begin to sense and hear the direction, the call of God for my life, I'm glad he didn't tell me everything. Amen. I I'm I'm glad I'm glad he doesn't tell me uh all of the coming things. I'm just I'm just glad to be able to get across the bridge today. Amen Jeremiah is in a complaining mood, and he says, The Lord deceived me. But he said, You have prevailed, that verse, you have prevailed, you're stronger than I am Means you're bigger than I am and uh and you you you have your way and uh but it didn't turn out like I thought it was going to turn out. And uh back Jeremiah said I expected to succeed, but it looks like that I'm a failure I mean, ever at all, when we link up with God and we make God as our partner, we just have the idea we're going to whip this thing. Back in the early days of my ministry. I was called to a church. I'll tell you the end of the story before the finish. We only stayed two and a half years, two and a half years to the day. And every single day. That two and a half years was misery compounded by difficulty. Every every turn that I made during those two and a half years, the church grew. We had more people saved and baptized than they'd ever had. The offerings went higher than they'd ever gone. The attendance was bigger Sunday morning, Sunday, and Wednesday night than they'd ever had. But there were people all over that place all the time who despised every minute of it and hated me in the process. And I kept saying to Betty I kept saying to her, we'll get on top of it. We'll get on top of it. We're gonna get there. We're gonna get there. But we didn't We didn't. There came a point where I said, Alright, shake the dust off my feet and we're out of here. And out we went. Now, that's been a bunch of years in the story of that place. Ichobod's been open the door for a long time. But as you hinted at uh spoke about here a little bit ago, it's all kinds of people came out of that two and a half years that I was there. Came out. I said they came out of there. Now, Jeremiah said, Lord, you're bigger than I am. I've let you have your way. This is not turning out like I thought it was going to. In fact, he goes on to say in the next verse there He says, in derision, I have been mocked. I told everybody I was serving God. It was right to do so. It was worth whatever price I would pay. And they're laughing at me They're laughing at me. You know, we've come to a time in America where to be a fundamentalist. Yeah. If you acknowledge that to some people, even some people in Christian circles, they laugh at you. Uh you you you tell some people you're a Baptist and they've And especially if you tell 'em you're independent Baptist. Social media. You know, got all kinds of people, you know, they they use the IFB, you know. FBI or maybe it's an FIB. A lot of what they do is F I B. F I B But just just chewing us up, I mean, I mean just just dissecting us every hour. I mean, I don't just mean me, I mean I mean all of us who thusly identify ourselves and they mock us They mock our Bible, they mock our music, they mock our stand, they mock our soul winning, they they mock our leadership, they they just they mock us And uh you you say, well, you guys get used to that. Hey, listen, it doesn't ever feel good. You do learn to cast it off, but But it's there, and Jeremiah said, I'm serving God, and I'm being mocked. I mean, there are people, I mean, they're standing around over town saying things about me Somewhere right in the midst of this, top of verse nine there, he said, I'm gonna quit. I'm gonna quit. I've had enough. I've put up with this and I'm just going to quit. He said, I'm not going to make mention of him anymore. I'm not going to speak his name anymore. I'm not going to do it They're they're on my back, and I think probably he's even hinting at the fact here saying, God, you you fail me I signed up, I surrendered, I put myself into this because you call me, and and and it just seemed to him like All the failure that he had, that he had wasted his life, he had spent his life for nothing, and therefore he was just saying, I quit. But mercy, you don't even get out of verse 9 until he catches his breath. Now you understand the cycle here. It's very clear. Discouraged, thrown into jail, disillusioned. It's not my fault. I've done everything I could. It's God's fault. God let me down. And he's defeated. Nothing is worthwhile. Nothing is worthwhile. He's depressed. He's been mistreated. And he's disgruntled. He's saying, never again, never again. I'm not going to do it anymore. Listen, you have circumstances, I have circumstances, everybody has circumstances, but in spite of the fact that we have circumstances, it's not circumstances that we live under. You and I live under grace. And grace supplies us, grace uh energizes us, grace strengthens us, grace fills us to the full. Grace enables us to be what we ought to be, even with the cranks and the critics and the and the harpers and the harpooners and and whatever else comes down the pack. And when you and I get under the circumstances and forget about being under grace, we're in trouble. And I think just for a fleeting moment or two Jeremiah got so enthralled with the circumstances that he was ready to chuck it off. But right at the moment when he said, I'm going to quit. And there were others, verse 10, other people said, he'll never make it. He will never make it. He's gonna throw in the towel. We'll be around to tell you we told you that he was a failure. Wait a minute. Verse 9, Jeremiah said, oh, oh, I said I wouldn't speak for him. I said I was going to lay down my tools. But he said his word, his word, his word was in my heart. It got in my heart. His word got in my heart. He said, Do you get that? When you get the word of God in your heart, it will ignite a fire and cause a fire to burn, and it'll shut up like a like a furnace in your bones. And Jeremiah said the word of God was in my heart. It was burning in my heart, in spite of all of the garbage In spite of the trashing, in spite of the defeat and the sense of failure, and nobody responding to him, he said, That fire burned within me nonetheless. And like a furnace down deep inside my soul, that burning kept me going. And he said, with that fire burning, I was weary with forbearing. I said, What am I thinking anyway? And he said, I could not stay. And what he means with that, with that fire burning, there's no way I'm about to quit. As long as you keep that fire lit You're not going to quit. And you know what is the key? I emphasized it repeatedly. The fire burns because of the word of God in your heart. You can take counsel from your buddies, and that may help sometime, but it won't keep the fire burning. Somebody does favors for you and supports you and undergirds you and helps you and that'll be a blessing. They won't keep you from quitting when you get under this kind of duress. I'll tell you what will. When you get the word of God tucked in your heart, and in the dark of the night Whenever you're tossing on your pillow, you've got doubts and you're discouraged and you are miserable because you tried things and failed And you say why like in verse 10, you say, well, some of my preacher buddies, they said I wouldn't make it. Some of my preacher buddies have been criticizing me and criticizing my church and fussing at me and telling me I wouldn't make it. And listen, you may go through all of that. But if that fire burns in you, it'll be so much chatter. Jeremiah said, I've got that burning in me. You get down to verse 11, and he said, The Lord's with me. He's strong, he's mighty, he's powerful, and I'm able because the Lord is with me. Yeah. And every one of us need that. Yes. You may be pastor of a small church in a village somewhere tucked away in these mountains. The reporters from the Washington Post may never come to see you. Even our reporters from the Sword may never come to see you. But if you're where God puts you, you get under the duress of criticism, get your heart cut out. Somebody just doing you mischief. But if you know that God puts you there, you just keep taking the Word of God in, taking the Word of God in, I'm gonna tell you what, I love the early morning hours. Day after day after day, when I get up, open my Bible and just read. Pray. Started that a long time ago. Get the day started just reading. Sometimes sometimes I read uh recently did a uh kind of an exhaustive study of 1 John. Uh recently did a walkthrough of the book of Acts again, as I've done many times before Sometimes I do that, but other times I get up in the morning and just open the Bible somewhere and start reading. I've got a systematic plan where I read through the Bible, but Sometimes I just open up to a page and start reading. Asking God to speak in my heart and asking God to warn me. I don't have to look for sermons. Sermons find me. You just read and you feed your soul and feed your heart. Somebody mistreats you, you will quit church. Yes. Somebody says they don't like the way you sang in the choir. Well tell them to get a life. Go get a pickle and suck on it. Last passed over in Westminster, we had a dear man, he's dead now. It was a little little guy. Had a had a little mustache, just like Adolf. He was his name was Truman Lushbaum, and he was one of the most precious men. I mean he was a jewel. As he got into his advanced senior years, his hearing went, he was one of two men who came to both morning services every single week, all the years. Mr. Neushbaum ushered at 8 30, sang in the choir at 1045. Well he lost his hearing. Two or three people in the choir, and they were not doing this maliciously at all, but they they loved him and appreciated him, and two or three of them came to me and they said, Pastor He'll do whatever you ask him to. Why why why don't you talk to Mr. Truman? And uh they said they said he doesn't even know sometimes what number we're on. He's while we're singing the song, he's still looking for the page And I told him, I said, you know, I said, that's a big choir. And I said, I wouldn't worry about that space Mr. Truman's occupying. He's not making any odd noises or anything. He's just up there. And I said, you know, I think he's just letting everybody know he's in on everything. And I said, you know, I'm I I I said, no, no, no, no. I said, as long as he can get up there, let him do it. Let him do it. I'm going to cur discourage that dear saint. Now, you know sometimes you may not be able to do everything you once did. You may not do it as well as you once did it. People may frustrate you. Well, I noticed some of them failed some things they do as well But listen, what Jeremiah tells us here in this passage is God is true, he's just, he's faithful, and he's worthy of our trust. And when we take that into our soul, we can say bye-bye to discouragement and adios to disillusionment and see you to Mr. Disgruntman. Just give it all the the cast out the door. Verse 13 tells us to get our songbook out and start singing and praising God. Listen, I don't want to run with the quitting crowd. I don't want to run with that crowd that it can't be done. I want to get with the delivered crowd. And verse 13, he said, Sing of the Lord, praise ye the Lord, for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of the evildoers. So I'm going to say there's a fountain filled with blood gone from Emmanuel's pains and sinners plunge beneath that flood. lose all their guilty stains. I'm gonna sing Jesus painted all to him I old sin and left a crimson stain And he washed it white as snow. I'm going to sing on Jordan's stormy banks, I stand, and cast a wishful eye. The Canaan's fair and happy land. I'm going to sing songs like that. I'm going to sing like we did a little bit ago. Count your many blessings, name them one by one. It'll absolutely surprise you and sometimes shock you when you start counting them. to see everything God has done. You know, I get to thinking God. You know, I thank God for The onions on a hamburger, amen. Thank God for air conditioning, thank God for fans, thank God for lights. Thank God for uh A little vehicle that I can pedal around in and gasoline to put in it. Thank God, just thank God. Many things. Count your many blessings. Name them one by one. You say, what are you saying here? Get out of the pit. Get out of the pit. Get up, get out of the pit. Give the devil his marching orders. Get on the firing line. Slam the door on your critics. Be solid and light and rekindle the fire in your bones. Take his word into your heart. It'll start a fire that the d detractors cannot stifle. The trumpet has not sounded. There's work yet to be done. Souls are lost and dying. People across town and out across the county. Many of them tonight. Sitting in their easy chair, drinking distilled spirits, trying to wash away the misery of their day. Kicking their kids, mistreating their spouse, running themselves into debt, trying to keep up with the Joneses and the Browns and the Johnsons and whoever else. Souls are lost in time. We need to relight the fire. Let that fire burn deep within us. Hey, one of the things I like about these conferences. We get together and we open the book Sing a few good songs and then we turn somebody loose up here and just let him Tear into it, hoping that we'll catch the fire once again. Jeremiah said I wanted to quit. I was about to quit, but his word was in my heart, and like a burning fire down shut up in my bones, I decided I could not quit. You get to certain age you may have to adjust a little bit. I'm not there yet. You may have to adjust a little bit, but don't quit. Maybe a few things, I mean you may not be able to jump quite as high as you did a while back, but don't quit. Amen. Find a venue you can work with. And contribute. Yes. Amen. Take the word of God into your heart fresh thing every morning and let that fire burn. Yes. That fire will warm you. Yes it will. That fire will purge you. Yes it will. That fire will energize you. I love fire burning in my bones, and he said, Therefore, I cannot quit What worked for Jeremiah works for me. And it'll work for you. Let's stand up and we'll pray. Our Father, we are needy creatures. We've all got our burdens. We have our circumstances. Some have burdens heavier than others, some have circumstances that are harsher than others. Help us, one uh each for the other, to be supportive of our brothers and sisters who may be carrying heavy loads. I pray, dear Lord, that in this service tonight that all of us will take a fresh look and decide that we're not going to be dominated by discouragement. We're not going to be intimidated by those burdens. But we're going to keep taking in the blessed word of God and keep the fire lit. That'll keep us going so that we'll not quit Keep us listening for the trumpet. I pray that you'll help us tonight. Give some hope to somebody and encourage us, I pray, as we make our way. Uh through the various things that come, I pray you'll help us tonight in Jesus' name. The music begins. The altars open. I'm asking