Novelus honor to be up here. Um I have spoken many different types of things, but when you get behind the pulpit And start teaching and preaching the Word of God from the Holy Spirit. It is very, it's an honor, but it's also very nervous to do. So if I mess up tonight, just keep smiling, okay? uh um cheering me on because if not I'm gonna heckle you afterwards. Okay. Alright. So the title of my message is probably going to be a little This is uh weird to some of you. The title is called Catch the COVID, and you'll see why I'm stating that in a little bit. This message has been on my heart for probably six weeks now, before Pastor even asked me this. God's just through my drive and through different things going on, he's just laid a lot of things on my heart about this situation that we're currently in. We're not going to continually teach on COVID, so don't be scared. I just want you to know the title of it. All right, let me open a word of prayer, and then we'll get into this. Father, thank you for this evening. Father, thank you for church doors that are open. Thank you for people that are coming. Thank you for those that are listening online. God, thank you for you being you, and thank you for being with us through the Holy Spirit. God, I ask you'll direct me tonight through the pages of your word as I teach your word. In your precious name I pray. Amen. I'm going to start out, you don't have to turn there because this is not the main area we're going to, but Titus 3. So Titus 3 is Paul had been with Titus for 15 years, and Paul wrote this Too tight as for him to use because we all know the church that he was at had some issues. Let me ask this. Is our world having issues right now? Having tremendous amount of issues. You know, I often wonder Is the world like the Israelites that are wandering around for 40 years in the wilderness, except we have surpassed the forty years, it seems like over the last few decades? But one thing that has not changed is our risen Savior is still our Savior. And that is a blessing. Titus 1, or Titus 3, chapter 1, says Put them in mind to the subject of the principalities and powers, to obe to obey magistrates, to be ready to every work good work, to speak evil of no man, to be Brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men. For we ourselves are also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived. serving diverse just and pleasures, living in malicious and envy, hateful and hating One another. Does that sound like our current times? What's currently going on? I think we could add to that that we've got complaining going on. People are obnoxious. We have violence going on everywhere. We have hatefulness. We have selfishness. We have people prideful. We have people being disruptive. We have people that are discouraging other people. We have people constantly debating. We have people in fear. And all of that is grouped into sinners. Christians, we are saved by the blood of Christ. We are sanctified saints. We are bound to glory. Don't be sucked into the frenzy of today. We don't have time to waste. Each and every one of us in this church and in this life, we don't know how many days that God's going to give us. We need to make each day count. Complaining and doing things that I just mentioned. Again, when the Israelites were in the uh wilderness, they needed food. They got food, it wasn't good enough. They needed water, it wasn't good enough. On and on and on We have everything as Americans. We are so blessed as Americans, yet we still complain of what we have, what we have to do, is still not right. But as Christians, we are different We have the Heavenly Father through the Holy Spirit re-residing in us. Sometimes I know all of us are guilty of not um utilizing the Holy Spirit that's in us. And our actions sometimes are not as they should be We have God's word to continuously guide us and direct us. 1 John 4. 4, ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them. Because greater is He that is in you than the He that is in the world. We have to focus on that. We have to remember that. We need to each day wake up with that thought in our mind instead of How many of this has passed away, or my window lights broke out, blah, blah, blah, blah. Think of we are saved Christians. We have the Holy Spirit residing in us. So we have the COVID virus. It's all over the world. But we also have a spiritual cure for the COVID virus within us. And I'm going to cover that in a little bit So we have the current trials of life, we got the riots, we got the picketing, we got the loss of jobs Disappointment with our government leaders, especially those who don't follow the Lord because they are above us. They should be following God, that will give them better more directions than any other law can give them So, but we have to remember a lot of Christians are also doing that same thing. They're in that group of people. We don't want to be that way. We can't be that way. We're losing the battle that we don't want to lose. We don't want to continue to wander in the wilderness. We don't want to continue to complain and not live as God wants us to live. So our help, where's our help at? What is our help? The Lord, our help is right here. All of us in here probably could bring every Bible we have and fill up half of this church. So there's no excuses for us. For those online, for those that are out in the world. There's no excuses for us to not be living the way the Lord wants us to live and not being able to commune together, love each other, respect each other, bless each other, and that is what God has asked us to do. If we can turn to 1 Peter chapter 2, this is where our message is going to come out of tonight. It's a very valid, important, beautiful part. Of message of God's word that is very beneficial for us. Now, I'm going to start with chapter, or excuse me, 1 Peter 2, verse 15. For so is the will of God that with well-doings you may be put silence in the ignorance of foolishmen. Remember, ignorance is the knowledge and the lack of knowledge Something they don't know. Sometimes we use ignorance as a different way. I I used to be an ignorantist all the time from my parents once in a while. That meant I was being silly or stupid or whatever you want to say it was called. That's not what the word of God's telling us here. Verse 16, as free and not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. Verse 17: Honorable men Love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the King. Servants, be subjective to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also To the fro forward, forward. For this is the trustworthy if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully For what glory is it when when ye but buffet your faults, ye shall take it patiently? But if when you do well and suffer it, you make it, you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. Verse 21 For even hereunto were ye called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us as an example that ye should follow his steps Verse seventeen, Sebra excuse me, my mouth is very dry. Um verse seventeen, honor all men Verse 18, be servants. Verse 19, we're going to have grief and we need to endure it. Verse 20, what you do, do it well. Verse 21, Christ suffered for all of us. Follow us. In his steps. Jesus would have not argued over the current issues. What would he have done? If he was on earth now, what would he be doing, more than likely? What did he do continuously when he was on earth? Preached and he prayed. That's what God would be doing if he was in this situation that we're currently in. So through the Holy Spirit Our physici resides with us, our Heavenly Father. As Christians, our goal is to win souls to Christ, right? That is what we were put on earth for when we became saved. Our actions reflect our testimony in reacting to that goal. We have to be mindful of that. So we need to make a difference by using the cure for COVID. You say, huh? Here's where we start. Let's make a difference by having compassion. 1 Peter 3. 8, finally Be all one-minded, having compassion, one of another. Love as brethren, be pitful, and be courteous. Compassion is a feeling of deep sympathy. And sorrow for another who is stricken by misfortune, accompanied by a strong desire to alleviate the suffering. So, how can we have compassion on people? We can show mercy and grace as God did to us. We can be sympathetic, we can be understanding. There are different feelings that are going on. We can be tender-hearted, we can be loving We can be soft-hearted. We can be comforting by encouraging people, reassuring people, God is in control. That opens the door for soul winning. If we join the bandwagon of griping, complaining, moaning, groaning about everything that's going on right now, we're joining the group. But if we're there and we show compassion and we show strength and we show God and if we dr direct our passion towards the things of God, and all of us as Christians do that, do you think it would make a change? I greatly think it would make a change. It sincerely would make a change. Spend energy having compassion with others Abstain from negative conversations. Let the love of God be reflected through you. Yes, we get upset. Yes, we don't like things. Again, Christ didn't like many things, but again, he is our example. So we have to do how he handled them. Be the light in your home, your neighborhood, your church. What's the song that you were taught in Sunday school that starts with smile? Smile a while and give your face a rest. You guys don't remember that? Reach back to some of the seasoned Sunday school teachers that can teach you that song. I'm sure that might even be taught in the schools, if not teach your kids to teach it at schools. Be the man or the woman down the street that people know that are praying for them. You know, it's funny in neighborhoods everybody always knows, oh, that's the drug dealer, that's the thief. That's the one that works at Walmart. That's the one that's ripping off the bank. That's the one that you don't want to buy a house from. That's the one that builds a house that they don't build it right. You don't want to do that. We all know that. Wait a minute That's the one that's praying for me. That's the one that loves me. That's the one that's serving the Heavenly Father. That's the one I want to go to when I'm down and hurting and need somebody to look for me Be the one in the neighborhood that's that way. Be the person that God created us to be. One with compassion. What's Jude 1. 22 say? And Of some have compassion, making a difference. If we make a difference by having compassion, will the world change? That's your first pill for COVID. The second one, be obedient. 2 Corinthians 10, 5. casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge, against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ Wow. Verse 6. And having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience, when our obedience is fulfilled. So Bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Is that easy to do when we're griping and complaining? It ain't easy to stop. Wait a minute. I shouldn't be doing this, is it? It's not at all. But we can have that nature. Why? Because the Holy Spirit is in us. Christians know for sure when they're starting to do things wrong, if they have not uh had the Holy Spirit pushed down so far in you that it that you know you can't hear it no more, then it is hard. It is hard to not recognize things that you're doing that you shouldn't be doing. You probably can still see them, but I don't know that the Holy Spirit is as loud because it's faint to you because your listening is not hearing it anymore. God honors obedience in your Christian walk, your home, your workplace, your shopping, everywhere you go. Let me say this as having children and serving and helping children for 25 years now and seeing multitude of churches where children are raised. I sometimes say, God, why aren't the pulpits, why aren't the mission fields, why aren't the pews filled with the children that we raised in church, that your word was taught to and spoken to? I will tell you this, that the parent wasn't being obedient to God in the home. What they saw at home was different than one they saw out in life. We need to be mindful of that. We need to live by God's word, do what he asks us to do, be a blessing to people, be obedient. Be obedient with your conversation. You might not agree with what another brother thinks, but it's okay Not to correct them or try to change their way of thinking. We attempt to do that so many times. We try to change everybody's mind and what they're thinking. You know what? If we have the actions of the Holy Spirit in us and we have God living in us and loving us, maybe how we respond will actually make them curious about, hey, they didn't argue with me. Hey, they didn't they didn't backbite me. Hey they didn't curse at me Why are they different? Why didn't they get all mad about something? Maybe because they see something different from you. Proverbs 1727 He that hath knowledge spareth his words, and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. So spareth his words. That means we don't have to respond to everything. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise. And that shutth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Shutth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Is it easy to shut our lips? Uh-uh, it's not. And I will say this now with the social media and everything we have It's easier to make responses when you're not face to face with people. It's real easy. You know, back in the day when you ladies used to fight in school, you know, across the street and you know somebody did something to you and you guys were got your dukes up and ready to fight Less argument because us guys never did that. Less argument at that time because you were confronted with that person. That person was standing right there in front of you. So you knew sometimes Yeah, your anger is going to keep you rattling on, but you probably held back a little because you probably figured on a fist was coming in your face soon. So the Bible tells us to shut his lips is esteemed a man of understanding Take that same principle at work, wherever you're at. You know, our bosses do things and say things that we're not pleased with, but we have self-control. Why? Because our lives are depending on that, our jobs are depending on that. Why is it when we're Christians and we're dealing with people, we don't hold back? We should hold back because we're standing there as a representative of Jesus Christ. We have the Holy Spirit indwelling in us. We should stand back Make sure the statements that we are stating are obedient to the Word of God. They're reflecting what is in the Bible. And the main thing in the Bible is love. We need to reflect that. So, God's tools, he knew this day was coming. So he gave us his Bible. He gave us what we can do. So when you give an opinion, make sure it is Christ-like opinion. Be wise or be still. I don't know about y'all. My parents used to tell me be still once in a while. Anybody else have that? Yeah. Anybody had to go to the room because they talked too much? What happens when you go to a room because you talk too much? You just yell out, Am I time up yet? But anyway So we are overrunning ourselves with negativity, bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. If we Look past the news, look past all that's going on, and look to what God has given us in His Word, what He promises us. Amen. Again, Christians, we're just passing through We're floating through this place. We don't know how long we're going to be here, but our job is to win souls. So to be obedient to win souls, we've got to be mindful of what we speak. We are overrunning ourselves again with negativity. So show me, not meanness. It's meekness, not meanness. If your mom and dad taught you the rules, those rules they taught you most generally, they still apply. Our granddaughter is 16 months old. She's being taught right now, please and thank you. Yes and no, ma'am. Why are they being taught that? Because we want them to use them in life. God's Word teaches us every day when we read it many, many things that it teaches us to use. Not to close the book up and we're done with it for the rest of the day. No, we need to continue on with what God has taught us. Titus three two to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but be gentle, showing all meekness in all men To speak evil of no man is very hard, especially when we see people doing things that we don't like. We don't like the government. We don't like those around us. We don't like our employers. We don't like the person in the store that just took the last candy bar. We don't like that. But you know what? We still have to be gentle. We have to be meek. Don't be a brawler. James 119. Wherefore, my brother, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak and slow to wrath. Verse 20: For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. If we're slow to speak And we pay attention and we're slow to wrath, how will our day-to-day lives go? I guarantee you, if you do this for a little bit, If you don't join in in conversations that that really are not going to go anywhere, and if you don't, in a sense, let's say pick a verbal fight, Your days are going to go better because you're going to what happens when we argue and fight with people over silly stuff, over things that are going on in the world right now? All we do is get worked up. Does it help us? No. Does it edify Christ? No. By me telling somebody you're wrong, da-da-da-da-da-da-da. I did not edify Christ in that. But if I'm slow to wrath and I keep my mouth quiet, I just edified Christ because I did what he wanted us to do. First Peter one fourteen, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. Verse 15, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all matter of what? Conversations. You guys getting the point here? Again, this is the COVID, and this is how to treat it. So so far we got compassion. We got obedient. Guess what we're moving? What's next? Be vigilant. 1 Peter 5 8. Be sober. Be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil As the roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He cannot take us Christians. He cannot take our salvation from us, but he sure can take our time from us. He can take our time from being devoted soul winners, being the one in the community that people look to, be the one that they want to pick up the phone and say, Can you pray for me? I'm having a rough time. He can take all that away because of our actions. So those of us that can still jump out of bed each morning With our armor on, the Holy Spirit is alive and well in you. Remember that. Wake up joyous. Wake up knowing God is with me. God gave me this day. God has this day for me for something. Be confident and have assurance for what God wants you to do today. Jesus traveled the earth spreading the gospel and teaching others. We must do the same today, and we can do it, even with the lockdown, even with the social distancing. even with the riots, even with all that's going on, we still can reach out to people, let them know that we love them, we care for them, we're paying attention to them, we know what's going on Do not go around like a roaring lion, but be a bear cub. You will be accepted more. Do the tourists at the lake know about bears we have here? They sure do. And guess what they do? They love them. Guess what? If you're in your community and you're at the store and you let someone go ahead of you, you let someone get the last thing of whatever they're wanting, they're going to remember you. Somebody the other day that we know of bought the lady behind her just two sodas. It's five, four dollars, five dollars, something like that. She bought two sodas The lady said, no, you don't need to do that. She said, no, I I want to do that. And she just she bought this lady. The lady hugged her and started crying. She had just found out some serious information that was not good. And she thought, here this lady in front of me spent the m-spent five bucks, made my day. Simple things like that. We can do. If Ed's behind you, don't plan on buying because he's going to grab a lot of stuff from the candy rack. Be vigilant of your actions and your responses. Have a Christ-like testimony. Don't be the stumbling block. The negative actions are seen and remembered before positive actions. How many of you guys remember in school the uh the bad boys, the um what do they call them, the football dudes? The jocks, not everybody remembers them. How many people remembers the the Valivictorian? How many people remembers the A honor rule students? Some do, but most don't. They remember that thing, who's the first one that smoked in school and got in trouble? You know, those kind of things. They remember the negative We want them to remember the positive. I tell you what, if Mountain Lake Independent Church people are around the community and people realize who we are and what we are, they'll remember us. And they'll love us. Why? Because we're doing what God wanted us to do. Reflect the love of God in your heart. Let your Christian walk be identified in your actions. In your marriage, in your work, in your social life, people are counting on you to get them through today's events They know you have God in your heart. And you might not know this. Some people live through what you do because their home life is so horrible, they can't stand it. They come to work And are around you because they want to live something different. And you know what? They might pick up from you one day, especially if you're sharing the gospel to them, if you're being a soul winner. Proverbs 423, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life What are people seeing, what are they being vigilant about in you during the time they are with you? Keep that in mind. Somebody is always watching us. We know the Heavenly Father is that somebody on earth is always watching us, wherever you're at and whatever you're doing Be involved with those around you, the soul winner. Involved is caring for those souls around you, even the ones that you don't like. The person that you dislike the most, what do we want to do for them? We want to pray for them. We want to be courteous to them. Don't fall over now. We want to call them. We want to stop and see them. We want to be involved with their life. Especially if it's a family member. Now, is it easy to pray for those people that you really can't stand? It's not. But you know what? It makes you humble when you do that. It also makes the Lord thrilled. Because guess what? If God had the ability to um not like people, how many of us would be in that bucket? Could be a lot. Right? So we need to s we need to be the one That is involved in people's lives. Establish a Christ-like attitude everywhere you go and everything you do. Be a walking Christian billboard. In other words, I don't care what Christian song you need to sing, pick one. When you're in a situation where you're not going to be thrilled, then start singing that song. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. I'm gonna burn them down, Lord. You know, no, you've got to get back to the right song. Keep on the song. You gotta sing it enough times. Be the one that the family members contacts just to get a break from life. I have a grandmother that's 90 years old She is our saint, if we can call her that. She is the one any prayer requests, you call and you give them to her because she's homebound. But you know what? She's heavenly bound also. She's heavenly bound and her prayers go to the Lord. She's the one we contact. Any of us in here can be, don't wait till you're 90 to be that person. Be that person even in your teens, your twenties, your thirties. Be that person before you forget the prayers. If people see joy in our involvement and in their lives We can change the world. If we have joy and we express it and show it, we can change other people's lives. When we go through the Romans robe with someone, we are showing them how God can change their life one verse at a time. Reach out and call people. And only have happiness on that call. Don't get into the life, today's trials, what was on the news, did you see what he did? Did you see what no? Stay with something enjoyable. I would say too when you email and post and things, do that. So many people post the other stuff. People get tired of it. They want to be uplifted. That's why a lot of times they go to those social places is to be uplifted. So, we've went with compassion. What was next? I gotta see if you guys are listening. Obedience. Then what? Vigilance. Now. Determination. Did I forget anything? I. See, I'm determined to go back to I. Oh I'm alright. I think. Oh, here's a drink. There's some mints here too. That never mind. Where'd my eye go? Obedient. Hang on, I got it When you go over these notes a numerous and numerous times, you end up losing some stuff. Oh, there it is at the bottom. So we need to be involved with those around us We need to be caring to those saved souls around us. Like I said, that's the one I went to. Remember the ones that we don't like and all of that? So that was involved. So now what's the last one? D determination. So make a difference in people's lives Now is the time for us to be dedicated to the souls, the mission that God has given us. We need to devote ourselves to doing What God what is good and we need to do it do it in order to provide for hurting people, for people that that ne have needs And for people that think they have a meaningless life, there are those people out there that think they don't know why they're here. They're here because God allowed them to be born. They're here as to be Christians, to be missionaries, to be soul winners. That's what they're here for. So but people need to see the dedication in our life. Dedication that we see from Christ when he was on earth. We can have that same dedication. We can have that dedication. Where does that dedication start at? Where do your feet wake up in the morning at? Don't say bed, I mean at home. Okay? Our dedication starts at home. Meaning when we wake up, we go out to the kitchen or wherever, that beautiful wife is there, that loving husband is there. Those children, whether they be screaming or not, they're God's gift to you. Be dedicated to them. What you do to them, they are the start of your day. They are the start of you expressing the Holy Spirit in your life through those kids. That's the start, the beginning of your day. So be determined to love them, to teach them, to be Christ-like to them. Then move to your church, then move to your community, all of those around us. So see the people, let people see dedication in your life But avoid foolish controversies and arguments of ongoing circumstances Contra conversations in today's times via emails, social media, texts, and other They're either winning a soul or they're either turning one away. Remember, we are dedicated to making the world a better place. Determine that our actions will glorify God and the people will want to be around us. And they'll also want to be have you guys have ever met somebody in your life that's a Christian that you're like, I want that relationship. I want the the desires that they have. I want to be like that. You can determine to be like that. We should all determine to be like Jesus Christ. Argumentative, proud, prideful attitudes will turn people away, determined to spread joy in every situation. I like candy. Most of you know. That's why I'm very sweet. Be taffy. That's what you gotta be. Everybody played with taffy, been to them taffy making places? Be taffy Your actions will stick to people if you're the right kind of taffy. Let your life resemble a picket sign being held up expressing our love our joy and our peace of God and for God and mankind all around us We are not here to let everyone know what we agree with and don't agree with. We are here to win souls. Tell people about God's love. Tell them how his world, how his word inspires you daily to keep going on and on and serving him. Tell them how He inspires you, through the Holy Spirit, to love all people. Share the gospel. Be kind one to another. Determined to read the word, determined to understand the word, determined to live the word, determined to spread the gospel. When we do that, we're going to lead other souls to Christ. We're also, if we direct as much time to God's word and loving Him than we do to the other things, we will be so much better off So as Christians in the midst of this turmoil, we get to help implement God's plan for the whole world by pointing people to Him. We are His plan. He wants heaven to be filled with us by our testimonies, our joy, and our laughter in the Lord and from the Lord. We are not supposed to be the observers or the listeners Or have a bunch of opinions. He wants followers, not just onlookers, or people taking notes. If you reflect on these things, you won't have time to reflect on the negative of the virus or the sinful nature of the things going around us. I'm not saying don't be aware of your surroundings but don't let it overtake you. Our nation, our kids' world, needs us to stand up for Christ Be the leader out front of them, but also be the one holding their hand and pulling them forward Have compassion by being obedient Christians while being vigilant of those that are around you that need Christ Be involved in fostering Christian growth by being the example using the Holy Spirit that indwells within you. Dedicate every day in spreading the gospel. Don't get distracted by the challenges of life. These times are no surprise to God. Your actions Through these times may be s surprise to those around you, meaning I'm a Christian. I am I need to walk and talk the Christian life If I am not doing that during these times, what are those around me thinking? They're going to be doubting my salvation and doubting that I'm a Christian That's why we see people say, oh, they're a Christian, and then they roll their eyes and then they continue. They start to make comments. Because we Christians have to stand up and do what we're supposed to do So we have two choices. We can be confident in Christ, or we could be confusing to others about Christ in our lives. That's kind of our two choices we can do. And if we utilize these resources and these tools, we can get through this mess. We can bring God to more people. We can have more people come on board, if you will, get saved, because we're soul winners, and our seats will be filled, and our lives will be less disruptive. The Holy Spirit is always inside us, and it urges us to do right and to do wrong. If you don't have the Holy Spirit in you, then you need to get with us and you need to talk to us, those out there that are listening to. If you're not saved, God wants us to be saved. Could it be that we're going through all of these multitude of turmoils right now because he wants us to look towards him? He wants to see what he's doing and what he can do. That America and the world has their eyes off of him I plead with you, please, in your communities and in your homes, be the Christ-like individual that God's word asks us to be. Be the soul winner Don't be the one that's being disruptive. Be the one that's leading others to Christ. If you guys will stand. We're just gonna pray and then Mark's gonna come up and we'll Pray for the closing. Lord, we thank you for this opportunity. Lord, we thank you for your word that teaches us Lord, we want to be encouragement to all of those around us. Lord, we want to spread the gospel of you. Lord, we want others to know of our Savior. We want people to know from your word that the answers are there. Father, I ask that you'll just help us through these times. Lord, I pray that you'll help us to have compassion and be obedient, Lord, and be involved. Be diligent, Lord, and be dedicated and determined. For serving you and doing what you ask us to do. In your name I pray, Amen