I got a preacher friend email me. He says, Good night. How often do you have Barons there with you? And uh I said, as long as God keeps blessing and and using them, we're gonna keep bringing them in. And God's hands on his ministry, and uh he's been such a blessing to me personally And to our church. And what a great wild game dinner we had. That was a powerful message. And so I'm glad he's back. And um let's get our Bibles out as he brings our first evening message for spring revival. Amen. So some preachers emailing you and wondering why you have me so much, huh? Yeah. I'm gonna find out who he is, amen. I'm gonna hunt him down and hurt him, amen. Well it's good to see everybody here tonight. You all glad to be here? How many'd rather be here than in prison? Amen. Amen. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to the book of Mark. Mark chapter 10. Mark chapter 10. I'm going to try and stay in these easy books of the Bible so Gary can find them real quick. Amen. He's back in the maps in concordance. He's working his way back. He'll get there in a minute. Mark chapter 10, I'm going to begin reading in verse 46. And they came to Jericho, and as he went out, this is talking about Jesus coming out of Jericho. And as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, and a great number of people, blind Barnabas, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal: Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood still. And commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort. Rise, he calleth thee. And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus. In the way. I want to bring you a message tonight entitled Changing Your Destiny. Changing Your Destiny. Let's pray. Father. I pray right now that uh you would help us to remember That nobody sitting here tonight ought to ever be uh uh uh content with where they're at. Lord, I pray that we'd have a hunger and we'd have a desire to grow and to use more today and tomorrow than we were used last week. And so Lord tonight as we uh preach a simple message. I pray that every man, every woman, every young person in here tonight. Would want to change their spiritual destiny. Would want to be grow and want to be used of you more than anything else in the world. Then Lord, also, if we have somebody here tonight, and again if they're not saved, they never ask Jesus in their heart. Help them to understand tonight that this is a great opportunity for them to change their spiritual destiny from going to hell to going to heaven. Lord, give us a good service tonight. I pray that, especially, I just pray tonight that where decisions ought to be made and need to be made That we would be willing to make those decisions. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In Mark chapter 10, we have the story of blind Barnamaeus The Bible tells us that Jesus came to Jericho and he taught there, he preached there, and after he was finished, he left the city of Jericho with a great number of people. Sitting alone along the highway begging, was this man that we come to know As blind barnabas. Now let me just say something, folks. I I think one of the a and and and I'm guilty of this too. I I I'm the first one. I am guilty of this. One of the great mistakes that we make when we read our Bible is we don't make these stories real. If we're not careful, we read just to read. And we don't make it real. Listen, this is a real story. This involved real people. Now, the reason I say that is because we're dealing with a man by the name of Barnamaeus who was blind. And I also say this, back in Bible days, they didn't have what you called the Disability Act. If you had a discipline, I mean you were on your own. Think about that. Now I mean that they didn't have braille back in those days. They didn't have wheelchair access. They didn't have social services. You know, I think back in the Bible days, it would be one thing, it would be terrible if you were deaf. But I'm going to tell you something. It would be absolutely horrible if you were blind and living back in Bible days. Think about this. Can you imagine what it would be like being blind, living back in Bible days without all the advantages that we have today? But not only was Barnabas blind, the Bible also says this: that he was a beggar. In other words, he was poor, he was an outcast He had absolutely no friends. He didn't even know where his next meal was coming from. In verse 47, the Bible tells us Vine Barnamaus, he's sitting there by the get a picture of this, he's sitting by the highway, he's begging, and uh all of a sudden he hears this great number of people walking by, which apparently was unusual And so Barnabas asked the question, what's up? That's in the Greek. Amen? You know, what's up? And somebody says, Jesus just got done teaching in Jericho, and we're following Jesus Christ out of the city. Now, it's very evident that Barnabas not only knew who Jesus was, but what he could do. Because immediately in verse 47, the Bible says that the born of man, he begins to cry out, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And apparently he was such a big mouth that the people try and quiet him down. They're going up to him and say, Hey, quiet down. Shut up. But the more they tried to quiet him down, the louder he got. Have you ever been in a situation like that with somebody? Huh? That can get very, very embarrassing. Am I not right? The Bible says, I love this story, I just love it. The Bible says that Jesus hears Barnabas screaming, and he stops. He calls Barnamae over. As soon as he calls Barnabas over. The Bible says, and this is important, we'll get to it later on. The Bible says that Barnabas stands up and he takes off his upper garment. And he throws the upper garment away. He finds his way to Jesus, and Jesus says, What can I do for you? And Barnabas says this, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And in verse 52, Jesus says this. I'm not only gonna heal you, I'm gonna save you. It gives me goosebumps just saying that. Jesus says this, I am not only going to heal you physically, but I am going to change your destiny spiritually. Now, here's the story of a man, think about this, of a man that has physical problems greater than you and I will ever have. Here's a man that has social problems. He was an outcast. Nobody in society wanted anything to do with them. Here is a man, think about this, that had spiritual problems. He was unsaved. And on his way to hell. And yet, here's a man that in just a think about this, in just a few short minutes. Literally turned his life around and changed his destiny. In verse 52, the Bible says this: he got saved. He saw God's blessings and miracles in his life, and he followed Jesus. Isn't that amazing? Huh? Now, I look at this and I say, Man, how did he do this? I believe don't get nervous right here. Will you promise you won't get nervous? Yeah, you say you don't know what's coming next, do you? I believe as we look at this story, we can see six, not three, six, six points. But they're not that long. Help me out here. Come on now. We can see six steps To changing your destiny. We can see six things that Barnabas did in this story that literally completely turned his life around. And listen, I believe this. If you are willing to follow these six steps I don't care who you are, I don't care where you're at tonight spiritually with the Lord, you also, if you follow these six steps, you can dramatically tonight, when you walk out the back door of this church, you can have your life completely changed around spiritually. Let me give it to you real quickly. First step. First step is found in verse 47. Take a look at verse 47. Notice what it says here. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, what are the next four words? Have mercy on me. Here's the first step. Assume responsibility for your own life. Let me ask you a question tonight. Who's responsible for your spiritual life? Come on. You are. Listen, if you're here tonight and you're not right with God, you have nobody to blame but yourself. I'm not trying to be mean, I'm trying to help you. You have nobody to blame but yourself. You are the one who is responsible for where you're at spiritually. If you're here tonight, and I I don't know anybody's situation, but if you're here tonight, And you are not working at having what I call a millionaire marriage. A great marriage, a great husband, a great wife, whose fault is it? Come on. It's your for some of you right now say, why did I come out tonight? Yeah. Come on. It's your fault. Folks, listen to me. We gotta quit blaming everybody else for our problems. If we're not what we ought to be, if we're not where we ought to be, it's our fault. Now let me ask you something tonight. Where are you at spiritually? Is God using you? Do you have a ministry? Were you just wasting your life? Warming a pew. Uh-uh. I'm running into more and more and more people. And year after year after year, they're blaming this and they're blaming that and they're blaming this person for where they're at spiritually. They're blaming people for for for the circumstances uh uh uh that they're in. And uh uh they they they never they never want to look themselves in the mirror and say, hey, the reason I'm where I'm at is because of me. And you know what? They do this their entire life. And the reason, listen to me, the reason they're at at where they're at spiritually, it's not because they have insurmountable problems. It's not because you lack talent or you lack a dynamic personality or you lack a college degree. It's not because of that. Do you know why a lot of us are failures in our Christian life? Because it's easier to wallow in excuses and failure than to look ourselves in the mirror and say, hey, it's my fault. People say, oh, preacher, I'm not a marriage. You just don't understand. I've had such a bad, hard life. I've come from a different type of a background. These people did me wrong. So what? Does that sound mean? It's not. So what? Are you going to make excuses for the rest of your life? Are you going to be a spiritual failure for the rest of your life because of that? You see, listen to me, folks. There comes a time in our life where every one of us has to assume responsibility for our own life. Hey, you want me to let you in on a little secret? Everybody, everybody in your battle shim. From me on down. Everybody in here battles weak areas. Everybody in here gets hurt. Everybody in here has circumstances. Am I not right? And so what makes you so special? What makes you the exception to everything else? You see, the difference is in how you handle it. This this uh this guy, you remember the guy that not long ago, a couple months ago, up in Connecticut that that killed all these children? Remember that? Come on, remember him? Now, if we had, we didn't, but if we had caught him alive. Do you know what his defense lawyers would be saying today? Well, it's not really his fault. Am I not right? You gotta look. I mean, look at his background Look at what he went through. But listen to me, everybody in the nation would be saying what? Burn them! Come in that right? Now what are we saying? We're saying this. He has to assume responsibility for his own life. Am I not right? Now, we understand that, but let me ask you this. Why do we have such a hard time understanding that in our own life? Let me ask you again. Just answer it in your heart. Who controls your spiritual life? Who controls your attitude? Who controls what you do and what you don't do? Who controls, hey, who controls whether or not you're in church or out of church? Oh me. Who controls whether or not you're a good husband or a good wife? Who controls whether you make a decision? You do. And so the first thing we need to do, number one, is what? Assume responsibility for our own life. Here's the second thing. Take a look in verse 51. Verse 51. And some of these won't be very long, but they're important. Verse 51. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What was thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Get this, Lord that I might receive my sight. Now let me ask you a question. When he asked that question, do you do you think he believed that? Here's the second thing. Believe that you can change. Believe that you can change. Let me ask you a question tonight as you sit here. Are you happy? Are you content with where you're at spiritually? Do you believe, listen to me, do you believe that God could do more and accomplish more in your life than what he's doing right now? As you sit here tonight, could you be a better soul winner? Come on. Could you be a better soul winner? As you sit here tonight, listen, as you sit here tonight, if you really made it important, could you hand out a hundred tracks in a week? If you really, I mean, if it was really important to you, could you be the best husband and the best wife? Do you really believe that? That God would have you to be? Hmm? Could you have a better spirit? Could you have a closer walk with God? You say, well, preacher, I just don't know that. Then you don't believe your Bible. Because my Bible says over in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 3, verse 13, I can do all things through Christ with strength and me. You see, listen to me, anything that God wants you to do, you can do it. But you know what our problem is? We let the devil lie to us. We let the devil come into our life and say, Well, you know what, you can't do that. And we believe that. And so what happens? We waste years of our life warming a pew instead of accomplishing everything that God wants us to do. You see, if you're ever, listen, if you're ever going to do anything for God in this life, you have to believe that you're going to, I'm not talking about the power of positive thinking. But you have to believe that God can enable you to do those things. And so, first of all, number one, assume responsibility for your own life. Number two, believe that you can change. Number three, here's a big one. Here's where I believe a lot of people fall flat on their face. This is the reason why. Look at verse 48. Look at verse 48. And many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. Here's the third area. Stop worrying about what other people think or say about you. Oh, this is a big one, folks. Here's Jesus walking along. Barnamaeus, here's that is Jesus. And all of a sudden, I mean he starts screaming out. People are coming up to him. Hey, you need to quiet in, you need to shut up. Now let me tell you something. If blind Barnabas would have worried what everybody said to him or everybody thought about him, he would have never gotten healed, he'd never gotten saved. Now, here's the point, folks. You will never live your life for God if all you ever do is sit around and worry about what everybody thinks about you. I don't go out of my way to be disliked. But I'm going to tell you something. If I made it my goal in life for everybody to like me, I'd be in a loony ward. And so I made up my mind a long time ago, if there's anybody in the world I'm going to please, it's going to be Jesus. Amen. You see, here's our here's our come on, be honest here, here's our problem. We sit around and we worry more about what our family and our friends and our neighbors think about us. And we do about what God thinks about us. Well, you know what? If I sell out, come on, if I sell out, they're gonna think I'm a weirdo. Well, if I become faithful, if I join this church, if I become faithful, if I get a minute, man, people people are going to think I'm a fanatic. Who cares? Who cares? I really believe the reason that so many people aren't what they ought to be is because we worry more about the outside than we do about what Jesus thinks about us. By the way, let me go the next step. I think a lot of people go to hell because they worry about what their friends and their neighbors and their relatives would think about them if they get saved. I mentioned this morning when I heard the gospel when I was a drill instructor in the Marine Corps. Can you imagine, my friends? Huh? I'm just like you. I'm thinking to myself, man, if I if I get saved and I and I go in and I tell my butt drill instructors. And I tell my buddies, I'm a Christian, how many of these guys am I going to lose as friends? I said it this morning. You know what pushed me over? When I made up my mind, I don't care what anybody thinks about me, I'm not going to hell for anybody. But the problem, listen, the problem is we got so many people today worrying about what people think. They'd rather go to hell than get saved. You young people that are here. The only person you ever have to worry about pleasing is Jesus. You ever stop and think When Noah was building the ark, he got laughed at, he got mocked, he got scorned. If Noah would have worried about what everybody thought about him, there would never have been the story of Noah in the ark. If Daniel would have worried about what everybody thought about him, there would have never been the story of Daniel in the lion's den. If Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego would have worried about what everybody said, There's never been the story of the three young men in the fiery furnace. If David, if David would have listened to his brothers and everybody around him laughing at him. And mocking them and tearing them down. There would have never been probably the most famous story in the Bible of David and Goliath. Jonathan Edwards was mocked and scorned and ridiculed But you know what? It didn't bother him one bit. But if it would have bothered him, if he would have worried about what everybody said, we'd have never had the sermon of sinners in the hands of an angry God. Folks, let me tell you something, listen, listen, you will never see what God has for you until you quit worrying about what everybody thinks about you and just worry about what God thinks about you. Here's the fourth thing. In verse forty six, the Bible says this. A great number of people. Then in verse 48, the Bible says this, and then he charged him. That he should hold his peace. In other words, there was a lot of people that came up and said, Hey, you need to shut up, or hey, you need to wait. Or, or uh, listen, just don't do this now. Here's the fourth thing. You want to change your destiny? You want to be everything that God wants you to be? Stop waiting for ideal circumstances. If he would have waited until he was alone. He didn't know. He'd never gotten saved. And he'd never gotten healed. You see, here's the point. You're here tonight. I don't know who I'm talking to, but you're here tonight. And you know, I mean you know you need to make changes in your life. You're here tonight. And you know, listen, you know you need to get more serious about serving God. You know you need to make maybe make changes in your marriage I need to be a better husband. I need to be a better wife. You're here tonight and you know you need to be more faithful. Hey, maybe, I don't know, maybe there's somebody here tonight, and you know, I mean you know you need to be scripturally baptized You know you need to join a good local church and start serving. But you wait. You wait. Now, my question is what? For what? For when? Well, preacher, I'm gonna tell you something. I'm I'm waiting until things are just right. Can I give you a lesson in Life 101? Things never will be right. And by the way, that's what some of you said last year when I was here. That's what some of you said the year before. That's what some of you said five years ago. And you're still waiting for things to be just right. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. The people that God uses, the people that see blessings and miracles in their life, they're not waiting for the right timing. They're not waiting for ideal circumstances. They're those people that step out by faith, trust God, and listen, more often more often than not, they're the ones that have to knock down doors instead of waiting for doors to be opened. The greatest, listen, the greatest works that have ever been done in the history of Christianity have been done in times of darkness. Trials, tribulation, danger, tragedy, not ideal circumstances You know what I think? I think for a lot of Christians, for a lot of Christians, someday God's going to pull back the curtain. And he's going to show you what could have been in your life. But you blew it. You missed it. You know why? Because you were waiting. For just the right time. You were waiting for ideal circumstances that never came. Here's the fifth thing. Verse 50. And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. You say, preacher, why is that so important? Let me tell you why I believe that's so important. Barnamaeus was blind. The outer garment was probably the only thing of value that he possessed The moment, the moment that Barnabas threw away that outer garment, he's blind He had absolutely no hope of ever getting it back again. Are you with me? So what's the fifth thought? Here it is. Do something bold and dramatic. Folks, listen. There just comes a time in our life where we need to say, you know what, I'm sick of living this way. And right here, right now, tonight, I'm making the changes I need to make in my life. Right here, right now, tonight, I'm going to promise God, no more excuses, no more messing around. I'm going to be faithful every time the door of this church is open. Right here tonight, when I walk out the back door of this church, I'm gonna be a better husband, I'm gonna be a better wife than what I w I'm gonna start working and having a millionaire marriage. Do something. Listen, I'm going to tell you something. You will never know the domino effect that something like that might have. I was preaching a meeting and uh not that long ago. And uh I got done preaching. Uh, you know, uh what I preached on, I preached on uh uh uh people, just the idea of people uh being content. With living with sin. Come on, you with me? Yeah, we just we just get used to living with sin. And the idea that man God can't bless that. Now, and you know, I had a good order call. I finished the service. Sitting, brother, right about where you're sitting, there was a deacon. His name was Joe. He didn't come forward that night. But apparently what I said the Lord used, and really, I mean it smote his heart. Nobody knew this. But at home, he had uh he had all kinds Of music that was garbage. Y'all with me on that? I mean this stuff was just, it was it, but nobody knew it except him and his wife. And he was a deacon. He got so convicted that the next day he called the preacher up. And he said, Preacher. I just want you to know. He said that I've got several thousand dollars worth of this kind of music that and he said it it's all if he said it's just all from the this is what he said, it's all from the pits of hell. And he said, I want you to know tonight, tonight, he said, we're boxing it up right now. And he said, tonight, I'm going to bring it in and I'm going to put it on the altar. The preacher said, Joe, Joe, you don't need to do that. That's what the preacher said. He said, Joe, he said, Joe, listen, he said, if you want to bring it, I'll take it. He said, uh, if you want to get me, he said, that's fine. He said, I'm just glad you get that got convicted. He said, no, preacher. He said, uh, he said, I just feel I need now. Is that pretty bold and pretty dramatic? A deacon? Let me tell you something. They came in Monday. I saw this. They came in Monday night, box after box. You should have seen the people in the church. Oh my. And the preacher got up, told everybody this is Joe's stuff. God dealt with them. And this is what Joe felt he needed to do. We finished up Monday night. Tuesday night. Tuesday night. We had a listen, it wasn't a little, it was a great number of people. They started coming in with boxes. The music was still there. They started paling boxes of music. Some of the teenagers came in with with uh uh I mean this was like R-rated videos R-rated uh, I don't know what you call them, these game things that really kids shouldn't, you know, not I'm talking wicked type stuff. Preacher said, go out and get 255-gallon done. We filled 255-gallon drones Wednesday night, more people came in. There were such a power the preacher said, take it back and dump it in the baptistry. By Friday night, listen, they that we counted this. By Friday night, we had almost $20,000 in music alone. Why? Let me. That church saw a revival. Why? Because one man was willing to do something bold and dramatic That's what can happen in a church if one person gets right and doesn't care when anybody thinks about it. I was in another church out in Portland, Oregon. And uh my wife Marley was with me. And uh we were Marley was speaking to the ladies, and I was speaking to the men. I was upstairs, and Marley was downstairs, and uh I was talking to the men about being great husbands. And uh I got I got on to men about about being John Wayne's, the strong silent type. You know what I mean? And by the way, you won't find that in the Bible. And I was talking to the men about the strongest need of their life, of their wife, is to be loved, to know that that that you know their the wife wants to know that she's loved, that she's charred, that she's wanted. And I, you know, I got care, I mean I got on the men. And I said, you know, I said, some of you men, some of you men, when you leave her, I said, you need to, you need to let your wife know that you love her. I said, some of your wives would have a heart attack. There was a man, there was a man sitting there. I'll never forget this. There was a man sitting there. And uh we dismissed. And uh we we went downstairs. And uh this meant he walked up to his wife. She had no idea this was coming I think she'd have shot him if she did. But but this husband he walked up to his wife, and I mean in uh in a in a loud voice, it carried all over the center there But in a loud voice, he walked up and he said, Honey, I just want you to know I love you. And he grabbed her, killed her to roy, and I mean he gave her a plumber's kiss He put her back up. I mean, she turned red, she turned red. Oh my. Now, let me tell you something. Everybody laughed. But you know what that did? That set the tone for the rest of the week. We had husbands doing things for their wives that they've never done before. They got married. Why? Because there was one man that was willing to do something that was bold. You know what so listen, you know what some of us need? We need to do something bold dramatic. We just say, you know what? I'm going to start serving God. Then I'm going to start being the husband that I ought to be I'm going to get me a ministry in the church. Hey, you know why a lot of our friends and neighbors and relatives never get saved? Because they don't see anything in our life that they really want. Why do I want when you only you live just like me? You know what will change that? If we have some people do something bold and dramatic Here's the last thing. First of all, assume responsibility for your own life. Believe that you can change. Stop worrying about what other people say. Stop waiting for ideal circumstances. Do something bold and dramatic. Here's the last thing here. Verse 50. Verse 50, here's what it says: little phrase here. And came to Jesus. What's the last thing that changed his destiny? Do it now. Do it now. Do you know why it's important when the Holy Spirit of God deals with you that you respond immediately? Because you don't know if you'll ever have another chance. Do you know the reason why so many Christians never see anything? Because we never do anything. And there's a good chance, listen, this is a week of revival meetings. Amen? And there's a good chance if you don't do something now, you're never going to do it. Now, why is this so important? I'm going to show you why, and then we're done. If you had your Bibles, I want you to turn to two verses If you don't turn to these two verses, I'm going to preach another whole message. Amen? Jerry just grabbed a song Look in the Bible. Amen. Listen, I'm going to show you why it is so important that when God deals with you, I mean you listen, you don't put it off the next, I mean you respond immediately. If you have your Bible, 1 King, these are familiar verses here. 1 Kings 18, verse 21. 1 Kings 18, verse 21. Put your finger there, and then go over to Matthew 18, verse 8. Matthew chapter 18 and verse 8. You over there? Don't blame me if we go too long tonight, you're taking too long. Matthew chapter 18 verse 8. 1 Kings chapter 18 verse 21. I'm going to read 1 Kings first. I'm going to show you something here maybe you've never seen before. It's in the Bible. 1 Kings 18, verse 21. Here it is. Get this. And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long, what's the next word? Hall. Now get that. I'm going to come back to it in a second. How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the Lord answered him not a word. Now Here's what we think. We read that word halt and we think, well, that just means stop. That's not what it means. That word halt means this become lame. Y'all get that He's asking them the question, how long are you going to become lame? How long are you going to be lame in this area? Now, turn over, turn over to Matthew chapter 18 and verse 8. Take a look at that. Wherefore, if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off and cast them from thee. It is better for thee to enter into life. Halt. Halt. Keep that. We're going to come back to it in a minute. Halt or maimed rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into hell fire. That word halt there Is the word that we use for cripple? Cripple. How long are you going to be crippled between two opinions? Now First Kings chapter eighteen, verse twenty-one, how long halt. Matthew chapter eighteen, verse eight, enter into life, halt Both of these words have exactly the same meaning in the Bible. God's saying this: how long are you going to be crippled between two opinions? You see. If you're sitting here tonight and you know that there's an area of your spiritual life that you need to make a decision, and you don't make that decision, you know what you're doing? You are crippling yourself spiritually. That's what you're doing. You're crippling yourself. Have you ever seen a squirrel in the middle of the road Huh? Come on, you ever seen that? And you're driving, you're getting closer and closer, and the squirrel, foo, foo, foo, foo, like, and you're saying, Come on, squirrel, make up your mind. Huh? And then all of a sudden you hear that familiar sound. And you look in the rear view mirror, here's what you see. That's a pretty good imitation of a squirrel that's been run over, isn't it? You like that tail right there? Huh? Huh? What happened to the squirrel because he couldn't make a decision? He was either killed or crippled. That's exactly what happens to you. Listen to me. There's nobody here tonight that would cripple themselves physically. Am I not right? So, why would you want to cripple yourself spiritually? You see, no decision is really a decision to stay where you're at. Well, I know I ought to be a soul winner. But I'm just not going to make that decision tonight. You just made a decision that you don't care about people going to hell. You just made a decision to stay where you're at. Well, you know what, preacher? I I I I know I know that I know how to be scripturally baptized. I know how to join the church. But I'm going to wait. You just made a decision to live in disobedience even longer. I know how to work at my marriage. But you know it's just so hard. You just made a decision to be a lousy husband. You just made a decision to be less than a wife than what God wants you to be No decision is really a decision. I know I ought to be saved, but I'll wait till next week. You just made a decision, but you're still on your way to hell. Pilate. Pilate. Is it going to be Jesus or Barabbas? Pilate said what? I'm not going to decide. But he did decide. Because no decision is really a decision to stay where he's at. Folks, listen to me, listen. If you ever, if you ever hope to be where God wants you to be, you've got to make the decision. And not only do you got to make the decision, you've got to make it when God deals with you. You know why? Because when you say no, listen to me, when you say no, the next time it gets a little bit easier to say no. And then it gets a little bit easier. And before you know it, you're completely spiritually crippled, and you don't even realize it. You want to change your destiny? Follow these six steps. And I'll guarantee, listen, I will guarantee you, because they're in the Word of God, I will guarantee you, when you walk out here tonight, you'll be different than when you walked in. Let's bow our heads and close your eyes. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Let me let me review these here real quickly. Think about what I just said here. First of all, first of all, assume responsibility for your own life. Are you doing that? Let's quit let's let's let's let's quit blaming others. Let's quit making excuses. Let's quit wallowing in self-pity. And let's look ourselves in the mirror and say, hey, the reason God isn't using me is because of me. It's because of me Assume responsibility for your own life. Number two, believe that you can change. Hey, that's the good news. Believe you can change There, listen, there is not a man, there's not a woman, there's not a young person in here tonight. Think about this, that God can't use, that God doesn't want to. God can use you, He wants to use you The only question is, are you willing to let God use you? Hey, some of you, some of you here, you would be absolutely shocked at what God could do in your life if you turn your life over to Him. Believe that you can change. Number three, here's the big one again. Stop worrying about what other people say or think about you. Why don't you quit worrying about everybody? Why don't you quit worrying about family and friends thinking you're whacked out or weird or crazy or fanatic? Why don't you quit worrying about that? Listen, someday, someday the only person you're going to answer to is God. He's the only one you've got to worry about. Quit worrying about everybody else. Hey, not listen, not that we go out of our way to be disliked. But too many of us go out of our way to be liked at the expense of God. Stop waiting for ideal circumstances. They're never going to happen, friend. They're never going to happen Do something bold and dramatic. You know, it's almost scary. Think about this, it's almost scary to think. What could happen in a church like this? If we had some people say, you know what? I'm sick of living like this. I'm tired of living like this. I'm going to do something bold and dramatic. But then lastly, I'm going to do it now. Because I don't want to cripple myself spiritually. Now here's my question tonight. It's a very listen, it's a very general question. I'll tell you why it's a general question. Because your spiritual life is none of my business. But if you're sitting here tonight, and through the message of the Word of God, God, the Holy Spirit of God, has dealt with your heart. And you're sitting here tonight and you're saying, you know what, preacher? There's an area you preached on. The Holy Spirit of God dealt with my heart. I want to spiritually change my destiny. God dealt with me about that. Would you pray for me about that tonight? Would you slip your hands up tonight all over the auditorium? Just slip them up. Thank you. Amen. Thank you. Good number of hands. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Number of other hands popped up after that. Thank Anybody hey, this is this now's the time to do it. I'm gonna tell you again, you're sitting here tonight and you're saying, you know what? I know there's some things I'm doing that I shouldn't do, there's some things I'm not doing I should do. Listen, that's the Holy Spirit telling you that. So now here's the question: what are you going to do about it? Are you going to act on it now, or are you going to walk out of here spiritually crippled? You have nobody to blame but yourself. We had a lot of hands raised the first time. Let me ask you again, is there anybody else that would say, preacher, you're right? I want to change my destiny. I want God to use me more than anything else in the world. God dealt with me about that tonight. I want to change my destiny. I don't want to stay where I'm at. I want to do something for God. Pray for me. Anybody else? Just flip it up. Thank you. Probably, man, amen. Thank you. Probably another dozen hands. Anybody else? Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Thank you, young man. Anybody else? Now's the time to do it. Don't harden your heart. Don't harden your heart. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Thank you, ma'am. Let me ask one other question. Maybe tonight we have somebody here and you're not saved. You know you're not saved. Maybe you can't point to a time and a place where you bowed your head and asked Jesus in your heart as your Savior. You don't know whether you're going to heaven or you're going to hell. And you know, listen, as you sit here tonight, you know you need to get saved. Now I'll tell you what the devil's telling you right now. You don't need to get saved tonight. You don't need to do it now. You know, you can always get saved next week. You can get saved next month. You've got a lot of time to live. You can get saved down the road. Friend, let me tell you, listen, do you have any do you have any idea how many millions of people are burning in hell right now because they waited one week One day, one hour, one minute, too long. They didn't get saved when they knew they should have gotten saved Why don't you do it now? I'm not going to embarrass you. I won't embarrass you, but I'd like to pray for you. I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what? You're right. I'm not saved. I can't point to a time and a place where I bowed my head and asked Jesus in my heart as my Savior. I don't know whether I'm going to heaven or I'm going to hell, but I do know this. When I die, when I die, I want to go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell, and I worry about that. Brother Barns Would you remember me also tonight in prayer? Would you pray for me also? Would you just flip your hand up and put it right back down? Just slip it up, put it right back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just real quickly. And I'll acknowledge it and pray for you. Just slip it up real quick. Put it right back down, and I'll pray for you. Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I'm going to spend forever. Anybody? Just slip it up real quick. Anybody at all? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here tonight. We thank you for the many, many hands that were raised. And Lord, I pray that we'd have some folks here tonight. That would be serious, I mean deadly serious, about changing their spiritual destiny. Maybe right now there's some folks that the devil's putting some question marks in their mind. Telling them they can't do it. They don't have the background, they don't have the talent, they don't have the personality, they don't have the education. Lord Remind them right now that they can do all things to anything that God wants them to do, they can do. And so, Lord, help them not to fall back on that excuse. Help them to assume responsibility for their own life. Word, maybe right now there I I don't know, but maybe there's some folks here that need to do something bold and dramatic. And even doing something like that, they could, just like that church, they could bring revival to a church like this. But Lord, whatever it is, whatever it is tonight that you're dealing with. Lord, help us to deal with it right here, right now, tonight. How sad it would be, how sad it would be. For us to walk out of here tonight, knowing that we should have dealt with something, and yet we didn't, and we walk out of here spiritually crippled How sad that would be. Help us not to do that, Fortune Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand to our feet, every head bowed, every eye closed