Bible's there, James chapter three. We're preaching our way through the book of James. Brother Dave, I'm gonna try and stay right behind the pulpit here. Just use this mic. James chapter three, and we're at the end of the chapter. This portion of scripture is dealing with two types of wisdom. In fact, they're really the only two types that are available, two types of wisdom out there. The first is uh wisdom that we're calling earthly wisdom, if you would uh notice with me in chapter three and uh verse number thirteen he says, For who is wise, who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Good question. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. In other words, if you remember we pointed out Somebody may claim to be wise, and the evidence of whether they're genuinely wise or not is uh their conversation, their lifestyle. That's what the word conversation here implies, their lifestyle, how they live their life And he says, that's the evidence of whether I'm exercising wisdom from above or whether I'm exercising wisdom from below. He goes on and describes what earthly wisdom is like But verse 14, if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not and lie not against your truth. This wisdom That's bitter and envious and fussing. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is, now notice that has a threefold source It is earthly, it's of this world, it's sensual, it's of the flesh, and it's devilish, it's of the devil, our threefold enemy, the world, the flesh, and the devil. So the wisdom that produces a conversation, a life that is envious and striving and um uh uh bitter That type of lifestyle is the result of somebody who is using earthly wisdom that has the world, the flesh, and the devil as its influence. Verse 16, for where envying and strife is, there's confusion and every evil work. So there's one source of wisdom, one characteristic of that wisdom from earthly. Then verse 12, notice, but Alright, here's a contrast. The wisdom that is from above is first pure. Then Peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good work, good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy And the fruit of righteousness is shown in peace of them that make peace. So now what we've been doing the last few weeks, we've been looking at this second type of wisdom, this wisdom from above, I've been calling it heavenly wisdom, this wisdom that God gives us. One type of wisdom is what the world gives us, the devil, my flesh. The other type of wisdom is the wisdom that God gives me. Now here's the thing. Christian life, a Christian growth And living a victorious Christian life, being the Christian God wants me to be, get this, is a result of how I think It's my mind affects how I live my life. It's how I think. That's why in Romans twelve the Bible tells us that we should be we should not be tr uh we should not be conformed to this world, but we should be transformed by the renewing of our mind. So the way I'm changed as a Christian, the way I develop my Christian life, the way I grow and the way I I be the I live the life and become the person that God saved me to be is I need my mind renewed. In other words, let me put it in the context of our message, I need to change my thinking over from earthly wisdom, earthly type thinking To that heavenly wisdom. Wisdom is how I think about things. My wisdom. A person that's wise, they see the situation, they take in the information, and they're able to process it correctly biblically And they're able to provide a response to it that is wise. So it's how I'm thinking. So this is vitally important. For all of us. So let's pray. And we'll get caught up. And what I want to do tonight is look particularly at verse 17, eight characteristics of wisdom that God gives. And I think I hope it'll be practical. I believe it will be helpful. Let's pray. Father, bless now our time we have in your word. It's been a good day. My heart's been blessed. I've been challenged. I hope, Lord, that those of us have been here throughout the day that we're a little closer to you tonight than we were when we got up this morning. Our faith is a little stronger. Maybe we got some things uh lined up and made some good decisions today. So now as we finish the day out, I ask you to meet with us again. Lord, you know with all my heart, Father, I plead that you would fill me with your Spirit. Lord, I ask that it would be you speaking through me And that you would give us wisdom, that our minds would be transformed, that we're lives would be transformed by the renewing of our minds. And so We need you to help us with that. In Jesus' name. Amen. We noted, first of all, if you remember a couple weeks ago, our connection to this wisdom. He says, the wisdom that is from above. In other words, this doesn't come naturally. This type of wisdom, this type of thinking that we're going to look at here, doesn't come naturally. It's not something I can work up. It comes from above. It's from heaven. God gives me this wisdom. I can't get it in a university. I can't get it out of a book. I can't get it uh well other than the Bible. I can't get it out of uh uh some seminar It has to be God giving me this wisdom. It's from above. And if you remember, we said uh I suggested three uh three ways to get this wisdom, connect to this wisdom. Number one, fear God. The Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We talked about that. Then we said we need to fervently pursue it. Proverbs chapter two talks about applying ourselves and praying earnestly and pursuing this wisdom. And when we do that, we want it and we pursue after it and pay the price and do what we need to do to get it. God gives us that wisdom. I put this down as a side in my notes I was reviewing. I cannot get wisdom from God by simply sitting on a pew for an hour or two a week. I've got to want it. I've got to pursue it. I've got to get in the Word of God. I've got to be praying and asking God. Then we said, number three, we need to faithfully pray. God giveth wisdom, James chapter 2, verse 6 tells us, or Proverbs chapter 2, verse 6. James tells us, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God who giveth to all men liberally. So our connection to this wisdom, it's from above. Then last Sunday night we looked at the chronology of this wisdom. I get this from verse number 17. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure then. Then he gives the the following seven characteristics. And that word first and that word then, I circle both those words in my Bible. I see a chronology there. If purity, if if I'm gonna if I have if I have wisdom from above, the wisdom that God gives, the very first characteristic, the very first thing that's going to be true about it, it's going to be pure It's going to be pure. Then all these other characteristics will fall in place. And that brings us to our thoughts tonight God's pretty specific here on what the characteristics of heavenly wisdom is. The wisdom that he gives us. He lays it out pretty clear here. He says, if you have wisdom from above If you're thinking the way God intends for you and I to think, if we're functioning and making decisions in a heaven uh biblically wise manner Then these characteristics will all be part of my thinking and my actions and the con the results of my decisions And so, let's look at them real quickly. I'll go through, I'll try not to spend too long on each one. Number one, he says the wisdom that above that is above is first what? Pure that was sorry. Let's try that again. The wisdom out above is first pure. And so one of the characteristics of heavenly wisdom, if I You say, Preacher, I don't know if I'm uh if I'm using God's wisdom. I'm thinking the way God wants me to. I'll say, well, let's stop and think. Is the way you're thinking pure? The word pure there means to be true or sincere, genuine. If something is pure, it's without any corruption. It's without deceit or falsehood. God's wisdom, the very first influence of I'm starting to think the way God wants me to think, and I'm making decisions as God wants me to make those decisions. Those decisions, that thinking is going to be true, it's going to be sincere, it's not going to be corrupt, it's not going to violate God's holiness. God's wisdom makes a person pure. Foolishness promotes impurity. So wherever there's impurity, wherever there's deceit, wherever there's dishonesty We know we are thinking earthly, sensual, devilish wisdom thinking, that way of thinking, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure. And and and that word pure has in it, and it kind of repeats itself a little later on, but has in it the idea of hypocrisy. There's no hypocrisy there. It's for real Genuinely, sincerely pure. Truth and purity are the fundamental characteristics of everything that God does. Now get this. If there is any hint of dishonesty, it has nothing to do with God. Jesus said, I am the truth. And God cannot, and God will not promote anything that is dishonest Um, I just thought of this here out in Colorado and we were talking about dinosaur bones and all of this stuff, and there was an older guy there, and he was a good guy. He just He just uh he thought differently than I think every other person on the planet. And um he had this idea. Uh he said, I don't think those he said, I don't think there ever was dinosaurs. That's all. I said, Well, you know, they got the bones and you know, they got Stuff pretty m pretty solid evidence that there actually was bind uh was dinosaurs. He says, I think God just put it there to trick everyone. I said, well, you know, I'm not sure I see God as being someone who tricks people. Uh you know, God is honest God is pure. He doesn't fool people. He doesn't trick people. And my if I'm if I am wise with heavenly wisdom, if I actually have wisdom that is from above, it is pure It is honest. There's no hint of corruption or impurity in it anyway. You know what earthly wisdom says? Earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom are complete opposites. Earthly wisdom says, well, you know, if you cut the corners here, you know, and if you don't sin too much and You know, you can lie here a little bit to get through that and be a little dishonest and shade the truth here a little and ah you can engage indulge it a little bit in sin, you know, and it might help you get forward in it It might be good for you in the long run. Listen to me. Anything that involves dishonesty or sin is going to hurt you and I. It is not of God. God says, no, we're going to stay pure. Doesn't matter what the consequences are, doesn't matter what the situation is, we're going to tell the truth, we're going to stay pure. I thought about Adam and Eve I think here you have a classic illustration of heavenly wisdom versus earthly wisdom. Earthly wisdom says, go ahead and give in, indulge a little bit. Heavenly wisdom says, no, we're going to be pure, it's going to be honest, and do right. So what did Adam and Eve do? God told them very clearly: don't eat of this forbidden fruit. You've got every other fruit on the planet you can enjoy, uh every other everything else, but there's one tree you cannot eat off of that tree. And so here they are. Devil comes along, you know the story, tempts E. And so they have a decision to make. They have to exercise wisdom. Gotta make a decision. Here's the situation. I have the opportunity to obey God, trust God, and obey Him and do what is pure, what is right. Or I can disobey God, I can indulge in this fruit, and I can uh listen to the advice given me that is devilish. And so they here they are. And of course we know the results of that. They may they used earthly wisdom And uh they went ahead, well, and Satan was behind all that. He says, Oh, you're not going to die. You shall not surely die. I'm telling you, the devil is a liar, liar, liar. And he encouraged, and they compromised, they weren't pure, and the consequences were devastating. You and I still feel them today. Heavenly wisdom, I put this down, I like this statement, heavenly wisdom never compromises integrity. Never. It is pure. If I have a decision to make or I have a way of thinking or a situation I've got to deal with. And my thinking and my decision making compromises integrity or purity or truth in any way I immediately know I am not exercising heavenly wisdom, I'm exercising earthly wisdom, and there's going to be bad consequences before this is done. So number one, heavenly wisdom is what? Pure. Alright, so we're gonna hopefully walk out of here and be able to know these and remember these. I I alliterated them as we go down through here just to help us do that. So number one, heavenly wisdom is first pure. That's priority. That's chronology is first. Second of all, I put this it's peaceable. Look at verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable The word peaceable there has this idea of peace-producing, peace-loving. We touched on this last week, but I want to reiterate it here. Peace follows purity. Strife and contention are always the result of Impurity, of corruption, of sin, which is the root of all of that is pride. Strife and can uh contention follows pride, peace follows purity. I'm telling you It's not always easy to be pure in every sense of the word, in every area of life. It's not always easy, but I tell you, there's a whole lot more peace in the heart of the person that thinks purely than the one that doesn't It's a whole lot more peace in the life and in the home where things are kept pure and honest and true and right than there is in the place where it isn't. If there's dishonesty and deceit and impurity There's going to be strife and contention that is not of God. That's of the wisdom is of this world. It's sensual. It's devilish. It's earthly. But the wisdom that is from above is pure and it's peaceable. It's peaceable. Heavenly wisdom makes a man a peaceable person. Uh heavenly wisdom. I I I as more I studied this, the more I came to the conclusion that the fruits of the Spirit given in Galatians chapter 5 And the characteristics of heavenly wisdom are very, very similar. You find them overlapping. And so a spiritually wise person, person that has heavenly wisdom, is very much a spirit-filled person. And they are k evidencing these characteristics. So it makes a man a pe a peaceable person. He seeks to end hostile hostilities Heavenly wisdom will seek to end hostilities, will promote peace, and lead to a peaceful solution. Earthly wisdom stirs things up and causes problems, gets strife and carrying on Rioting in the streets. Look at our cities. You see what earthly wisdom produces. Um I tell you, I don't know anything about them, so I probably can't say too much about it But I noted two responses to uh folks getting killed in the last few months. Did you notice that on TV? There's a boy, uh, criminal, got killed, was killed, or died in Baltimore, and it resulted in what? Rioting, more death, more destruction, chaos, confusion, strife, bitterness Um down in, where was it, Charleston, guy walked in the church and shot the people? I watched the news that night and I saw them interviewing people that were in that service. Did anybody see that? That stirred my heart. Those people said stuff like this. Listen, Christ has forgiven me for so much. I have to forgive this person. I can't hold this against them. And over and over and over, those dear folks referenced the mercy and forgiveness and grace of God and the response they had. Now some of them, and granted, some of them said, you know, this is the hardest thing ever. My daughter, I'll never see her again. My wife, I'll never see her again. Grandma, I'll never touch, I'll never hug her again. But God has been so good and so merciful to us. We've got to be gracious and merciful and forgive us. You know what I thought? I thought there is heavenly wisdom. In the midst of a horrific crime, horrific sin, these people were referencing the grace and mercy of God and trying to bring peace. I thought, God help us to have that attitude. Heavenly wisdom is pure and it's peaceable. Would you agree with me? God is awfully wise. Anybody agree with that? Yeah, he's perfect in wisdom. He's perfectly wise. God had a situation. God had and uh It's for the sake of the uh illustration here, bear with me. But God had a hostile situation. He had two irreconcilable, unreconcilable beings On one hand, he had himself, who was perfect in holiness, absolutely perfect in righteousness, absolutely pure and perfect in every sense. And then he has mankind, who is desperately wicked, and whose very heart is deceitful and corrupt. There's no good thing in the heart and nature of man. There's no righteousness in the heart and nature of man. So here on one hand, You have an absolutely thoroughly sinful being, and on the other hand, you have a perfectly holy, sinless, righteous God. Now God wants to reconcile these two. It's unreconcilable. But God in his wisdom could bring peace between sinful man and holy God in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why the Bible says Jesus is the fullness of wisdom. He is wisdom. He is God wisely bringing peace between sinful man and and a holy God. In our day, earthly wisdom says, me, mine, I get my way. But heavenly wisdom dies to self and says, no We want to promote peace. I want this, bring this together, peaceable. Number one, heavenly wisdom is what? Pure. You're getting weaker on me. Second of all, it's peaceable. Number three, I put this down, it's patience. Look at verse 17. First pure, then peaceable. Gentle. Gentle. The word gentle there is a neat word. It has the idea of not reacting to things. Um it's very similar to the word meek. If you think about a meek person. Uh they're not uh they uh they don't react to things. They're very much under control. In fact, one of the definitions of the word gentle there had the idea of moderate, very moderate, uh meaning very much under control, self-controlled. Don't react. Not harsh or turbulent. In one of the definitions that use this word, to be very considerate. So heavenly wisdom, third characteristic of heavenly wisdom, is that it doesn't react to things. It doesn't, uh it is very moderate, it's very meek, it's considerate. Here's where we get into trouble. See if you agree with me or not on this If you don't, don't tell me. Alright. But um uh if you do, speak up. But um uh I'm joking. But uh uh Here's where we get into trouble. Somebody says or does something or a situation arises, maybe we didn't anticipate it, and it just comes up. And rather than thinking it through and acting on principle, we react. And we say or do something that probably wasn't the smartest thing to say or do. Can I get a witness? Y'all looking at me. I know you, don't it? Here's our problem. We react to situations rather than acting on principle. And the word gentle here, this wisdom from above, is very patient. It doesn't react to the situation It acts on principle. It doesn't allow the situation to control my actions. The principles, truth, and righteousness control my actions, not the situation. And that's what he's talking here. If I'm wise, if I'm thinking the way God intends for me to think, I'm thinking wisely from heaven's perspective Then I'm not react reacting things and blowing up and going off. I'm very gentle, I'm very patient. I stop, I think it through, I very deliberately act on principle, not on emotion One of the most attractive characteristics of a wise and godly Christian is a gentle spirit. I'm telling you what, you and I Have this gent, if we have a gentle spirit, we have this heavenly wisdom, we have a gentle spirit about us, I tell you, we'll stand out in this whole sinful world. Because this world is anything but gentle Uh this is an angry reactionary world. Do it my way or you'll pay the price and it has to agree with me and it has to be or blow up on you, but you get some Christian that's filled with the Spirit of God and has heavenly wisdom and they're very gentle, they're very patient, they act on principle, they don't react to situations, I'll tell you what, they'll have a profound testimony. Take your Bible, if you would, with me, real quick. Come back to Numbers. I want to try and illustrate what I'm saying here. The book of Numbers. Matthew, Mark, Luke, Numbers. No, Genesis Exosavitic is Numbers chapter sixteen. And here you have Moses. Does anybody remember what God said about Moses? He was the somethingest man on earth, meekest man on earth. Meekness and gentleness go hand in hand. Now look at this situation that arises. And I wonder how many of us would have responded to this situation the way Moses did. Numbers chapter 16. I think Moses, for the most part, exercised heavenly wisdom in his actions. Occasionally he messed up, but for the most part he did pretty good. Look at verse 1. Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abrah uh Abraham. the sons of Eliab and Orn, the son of Paleth, the sons of Reuben, took men, and they rose up before Moses. With certain of the children of Israel, 250 princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown, and they gathered themselves together. What? Against Moses, here's an insurrection against his leadership. And against Aaron And said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them, wherefore then lift ye yourselves above the congregation of the Lord. Question, did Moses take this responsibility on himself? No, God gave it to him. Did he lift himself up? No, God put it. He tried to get out of it, remember? I can't talk, Lord. No, I can't do this. So their whole premise is false. They're operating on a false narrative that Moses exalted himself and Moses took this on himself. He didn't do it at all. God put him there. Now I don't know about you. I have a feeling there's more in this crowd that would react this way than would admit, but some of us would not necessarily act on principle. We might react. Oh yeah, you little ingrepes. Who do you think you are? You want this? Alright, take it. You want to have it? You think you can handle a million people griping all the time? You think you can do Moses, here's the point I'm trying to make. Moses did not react. He was gentle. Look at the next verse. And when Moses verse 4, and when Moses heard it, when Moses heard it, he blew up on them. Nah. And when Moses heard it, he did what? He fell on his face. He went immediately to the Lord. He did not react to their ridiculous accusations. He did not react to the ridiculous criticism. He just went to God and said, God, help me. Lord, you know what's going on. God, you know the situation. They're wrong. You saw this, you direct me, you help me. Isn't that something? Um wisdom that is from above is gentle. It doesn't react. Somebody says something or somebody does something and oh I gotta I gotta correct that. And they needed to be corrected. They were wrong. And you know what? God handled that whole situation a whole lot better than Moses ever could have. I mean, God brought the hammer down. And I've found out in my time in serving the Lord and living for God, and I've failed it many times, but I've learned something. I've learned that God can solve problems a whole lot better than I can. If I just trust him, if I just be gentle, just be patient, and don't react to somebody I said it in a message recently. Uh if you stop and deal with every If you throw a stone at every dog that barks, you'll never make it to your destination. Right? What you gotta do is just say, All right, Lord Give me wisdom. I'm just going to stay focused on what you've called. I'm going to commit this to you. I'm not going to react. I'm just going to keep on doing right And so it's very patient, very uh uh gentle. Patient is the word I use. Uh by the way, this is also a requirement for pastoring. 1 Timothy 3. 3. Uh pastor a man is to be patient. Not a brawler, not reacting to everything, but just waiting on God being and letting the Lord deal with it. Number four, number one, first it's pure. Number two, it's peaceable. Number three, it's Patient number four, we gotta move along quicker here. It's pliable. Look at verse uh come back here to James. Pure, peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated. Now I use the word pliable to help us remember. In other words, to be easily entreated, it simply means this: willing to yield its own way. I don't have to be it my way or the highway. The idea here is willing to hear the other side of the story, willing to give a person the benefit of the doubt. It doesn't demand its rights. But it's easily entreated. Listen, a heavenly wisdom is able to decide What it is I'm going to fuss about or whether I need to fight to hold on to this or if this is something, yeah, you know what? Just go ahead. I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. All right It's not proud, it's not arrogant. Anytime proud and arrogant steps in, and I think I'm the cat's meow and I'm everything, I know I'm not thinking heavenly wisdom, it's earthly, it's sensual. It's not proud and arrogant. By the way, there's a world of difference between being proud. There's a world of difference between being confident and being arrogant. Some people, some preachers have confused the two. And they think, I need to be very, very arrogant. So that I will come across being confident. I found that most arrogant people, when you get to know them, they're not very confident. And are overcompensating. And this is just the opposite of arrogance. It's easy to be entreated. Uh it has this idea. I was trying to put it in in words. It has this idea. I believe I'm right. I'm pr I'm confident I'm right, but I'll allow for the possibility that I might be misunderstanding this. I believe I'm confident, but uh I'm not intimidated by other people's threats, but I'm not stubborn and obstinate either. I'm not going to compromise what is right. I'm not going to compromise what I believe is true, but I'm not I'm going to give the other person the benefit of the doubt. Easily entreated A wise man is not controlled by others, but he is willing to listen to reason. And he's willing to yield to superior judgment. I, any some of you folks have been around here for a while. Has anyone noticed I am not much of a mechanic? Anybody around here noticed I'm not very good at fixing wood and things like that? Anybody knows? Years ago, remember when they had the bathrooms back where Pastor Grant's office is? We used to have the bathrooms there. Anybody remember that? And we were trying to put a little latch on the one. And I thought, put a latch on the door, I can do that. That's cake. Anybody can put a latch on a door. By the time I was done, the whole trim around the door was down, the door was crooked, and I think there was a hole in the floor. I don't know. You know? So what I need to do, what I learned early on was if we have a latch that needs fixed It's good for me to be easily entreated and say, you know, somebody says, you know, Brotherman, I think there's a better way to fix that latch I learned. I could say, I can do it myself, don't tell me what to do Or I could be easily entreated and say, you know what, maybe you're right. And that's the whole concept here uh willing to listen to reason and yield to superior judgment. So number one, I gotta hurry up. Pure, peaceable, patient. What's the last second one? What's the fourth one? Pliable. Put this one down. Pitiful. Look at verse 17 again. Easily entreated, full of mercy. Full of mercy. One aspect of mercy is showing compassion or pity to others. Remember the good Samaritan? He saw the guy beat up and he showed mercy. He showed mercy to him. Heavenly wisdom is full, full of mercy. A mature, wise Christian is very compassionate to others Very merciful, very pitiful to others. I want to help them. I want to find a way to make their life a little better and help them relieve some of their burden, bear some of their burden with them and for them. That's the whole idea here, heavenly wisdom. If my way of thinking is to advance myself at the cost of others Then I'm not using heavenly wisdom. Mercy is a characteristic of a mature Christian An immature Christian doesn't have a whole lot of mercy, doesn't have a whole lot of compassion or pity for others. But a mature Christian, a growing mature Christian, is very, very compassionate, very, very pitiful, very, very merciful. Alright, so we're working way through. Pure, peaceable, patient, pliable, pitiful. Put this one down, number six, profitable. I get this from the phrase, and good is full of mercy and good fruits. Very profitable. Look at verse 16. Earthly wisdom. Is envying and strife every evil work. That's the fruit. That's what earthly wisdom produces. Heavenly wisdom produces good fruits. Very, very profitable. It's a blessing and a help to people. Heavenly wisdom is incompatible with earthly wisdom. You cannot mix the two. We don't have time. I really wanted to go to Galatians chapter 5. In verse 19 through 21, he gives the works of the flesh. That is the fruit of earthly wisdom. Read down through there sometime. I wish I wish we had time. Read down through there. The works of the flesh. That is what the way thinking, the way the world thinks. That's what you're going to get. That's what's going to produce In verse 22 and 23, you have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, patience, kindness, temperance. And that is what heavenly wisdom produces. Heavenly wisdom prompts one to help and benefit others Alright, I've got to give you a couple more, and then we're going to quit. I know what time it is. Number seven, put this down, impartial. Says without partiality. That has the idea I'm not suspicious of another's motives all the time. I'm not constantly judging that there's selfish motives behind it. I'm fair to them. I don't favor one person over another because of their finances or any physical features they have. I don't favor one person over another because of the color of their hair or the size of their ears or the color of their skin or how what how big their feet are. It's amazing. It's amazing to me how we judge people because of physical features they have no control over. As a Christian, I am to interact with people based on their character, not their physical features. And whether their skin is red or yellow, black and white, whether their hair is red or brunette or blonde or missing I'm not partial. And anything that factors in, uh characteristic of that person that they have no control over, whenever that factors in, I know I'm not thinking heavenly wisdom, I'm thinking earthly wisdom. You follow what I'm saying? I wish I could expand on that. Number eight, and this is the last one, uh heavenly wisdom, I and I put this down, is positive Without hypocrisy. Without hypocrisy, and by positive I mean it's the real deal. It, this test, this battery test, positive. It's good Everything it claims to be. It's without hypocrisy. Hey, God's wisdom never is a show. Never puts on a show. If I've got to put on a show, If I've got to put on an act to be acceptable, that's part of my thinking. I've got to put on this show, I've got to put on this act. If that's part of my thinking, I'm not thinking heavenly wisdom, I'm using earthly wisdom. It's not fake, it's unfeigned, genuine, and sincere, does not pretend to be something I'm not. There's no show. Now, here's what some people say. I've had people say this: all right, preacher, well then I'm just gonna be the way I am. I've got a hot temper, I'll just be that way. I uh you know, I just say things, I don't care how people think. Well if that's the way you are, then you ain't right Be what you are, but get right. Amen? That's what orders are for. That's what the conviction of the Holy Spirit is. That's what prayer and decision making is. Say, well, I'll just be what I am. Well you Better make sure you're right, or everybody's gonna know you're not right. But genuine wisdom, heavenly wisdom, is positive. It's not it's without hypocrisy In other words, I put this down. More concern about God's approval than man's approval And if I'm worried, listen, and this is sometimes we accuse the teenagers of this, but this I found this is characteristic of all ages. And that is this, worrying more about what people think about me than what uh than what God thinks about me. Hey, do you know preachers fall into that trap? They want their other preachers to think high of them See what they do? They'll exaggerate numbers and they'll exaggerate things and make it look like it's something that's not. Listen, if you didn't have anybody saved in your ministry, just be honest, we didn't have anybody saved. And then work harder and try harder and try and get people saved. We want people saved. Amen. So it doesn't matter what people think. Well, they won't think that we're really great ministry. Well, maybe we're not. Maybe we need to get right with God. You see what I'm saying? It's not hypocrisy. It's not putting on a show. But it's sincerely wanting to be right with God. And whatever it takes, whatever it's right. I like the words to this song, have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Thou art the potter, I am the clay. Mold me and make me after thy will while I'm yielding, waiting, yielded and still. Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way. Hold o'er my being absolute sway. Fill with thy spirit till all shall see. Christ only always Living in me. That's heavenly wisdom. That's heavenly wisdom. We could preach a sermon on each one of those characteristics. I hope this helps us. I hope this puts a desire, a thirst in our hearts To have wisdom from above and prompt us to seek it, to desire it, to fear God, pray for it and pursue it. So that I can live and think the way God saved me and created me to live and think. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless. Try to squeeze all this in here tonight. I ask you you would use it to challenge us and help us that we would as a church body and as individuals have our minds re have our lives retransformed by the renewing of our minds, that we would have heavenly wisdom. And that these characteristics would be true in our thinking and in our conversation, our lifestyle. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, that there's some here this evening to say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit, that's quite a list. Eight characteristics God's Holy Spirit touched on my heart. As you went down through that list, God's Spirit, touch on my heart. There's areas that need attention. I need heavenly wisdom. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, Spirit of God's touch on my heart. I want God. How many like this would say, Preacher I really believe my heart, I'm willing to do what I need to do to get that wisdom. I really want to. Seek the Lord. Pray. Do what I need to do. How many would say, preacher, I really want that wisdom? And I believe I know my heart and I'm willing to let God do whatever I need to do. Uh show me whatever I need to do to get that. God bless you, hands all around. Let me ask this real quick. Is there anyone here this evening says, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. There's only one way to escape hell. It's by trusting Jesus as Savior. The wisest thing a person could ever do is to accept Jesus as their personal Savior. And then begin that new life. Is there any like that tonight? Say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'm concerned about it. Pray for me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to know that I've been saved. I'm on my way to heaven. Any at all? Any at all. Now, Father, bless our invitation. I ask, we need you to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.