We're going down through this list that Peter gives these persecuted believers. They've been scattered around. 1 Peter, he addressed them. And he's following up here in 2 Peter. They've been run out of their homes, run out of their communities because of their faith in Christ, their commitment to Jesus Christ. Um many of them have uh were suffered physical beatings, violence, for no other reason than they were disciples of Christ. And so first Peter addresses that he goes through, and second Peter he follows up. They've kind of, my impression in studying these two books is that at 2 Peter, they've kind of, they've been pushed out before. Now they've kind of settled in to these areas where they've uh fled to to flee persecution. And Peter's addressing them as they're establishing new churches and getting settled in and um and going forward and he gives them this list here at the beginning of the book And that's where we've been looking at this. We've been working our way down through this, word by word, literally. And verse number five, he says this, besides this, what he just addressed previously, besides this. Giving all diligence, add to your faith, and then he gives these eight things, or seven things, faith, and then seven others, add to your faith virtue. And to virtue, add to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. And to patience godliness, and to godliness, uh uh, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. So he gives this list. Then the next verse, he gives the reason why we need to do this, why we need to be diligent about incorporating these characteristics in our life. For if these things be in you and abound, they'll make you that you shall be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says they'll make you fruitful in your Christian life. You'll mature Just like a fruit tree matures and it bears fruit, saying that's true spiritually for you and I in our lives So we worked our way down. We're down to the last virtue, the last characteristic that he says is necessary, and that is charity. charity. And that's what I want to talk about a little bit this evening. Let's pray. Father, bless now as we were working our way through this very important book of the Bible I pray you take this one principle, this one truth that Peter gives us, and I pray that you would help us to incorporate this into our spiritual life, our thinking, our living, our actions, our attitudes. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit, Lord, as I always do. I need you to fill me and speak through me. I don't want it to be me up here running my mouth. I want it to be your Holy Spirit teaching us and helping us. So I give you my body anew, Lord, for you to take and use in the next few moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. These are spirit spiritual characteristics that are necessary if I'm going to be a fruitful Christian. Let me ask you a question. I know how you're going to answer, but I think you'll be sincere. How many people here Oh let me ask this first. How many people here you're saved to know it? Say amen. Amen. How many people here as a child of God, as a Christian, a believer, how many here want to be a fruitful Christian? Anybody like that? I do I want to be a fruitful Christian. I want to be mature in my faith and spiritually strong and be able to bear fruit, be a witness. So he gives this list here, and uh I'm looking at this as kind of a ladder to spiritual growth. Spiritual adulthood, you take that one faith, you step up virtue, and then knowledge, and temperance, and then patience. And then uh godliness, and then brotherly kindness, and then charity, kind of working your way up there, kind of a stairway to maturity, not a stairway to heaven It's a stairway to maturity. Now, one thing, sometimes when we study the Bible, it's important to take note of what it does not say as much as what it does say. And notice he does not suggest here, even remotely, that these things are necessary for us to be accepted by God into his presence, into heaven. Anybody know you notice that, right? He's not saying, oh, you've got to have faith in this and this and this to be accepted by God. We're already accepted by God in Christ. And we accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, he makes us acceptable to God. Not one of us have to worry That when we uh as let me put let me qualify that, as a believer in Jesus Christ, not one of us have to worry that when we come to the end of this life, which will happen eventually And we stand before the Lord, we don't have to worry whether He'll accept us or not, because He already does accept us in Christ. So my point I'm trying to make is this is not a list that needs to be in place to be saved. We're saved through our faith in Christ. And also I notice here something that it doesn't say. I notice this list, not one of these is a material object. He doesn't say you have to have a certain amount of money or certain possessions to be a spiritual, mature Christian. Some the Jews, and we don't have time, but we could go back, and the Jews they had the idea that if you were wealthy That if you were what the term we would use, say rich, then obviously God accepts you Obviously you're a good believer, you're a good Jew if you're very wealthy, if you have lots of possessions. And Jesus made the statement, he said It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter heaven. And it's interesting how even the disciples responded to that statement They were astonished, the Bible says, and they said, Who then can be saved? It had been so drilled into their minds, their thinking, that wealth equals spiritual uh health. And Jesus it. But I am so glad I don't have to have a certain number in my bank account before God and I can still be a good Christian even if I don't have a certain amount in my bank account. In fact, some of the most godly people I've ever met in my life were not wealthy, even remotely. By the way, some of the most ungodly people I've met in my life were not wealthy either. Some of the most godly people I've ever met in life were very wealthy. Some of the most ungodly people I've ever met in my life were very wealthy. And the point is this, my spirituality has nothing to do with my wealth or my possessions. And so none of this addresses any material possessions or anything. And so he comes down through here and he gives this list. And as I'm looking over it again, I come to this conclusion. The end game The end game of my spiritual development is not having faith. Now that's part of it, but that's not where spiritual development leads to. The end game of my spiritual development is not my virtue or my knowledge or my temperance or my patience or my godliness, my brotherly kindness. Now those are all part of it, and they need to be in place. But I look at this list, and by the way, I think the chronology of this list, the order it's in, is given by inspiration. There's a purpose to this order. And the end game of my spiritual development, the end game of my spiritual growth, the final end of spiritual maturity is charity. I think that's what it leads to. Add this, and then add this, and then add this, and add this this, and then add charity. And if you have these and it does and it abound, you'll not be unfruitful. I think charity is the end game. I think that is where God's God's ultimate goal for Christians is that we love the way God loves. That we have charity I think the end, God's ultimate goal for you and for me as individual believers, is that we get to the point where we love what God loves. And by the way, that's holiness. To love what God loves, he says we are to love that which is good and hate that which is evil. You know what that is? That's holiness. God is holy. He told us, be ye holy, even as I am holy. And so The ultimate goal for God, you and I, to be a mature Christian, is that we would not just love what God loves. Holiness, but we are to love as God's love, as God loves. And that's charity Not just love what he loves, but love the same way he loves. Charity, charity, holiness and charity. Now here's my outline. I'll give it to you real quick Number one, I want us to consider the excellence of charity. The excellence of charity. The word charity or some form of it is used 116 times in the New Testament. That's pretty significant. It has the idea. Here's the definition, and we've given this numerous times over the years in various messages, but the word charity means this. This is my understanding of the definition is a deliber the deliberate exercise of unconditional love. The deliberate exercise of unconditional love, or the deliberate expression of unconditional love. Charity is not a feeling. Charity is not even an emotion. Charity is much more than even an attitude. Charity is a deliberate course of action. I consciously and deliberately Pursue this course of action that the Bible calls charity. It is a deliberate Course of behavior towards another person. And we talked about this when we studied 1 Corinthians. We got to chapter 13 there, and we're going to be there here in a minute. But charity is more than a feeling. It comes from the word, a lot of us are familiar with the Greek word, and I am not a Greek scholar, but we're familiar with the Greek word agape, unconditional love. To love regardless of the condition of the one being loved. To extend love regardless of whether any love is extended back or not. Unconditional love. But charity, I I believe some of these, I consider them perversions, I think some of these other versions of the Bible make a grave mistake when they replace the word love for charity here, because charity is the expression of that love. And we get that from 1 Corinthians. It's the action, it's how it's displayed. How it's expressed. It's more than simply love, it's unconditional love in action. I want to emphasize that. As I study the Bible, what it teaches about charity in preparation for tonight, I come to the conclusion that charity is the highest form of love possible. I come to the conclusion charity, when he says add to your brotherly kindness, brotherly kindness, charity, he is talking about the purest form of love that is possible, that it that exists. Charity, the expression, the behavior, the actions of unconditional love for another person, how it acts, how it treats that one, how it behaves. Charity is divine love. It is the love of God Expressed in my behavior, in my actions, my words, my treatment of others, the love of God. It's the highest form, purest form of love. Keep your place here where you can. Come over to 1 Corinthians 13. We cannot discuss charity without going to 1 Corinthians 13. I believe 1 Corinthians 13 is the greatest literature in all of history On what genuine, pure, unconditional love is and how it's expressed. It's not just what it is, but how it displays itself. 1 Corinthians 13, if you would notice with me, verse number 13, we're talking about the excellency of charity. Verse 13, he says, Now abideth faith. Would you agree with me in the Christian life, spiritual life, faith is important? Yeah, absolutely. Now abide faith, hope. Now again, that word hope there doesn't mean wishful thinking. It means confidence, assurance, hope, a solid hope. He sang this morning, my anchor. My hope is solid. Would you agree with me that type that hope that he's expressing? Would you agree? That's important in Christian life. Now abide of faith, hope, charity. These uh uh these three. But then he makes this statement. But the greatest of these is charity. The expression, the display, the action Of unconditional love towards others. The excellency of charity. There is no, I am convinced, there is no greater virtue in the Christian life Than to love unconditionally as God loves unconditionally. No greater virtue, no greater virtue. I think that's the end goal. Peter gives this list. He puts charity at the very end of the list. And he says that's that's the pinnacle of Christian virtues. That's the height of Christian development, maturity. to be able to love and express that love and display that unconditional love. The excellency of charity I believe our goal in the Christian life ought to be to develop charity. In fact, Peter said diligently add this. I wonder how many of us, I'm including myself, us, I wonder how many of us ever give conscious thought To whether I'm loving others unconditionally. Wonder if we even think about that Am I expressing charity? Is charity part of my spiritual attributes, characteristics? Do we even ask ourselves that? Do we even consider that? Peter said we need to diligently add this to our spiritual makeup. Take your Bible, if you would. You're in Corinthians here. Now keep 1 Corinthians. Keep your place here because we're going to come back here in just a moment. But come over to Romans chapter number 13. And he makes this statement in verse number eight about love And the word love here in this verse comes from the same word we have charity, so I believe he's including that. But verse 8 he says, owe no man anything. By the way, that would be a good lesson for our young people. I tell you, I've been doing this a long time. So many people, and this is completely off-subject. But so many Christians get themselves so in debt they can't do anything for God And I'm not trying to rebuke anybody, I'm not trying to correct anybody, but I'm just saying, I believe our young people, and this is all subject, but I believe our young people ought to be taught To live without going into death. That's another subject. But he says, oh no man, anything. And again, you can throw that out if you want. Oh, no man anything, but look at this. But to love one another. Then he makes this statement, and it and you have to think about it, it's a pretty significant, it's a pretty Significant statement. For he that loveth, and that word loveth, is the same word we're looking at charity. It's coming from the same word, expression of unconditional love He that loveth another, look at this, hath fulfilled the law In other words, I think he's saying this that expressing, displaying, treating others with unconditional love. Interacting with them and behaving towards them with love that is unconditional is so great And it's so excellent that in doing so, I'm fulfilling all the law. Now, there's a lot there that has to be chewed on. But that's a profound statement. That's a profound statement. The excellency of charity. Number two, I'd like for us to consider the expression. of charity. Now back to 1 Corinthians 13, if you would. Hope you kept that there. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 4. How does this unconditional love How is it expressed? What does it look like when somebody is loving another with charity? What does it look like when somebody is loving another person unconditionally? How does that play out? How is it exercised? How is it expressed? Well, he tells us. Verse four. Charity suffereth long. And is what? Kind. It's kind. Unconditionally kind. Unconditionally patient. Charity envieth not. It maunteth not itself. It's not puffed up. It's not about myself, it's not about me, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked Well I don't know about you. I tell you that that strikes home there a little bit. Anybody hear some somebody says something or does something and man Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like provokes me to get in the flesh, provokes the flesh. Unconditional love, charity expression, doesn't allow that to happen. I don't react. It's not easily provoked. Thinketh no evil. Phew. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the rejoiceth in the truth. Look at this. Beareth all things. believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. Charity is more. Charity is more than donating clothes to goodwill. Anybody can do that. Charity is more than donating blood to Red Cross. Question, is there anything wrong with donating clothes to goodwill? No, there's nothing wrong with that. Is there anything wrong with donating blood to Red Cross? No, there's nothing wrong. I did it for years up until The doctor made me a drug addict again, but um taking medication. That was dumb, nevertheless. I take medication, so I can't give blood anymore is what I'm saying Charity is more than giving turkeys out at Thanksgiving. And I'm all for that. Charity is more than donating jackets to kids in wintertime. And these are all good things. But it's far more than that. It is so deeper, so much deeper than simply these little frivolous, and I don't mean frivolous, but these little external things. You can donate clothes to goodwill and be the most hateful person in town. Right or wrong It's living out the love of God. God is love He's the epitome of love. He's the pinnacle of love. He is love. Unconditional love. And charity is you and I living out that love. That's what the exercise is: God's love. In my daily life. Come to church. Oh, we love everybody. We hug, shake hands, and that's wonderful. Praise the Lord for it. I thank God for the family atmosphere here. But charity doesn't end when we pull off the parking lot. It's expressed in my daily life. In fact, that's where it's tested That's where the reality of it is displayed in my daily life. Let me bring it a little closer. Charity is the expression living out the love of unconditional love of God as described here in my home. Ouch. Why is it? And this is a sincere question I ask myself, I ask all of us. Why do we express love and kindness and patience to total strangers we may never meet again? And yet to the people who are own flesh and blood, people we have committed ourselves to, and we vowed before God that we would love. Till death. And yet those we have such a hard time being kind and patient and loving to. Why is that? Because it's easy to love a total stranger for ten minutes. But to unconditionally love somebody that I share my life with, that is a challenge. Right or wrong? So he says, add to your brotherly kindness. And we got brotherly kindness. That's good. We need it and that's fine. But charity is a whole nother level. To even in my daily life, even in my home life, even at work. You say, if you knew my foreman, Well, God knows your foreman, and he says we're supposed to love him unconditionally. Be kind and gracious. In the community. Charity is how I think. It's how I think about others, the way I see them. It affects how I value other people. It's how I treat other people, that's obvious. How I speak to other people. The words I use, the things I, the subjects I bring up Can I say this? It even affects the the tone of my voice. Not just what we say, but how we say communicates a lot. Am I right or wrong? Charity is the unconditional, pure, absolute, pure love of God. Being lived out in my life. You say, preacher, that's in that's that's a tall order. How in the world Do we as sinful, selfish human beings, how in the world do we possibly love as God loves? How do we do that? I want to suggest to you it's humanly impossible. And that brings me to my final thought is the expectation of charity. Look, are you still in 1 Corinthians? Look at verse 1, chapter 13. Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not charity, I'm become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. It's meaningless. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and have though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I'm what? I'm nothing. Though I bestow my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body be burned, and have not charity, it profits me nothing. That is a call of God to his people. You need to have charity. It's a call of God to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You must develop this virtue of charity. If you don't, everything you're doing is nothing. That's what he says. The expectation of God for us to love unconditionally. All through the Gospels, Jesus pressed this on his disciples. And again, if we had another hour, we could go through the Gospels and over and over and over and over the Lord Press this to his disciples. Let me just give you a couple. Matthew chapter 5, very quickly. And the quicker you listen, the quicker I'll finish up here. I said that in love. Matthew chapter 5, look at verse 44. This is Jesus pressing on his disciples. Now listen to this. How many people here you would consider yourself a disciple of Jesus Christ? Anybody? I would like to consider myself a disciple. Not just a believer, a disciple of Christ. Now this is what he's telling us Verse 43, you have heard that it's been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. Alright, we have no problem with that. But look what he says, verse 44. But I say unto you, talking to the disciples. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that what? Hate you. Pray for them, which despitefully use you and persecute you. He's pressing on the disciples the expectation of having charity, displaying charity. That's what verse 44 is describing charity. Come over to John chapter 13 real quickly. And I'm winding down, so trust me. John chapter 13 And verse number 34, if you would. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John thirteen. Look at verse 34. He says, um, a new commandment I give unto you, talking to his disciples. You and me. A new commandment I give unto you. It's a commandment that ye love one another. Look at this. I circled the next word in my Bible. That ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. That's charity. That's the unconditional love of God that He's shown me And he says, uh now you love one another that same way, the same way. That means your spouse, that means your parents, that means your children, that means your brother, you mean your sister, that means the neighbor, that means the church member, that means Everybody. That ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Look at verse 35. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. Now think about that list that Peter gave us. He doesn't say by this shall all men know you're my disciples, if you have faith. And say, by this Shaw'am and know you're my disciples if you have virtue, or knowledge, or temperance, or patience, or godliness, or brotherly kindness, he says, By this Shaw'omen, know you're my disciples if you have what? Love one to another. It's the same word that the word charity comes from. Love one to another Charity is the result of the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life. If you would come, and I'm winding down, but come to me, come with me to Romans chapter 5. I know we're jumping around a bunch, but I want you to see it. Romans chapter 5. By the way, while you're turning there, 1 Peter, in 1 Peter, he told the believers that he's writing to that they should have fervent charity among themselves. So there's an expectation on God's part that you and I love one another like what we've just defined, what we've described here. And the question is, how in the world can I possibly do that? I'm not capable in and of myself to love somebody to that degree, that that high a level of love. I'm not capable of loving with the pure Love of God, I'm not capable. Look at Romans chapter 5 and notice with me verse 5. And hope maketh not ashamed. Look at this, because the love unconditional The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. You know what Paul's saying to the Roman believers and to you and I through Scripture? He's saying that you and I do have the capability. Of loving, even as God does. It's in the person of the Holy Spirit that dwells within us. That capability is there. The possibility that, yes, we can. One more passage and I'll quit. Come to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter five And Galatians 5, I think, is one of the very important chapters for every Christian to be familiar with. Talks about the works of the flesh up there in verse numbers 17 down through 21. And they're very ugly. And then verse 22, he meant, he addresses the fruit of the Spirit, the Holy Spirit that dwells within me. That is God, God Himself, in the purse of the Holy Spirit, He's in me And that love of God is shed abroad in my heart. How is it shed abroad? Look at verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit, what is the very first fruit of the Spirit? Love. Unconditional. It's the same word. Unconditional love of God. Say, preacher, how do I love unconditionally? This is my suggestion. I die to self. Paul talks about mortifying the deeds of the flesh. He said, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And what I do is I consciously put myself aside and I say, Lord, I yield myself to you. I want you to love this person through me. Now that's not easy. Dying to self is not an easy thing. Anybody here ever try to die to self? It's like, oh, die, die, die. The flesh has a hard time crucifying the flesh. Paul uh Lester Rawls said the most difficult funeral he ever does is his own funeral every morning when he gets up in the morning and just died of self. Let the Lord fill me and use me. I've said this ten million times. The Christian life is not something you and I can work up. It's a supernatural life of God. In us. And as we yield ourselves and die to self and get myself out of the way and say, Holy Spirit, love this one through me. Love this person through me. In my home, in my work, in my community. We talk about missions. We're going on mission trips. I don't think a missionary now hear me out before you react, and then I'm going to quit I don't think a missionary ought to go to the mission field because he loves the people on the mission field. I don't think a teacher ought to teach a class because they love the students. I think your teacher ought to teach a class, a bus worker ought to bus work a bus route, a missionary ought to go to the mission field because they love God. And when I love God with all my heart, my soul, my strength, my mind, then God enables me to love my neighbor. As myself. Then God loves that class. God loves those people through me. Through me. You follow what I'm saying? The greatest virtue in the Christian life, I'm convinced, is greater than moral excellence, and that is important. Greater than knowledge of the Word of God, that's important. But is charity. Charity. To love those above. Oh, uh let me start that again. To love, to live above with the saints we love Oh, that will be glory. But to live below with the saints we know, now that's another story. Let's ask God to teach us to love with charity. Amen? Let's ask God to fill us with His Spirit, get us out of the way, and love this old sinful, wretched, hate-filled world with unconditional love of God. Back in our homes, in our workplaces, in our community. Father, I pray you take this challenge. And Holy Spirit of God, stir our hearts, put a hunger in our hearts. To love even as you love us in Jesus' name. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, how many people would join me in saying, preacher, I need that? I'm working toward I want that to be true in my life, to love unconditionally. Anything like that, God bless you, hands all around. I want that. I want that. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.