James chapter number three, I'd like for us uh to read together, if you will, verse number seventeen. James chapter three, verse seventeen will be our text. We're look at most of this passage here to some extent, but verse 17 is where I want to focus in on. Would you read it with me? Chapter 3, verse 17, altogether. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. I want to talk this morning a little bit on the characteristics of a wise man. The characteristics of a wise man. Or we could maybe title it this way: how to know if I'm a wise man. Evidence. That would show me to be a wise man. So let's pray, and we'll look at this here and see what God's Word says about this. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity we have to assemble together here in your name as a church body. And I'm so grateful for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, how you've blessed us as was sung this morning by the Heinball family, the choir. You sure have blessed us, Lord. And we thank you and we praise you for it. And I ask now, with our Bibles open before us, I ask that your Holy Spirit, the author of these of your Bible, that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and we would see how these truths These scriptural principles here, how they apply to our lives. Lord, where we have need. God show us what adjustments maybe we need to make. Maybe we need to alter our thinking about some things. God, put holy desires in our heart. Desires for you and to please you and to be what you've created us, designed us to be. Lord, I can't do that. God, I can't I have nothing of myself to offer of any spiritual, eternal value. So Lord, it has to come from you. And so I yield my mind to you that you would guide my thinking as we go through this message. You would guide Guard my words, that they would be what you would have me say. I present my body and pray your Holy Spirit that indwells me would fill me now And Lord, that you would speak through me your word and help us this morning to grow in our understanding and our desire to please you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I was saved in 1979, as most of you know my story very well. I was so captivated. about this Christian life. I don't know how else to describe it. I was just enthralled by this new life God had given to me. And it happened so suddenly And uh reading the Bible, I was it was just uh an amazing book to me. I'd read it, just devour it. And um I came across the book of James. Early in my Christian life, and I was very ignorant of the Bible. I'd been to Sunday school as a child and was taught a a lot, but I'd lost it all. And I came across this book of James, and it just fascinated me. And I would read James over and over and over. In fact, very early on in my Christian life, I I attempted to memorize the entire book of James. I'd not done that for any other book of the Bible. I was memorizing. Early in my Christian life started memorizing scripture, trying to And I wanted to memorize the book of James, and I got a good way into it. Then I went off to college and um and then that kind of took over, and I never got the whole thing memorized But what I'm saying is the book of James is a tremendous book of the Bible. Now, all scriptures given by inspiration, right? See if anybody knows what I'm I mean by this, but sometimes there's certain passages that just take on more significance sometimes than others. You know what I'm talking about And for me, the book of James was one of those. And there's others in the scripture too. Someone has said that the book of James Is very similar to the Old Testament Book of Proverbs, except James is dressed up in New Testament clothes. I like that statement. I altered it a little bit. James is very similar to the book of Proverbs, except James is dressed up in its Sunday clothes. It's the New Testament version of the Old Testament book of Proverbs in many ways. And so as you if if you would take the time and pay very careful attention, and we preached through James a number of years ago, verse by verse through the whole thing. And as you go through the book of James, you pick up two emphasis, two things that are emphasized in the book of James. One, the first, is very, very obvious One of the emphases that James, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, records in his book, that's named after him, is the practical the practical aspect of the Christian life. It's a very practical book. There's not a lot of theology. In the book of James. Now there is some there. We could go through, and it's obviously there. It's all the Word of God, so we learn about God. Theology, the word theology means the study of God And so obviously we are going to learn things about God. But there's not a lot of theology, not like the book of Romans or Galatians, Ephesians are just chopped full. Of theology, teaching about God. James is more, here's the term I coined for it. Not a lot of theology, but there's a lot of liveology. In the book of James. The study of how to live the life of faith. Geology, the study of God. Livology By the way, how many people think that's a pretty clever word that I came up with? I love it. I was waiting all week just to use, say that word, introduce that word to the world. Livology. And James emphasizes how we are to live out our faith in God We learn of God, we understand who he is, what he's like, what he expects, his plans, his purposes. We learn of God through theology, and then James says, okay. This is how you live in response to that. Because God is this, because God's plan is this, then this is how you live. It's a very practical book, is what I'm trying to say Everyday living. He says to us, we learn in the book of James, and you work your way through it, that genuine faith in God Has a profound effect upon how we live our lives. In fact, I want to show you a verse here in a moment. He says very emphatically That regardless of what I say with my lips, it is my life, it's how I'm living my life that betrays The reality or the absence of faith in my life. In other words, I can say I have faith till the cows come home. Whatever that means. I can say, I can say, I can say, I can say. But James points out, you know, the evidence of your faith isn't so much by What you say about it, it's how you're living your life. Come over to chapter two with me. Here this is what I'm getting at Verse number 18. Now notice that there's some words here that you have to pay attention to. Yea, a man may what? Say. I circled that in my Bible. A man may say, thou hast faith, and I have works. Okay, that's what he's saying. Then the next word he says, Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith and I have works. What's that next word? Show me thy faith without thy works. And the obvious response to that is what? You can't. This guy's saying, Oh yeah, you got all this faith, yeah, I got what okay, you got you say you got faith Show me, prove to me, give evidence of your faith without Without anything in your life. And he's saying you can't. Just saying it is meaningless. Then he goes on. He says, Show me thy faith without thy works. And I will show thee my faith. What's that next little word? She catch what he's saying there? He's saying faith in God, genuine, actual faith, and trust In God Almighty, in the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior, believing that what He says about Himself is so, what the Bible teaches us about God is true. And his expectations, his promises, his warnings, genuine faith in that Is not displayed or proven by what I say, but how I live my life. Livology. James is tremendously practical, and through the whole book he's saying this is how faith behaves. This is how faith deals with trials and difficulties. This is how faith deals with temptation. Later on, this is how faith reacts to treasures. He talks about riches. This is how faith treats other people. It's an intensely practical book. And so one of the emphasis in the book of James is the practical aspect of the Christian life, how it's lived out. The second emphasis, and that's what we're going to focus on in the next few moments, is the importance of wisdom in life. Wisdom in light. All through their history, God Drilled into the minds of the Hebrews, Israel, God drilled into their minds the importance of being wise. Not being foolish, but being wise. Right from the get-go, Israel had to deal with vicious enemies In fact, they were born in in some respects they were born out of the intense oppression and and uh uh and hardships of slaves in Egypt. That was The womb they were born out of, so to speak. And throughout their history they had a they were surrounded as they are today. And again, Brother Ossi pointed out very profoundly All through their history, they were surrounded by enemies that hated them bitterly for no other reason than the fact that they were the people of God. Now, granted, sometimes they acted stupid and they brought stuff on themselves, like we all do. But for the most part, the Philistines, the Canaanites, the Moabites And um the termites, all of them. Were They were surrounded by bitter enemies that hated them and wanted them no pun intended exterminated And if and if Israel was not wise, they were going to be exterminated. If they played the fool, and they did on occasion, were it not for God's intervention, they would not exist today. If it wasn't for God's covenant with them, God's promises, they wouldn't exist today. But God over and over and over and over and over drilled into them, you have got to be wise. You can't play the fool, or you're going to pay a heavy price. In Proverbs chapter 4 and verse number 7, Proverbs chapter 4 is tremendous, one of the great chapters in my mind. And God says this to the people of Israel. He says, wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. That phrase, the principal thing, has the idea, wisdom is the most important thing. That has to be in place for all the other aspects of life to be in place. If you're going to be safe, If you're going to be secure, if you're going to prosper, if you're going to have God's blessings, if you're going to have God's leadership in your life, if you're going to have Peace in your heart and fulfillment in your life You have got to be wise. You've got to have wisdom. In fact, it was so important for Israel to understand the importance of wisdom and to be wise. God gave a whole book. The book of Proverbs that focuses on wisdom. And it's a book of contrast. Here's what a wise man does, here's what a fool does. Here's how a wise man behaves. This is how a fool behaves. And so James picks that up here in the New Testament And he emphasizes the importance of wisdom for the New Testament church. Can I say this? Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must be wise. In our handling of issues, in our ministries, in the direction we go and what we emphasize And what we invest ourselves in, our lives, our energies, our treasures, our finances, we must be wise. Because there are enemies of the church that are just as real in 2025 as there were enemies of Israel back when they came out of Egypt. And if we're foolish, if a church is foolish, a church will lose the blessings of God, will lose the direction of God, will lose the presence of God. And we have to have God's presence. We have to have God's blessing. We have to have God's power. And we cannot have that if we're foolish. We must be wise. And so James picks that emphasis to the Jews in the Old Testament. James picks that same emphasis up and applies it to the church. And by the way, what's true for the church is true for us as individual believers. I've got to be wise as a husband, as a father. I can't play the fool. There's a heavy price to pay. When we act foolish and we play the fool. And so wisdom, wisdom. If you would come back to chapter one. He in fact he starts the whole His whole book off here. The whole book of James begins with that emphasis. Chapter 1, I'll begin reading in verse 2. He's talking about trials dealing with difficulties and trials. He calls the word he used the word temptation here. It's not it would include that, but it's it's not limited that word there in this context isn't limited just being enticed to do sin to do evil. It's talking about any kind of trial, testing, difficulty And he says, this, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, or trials, you could say, knowing this. That the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect. That word perfect means complete, mature. Not sinless, but ye may be perfect, complete, ensure, entire, wanting nothing. Okay, how do I do that? How do I get this patience? How do I want to be mature? I want to be everything God wants me to be. I want my home to be the home God designed, intends for it to be. I want my church to be the church that God designed and intends for our church to be. But there's trials, there's temptations, there's difficulties. How do I know how to handle them? How can I have that? He tells us in verse 5. If any of you lack what? Wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not. God's not going to abrade you, rebuke you for wanting wisdom. He wants us to have it. He wants to give us wisdom and he wants to give it to us very liberally, generously. And it shall be given him. Then he goes on and expands on that. So if we look at the book of James, we find this great emphasis on wisdom. Not being foolish, being wise, making wise decisions. And again, if you would notice there in verse number five. Wisdom comes from God. He says, where do I get this w? Well, I'm going to go up to the Bible college and I'm going to get wisdom. Well I get I'm gonna buy this book and it'll then I'll be wise if I read this book. You can read all the books in the world and still be a fool. In fact, some of them you read you'll be even more foolish Wisdom doesn't come from a book. It doesn't come from a classroom. It comes from God. Let him ask of God. God gives us wisdom. It is made clear all through Scripture. If you would, keep your place here, because we're going to come back to chapter 3. But I'd like to show you a verse in Proverbs real quick. If you would, if you just go right to the smack dab middle of the Bible, you're going to most likely hit Psalms. When you hit Psalms, just go page back to the next book after Psalms and you hit Proverbs. And again, this Proverbs is the wisdom book of the Bible, particularly the Old Testament. Chapter 2, Proverbs chapter 2. Look at verse 6. If we had time, I'd like to talk down through the first six, seven verses here, but we don't have time. But he's telling us how to get wisdom the first few verses. In verse number 5 and 6, we find out where wisdom comes from. First four verses, he tells us how to get it. Verse 5, 6, and 7 he tells us where it comes from. Look at verse 5. Then, if you do what the first four verses say, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Look at this. For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Verse 7, for he layeth up, God layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He is a buckler. Now that word buckler has the idea of a hedge of protection around He, God, is a buckler, a protection, a hedge to them that walk uprightly. But he says here, the Lord giveth wisdom, the Lord giveth wisdom. James chapter 1, verse 5. Let him ask of God Who giveth all men liberally if you want wisdom? So wisdom comes from God. And again, we don't have time to expound on it, but If I do right, trust God, ask him, ask God for wisdom, and do right. Do what he says. God says, I can have this wisdom that I so desperately need, that he emphasizes so much. Now, back in James chapter 3, if you would, He references, we see in Scripture that true wisdom comes from God. True wisdom. And like just about everything, just about everything God does. Satan comes up with a counterfeit. A counterfeit. In Isaiah, I think it's chapter fourteen, Satan In his rebellion against God, he makes this statement, he says, I will be like the Most High In other words, whatever authority God has, I want to have that authority. Whatever influence God has, I want that influence. Whatever glory God gets, I want that glory. So Satan is the master counterfeiter. And just about everything that God does and God produces, Satan Seeks to counterfeit it. The only problem is all of Satan's counterfeits are severely flawed They never live up to what God does. All of Satan's counterfeits will fail. Do you ever go do you ever go to uh the store and you give them a large bill, maybe a a hundred dollar bill or something, and what do they do? They get a special marker out. What do they do? I put a little marker there. Uh why? They're checking for counterfeit. They want to see if it's legit counterfeit. And I'm not sure how that works. I've never done I've never given anybody a $100 bill. Ed told me he does it all the time and he said they gives out hundred dollar bills everywhere. And uh he said they do that. Now I don't know how that all plays out, but I do know this If it's a counterfeit, it doesn't get the job done. And I'm here to tell you, all of Satan's counterfeits fall short They fail. They lead to ruin. God says, the Bible says that God has available for his people wisdom. True, genuine, actual, legitimate, bona fide wisdom. We can get that from God. Satan comes along. Ooh, I got wisdom too. Come over here. Do you ever see the these guys in the big cities? They'll sell Rolodexes. You know, like a like a $4,000 watch, I'll give it to you for 15 bucks, man. That ain't no it ain't real. What? I don't I I have no idea what I'm talking about. But anyway. I'm trying to illustrate a point. That's the thing I hate about Google, everybody oh Roller Dux, go Google it real quick. That's the little things, yeah. I tell you, it's one of those days. So Satan So Satan comes up saying, oh God has wisdom, hey. I got wisdom too. My wisdom's a whole lot easier than God's wisdom. And James describes this wisdom, this counterfeit wisdom that Satan offers. Come there in chapter 3. And look at verse 13. Pastor Matt read this a little bit ago. Who was a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Good question. Let him show out of good works, out of good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. There's that practicality aspect we were talking about. This is how it's lived. This is how you show it But, verse 14, but if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not. And lie not against the truth. Don't tell me you got wisdom. If that's characteristic of you, is what he's saying. This wisdom that produces bitter envying and strife in your hearts, your home, your work, your church. This wisdom descendeth not from above. In other words, it's not from who? It's not of God. Not this wisdom isn't And he goes on. But this wisdom is earthly sensual Devilish. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. What he's describing here is this earthly wisdom. This is the wisdom that's not from above. It's not of God. It's devilish. It is Satan's counterfeit to God's wisdom. In other words, Satan is the great deceiver. In other words, what he's saying here is it is possible for Satan to make a person think that they are very, very wise When in reality they do not have the wisdom of God. You say, well, how do you know? Well, he describes what this earthly wisdom is, this devilish wisdom is And he cat he just gives like a bullet list here. So this, this, this, this, this, this, this. So I can come to this checklist and say, all right, I'm I think I'm pretty wise guy, I'm pretty smart, I'm I'm wise? Alright, let's look at this list. And w how does it match up? He points out here, and again, this isn't what I want to em focus on this morning, but this wisdom that's earthly, that's not of God, It's temporal wisdom. It's very temporary. You know, it'll get you by. You cross over that river into eternity and stand before God. This wisdom is going to come up short. The judgment of God is going to take the marker and mark it and say, unacceptable. Right? It's temporal. It's selfish. This wisdom is very good at promoting myself. It's very good at pleasing myself. Indulging myself knows how to manipulate things, knows how to work people and work things so I can get what I want. Very good at that, very wise At pleasing self. Sinful. It's counterfeit, as we said. It's corrupt. Sensual. It all has to do with the flesh. It all has to do with promoting myself, getting ahead, prospering in this world, materialism and humanism and pleasure. I tell you, people can be very, very quote-unquote wise in this world in getting ahead, in getting what they want. Promoting their agenda, pleasing their flesh, and become very successful in that realm. But it's not of God. And it doesn't stand. And it produced, it's condemned. Notice what it produces there, verse 16, for where any strife is, where this wisdom is, there's confusion and every evil work. Look at society, and you see what earthly, Satan's earthly counterfeit wisdom produces. We're one planet in this um uh uh incomprehensible universe. And God made one planet and packed it full of people. It's packed full of people And we fight, and we war, we kill, and we rape, and we steal, and we hate, and we cuss That is the wisdom that Satan produ that's the results of Satan's wisdom. You follow me? And so there's this counterfeit wisdom out here. And we see it in Hollywood and politics. In the media and business world, academic world, where people know how to work things, know how to manipulate things, and man, they can be so successful in things that have absolutely no eternal value, no spiritual benefit. And when it's all said and done, they come up empty. Jesus put it this way. What shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world? That's earthly wisdom. I know how to gain this whole world. What should a prophet a man he gains the whole world and lose his own what? Soul. You know what Jesus is saying? That's a fool. Forfeits his soul for earthly gain. That's a bad deal, amen. So everything God does, God has wisdom, genuine, legit, that is good for us, that benefits us, that has eternal value. Brings glory to God is for the good of others. And Satan comes along and counterfeits that. And Satan's counterfeits, as I said, come up short every single time. So, verse 17, he tells us what the characteristics of a genuinely wise man is. The characteristics of a man that has God's wisdom, that has received and gained and is and is operating by God's wisdom. And he tells us what those characteristics are. I need to give them to you very quickly. Number one, the first thing I notice. Characteristic of a wise man, it is godly. If a man or a woman, whatever, but just using that term, if a man Has wisdom from above. The wisdom that God has, the very first characteristic, he's going to be a godly man. She's going to be a godly woman. If I have God's wisdom, if a person has God's wisdom, they're going to be a godly teenager. They're going to be a godly senior citizen. Notice what he says in verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above is, what's the next word? First pure First! I got did a study on that word first, like I do in all the words. Word first means this highest rank. It means this. If something is first, in the sense of the word as it's used here, it means everything else is secondary to this. He says the wisdom that is from above from God is first and foremost It's godly. It's pure. It's godly. Every other characteristic is secondary to that. You can have, I can have, all the other characteristics of wisdom from above that are listed here. But if I don't have purity, if I'm not pure Then all those, then I'm not wise. You say, well, I got all these other characteristics, I just don't have that one. Then you're not wise. Because the wisdom that is from above is first highest rank, everything else is secondary, pure. A wise man is a godly man A wise woman is a godly woman. That's what the wisdom from above produces. It's the chief characteristic of a wise man. What does it mean to be pure? It means morally clean. It means uncontaminated by sin and unbelief. It means to be free from anything that is impure. If you get a glass of water and they say it's a pure, this is pure water, it means there are no what in it? No impurities. There's no contaminants in it. And God says the wisdom that is from above is pure. There's no sin. God's wisdom will never lead me to sin. God's wisdom doesn't. Now I'm not saying we're sinless. We still got an old nature that kind of is a That is attracted to Satan's worthy, worldly wisdom. We still have that spiritual warfare. But when I'm operating under the wisdom of God, I'll be pure. I'll be pure. It means to be without any area of my life where I'm living in disobedience to the clear, revealed will of God. God's wisdom always leads me to the center of God's will. And the center of God's will is always godly. Godly. A wise man takes sin very seriously. And he does what is necessary to forsake it and avoid it. A man that has the wisdom from above, the wisdom that God gives, takes sin very seriously, and he does what he needs to do. To guard and shield himself from any area of my life where I'm living outside of the revealed will of God. Godliness and purity are the chief characteristics of a wise man. Proverbs 20, verse 1, just put this. Says, Wine is a mocker And strong drink is raging, and he that is deceived who is deceived thereby is not wise. He's saying in this area, speaking of alcoholic type drinks, you indulge in that, you're not wise. You're not operating under the wisdom of God. It is foolish to drink. I mean not drink water, you know, iced tea. It's foolish to drink alcoholic beverages. You say, well, yeah, well what about uh it's foolish. Don't be foolish. I don't I I've been doing this for a long time. I've worked with people that have destroyed their lives. I've worked with people who have been very, very successful in their Christian life Very spiritually prosperous, not materially, but spirit I've seen people that have destroyed their lives. And not one time in all my years of experience have I saw one person where alcoholic drink made them a better Christian. Not one time. Never one time have I seen it make a a marriage a stronger marriage. I've seen it destroy thousands and thousands and thousands of lives And homes and children. He says, whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. So what am I saying? I'm saying this. Wisdom leads me to godliness, to purity, morally clean, uncontaminated by sin. I can have all other characteristics of godly wisdom in place, but if I'm not pure in my heart and in my mind and in my body, I'm not a wise man. Solomon, we are told in Scripture, was the wisest man that ever lived. God used him, record Proverbs. God gave him supernatural wisdom. But there came a point in Solomon's life where he forfeited the wisdom of God. And he began operating under earthly wisdom. Read the book of Ecclesiastes. It's a testimony of Solomon transitioning from a life of the wisdom of God to to a life of earthly wisdom and he destroyed himself. He destroyed himself Well I'm running out of time. Oh, I've got so many scriptures. Proverbs again we go there pro Solomon himself And I'm putting this in my own words. I'm not quoting exactly because we're not turning there, but he's in chapter 6 of Proverbs, he said, a man that commits adultery Lacketh understanding. You know what he's saying? A man that commits adultery is a fool. He's operating under foolish wisdom, earthly wisdom Well I'd be happier if I had hers. She said I'd be happier if I had him. Man if I could just indulge this pleasure. Man, if I can just indulge in this, if I can just partake of that boy that God says that man lacks understanding. That man lacks wisdom. Biblical wisdom. A wise man is first and foremost characterized by godliness, purity, purity. I read about a fellow that walked. Get this. He walked from New York City to Los Angeles. Walked! What is that? 3,000 miles? Something like that? Dave, you know. 3,000 miles, I think. He didn't drive, he didn't ride a bike, he didn't go in a go-kart, didn't have an electric bicycle. He walked. I don't know how long it took him. And so they interviewed him after he did it. He had some cause he was promoting And after he did it, they said, what was the most difficult part about walking from New York to uh Los Angeles? I bet and somebody said, I'll bet the mountains, going through the Rocky Mountains, oh, that must have been tough. He goes, Yeah, it wasn't that bad though. So what about the desert? All that there, you got out west, and they're going through all this. I'll bet that was hard. He goes, no, that wasn't hard. They said, well what was the hardest part about walking from New York to Los Angeles? He said the hardest part was the little pebbles that got in my shoe. And the sand and the gravel would get in my shoe. And that was the most difficult part. And I'm here to tell you, what will ruin our lives are the little sins that we let in our life. And we tolerate them and we try to live for God and we try and serve God, but we have these little areas of impurity. That we tolerate and we excuse and we justify and we ignore, and we're not wise. We're not wise. So the first characteristic of a wise man is he's godly. Number two, I'm out of town. Let me give you this, he's gracious. He's gracious. Look again here at verse 17. And I'll just buzz down through this. He said, first it's pure. What's the word after pure? Then Alright, he's godly. When I get wisdom from above, first thing that's going to take place, I'm going to start living a godly life. I'm going to put things in place the way God wants them to be. I'm going to start living the way God designed me to live. Then he's going to be very gracious. Look what he says. Then peaceable. The word peaceable means it means to have to be in harmony. It has the idea of effectively, actively working towards having peace, people getting along. Two primary ways. When I have God's wisdom, I can live my life in such a way and behave in such a way that I help people get along with each other. When a man's ways please the Lord, even his enemies are at peace with him. Helping pe people have peace one another. Jesus said, blessed are the peacemakers Some people, did you ever notice some people when they walk in a room or they get in a crowd, fights immediately break out. Everywhere they go, there's strike. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I mean, no matter, they'll be there ten minutes, and lo and behold, there's an argument that breaks out. That's not biblical wisdom. Now I'm not saying there's not a place to stand up and there's not a place to contend. There is. But the characteristics of a wise man, he is peaceful. He helps people get along And not only does he help people get along with one another, he helps people get along with God. The greatest need of our world, the greatest need of mankind. It's not scientific advancement. It's not revolutionary governments. The greatest need of mankind is to have our sins forgiven That's the issue. And a wise man is able to take people and introduce them to the Prince of Peace, the Lord Jesus Christ. Put their faith and trust in Him, they find forgiveness of sins, and they're made one with God. Proverbs puts it this way: He that winneth souls Is wise. He's peaceable. I want our church to be wise. I want this wisdom. And by the way, if the pastor doesn't have it, the church is never going to have it, right? The leadership doesn't have it, the church is never going to have it. And so we need God's wisdom so we can operate, be one, and a family, and love each other, and work with each other, and cooperate and help and bless each other. And I think we have that. But also to bring others to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Are you with me? So it's peaceable. I've got to go down It's gentle, that means very gracious, kind, and patient. A wise man is a gentle man. Gracious. Easily entreated, he says there. Easy to be entreated. It means approachable. He's reasonable. You can come and talk to him. He's not arrogant and hard-headed He's considerate of others. He listens. He's again he's teachable. He's open to correction. He does not know it all. He's full of mercy. The word full means filled to the top, no room for anything else, saturated with mercy. That's compassionate forgiveness. It's showing sympathy. It's caring about others. It's not reacting in retribution. Somebody treated me unjust. Oh yeah? That's not biblical wisdom. It's full of mercy. Give people the benefit of the doubt. Good fruits. That's pleasant behavior, actions that bless people and help and encourage others A wise man is a help, kind, helpful, he's a blessing. An unkind man is an unwise man. Without partiality, it means he doesn't vazilate. He's secure in his standing with God, regardless of who he's around. His convictions, he's not a chameleon He's what he is. He's right with God, and he's confident in his standing with God. And it doesn't matter whether it's a king or a pauper, he doesn't change. A wise man is kind and gracious to everybody. And then number one, he's godly. Number two, he's gracious. Number three, I'll end. He's genuine. Look at the last part of verse number 17. It says, without partiality, when you look at that, and without hypocrisy. Without hypocrisy. He's not pretending to be something he's not. Faith is gen his faith in God is genuine. It's not just a show. It's not just something he talks about. It's not something he puts on Sunday morning and takes off Sunday afternoon. His faith is genuine, his love is sincere, his convictions are heartfelt. The wisdom from above, the wisdom that God gives is very different than the wisdom. of this world. Earthly wisdom. Jesus, God said in 1 Corinthians 3. 19, the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. Wisdom. Wisdom. Wisdom is the ability to see others and see life from God's perspective. To see beyond today, see what the consequences of my actions will be tomorrow. The actions I take today, if I'm wise, I can see how I'm going to have to live with those actions tomorrow and I behave accordingly. Say, preacher, how do I get this wisdom from above? We don't have time I'll just say this. Number one, fear God. Fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Reverence God, respect God, trust Him, and do what He says. Fear God. And number two, ask him. He said, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. Ask God. God, I need your wisdom. Show me what to do. Help me, empower me to do it. Provide that which I need to do your will. God, I need your wisdom. I need your wisdom. I cannot have the wisdom of God without the word of God. God, I need your wisdom, what to do. Right here it is. You read and study it. This book is the wisdom of God. Right there. Let's pray. Father, I pray you take these thoughts. Lord, I don't want to be a fool, Lord. I don't want to play the fool in this world and get to heaven and find out I was a fool. God, I don't want our church to be foolish. This pastor, I know our members, we don't want our church to be foolish. We need wisdom I pray you'd help each and every one of us to desire the wisdom from above. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, I'm saved? I know God has saved me, there's no doubt And I need God to give me this wisdom. I need to to fear him. I need to take this seriously. Because I w I don't want to be a foolish man. I want to be a wise man. I want to be a foolish woman. I want to be a wise woman. I want to be a fool Foolish teen, I want to be a wise tea And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me get this in place. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Young and old? I want God's wisdom. I don't want to be a fool. I don't want to ruin my life I don't want to ruin my testimony. So some say, Pastor, that's a general thing, but there are some very specific areas God dealt with my heart about. Very specific situations in my life. issues that I need to address so that I can be a wise I can be wise. God brought them to my attention very sick Very it's specific. So any like that, uplift a hand, preacher praise. I know what it is. It's on my mind. Right now, God brought it to my attention. Any, God bless you. Hands all around I would say don't ignore that. If God's dealt with your heart about it, then deal with it. Do what you need to do. I wonder, there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to hem when I die. I don't want to go to hell. How foolish to reject Christ and end up in hell. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to I need to get this settled about whether I go to heaven or hell. I need that settled. Any like that at all? Any? Father in heaven I ask you to bless now our invitation. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, I'm not.