Brother James, I don't know about all that, but I think my intro to arrow students would probably disagree. Uh if you will please open your Bibles to the book of First Timothy in the New Testament. And uh actually I got a little concerned because a couple weeks ago Pastor had uh Mike's pretty loud up here. That's not like me, is it? Um I got a little concerned because should I just get away from that thing? Oh, okay. Uh so but uh pastor actually made reference to a verse. This is actually my life verse. Um if you were to go to my Facebook, you would find this verse. If you were to go and look in my dissertation uh college uh that I had to submit for my for my doctorate, you'll find this uh this verse, or one of the verses that we'll read tonight, you'll find that uh in the the forefront of my dissertation. But if you go to the first uh first chapter of the book of First Timothy, let me get there myself. And I'm going to begin reading in uh verse twelve. The Bible says, give you guys a chance to get there. 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 12. The Bible says, I thank Christ Jesus, our Lord. who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry, who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor, and injurious, but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly, in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying. and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief How be it for this cause I obtain mercy that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting Now unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, and only wise God be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. The text here tonight is from Paul writing an epistle to Timothy. And uh I'll I'll give you a little bit of background about this and I'm going to hone in on the life verse that I have for myself I love this verse, verse 15. So let's pray and then we'll get right into it. Father, thank you for your word. I thank you for the truth of the word that you've offered here, that you've given us here, your Bible The Word of God. And I thank you for the opportunity to be able to stand up here this evening. I don't take it lightly. Lord, I pray for our pastors. He's away. I pray that you bring him home safely. But God, I pray that right now you'd meet with us, be our preacher, help me to get out of the way and to let you preach your word to us Uh Father, I do pray that uh tonight as you meet with us that you'd uh open our hearts, have us uh just put aside all the kind of concerns and cares that we have for for uh what's going to happen afterwards. Let's just focus on what you've got for us here this evening. Father, help us to do that. Your Holy Spirit just moving our hearts And uh God, I do pray that if there be anybody in here at all, or anybody on the uh over that can hear this uh recording in any way, shape or form, that uh Father, that if they're not saved, Lord, that I pray they would come to a point where they would accept Christ as their Savior. We do pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, now let me get right into it. And I know you guys are thinking, great, it's Browning, so it's going to be forever. And I promise I won't keep you long. Let me give you a little bit of background about what's going on in this epistle. This is actually the third to last letter that Paul ever wrote. that's recorded anyways in the Bible. This was actually right after he had gotten out of prison in Rome for the first time. We know that he had been in prison in Rome twice. He'd gotten out for a short while while he was in prison. The first time he wrote a series of the week called the prison epistles, Ephesians, Colossians, Philippians, uh Philemon. But you know, as soon as he was released, he was quick to get out and about, not on a missionary trip. He'd done his three missionary journeys. He was getting out and about settling some fires that had arisen and some doctrinal issues that were going on in some of the in the uh early churches. Um so he was quick to go out and settle some of these scores, these uh false teachings going around. But uh Paul in this particular epistle is writing to the Apostle Paul is writing to uh Timothy, his uh his young protege of sorts. And he's writing to help him. Really, what what we find is that Paul had left Timothy in Ephesus. Timothy was doing some pastoral work there with the church and with the Ephesians and uh so Paul was writing to Timothy To help him make sure that he had everything he needed to settle some doctrinal issues before they got out of control. And uh you know that one of Paul's major goals, and we see this in other other bits of his writing, is uh that he he wanted to encourage anybody that was really doing any work for the Lord, but in particular Timothy here To to fight a good fight. Okay, to fight the fight that's set before him. And we all have this fight. It's not just Timothy. We all have this fight. We're saved. We've got a fight ahead of us. And Paul was encouraging Timothy, saying, listen, uh there's some doctrinal issues going on. I'm going to get you set up with that. I'm going to let you know what what uh what I know from God is true. and uh then you've got to fight the good fight. Now you know as well as I do, fighting a good fight's gonna mean uh a couple of things. You you gotta be you gotta be prepared. uh to fight. And you also have to be aware of your situation. You know, you have to be situationally aware. And so Paul was writing specifically to give him some of these little tidbits, get him aware of what's going on, to get him prepared. I think the other thing that we got to keep in mind when we're reading these pastoral epistles, these are letters that are written from Paul to folks who are going to be pastors, or are they they already are pastors. Is that you know Paul is able to do what he normally can't do in some of his letters, which is dive into some good meat. He complained to the church at Corinth, you remember, he said, I I want to give you something other than milk. Yeah, but you guys can't bear anything other than the most simple doctrine that I can give you. And I gotta go over that over and over again. Um but here Paul's able to share more meat, more real serious doctrine, deeper doctrine. And uh so he's he's he wants to do that. And uh you know, if we're serious about our Christianity And I see this a lot. I mean I'm not talking about this church in particular. I'm just saying Christians in general. I know Christians outside of this church that live in Morgantown and elsewhere. Good Christian folks Um, but I think one of the things that uh we sometimes tend to shy away from is getting ourselves sound in sometimes difficult doctrine You know, uh uh I I came from the uh uh you know from our church uh our church's class in Monday evening's uh Bible Institute. And uh we get solid doctrine in there. But you know how many people show up for that? I mean there's a couple guys that actually show up out of our church. Um I can't do it any longer, my schedule won't allow it, but you know I would love it to see every single one of us show up for that and get rooted in stronger doctrine. Not just to rely on the milk. Milk's good, don't get me wrong. We need milk too. But we need the meat. We need the good stuff. So here we have to understand that this letter that's written to Timothy is going to give a little more deep doctrine and things. And that's sort of a side point. Um that I just want to make it make you aware of that. Now, having said that, there's something that I I want to take. If you look at verse fifteen, and I'm going to read it again. Look at verse 15 with me. Paul, the Apostle Paul, makes really a stunning statement. And this is the exact verse that our pastor read out the other day in really the same context, using in the same context I'm going to. Listen to the verse. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Paul is saying this. Now look, I have a hard time looking at that and thinking, Paul, Paul, the apostle Paul, is saying, of all the sinners, I'm chief. This is stunning. So let's pick this verse apart. Okay, let's let's let's do some some work here. Let's pick this verse apart because I think Something we can learn something about what Paul has as far as insight. We can learn more about how many of you would agree that Paul had a powerful ministry? I mean, powerful. Man, if anybody laid down doctrine, it was Paul Man alive. Now how does a guy who has that much power in the 30-some years of his ministry, 30 years about, 34, How does a guy with that much time in a ministry, short time, how does he come around and say, I am chief of sinners? I've entitled this message Chief of Sinners because I think it encapsulates something that, you know, I never really I I read this verse, as I said, I used it as my life verse, but you know something? I never really looked at that last part until the other day I looked at that and I mean I thought, man. What is he really saying here? This is Paul. So let's look at the very first part. This is a faithful saying. What does he mean by this is a faithful saying? Yeah, he's saying this is true. This is 100% reliable. What I'm about to tell you, whatever precedes this statement, is 100% reliable. It's true. It's faithful. So he says, this is a faithful saying. It's absolute truth. You can count on this. Timothy, get ready. Here it comes. And he adds a little bit more to it. And worthy of all acceptation. Okay? What is that? Well, not only is what I'm about to say true, but It should be worthy. It deserves to be completely accepted. Not one spot of it should not be accepted. In other words, the whole thing is Absolutely sound, true, and you should take the whole thing, whatever I'm getting ready to tell you. So what is it? What's this truth? Listen, Christ Jesus Came into the world to save sinners. One hundred percent absolutely, absolutely true Completely deserving of 100% acceptation by every man, woman, and child that ever walked the face of this planet. That's a true statement. Paul lays it out. Timothy, this is what it is. Why does he say Christ Jesus? You know there were other Jesuses walking around. Jesus was a name that was used by folks. So, why is he saying Christ Jesus? He's making a very clear identification with who? The Christ, the Savior, the Son of God. So it's not just any Jesus. You know, I find later in other parts of the Bible that there was another Jesus who had actually led away some folks out in the wilderness. Uh Paul's teacher actually had talked about this with some other folks. Remember there was this other Jesus, Bar Jesus, I think his name was. He took a bunch of guys out of the wood. That never came of anything. So let's not worry about this other Jesus because You know, if nothing comes of it, don't worry about it. There's nothing to worry about. So there were other Jesuses, but Paul is saying Christ Jesus, the Son of God, the Savior, Christ. He came into the world. Well what's that mean? Came into the world. This is the first advent of Christ. Came into the world. God incarnate. Emmanuel, God with us. What he's saying is everything that the Old Testament talked about. That Messiah, that was Jesus. He came, he was God in the flesh, he was with us. And what was his ministry? To save sinners. It says it right there. To save sinners. Who are sinners? Anybody that falls short of the glory of God. And I got news for you, every one of us has. So Paul has laid it out very clearly, very plainly. Now we know there's a lot of other meat in here, but this is milk Paul says this faithful saying, Timothy, you can absolutely hundred percent count on this. You should take this completely. You should accept it one hundred percent, and this is what it is Jesus, that Jesus that we know was the Christ. He did come to save sinners. But then he makes this startling statement. Well, let me let me let me point to you one other thing that he says over in uh chapter two. He says in verse five. Of chapter 2, which Jesus are we talking about? There is one God and one mediator between God and men. That's Christ, the Savior. The man, Christ Jesus. He's just reiterating what he just told Timothy a little bit earlier, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And guess what? Here's Paul testifying of Christ. So, we find that Paul is basically just laying out the truth of the gospel. But look what he says here. He says in the last part, it's a terrible admission of guilt. Of whom? What was he referring to? Of whom? He says, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom, referring back to the group of sinners. Of whom I am chief. Now, what's a chief? I actually knew a chief, believe it or not. In college. It's a crazy story. I should tell it. But for sake of time, I'm not going to. But what is a chief? A chief is somebody that's up here on the hierarchy. Way up here. He's the primo guy. He's the top spot. He's the highest ranking. The worst of sinners. The worst you can get. Huh? Paul? So now let me let me look at this. Wait a second Paul. Paul's my hero, by the way. Of all the New Testament guys, you know, I mean I don't want to be accused of hero worship, but Paul really is my hero. And I'm going to tell you a couple reasons why. Really, Paul in my mind is the chief of saints, not the chief of sinners. I like to say he's the chief of saints. Why? There's a couple cool reasons. Here, I'll give you one. Paul was ready to rebuke. You know, some of us, and I fear this happens more and more, some of us are afraid to rebuke our Christian brothers and sisters. We're afraid to do it because we don't want to ruffle feathers. I don't want to cause a scene, so I'm just not going to say anything Listen to what happened in Galatians. It's recorded in Galatians chapter 2, 11 through 14. I'll just read it for sake of time. But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him, I, being Paul, withstood him to the face. Because he was to be blamed. For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles, but when they were come, he w they being Jews, of the circumcision, when they were come, He withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision. Uh-oh. And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him, insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation. Man. But when I saw that they walked not uprightly According to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, if thou, being a Jew Livest after the manner of Gentiles and not as the do as do the Jews. Why compile why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews? In other words, he's saying, Listen, Paul, or listen, Peter You are putting undue stress on believers that they don't need to have. We're made free from the law. What are you doing going back to the circumcision? We're made free from the law in Christ. And he was willing to rebuke. Now, if you don't think about this, Peter. Peter, I mean, of all the apostles, like Peter's the chief guy. Peter knew Jesus when there was still a ministry going on. When Jesus' ministry was still going on. Peter And here's Paul. I mean, think about this, you know, I mean, I'm sorry, but I would feel sort of like who's this upstart? This guy is a Pharisee. We'll get into this in a few minutes, I promise. Comes in out of nowhere, gets saved, somehow says he's a an apostle, and now he's coming in telling me what for? I mean, I'm sorry, but if I were Peter, that's the way I'd feel. But you know what? Who was right? Paul was right And he was ready to rebuke. He's a hero. That's heroic. Would I have done that? I mean I'm probably going to admit to you, I probably wouldn't have done it like that. I probably wouldn't have had the the guts to just stand up to a guy like Peter. But Paul did. What was Paul prepared to do other than rebuke? Well, he was prepared to preach. And this is actually something that that uh that uh pastor brought up. I g if I go to Acts uh chapter twenty-one, I find Paul getting arrested in Jerusalem. Now he's just getting hauled off. He just got chains put on him. And they're just getting ready to haul him off. There's a giant mob that's just ready to beat him, you know, they want him done for. They can't stand this Paul guy. He's a rabble rouser. And here they're getting ready, the Romans are getting ready to take him into a castle. And in verse 37 of chapter 21 of Acts, I see it says, And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Uh the ch Captain this is, who said, Can't thou speak Greek? Art thou not that Egyptian which before these days made us an uproar and led us out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers? Wait a second, I'm not that guy. No, he said, Paul says, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus in the city of uh Cilicia, Silicia, a citizen of no mean city, and I beseech thee suffer me to speak unto the uh unto the people He's getting sh he's shackled. He's getting carried away to be put in the slammer, and he wants to talk to this group that wants to beat him up. And when he had uh and when he, the uh the the uh uh chief captain, had given him license, Paul stood on the stairs and beckoned with the with the hand under the people. And when there was the greatest silence, he spake unto them in Hebrew tongues, saying, and then boom, he dumped the gospel on them. Paul was instant, in season, out of season. He was ready to give the gospel. That's heroic. I mean let's face it, most of us we get w I mean uh uh honestly, if I'm in shackles and my chain the it says he had both he had two chains on him, I assume the other one was on his feet He's getting ready to get dragged away. I think that probably the last thing I'm going to be thinking about is preaching the gospel. But here's Paul saying, no, no, no, wait, just give me a second here. Hold on, hold on. And then man, he gives a he gives a sermon. You know? Amazing. Here's one I really like, and this is the last one. I'll end with this. I see the time. I'm sorry, guys. Paul was effectively yielded. And um in Acts 25, 11. We find that uh there's a there's due process going on, Roman rule in this area. So everybody gets due process. Um that's just part of the Romans deal. So Paul finds himself in a court sort of process, and uh Let me just go to Acts 26. I really need to read this so you guys can see this for yourselves. Acts chapter 26. And uh I want to read in uh verse 27. Now he Paul was a smart guy. Paul was sharp. He was clever. He was witty. And you know, he finds himself in all these court situations and he's always defending himself and he's always doing a really good job of defending himself. Okay? So now Paul here is in pre he's he's going through this due process system, the Roman rule. He has to go through a court system, and here he is, and he's talking to Agrippa And uh well let me just read in uh uh a little later on. He he he gives his testimony to Agrippa. And Agrippa says to him, he says, Man, you have almost persuaded me to be a Christian Paul, in this short amount of time that we've had, you've almost persuaded me. And then Paul comes back and says, Man, I would not uh well would to God that not only you, but everybody here would just get saved. But it's funny, as they walk away, Festus, Felix, Agrippa, they're all walking away. These are folks who have power over the situation. They're walking away. And Agrippa and Festus are talking, he says, you know, in verse 32, then said Agrippa unto Festus, this man might have been set at liberty. They couldn't find really any fault with him. If he had not appealed unto Caesar. So now I've got to ask myself, why did Paul appeal to Caesar? If you look in uh again, I'm gonna look I'm looking uh chapter twenty-five, verse eleven. Paul was saying to them earlier, he said, For if I be an offender or have committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die. But if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them, I appeal unto Caesar. Now look, Paul's a smart guy. He could have defended himself. He could have gotten himself out of this. Then even Agrippa and Festus are talking about this. Man, this guy could have gotten out. Only thing is he appealed to Caesar. Question is, why did he do that? If Paul's smart, why did he do that? You know where the answer is? Go to Acts chapter 23, verse 11. Paul is just getting ready to be taken to Caesarea where all this is going on. And if you have a red letter edition of your Bible, you'll see That there's red in there. And the night following, he's getting ready to be hauled off to Caesarea to have all this Felix and Agrippa and everybody uh terrorize them and all these guys point point fingers at him and claim that all these nasty things are going on. And the night following the Lord stood by him, chapter twenty-three, verse eleven. And said, Jesus talking, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome. You know what? The thing is, Paul knew that God needed him to be in Rome. So what did Paul do? He appealed to Caesar. He said, okay, I see how I can get this to work. I'm just going to appeal to Caesar. And they're going to put me on a beeline to Rome. Which is what they have to do under the law. So my my point about Paul being actively uh effectively yielded is this. Sometimes we get the wrong idea, you know, and don't get me wrong, please don't get me wrong when I say You know, we we talk about Proverbs three a lot, uh that uh uh that we need to not uh rely on our own understanding, you know that that we need to just trust in God. And I I absolutely agree with that. But I think sometimes we take that the wrong way. We we think of being fully yielded as being a limp noodle. Okay, I'm just gonna I'm just yielded. Okay Lord And I'm how how many of you guys have had kids and you're downstairs uh you maybe watch a television program your kids conked out on the couch? And what do you got to do with them? You can't leave them on the couch, right? That's child abuse. So what do you do with them You've got to take him to bed, right? So you take him to bed, and here's the thing: you pick up the wet noodle kid. Question Is that child yielded to you? Yeah, it's totally yielded to you. How heavy does that child feel? Like four tons, right? Oh man, I gotta get this You know, but here's the thing. You pull that child up close to you, boy, the arms go around your neck, and legs go around, man. All of a sudden, they're working with you. How heavy do they feel now? Two pounds. Are they yielding? Yes. But they're using what they have to help you. And I think sometimes God is like this with us. Okay, I got this thing for you. I'm yielding. No, Paul is using his faculties. He's a smart guy. He's using the faculties he has to arrange God's will to happen So we can't just say, well, you know, it's just whatever is going to. No, God gave us brains. God gave us talents. We ought to use them for His will, not ours. That's where we get into trouble. Okay? So now I I I had planned on, I see the time. I do see the time. You guys are staring at me like I'm A bad guy. I've got 14 more points here, but let me just I've talked about Paul the hero, okay? But look, what was he talking about being a sinner? Paul the bad guy Paul the bad guy. And you know, I was tempted to say Saul the bad guy. But you know, the fact is he's still got that flesh. He's still Paul Saul. You can name him whatever you want, he's still the same guy Now he's a new creature in Christ, but he's still got that same flesh, and I cannot let those other sins just go to nowhere. This is the same guy we're talking about, Paul the bad guy. You know that in Acts chapter 7, uh we have the sermon to given by Stephen, the first martyr. Man, what a powerful message he delivered to them. And I'm going to read this to you. I'm sorry. Every time I read this, I just get chills. I mean, this is spine tingling the way these guys react. Acts chapter seven, verse fifty uh let's see, verse fifty-one Listen to what Stephen says to the until all this group of Pharisees, uh, all these guys, the chief priests all gathered together in Jerusalem. He says Stephen says, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye Which of the prophets of your of your have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them which showed before of the coming of the just one, of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers He lays it on the line. You guys crucified the just one, who have received the law of the disposition of angels and have not kept it. Now, listen to this. When they heard these things, all these guys, they were cut to the heart and they gnashed on them with their teeth. I mean, that just gives me chills. But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven and saw the glory of God, Jesus standing on the right hand of God, said, Behold, I see the heavens open, the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God. Then they cried out with their lap with a loud voice and stopped there. They just heard Stephen say, I've just seen the Son of God. What do they do? Ah! They're after him. Man, I mean these guys are vicious. This is nasty. It's bone chilling. And who's there? Look down. Verse 8, or chapter 8, verse 1 Oh no, no, no. Verse 58 of the same chapter. And cast him out of the city and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet whose name was Saul. Paul was there. And look what it says about him in verse 1 of chapter 8. And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there were great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles and devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. As for Saul This Paul, our hero. He made havoc of the church, entering into every house and hailing men and women, committed them to prison. We find out elsewhere he was part of killing these folks. Paul This is what Paul was referring to. Man, I'm the chief of sinners. This is the kind of stuff I was involved in. You know, we find out elsewhere that actually, you know, when he was on the road to Damascus, he had actually sought out that paperwork. The only time you find the word commission ever used, we we always like to use the word commission, a great commission. The only time the word commission is ever used in the Bible is in reference to Paul's paperwork that he had on the road to Damascus. He had commissioned from the chief priest to go and persecute Christians. He was given authority to go and make whatever he wanted of these guys, bring them on back in. They're going to beat him up, they're going to kill him. This is Paul, our hero Paul. Doing this stuff? Man. So what was the point? What was Paul trying to point out of all this? Look, go back to 1 Timothy, if you will I promise you I'm winding down. Somebody said Amen. Thank you. Look, Paul said in verse 16 of chapter 1, 1 Timothy, he said, how be it, however, however the case, look, I'm the chief of sinners, I'll readily admit that. However, howbeit, for this cause, I obtain mercy that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering. For a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting. You know what Paul's saying? He's saying, look, God chose me. To be in this position because if I can get mercy from Christ, I don't think anybody else is going to have any issues with accepting mercy and salvation. Look, if mean old me can do it, you know, we go out knocking on doors and people will tell us every once in a while, God's not going to take me. I'm I'm too bad. You have no clue what I've done, man. But you know what Paul is saying, look, I'm the chief of sinners. And Christ made an example. He did this This was, Paul knew that his apostleship was of God. It says so right in the very first. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. This was a command of God to make an apostle. Why? So that he could be an example. So Paul says, look, there's an example set here, and we can all follow it, that other folks can come to Christ because they can see that no matter how bad you are, you can end up being saved. Amen. Paul confirms that the reason that he was uh called was that if Jesus was willing to suffer for him, anybody. could uh get saved. Now, it's interesting in 1 Corinthians 11 1, we won't turn there, but uh but Paul actually says, be ye followers of me, even as I am. uh uh as I also am of Christ. Says in other words, look, I'm an example. You can follow me if you want, which is why I don't have a problem making Paul my hero. Paul's saying, you know, you can you can you can let me be your example and that's fine. So there's one other thing that I thought about when I was looking at this, and I swear I'm winding down. You know, I think that Paul actually did not absolutely have in mind these nasty things that are recorded. I think he might have actually also been thinking about just the everyday sin. How many of you guys believe that Paul didn't sin a single bit after he got saved? Show of hands. Now, I'm sure that he had one or two at least after he got saved. But you know what I think the secret to to Paul's success and how powerful his ministry was, because he saw sin as God saw sin An atrocity, disgusting, horrible, something to just totally get away from. And he might have seen he Paul, and this is just Pat Browning talking. I don't know for sure. I think Paul may have actually even been referring to look, if I have a sin in my life, I could consider myself cheapest of sinners. So I'm going to read this one last bit out of Luke because I we need to know what our Lord says about this. Go to Luke chapter 7. What does Luke say what is what does our Lord Jesus say about the same situation? Go to Luke chapter 7, verse 36. And one of the Pharisees, you know, you guys know this story. One of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with them Pharisees wanted Jesus to come eat with him. And he went into the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet, and behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner. Which he knew that Jesus said it meet in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, stood in his feet behind him weeping And began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hit with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisee, which had bidden him, the Pharisee the host Saw it, he spake within himself, not out loud, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known Who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answering It's God. He knows what the guy's thinking. Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, the guy's name is Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he said, Master, saith on. It's interesting he calls him Master. Saith say on He says there was a certain creditor which had two debtors, the one owed five hundred pence and the other fifty. When they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he gave forgave most. He said unto him thou art rightly judged You know, the thing is, the woman saw herself as she really was. She cried. She tended to Christ. The Pharisee, he couldn't see himself with appropriate eyeballs. He must have thought he was something special. And I think that Paul probably saw himself as a debtor of five million pence. And I think that if we were to really get a hold of the debt that we owe as a result of the sin that not only we we it's already been paid for, the sin we're gonna commit in the future. You know all that every time I think about this is as sins roll on, and I'm not talking about I'm not talking about murder. I'm talking about you get a you get a bad attitude towards somebody. I'm talking about any any of these little things that are just going to be prevalent in our lives. Every time one of those is there, you just chalk it up on the cross. It goes up there. Christ already paid for it, but you know you're adding it right then and there. It's time for us to see ourselves as debtors. It's time for us to see ourselves as the way the woman saw herself, as the way Paul saw himself. And then I think we'll really see power in our ministries. I'm not talking about going around, oh, I'm just a sinner. No, I'm saying, God, I love the Lord so much. I want to give everything to him because I owe him everything. Every sin that I, one sin that I committed, I owe him everything. Two sins, I owe him even more. Paul, man, the great apostle Paul, how could he owe Christ anything? No, he owe. What did Paul say? I'm the chief of sinners. If we saw, how can we say that we don't have as much sin as Paul? I mean, if Paul saw himself, I got a list of questions here. Listen to this. If Paul saw himself as a chief of sinners, what's that make us? Emperor? Do we really see our sins as debts? How aware are we of the price paid for our spiritual freedom? How aware are we of that? And how does that uh manifest itself in our lives? How much do we show the Lord that we love him because he first loved us? Paul gave stern warnings to those who do not love the Lord. You know what he said? If they don't love the Lord, let them be anathema. Cursed. If we truly felt indebted, can you imagine how much more we would do for Christ? If we really felt indebted. You know, it's easy for us to f forget the things that we did wrong. How often do we not forget the things that somebody wronged us? I mean, I'm talking spouses. You know, my wife does something, I'll remember it for three months. You know, I do something wrong out and forget it right away. Oh what? Oh I didn't I didn't offend you. Really? She's she's laughing at us, she knows. So the thing is it's easy for us to forget the offenses we've given others. How come we how come it's so easy for us to forget how how many debts How many things Christ has taken for us on the cross? How come? It's our nature to do it. But look, if we had the mu the understanding like Paul had the understanding, we get a hold of that. Think of ourselves as chief sinners. I submit to you tonight that there's a whole bunch of chief sinners sitting in here right now, of whom I, I, right here, up here now, am chief. And so is everybody else. Listen, if Paul feared the judgment, I swear I only got like two more points. If Paul feared the judgment seat of Christ, what did he say? What do you say about the judgment seat of Christ? What did Paul call the judgment seat of Christ? The terror of the Lord. Paul, the Apostle Paul, is petrified of the judgment seat of Christ. What do you think that makes us? Where do you think we should stand in that? Can we give testimony in our Christian life lives as Paul was able to do with his Christian life? Every time you see Paul, he's giving testimony. Let me tell you how I got saved. Let me tell you how I got saved. Here I was on this road to Damascus. I submit that the chief of sinners is still alive today, and if we're honest with ourselves, we may be able to admit who that person really is. I think that each and every one of us, if we got a hold of how much had been paid for us, how much was paid at Calvary. That we might love our Lord more and more each day, and we might serve Him more earnestly and effectively using our technology. talents the way we ought to, because we're indebted, because we owe so much, because we all are the cheapest sinners. In a second, I'm not giving the invitation, praise the Lord. In a second we are gonna, I'm done. But uh James is gonna give the invitation. I I encourage any of us, all of us, I'm gonna be up here Let's really ask God to help us see ourselves as we ought to see ourselves so that we can serve Him more effectively. And we can be good children for him, so that when the day comes, we can really hear, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Amen? All right.