It's baby day. I was thinking back, um, I have a a deck on my back of the house there and joy with this weather, sitting back there last night doing some reading And um I just enjoy being back there for two reasons. One, I have a fire pit and I love fire. And um So I always build a fire on there. But the other uh and the three things and the other one is I've got birds uh feeders and I like the birdies, little birdies come in and I like to look at them. And uh but there's a something else Last night I was sitting back there and through the woods behind our house there's another house and that house has small children just little ones and whenever the weather's nice they're out back there in their backyard just playing and laughing And carrying on. I love sitting there, hearing the laughter and the play of those children going on there. Sometimes they get in a fight and um But just and my mind goes back to when our boys were small and they would play in that backyard and laugh and they never fought, but um Just play and have a good time. The boys, the trash truck comes by every Tuesday and the boys were small, they'd they'd always want to run, look at the trash truck, and I asked them uh one time, I said, What do you boys want to be when you grow up And uh they said we want to work on a trash truck when we go. I said, well that's probably can pull that off And uh one thing I found out about working on a trash truck, you don't need any education on that. You just pick things up as you go. You just kind of pick it up as you go on a trash truck Psalm 127. Our text this morning is verse number 3. And I'd like for us to read this together. Today is baby day. And I want us to think a little bit about children and the home and God's will for us. Look at verse 3. Would you read that together with me? Psalm 127, verse 3. Let's read that together in unison. Ready? Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. I want to talk about this heritage of the Lord. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning, and I can't speak for anyone else, Lord, but I know my own heart is blessed by seeing these little children, the laughter and the tears. They're growing, Lord. They're learning of this world. They're going to learn of you, what faith is. God, I just pray that you would help us as a church To view and value these little babies as you do. I pray that you would fill me, dear Lord, with your Holy Spirit I pray it wouldn't be me just running my mouth for the next few moments. I pray it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me your word to our hearts and lives. You know we need it. Bless these children. Bless their mothers, their fathers. Pray that you would give them grace. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Before we look at verse 3 and actually the whole psalm, it's very short, I want you to notice right above verse number 1, it's a little description given there And just a few little words, but if you notice above verse 1, it says, a song of degrees for Solomon. A song of degrees for Solomon. This has given us a little bit of a background in what this psalm is about Now, the Psalm of Degrees, there's 15 of chapters in the book of Psalms that are identified as Psalms of Degrees. If you come back to chapter 121 That's where it begins. Just the page before it says a song of degrees. Psalm 120 or 120, a song of degrees. And 121, a song of degrees. And it goes that way For 15 Psalms in a row, a psalm of degrees. Now, some of them are identified as a psalm of David. In other words, they were penned. It's a psalm of degrees that was penned by David And then ten of them are anonymous. There's no name associated with it. This psalm here, 127, it says a psalm of degrees for Solomon. Now there's a little bit of discussion as to if this was a psalm that was written by David for his son Solomon, penned by David for his son Solomon. Others suggest that the wording here is a little bit where uh it was probably penned by Solomon himself Now, I'm not sure which of those is the case, but I do know this. Psalm 127 and all these other 15 Psalm of degrees are given to us by inspiration of God. They have the authority of God behind them. So whoever the human penman was, that may give us a little background, a little insight. to what's being said. Nevertheless, we know this is given to us by God. Now the question is, what is a psalm of degrees? Well the word degrees itself simply means this, the Hebrew word it comes from simply means this, degrees of ascent. If you go up to Pennsylvania, the Altoona area, there are different communities that are named uh uh by the degrees of the railroad that they built over those mountains and the degree of ascent that that railroad could handle For instance, there's an area up there called Foot of Ten. Anybody familiar with that up there? And they have these names, these unusual names. And what it is referencing is that when they built that railroad, that uh that track up over the mountain, they can't go a too steep of degree or the train wouldn't be able to go up it And so it's identifying that at this point of this tract, it's the degree of ascent. And that's the idea behind this word, a psalm of degrees. a degree of ascent. It has the idea of uh also the idea of ascending up a stairs, up steps. And the degree that there's that anybody here ever go up a stairway, maybe it's been a long time ago, side of a house or something, and that that thing is just like climbing a ladder almost, you know, and the steps are about four inches And you're going anybody know what I'm talking about? It's a steep c incline, a steep degree. Then others are wide. You walk up. Some of these guys have tree stands. You know, it's like walking up a palace, getting up in there, those steps are easy to get up. Well, that's the idea behind this phrase: a song of degrees, a psalm of ascending steps. And the question arises: what are we ascending to? Well, the answer is very simply, it was as God's people made their way up to Jerusalem, they would sing these songs of degrees, the songs of ascent. And they would make their way up, and these 15 songs were written and designed and used, sung, as they would ascend up to Jerusalem, to the ultimately to the temple for different feasts and ceremonies and things that they would come to throughout the year. And they would sing these songs. At Christmas time, we sing Christmas songs. A lot of times at Easter we sing resurrection songs, and we sing them throughout the year, but we focus on, well, when they would ascend up, they would turn To these 15 psalms, various psalms, and they would sing them as they ascended up to the temple for their ceremonies and their worship. If you look at these Psalms, they tend to be very brief. Psalm 127, our text for this morning, is five verses. Very brief psalm. They tend to be a bit repetitious. If we would take the time and analyze them and break them down, we would find they would kind of repeat themselves a little bit. Generally, they have one central theme. Each one would kind of have a subject, a theme that they were singing about very briefly, kind of repetitious. And they were, for the most part, they are very cheerful. They're very helpful, very positive. The people's hearts were filled with anticipation They would come up to Jerusalem and ultimately there would be the great temple, maybe singing these what we might call today choruses. Short, repetitious songs, very positive, and their hearts would be filled as they anticipated serving and worshiping their God. And so the Psalms of Degrees, very cheerful, very hopeful. Psalm 127, as we're going to notice, is a family psalm. In fact, I put that in the margin of my Bible beside uh the the chapter number, a family psalm. It's a psalm about the home. I see three areas of the home that are addressed in these five verses The first thing that we want to notice this morning is the spiritual health of the home, the spiritual health or well-being of the home. Look at verse number one and two with me. Except the Lord build the house They labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep the spiritual health or well-being of the home. And then in verse number three, I notice, second of all, the special heritage of children. Talking about the home, a family song, spiritual well-being, but they're not the special heritage of children. Look at verse 3. Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord And the fruit of the womb is his reward. And then in the last two verses, verse 4 and 5, I see the unashamed happiness of parenting. The unashamed happiness of parenting. Look at verse 4 and 5. As arrows are in the hands of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gates. The unashamed happiness of parenting a child. Number one, I want us to consider the spiritual health of the home. Verse 1 and 2. I catch myself saying this so often, and as I studied and I put this in my notes, I hesitated for a moment because I catch myself saying it so often. But we find ourselves in a day and age, we find ourselves in a world that is turned morally and spiritually turned upside down. I'm telling you, we are living a world, a society, that is morally and spiritually inside L. And again, I know you say, preacher, you keep saying this all the time, and I know it. But what God's Word says is right, this world has convinced themselves is wrong. And what God says is wrong, this world has convinced themselves is right. What God says is good, our world declares it to be evil. What God says is evil, this world embraces it as if it's good. And we live in a spiritually and morally world that is upside down. There is uh now please hear me out. There is an intensely evil attack upon marriage, upon the home, and upon our children. There is a spiritual attack. It has always been there, but I don't know about you. It seems to have intensified in the last 20-30 years, a satanic attack on marriage, on the home, and on our children. This matter of marriage, God has it laid out very clearly in Scripture. There's no question, as far as the Bible's concerned, as to what marriage is. Genesis chapter uh chapter 3 and verse number, chapter 1, I should say, in verse 27, he says, He created them male and female. They're to forsake their m mother and father and cle uh and cleave to one another. Again in chapter five, he reiterates that. You say, Well, that's old test and that's the beginning of the old testament. Oh yeah, listen to Jesus Christ in the Gospels. God created them, male and female. And a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife, and the two shall be one. Male and female. Husband not husband and wives. The Bible is very, very clear. And I'm telling you, and I'm not telling you nothing you don't know But I'm telling you, there is an attack on the institution of marriage that perhaps this world has never seen before. Maybe in the days of Sodom, maybe in the days of Noah. But I'm telling you, it is twisted around. It is twisted around. There is an assault on the institution of marriage, a satanic assault on the institution of marriage In our world today, one man and one woman becoming one flesh for life. For life. For life. An attack. An intensely evil and satanic attack on the marriage. An intensely evil and satanic attack on the home. Satan is out to destroy the home. Satan is out to. Satan uses the world as his ally In twisting and distorting and destroying what the home is. I like what Joshua said, great man of God. The Old Testament followed Moses in leading the nation of Israel, and he led them across the Jordan River into the Promised Land as they conquered the land and established the nation of Israel. Great man of God. The end of his life, he challenged Israel and he made this statement. He says, Choose you this day whom ye will serve. Make a decision in your home. You make a decision. Who are you going to serve in your home? And he made this statement. As for me, My house, we're gonna serve the Lord. We're gonna serve the Lord. And my challenge One of my challenges this morning in this baby day message is my challenge is to the homes of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let's just make the decision we're going to serve the Lord. Others can choose who they're going to serve. They can make whatever decisions they want. They're free. But as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. He's going to be head of our home. He's going to be Lord of our home. We will worship the Lord in our home. So attack on the institution of marriage. The attack, spiritual, intensely evil attack on the home. By the way, marriage and the home are the basis of society. And when that marriage and that home deteriorates and it's twisted and perverted and destroyed And the foundations of the foundations of the foundations of society, the home, when that collapses, don't be surprised we have rioting in the streets. Don't be surprised we have children killing children when the home is destroyed, the very foundation of human society. I remind you, God established marriage in the home long before he established government. The marriage and the home were established by God long before the church came along. And the government and the church, they have their place. But the whole is the foundation of society, and Satan has pulled out all the stops, and it is an all-out assault. On marriage in the home. And I put this down. There is an intensely evil and satanic attack on our children. We're going to talk about this a little bit. Jesus, I love the song the choir open up with. Jesus loves little children. All the children of the world. Red, yellow, black, and white, they're precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children. I'm gonna flip that over. Satan hates little children. There's no doubt in my mind. There's no doubt in my mind. And he has, in his subtlety, is turning this world against children. I have never seen a society that behaves like it hates children, like the society we are living in today. I was reading an article just a week or so ago, just this past week, they did uh some statistics and study in the city of New York's city. And of course, abortion is in the news and horrendous. And they did a study and they looked at some statistics. And you know what they found? The most dangerous place in New York City for a little black baby is not the ghetto. Is not out on the highways. The most dangerous place for a little black baby in New York City is in the womb of its mother. More little black children are boarded, killed, murdered in the wombs of their mother than any other aspect of society. 59% of Alvita King, who is, I believe, the granddaughter of Martin Luther King, the civil rights activist. She said this, the most dangerous place for an African-American is in the womb of its mother. Now the statistics for all other nationalities is almost the same. Whites, Latino. Listen, you you read a statistic like that, don't tell me we live in a world that doesn't hate children. To do something like that. There is an all-out evil assault on our homes, our marriages, and our children. Now I said all that to say this. The challenge for you and I as the people of God Is that we establish godly Christian homes that are built upon and follow the instructions God has given us in His Word. Well, the challenge is for us is we need homes that follow God's design for the family. Marriage. The function of the home and the children that God sends to that home. We need homes that are spiritually healthy. And that's my first point, the spiritual health of the home, verse 1 and 2. Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Listen, you can have a good, godly uh Christian marriage all you want, but if you don't get the God in on that thing, it ain't gonna happen You can say, Oh, we want a good home, spiritually healthy, but if you're not following God's pattern, if you don't have the Lord in on that, if you're not following God's instructions, you're not going to have a spiritually healthy home. Amen or not? What I'm trying to say is we need the Lord. And when I say we need the Lord, what I mean is not that we just sit back and disregard anything, well, God will take care of it. What I mean when we say we need the Lord is we need to go to God's Word, see what God says, and then follow his instructions. In the home. And then we can have a spiritually healthy home. You say, well, how do we do that? Well, first of all, I put this down. Number one, make spiritual life a priority in your home. Make your relationship with the Lord a priority in the home. Mother, father, make your spiritual well-being, your relationship with God. Make that number one top priority. And then you'll be able to love your spouse and your children and raise them when I my relationship with the Lord is what it ought to be Most important relationship I have is not with my wife. Most important relationship I have is not with my children. The most important relationship I have is with my Heavenly Father, with my God. And if I'm going to have a spiritually healthy home, if we're going to have spiritually healthy homes, then we've got to be right with God. We've got to have that in place. The way we do that, I jotted a few things down, is I put down, we need to pray humbly. Would you take your Bible? Keep your place here in Psalms With me, if you real quickly come way back to the back of the New Testament, to the book of James. And James chapter 5, he makes a statement about prayer. And I'd like you to turn there. I'd like for you to look at it and see it. James chapter 5. And if you would, come down to verse number 16. It makes a lot of tremendous statements here. And Psalm and uh James chapter five and verse number sixteen, he says, confess your faults One to another, pray for one another that you may be healed. Then look at this statement at the end of the verse. Look what he says: the effectual, fervent prayer. Of a righteous man availeth much. What a promise of God. I want to suggest to you the parents of these little babies, and actually parents of any children of any age. Prayer ought to be a high priority in the home. I suggest, and we've tried to practice this the years. But I suggest there ought to be a time every single day, get that family together, the little kids, the little babies, they say, maybe get them in on that, and you spend time as a family in prayer to God. Bringing your needs and requests, asking God for wisdom, asking God for provision and protection, and establishing a time of prayer, making it a priority You know, years ago they had a name for that. It was called the family altar. And it was a staple. Back in the day, that was a staple in the Christian homes. Where they had the family altar. They gather together around the Word of God and they would read and pray, sometimes sing some hymns to the Lord. And children were raised up in that atmosphere in the home. I want to say to you, to have a spiritually healthy home, we ought to have a time of prayer in the home. By the way, praying as individuals also I've said this often over the year. I wouldn't give you a plugged nickel for a daddy doesn't pray for his children. A mama doesn't pray for his children. A husband doesn't pray for his wife. A wife doesn't pray for her husband Tempted to ask this question, when's the last time you spent five minutes in prayer for your children? Five minutes So have you ever spent fifteen half hour in prayer for your family, children? Ladies? Well, men too. Hold on, late men, ladies, don't get mad yet because I'll hit the men here in a minute. Sometimes ladies like to gripe about their husbands. All they can think about is everything their husband does wrong. It's dwell on it. But they don't spend ninety seconds on their knees in prayer for their husband. You're never going to have a spiritually healthy home with that, amen or not? Let me flip it over. Husbands. All they can talk about is that woman at home. She don't do this and she don't do that. She's this and she's that. And don't spend 90 seconds on their knees praying, God to help their wife. I wonder our homes are a mess. Are you with me? Prayer, home ought to be a priority. If we talk to God about our family members, as much as we complain to others about our family members, we might see a difference in our home. We might see a difference in home. By the way, that includes the young people praying for their parents. Oh, my parents are dinosaurs. They're so old bogies They don't even know what an Emma colon is. I tell you what, if we get if we get young people praying for their parents, we might see survival in the home, revival in the home. I'm saying prayer ought to be so our homes ought to be so saturated with prayer. Make a difference. Except the Lord build a house, you're laboring in vain. You have to get the Lord in on this. Prayer. I put this down. There ought to be, Bible reading ought to be the center of our homes. I touched on this. Come with me if you would, real quickly. You're hanging in here with me. Come over to Matthew chapter 7. Real quick, Matthew 7. Here's the Sermon on the Mount. We get here so often. But Jesus preached this three-chapter sermon, tremendous sermon, powerful to disciples. And his closing illustration you'll find in chapter 7 and verse 24 is the closing illustration or the application of his message. And in verse 24 of Matthew 7, if you're there, notice it says, Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine Now, what could we say are Jesus, the sayings of Jesus? We could say that would be what? The Word of God. Right? We could make that application. Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, these instructions, and what do with them I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his what? House, his home, his family, on a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that hell Listen, any home, there's going to be figure of speech, there's going to be winds and rain and storms are going to beat that home, right or wrong. There are trials There are difficulties, there are storms that come to every home. But he that heareth the words of the Lord and do with them, when these storms come, look what it says. It beat upon that house and it what? It fell not, for it was built upon a rock A sure foundation. What was that rock? Hearing the words of Jesus and doing them. What we need is we need some homes, marriages, children, homes built upon the rock. Of faith and obedience to the Word of God. Get that Bible, read it personally, read it as a family, memorize it I I'm not we're we're not trying to blow our own h horn. We're just trying to do what we can. But I've never been a part of a church That made so many, that gave so many tools to help people read the Bible on a daily basis as this church that I'm a part of right now. On every hand. Why? Because it's vital. And as the day of Christ's return approaches and we see this world deteriorating, we don't need less Bible, we need more Bible We don't need less scripture memory. We need more scripture memory. We don't need less faith in God's word. We need stronger faith in God's word The Bible. Get it in the home. Spiritually healthy home is characterized by prayer and by the Bible. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. We've got to do right. I put this down. We cannot live in rebellion against God We cannot live in disobedience to the Bible and have a healthy home spiritually. We must trust God and follow His instruction. I put this down as if we were as worried about sin in our homes as we are about COVID, We might have revival. Can you imagine? Now I'm not trying to disregard anything. Don't read into what I'm saying. But can you imagine if we took the same precautions against sin and went to the same extremes against sin that we did about COVID, we might have revival in our country. Can you imagine the government saying, I know I'm out there now, but bear with me. Can you imagine the government saying we're shutting down all liquor sales? because it's damaging uh our community and it's killing people and destroying homes and ruining marriages. We're gonna shut it all down until we can flatten the curb, until liquor's no longer sinful, we're going to shut them all down. Can you imagine that? We're going to shut down all the nasty, dirty stores and websites and and uh magazines. We're gonna shut them all down until we can flatten that curve and it's not sinful anymore And uh we're just gonna shut it all down because it's bad and harmful and dangerous people, huh? If we would work as hard and take the same precaution, keep sin out of our homes as we are to keep bugs out of our homes, we might have revival. Now I'm not saying be negligent in these other areas. You know what I'm saying Number one, have a spiritually healthy home. The spiritual health of the home. Second of all, and quickly, and these next two are much shorter. The spiritual heritage of children. Come back with me to our passage, Psalm 127. He says, verse 3: Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. The Bible reveals to us God's view of babies. God's view of babies is this. They're a priceless gift given to parents by God. A priceless gift. Heritage is something that is very valuable. It's a very valuable possession that is passed on to a family member. God has gives to families in His will and His plan, He gives to families children. Gives babies. And he says that they are a priceless, priceless gift that God gives to parents. Every child, these little babies up here and all around, every child is worth more than this whole world. Jesus said in Mark 8, verse 36, What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Every one of these little babies is a soul. That in the eyes of God is worth more than all the gold of the world, and all the possessions of the world, and all the pleasures of the world, the value of a soul. Children are precious to God. We look in the Bible, we see that little children, Jesus said, particularly in Matthew 18, he said, little children are the pattern for our faith in God. He said, have the faith of a child. Just like a little child fully trusts his parents and comes up to their arms and lets them carry them. They trust that parent 100% to provide for them and take care of them. Jesus said, just that faith that that child has, let that be a pattern for your faith in me Does a child understand everything its parent does? No. But they trust him. They trust him. He said little children are to be a pattern for our faith. They're precious. They're precious. He doesn't hold the adults up and say, little children, you follow the faith of the adults. Brother, that'd be a disaster in many cases. He says, you adults, you follow the pattern of faith of these little children. He says they are the greatest in the kingdom of God. And he says in John in Matthew 18, Jesus, from the lips of Jesus, he said, there is severe judgment On those that mistreat children. It's better for a millstone late hang around his head than one of these uh uh uh uh misuse mistreat one of these children, offend one of these children Jesus loves little children. Jesus blessed the little children they brought to him. He held them up into his arms. He wanted them to come. He rebuked the disciples sharply. Suffer those little children to come into me. Forbid them not. He loves them. He wants them. Children are to be cherished, not killed. Children are to be treasured, not trashed. Children are to be nurtured, not neglected. Every little child is a soul that's worth more than anything and everything this world can afford. I mentioned this, I referenced this a year or so ago, but October 15th, 2020. And I hate to even mention the name of the group because I I despise it. There's a rock and roll group called Fleetwood Mac. Their lead singer's name is Stevie Nicks, a woman. She said, I killed my baby to save my career And she goes on in this interview, and she tries to justify her aborting her unborn child She said, I am if I had not had that abortion, I'm pretty sure there never would have there would never have been a Fleetwood Mac There's just no way that I could have had that child and working as hard as we work constantly. There were a lot of drugs. I was doing a lot of drugs, and I would have had to walk away from all of that Do you hear what she's saying? This is a woman who is exalted by the world. This is a woman who is a multi-millionaire because of people. Worshiping at her feet, so to speak. And she said, I killed my child so that I could do drugs and live the rock and roll world. God have mercy on mankind. I'm telling you what, if that doesn't show you the intensely wickedness and evil of the rock and roll world, then I don't know what has to take place for you to see it. If that doesn't tell you how satanic this world's music is, I don't know what has to happen. Killing my baby so that I can be popular God loves little children. God cherishes them. And we need to do that also. Number one, the spiritual health of the home. Number two, the special heritage of children. And then number three, and I end with this, the unashamed happiness of parenting. Look at there in verse number four and five. As arrows are in the hands of a mighty man. Brother, you have a mighty warrior, a mighty soldier. He loves those arrows Brother, he's got a quiver full of them. He's a happy man. He can defend himself. He can accomplish what he needs to do. He's got a quiver full. That makes him happy. It's kind of like the soldier in the in the uh foxhole and uh he's running low on ammo and some guy comes running up with five cases of ammo. So here you go, brother. He's a happy soldier. He's got his ammo. Anybody know what I'm talking and trying to say? He says uh he says uh uh happy verse five is the man that hath his quiver full of them. Now he's using figurative speech here. He's trying to illustrate the happiness, the fulfillment, the confidence, the satisfaction that comes by parenting children. The happiness of raising children. Parenting is hard work. Kathy and I raised two boys, and some of you raised a lot more than that. It's hard work. It's not easy. Wasn't easy and bo boys were real small babies. It wasn't easy getting up two, three o'clock in the morning and telling Kathy to go over and feed the babies and change their diapers That's tough. I was used just sleeping through. But you agree with me, parents, am I right or wrong? Parenting's hard work. It is. It's not easy. It's heartbreaking. I'm going to ask you to raise your hand, but I wonder how many of us parents had our hearts broken. I mean, shattered over children. We love them like nobody else in the world knows. Our children don't realize it, but we love them more than anybody else in the world. Apart from their God. They don't know that. But it's true. Love our children. It's heartbreaking, it's difficult, but I'm telling you, there is a joy in having children that nothing in this world can compare. And John, in chapter, in uh 3 John, the little epistle, way back just before Revelation, John is writing to some believers, and he makes this statement, an interesting statement. He said, I have no greater joy. Than to hear that my children walk in the truth. What a joy. Sometimes they break our hearts. Sometimes we want to choke them. But we don't. Because we love them. And they bring us tremendous joy. Tremendous joy. I mentioned our my back deck. I hear those little children cross through the wooded area there. They were out last night laughing and pre playing, just carrying on. I sat there and tears fell down my cheek. That I miss. I miss that. Children are so precious. Parents of these little babies, I want to challenge you, you look to the Lord. You let God lead you. You pray. You study what the Bible says and then follow its instructions. God will use you to raise those kids for God. I believe that with all my heart. Somebody put it this way. Children learn what they live. I'm sorry, children live what they learn If a child lives with criticism, he learns to condemn. If a child lives with hostility in the home, he learns to fight. If a child lives with ridicule and scorn, it'll be shy and introvert. If a child lives with shame, He learns to feel guilty. The child lives with tolerance and patience. He learns to be patient. The child lives with encouragement. He learns confidence. The child lives with praise, he learns to appreciate. If the child lives with fairness, he learns justice. But child lives with security, he learns to have faith. But child lives with approval, he learns to respect himself and others. The child lives with acceptance and friendship. He learns to love others. Now that's not to say there isn't a place for discipline. There is. If a child learns, if a child lives with discipline, then he learns to be self-disciplined. And I added this to the end of it If a child lives with sincere, humble Christianity, he learns to love God, to trust God, and serve Him Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for this special day, baby day. Lord, my intention this morning as a pastor and preacher was to confront the wicked philosophy of this world and r reestablish in our hearts and minds a clear biblical understanding of the value and preciousness of little babies and children. The importance of the home and the structure of the home. I pray your Holy Spirit would move upon us. We would take very seriously your words to us and your instructions to us. I ask you to stir us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I need to get my eyes back on that book. Maybe you're not looking to the Word of God. Maybe there isn't time in prayer. But I need to focus on the spiritual well-being of my home and my family, whatever stage you're in in life. Do you pray, say, preacher, God stir my heart? I need to focus and prioritize the spiritual well-being of my home. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Now I want to get a little specific here. I wonder at Holmes, how many parents would say, we need to establish a family altar in my home? We just need to do it. Time of daily time of prayer, Bible reading on a daily basis. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I need that. Any like that? God bless you. Hands around. So vital. So vital. Wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to uh take my role as a parent a little more seriously. I get caught up in work and Fun, stuff, sports. Say we need to get our priorities back. Is there anything like that? A little redundant question. Anything like that? God bless you. Hands all around. Now let's commit to pray for our children, pray for our spouse, pray for our parents. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you can't have a spiritual home until you have spiritual life. You've got to trust Jesus your Savior. So Andy say, preacher, I'm not sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I don't want to die and go to hell. I need the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled. I can get that established. Any at all? Preacher, I'm concerned where I spend eternity. I need to get that settled. Father, bless our invitation now I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.