But uh that's a good one. I'm glad uh the Lord led mom and dad here to Mountain Lake. We've been trying to get him to come here for years and And uh Mama it's funny, I remember her saying one day, she said, Well, if the Lord leads us there, we'll be there. So glad the Lord led us, let him there. Um I'm gonna fumble through tonight, I'm sure, but uh again I just want to thank everyone for uh for coming out. I wish I could just record this at home and then play it It'd probably go over a lot better because I you know you know how it how it works. Um but I couldn't stand to hear myself on because anyone anyone else can't stand to hear themselves recorded Is it everybody or is it just me? Why is that? I I don't know. But uh I wouldn't be able to listen to it because I can't stand to hear myself. But uh You know, thanks for coming out tonight. Uh I'll do my best to uh to get say what uh the Lord wants me to say, I think. And uh everyone knows I think pastors uh down in uh St. Lucia laying on the beach soaking up the sun. Probably. Taking it easy. Uh you know better than that, don't ya? But uh um I'm sure St. Luce is a beautiful place, but uh I'm sure he's working hard down there. And he texted me right there before the service. He was praying for me, and I told him, Thanks, I definitely uh definitely needed it. Um, but uh I want to pray pray for Pastor while him and Kathy are away. And uh Pastor Matt needs our prayers too. I don't think he's pretty well down and out. I think he's been spending his tight days at camp in the cabin trying to trying to get over what whatever's going around. But uh so we'll keep keep him in your prayers uh also. I say it every time I'm up here. I don't feel qualified to be up here, but uh I feel like uh if Pastor needs me to fill in, I'll just do the best I can. So uh that's what I'm gonna gonna try to do tonight. I'm gonna try to say what I say what I got to say and get out of the way. I'll never forget uh Uh Dr. Gibbs, what Dr. Gibbs said one time, he was telling the story about the first time his son preached, and I've probably said this before. He said he uh had eight eight pages of notes and his message took four minutes He said I don't think I can I I do have eight pages, but they're not all. There's really only about a page and a half. But I don't think you're gonna luck out with four minutes This is just kind of going off of what I told the Master Club kids. Hopefully it'll apply. But uh a couple of three weeks ago we had our Master Club's finale. And I just uh wanted to challenge them a little bit and uh just a verse. You know, I always say that the Lord you know gave me this message, and I I don't know if he gave it to me or not, but something brought the verse to mind So I just kind of went with it. Um the verse uh Joshua twenty-four, uh Joshua twenty-four, fifteen. So anyone can anyone tell me I'm bad with references. Does anyone tell me what Joshua twenty-four fifteen is? You can talk to me tonight. Starts with choos. Yeah. See I'm terrible with references, but if you get me going But uh Sunday I think pastors uh uh when I looked at the scripture reading it was Joshua fifteen or Joshua something six through fifteen and I was like, Oh no That's the same thing I was gonna do. But it turned out it wasn't, so that was good. Um But uh I just wanted to challenge the Master Club kids on that that uh that thing about choices Um and how uh there's a lot of choices that that they have to make um in their in their lives. Um so I just wanted to kind of give it to them again because they're all in here again tonight. And they if they weren't listening to me then maybe they'll get it the second time uh second time through. But um I think they agree with me and you'd agree with me that uh you because we were all kids at one time, right We're all at different stages of our lives now, but we were all kids at one time, and the choices that we make, that we made uh as as kids, um, follow us our whole life, don't they? They either follow us in a positive way or they follow us in a negative way. You probably don't remember much of the positive ones, but you sure remember the negative ones, don't you? Those uh those one those bad decisions and choices that we made in our lives. Um But the text, if you want to turn there, I think I already told you, but it's Joshua 24. I'm gonna read 1 through 15 when I get there Joshua twenty-four is the last book, the last chapter in the book of Joshua. And I was hoping the Petershons were here tonight because I was going to ask the the little the twins a couple questions because we talked about Joshua and Master Clubs and see if they remembered anything. Um maybe Isaac would remember. What what did we tell you to remember about Joshua? I know I'm putting you on the spot. He replaced somebody. There you go. He replaced Moses as leader. So uh Joshua, um this will this is the last chapter. Uh Joshua was a great man, um, served the Lord. Pastor preached about him on Sunday. And how he was faithful, um, uh him and Caleb as when they spied out the land and was the only two that brought back the the right report. And uh Joshua replaced Moses as leader. He was a great leader of the people. But uh right now Joshua is coming down to the end, end of his life. And uh he's gathered the people together and he's going to remind the people what all God has done for them. And uh then he he asked them a question in verse 15. I'm gonna read the I'm gonna read one Starting in one. And pay attention down through here all the things that he mentions that the Lord did for the people Joshua 24, verse 1 says, And Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and called for the elders of Israel, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers, and they presented themselves before God. And Joshua said unto all the people, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, your father, dwelt on the other side of the flood in old time, even Terah, the father of Abraham. And the father of Nachor, and they served other gods. And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Isaac And I gave unto Isaac, Jacob and Esau, and I gave unto Esau, Mount Seir, to possess it. But Jacob and his children went down into Egypt. And I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did amongst them, and afterwards I brought you out. And I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came into the sea, and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and horsemen into the Red Sea. And when they cried unto the Lord, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and covered them, and your And your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt, and ye dwelt in the wilderness a long season, and I brought you unto the land of the Amorites And dwelt on the other side that I'm sorry, which dwelt on the other side of Jordan, and they fought with you, and I gave them into your hand, that you might possess their land, and I destroyed them from before you have a lot of people. Then Balak, the son of Zippor, came, king of Moab, arose and warred against Israel, and sent and called Balaam, the son of Beor, to curse you. But I would not hearken unto Balaam, therefore he blessed you still, so I delivered you out of his hand. And you went over Jordan and came into Jericho, and the men of Jericho fought against you, the Amorites, Perizzites Canaanites and the Hittites, Gergeshites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, Oliites. And I delivered them under your hand. And I sent the hornet before you, which drave them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites, but not with the sword, nor with the bow, nor with thigh-bow. And I have given you a land which ye did not labor, and cities which ye built not, and ye dwelt in them, of the vineyards and olive yards which ye planted not, do ye eat Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord Choose you this day whom ye will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Let's pray. Father, thank you again for uh everyone that's come out tonight, Lord, and uh I just pray you'd help me, Lord, to just say what you want me to say and uh I pray it'll be a blessing and a and a help. I know it's helped me. And just pray you'll uh bless our service and uh our prayer time tonight. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Now it's really true what Pastor said on Sunday. When you prepare a message, he said he gets a lot more out of it than probably anyone else, and I can certainly attest to that. I definitely get a lot more out of it. uh when you when you prepare it. So if na if you guys don't get anything then at least I got something, right Uh and I go through my notes and I always I always find my I write all these notes down. I do my out and then I write all these notes down and then when I get back to them I can't remember why I wrote them down. Anyone else have these problems? No, just me. Alright, Dad Alright, so just please bear with me. Talking about choices, I'm gonna say it. I had it down here. There was something I heard this week. I don't know if anyone anyone hear about a woman down in Florida and some sea turtles? You hear about that? Alright, let me just tell you this. Get this off my chest. We and Charlie was talking to get something off her chest. Pastor likes to get it. Down in uh Florida, there was this woman. I'll read it to you. I think I got it here. Am I allowed to use my phone? Okay, so this Chinese national woman was arrested on Sunday for endangering endangering a sea turtle nest in a protected beach area. Uh she supposedly jabbed the nest and was seen stomping all over it, according to the statement by the police. Um her actions uh constitute a third-degree felony for stomping on a sea turtle nest. Our bond was five thousand dollars and if she's found guilty she could face five years in jail for stomping on a sea turtle nest. Isn't that terrible Um and I'm not uh I'm not saying it's good to stomp on sea turtles' nests, but the the irony here is that in uh nineteen seventy-three Uh see these sea turtles uh were put on the endangered species list. So of course now to to touch them or mess with their unborn eggs. is a crime punishable of pretty severely. But the the all all the other thing is is that also anyone else know what happened in nineteen seventy three? 1973, a woman was given the right to choose to kill her unborn uh baby. And I heard that this week, and uh just it's just been on bugging me all week long. And the only thing that has to do with this message is that it's a choice. I was thinking to myself, you know, I I'm I'm pro-choe. You say, well, I'm pro-life. Well I'm pro- I think all all women have the right or the choice whether or not they want to get pregnant or not Um but after that, and anyway, I just get it off my chest tonight. But I heard that and that just was like I just our world is so messed up. So uh anyway, doesn't have anything to do with the message really. It might come in here after a while. Uh Master Club Kids. I'm going to try to make this applicable to all tonight. Master Club Kids uh Uh we have three-year-old to sixth grade in master clubs. So who makes the mo most of the choices for that age group? What? Parents. Parents, you know, we're training our children. Parents were you know our job is to train our children. and and do the absolute best we can uh for them and train them to make the right choice. But ultimately with the the master, you know, the kids the parents make the choices for them, or at least they should be Helping them to make right choices. Um so do they have a choice in these choices? Well I think they do. And uh I'll I'll tell get to that in just a minute. Um but like I say, uh children learn, um at least I did, I l we learn by uh young people learn from b example. And that's why it's so important for uh parents to uh to set a good example uh for our children, because children do watch. We think they don't, but they're they're really picking up on a lot of things So it's important that we as as adults make the right decisions. We don't want to tell our kids, well, this is okay for me, but it's not okay for you. You know, that's an adult beverage. That's adult language, that's adult this, adult that. Um but we need to we need to lead and and and help them to make the right choices by example so that when they grow up, not to say that they're gonna be perfect, but uh That will help them to make the right short choices. Uh and as they get older, I mentioned this to Evan and uh Arissa, I think, the other night. Um you know, as they get older, Evan's getting to that age and they're moving up into the teen years You know, they're starting to to get to that age where they're they're they're going to be making some choices on their own. And uh the choices really start to have uh I think a little more effect uh then. Uh and then we get up to our teens over here on the left who are being perfect angels. Oh that's right, that's Jamie sitting beside you. Now. But look around I see our teens and uh who would agree that the teenage years uh probably the choices that you guys make are going to you know, they're gonna they're gonna be a a huge factor in your lives a as you guys grow up. And uh if you were at the teen bank with uh Brother Martini, um uh challenged you guys on making the right choices, choosing the right friends. Friends, the friends that you could possibly be one of the most important choices that you make. Because usually your friends influence you. Um so it's important that you that you choose good friends um and and all of that. Um But as adults we have to make choices. I thought, you know, the older we get, we don't have to live with our choices quite as long. That might be the only good thing about it. But uh but we still have choices to make, right? Uh each and every day. Um I'm gonna read something. That's one of these pages here. I missed something. I'm gonna skip it. Must not have been that important. Um adults. I'm gonna read uh what from this commentary because they probably say it better than I could, and I won't forget to say what I was gonna say. It says we must never think our work for God done till our life is done. And if he lengthens out our days beyond what we thought, we must conclude it is because he has some further service for us to do. If we look back at Joshua, um Joshua got uh you know thought he was done and he he got a little more time. Um But Joshua was busy till the end. We might talk about that in a minute. He uh he stayed he stayed at it. I don't know how old Joshua was here. I probably should have looked that up. Does anybody know how old Joshua would have been? Dad, you know how old Joshua was? He was old. He was old. Um but he uh he stayed he stayed faithful. Um Right there to the end, I'm trying to find my my uh place here. 110. He was old. Thank you. Thank you. But I was looking around and I I'm not calling anybody old in here tonight. But I I looked around in our church and I was just thinking, you know, uh a lot of a lot of elderly people or or middle-aged people, you know, a lot of times they get up there and uh to age and they they just quit. you know, and they say, well, we can't serve the Lord anymore. Well you can certainly take uh testimony from Joshua that we don't quit as long as we have breath. But I was thinking about our church and I look around at at what goes on here and uh and how how everyone's involved. And especially the uh I hate to say older. What's the more m the mature? Is that a better word? More mature uh people. Um I thought of blankets for babies, uh Sandy, and Sandy said to thank uh I think Joe if he's uh for bringing that stuff up tonight or whoever brought the stuff up. for her tonight. But I look around at blankets for babies and you ladies that coming in and and putting in the time and fellowship. Um and and that that's a great a great ministry. Uh it's just great. Did you come up on that with that on your end, Sandy? I mean that that's that's just a great ministry. And and not only to be here and you know and and enjoy the fellowship and the the food and all that, but uh then they take them and they go out and visit and present them and witness to the the young people that are having babies in the community. And I just I thought, you know, I looked at the you guys and I thought that was great. And then I look at fingerprints and And uh the when you guys have your fingerprints in there and just working hard and and uh but I just wanted to thank you all for uh for doing that, not not quitting. Um The older we get, uh we can always do do something for the Lord. Um This is what I was gonna get back to on the Master Club kids, and then I'll leave you guys alone for tonight, I think. Uh we said parents, parents make the ultimate choices for them. But the the the the children have uh an obligation. And I used Austin and he's not here tonight, so I can take on him. They're at camp Um, but I used him as an example. You know, I can we can make Austin play the piano. You know, Austin didn't come to Austin when he was little and say, hey, can I play the piano? We uh we uh uh we told Austin he was going to play the piano. I'm sure a lot of you parents have made your kids do things that they didn't necessarily want to do. Although he was pretty excited about it in the beginning. And uh we got him a piano for Christmas and he was excited. If I was to get him a piano for Christmas now, I don't know what he would do. But he was excited. Um but what I'm getting at is, you know, we made a choice that we thought it would be good for Austin to learn to play the piano. But we can't make him We can make him go down and practice, but we can't make him have the right attitude. And I tried to challenge the kids along that line that that you all have to choose to do it do it with your heart and and put your all into it and have the right attitude. You know your parents can can force you, they can They can encourage you, they can do everything that they can possibly do to get you to do things and do your verses and do your your uh projects and all of that. Uh but they can't make you do it with the right attitude, ultimately. So that's what I wanted to to challenge them about was you know a lot of times we just and I do it too. We just we just do enough to get by, don't we? We just just do enough to get by. And uh I think uh Pastor Matt preached about that uh last week about reading our Bible. You know, sometimes we just pick it up and read it and check it off. You know, we just just do enough to get by. You know, with our prayer time and uh and things like that. We just a lot of times we just do enough to get by. You know, we choose to read our Bible, but we're not really we're not really doing it with the right heart. Um But Joshua, I'm trying to get get on here. Joshua, um Engages the people to serve the Lord. Verses 1 through 14, Joshua reminds the people all that God had done for them. And then he gives them a choice. I'm just going to go back, I highlighted, um going down through. I'm just going to read down through here. I don't know if anyone uh paid attention going down through here, but uh verse three says it um God said, I took Abraham on the other side of the flood. I multiplied his feet. I plagued Egypt. I brought you out. I put darkness between you and the Egyptians. I brought the sea upon them. I brought you unto the land of the Amorites I gave them unto your hand. I destroyed them from before you. I delivered you out of the hands of Balaam. I deliver and then again all the the ice there in verse 11 he says I delivered them unto your hand. Verse 12, I sent the hornet. I tell you what, when I read that, I'm like, man. I I'm more scar afraid of a hornet than I am of a guy with a sword, I think. Uh hornets are mean little and I don't know what kind of hornets they were, but man the hornets these days are mean little things. They like got a radar on ya I'll tell you a little story. Get your attention back. We were uh at work one day and one guy got the bright idea to throw a rock at a hornet's nest. And we were from here to third chandelier back probably. And I think they were watching him. And he let that thing go and that thing come right to his head. I mean they just they just went after him. Anyway. They're mean little things. Uh he said, I sent the hornet behoor before you. Um But you didn't even have to you didn't even have to use your bow. You didn't have to use your sword. He said, I did it for you, I sent the hornet Uh I have given you a land for which you didn't labor. Said you're eating from vineyards and olive yards, and you didn't e you didn't have to plant 'em. Joshua here is reminding the people that God has done so much for them. And evidently there were still some people who uh it says, if it seemed evil unto you to serve the Lord. So evidently there were still some people that were probably balking at that. Um but we do it too, so I can understand that, I guess. Um but he's saying after all the Lord did for you And then he puts them to this choice there in verse 15. He says, Choose you this day whom you will serve. Um I wrote down here, we need to get off uh we need to get off the fence. It's comfortable there on the fence, sometimes right in the middle, trying not to offend anybody or or you know make anyone mad or or or come down on the uh as Christians these days if you if you stand up for what we believe, you know, we're gonna take some some heat for that. Um, but Joshua's saying here, you guys need to come down off the fence and you need to decide, you know, are you gonna serve the Lord? You're gonna serve Are you going to serve the God who's done all these things for you? Or are you going to go serve the gods that your father served on the other side of the flood? Are you going to serve those who haven't who've done absolutely nothing for you? So he put them to a a choice here. Um I put down after you know all God has done did for them and after all he's done for us. It would just stand to reason that we would choose to serve him. Serving him would be our reasonable service. It says in Romans 12, 1 I won't ask anyone to quote it, but you probably can. Romans 12. 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Uh serving the Lord after all he's done for us is is just reasonable. Um it's a re reasonable service. Uh we have to get up every day and we have to die uh die to self. Um God chose He gave us the free will, right? God gave us the opportunity He gave us the ability to choose Um if we didn't have a choice in the matter, that'd be I don't think God wanted a bunch of, you know, people just going around with no choice in the matter. I I was thinking, you know, I think one of the probably one thing that pleases the Lord the most is when we when we choose to to serve him. No well we don't have to. But we uh we we we we choose to do that. I think that that would please please him. Very much. But he gave us a free will. He does it doesn't force us. But we do have to make a choice. Matthew 6. 24. This was another one I was going to get try to get the twins to quote for me. They learned this one in second grade master clubs. It says, no man can serve two masters, for either he will love the one. I didn't write this down, so I'm going to. and hate the other, else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. We can't serve uh what's the quote? You can't serve you can't serve the Lord without turning your back on the on the world. You you can't do both. You can't go to the world and serve the Lord. It's it's it's either it's either uh it's either choose the Lord or or uh or not. You know, we have to choose God or the world, we have to choose right or wrong, we have to choose truth or not. You know, today people don't want to ch people don't believe in the absolute truth. I don't want to believe in absolute truth, because if they believe that something's right and true, then they have to believe that something they're doing might be wrong. And that's not real comfortable. It's real co it's comf comfortable living with your feelings and doing what makes you feel good and and uh and that. But when there's when there's right and wrong then uh that gets in the way of absolute truth. So people don't want to believe in absolute. Absolute truth. I heard someone say that if someone tells you they don't believe in truth, just simply ask them, is that true? If they don't believe in truth, is that true? And see what they say about that. Because it's gotta be, if it's if they don't believe in truth, then that has to be true, but if there is anyway. I put down seems like a no-brainer to serve the Lord. But yeah, I don't know about you, but I still struggle with it. Still struggle with uh making the right choices. uh know what know the choice we should make but don't always always make it. Um one day One day we won't have to worry about that though. Joshua makes it very plain here. I'll try to end with this pretty soon. Joshua makes it very plain what his choice was. He wasn't on the fence. He uh he said very plainly there in the end of verse fifteen, he says, But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. Who all has a s something in their house that says that on it? I know we do. Um but as well sometimes there's floor mats and things like that when you walk in. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Um Joshua had made up his mind. Uh now Joshua was an old man here. But when he says Joshua uh when he says me and my house I mean he was busy, right? Uh Joshua would have been a busy guy. uh taking care of everything that he had to. But he I I see here that he didn't neglect uh the spiritual state of his family. Uh Joshua says Him and his house. He made sure that his house understood that and served the Lord also. The other thing I I I see is that Joshua's choice Was not dependent on someone else's choice. And I got another thing I want to read here. Uh they put uh not my house Joshua says, me and my house. It says, not my house without me, not I without my house It says first I and then my house. I thought of Jackson when it said first I then my house. But uh he resolves to do this, whatever others did. Um it didn't matter what the other people uh did or not. And Pastor preached about this on Sunday. I just thought of this this evening before I came up here uh tonight. Joshua didn't just Pull this out. I mean he he lived this, right? Um we you look back and you pastor talked about Joshua and Caleb. Uh Joshua uh when Joshua and Caleb went out to spy out the land, I don't know how old he was there, but he was a much younger person uh back then he uh he stood up he he went back and he told the people he said that the land's great he said but we can take it we just gotta trust God we have to to do what he tells us to do. And of course they didn't heed to that and they they they uh they suffered for all that. Um but Joshua stood up uh for God when uh when others would not um So Joshua's Joshua's words here I think carried a lot of weight with the people because uh because he lived it. And Joshua no doubt set an example. We talked about setting an example for for our kids and those that are around us. And uh and and uh Joshua uh Joshua was a good example uh for the people So if we're going to serve the Lord, I think we need to make some we don't need to wait until the time that we're sometimes we need to make choices ahead of time and I'm gonna end here. I I you know i if we wait until we're sometimes we're faced with things It's hard to to get away from it sometimes, especially uh young people at teens. If you guys wait until Until you're you're uh tempted with uh with things that's gonna come up in your life, drugs, alcohol, purity, things like that. Um Some it's best to to decide long time before that ever comes uh whether what you're gonna do with that. And then when you're faced with it, you at least got a heads up, you can get away from it. It's a very important that sometimes you make those choices ahead of time. I was thinking about our church calendar. I'm trying to apply this now Uh and I'm good at some of this and I'm not so good at some of the others. So I'm certainly not up here saying saying that I'm I'm great at it. But you know, sometimes our church calendar we've got to sit down and and Pastor will say this. Sometimes we gotta we can't do everything, but we need to plan. uh the things that we do and make some choices there about where we're going to be. Uh one of the easy ones for me is being in church. You know, we decided a long time ago that we were going to be in church. you know, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night revivals and when whenever possible. I don't really struggle with that one too much. Um but I do struggle sometimes with with uh Bible reading and uh and prayer and uh and and and choosing to to make the right decisions there. And uh I got some notes here that I can't read. Maybe I already said 'em. It says something about Evan. I don't remember what it says. Well, there's whatever. I I hate when I do that. Here's my worst my my biggest fault, one of my biggest faults I think that I struggle with is visitation. uh in the church. And uh the Bible time evangelist got up here last Wednesday, I think, and he mentioned visitation. And he made a good point. You know, everyone doesn't have to come out visiting on Thursday nights because it doesn't work into everyone's schedule on Thursday nights. But uh there should be a time uh that we we set aside and we we choose ahead of time that we're gonna be there and we're gonna we're gonna go visit because I think that's so lacking and it's lacking in my life. And something that I I definitely need to work on. Um because if I wait, if I decide on Monday that I think I'm gonna go to visitation on Thursday, But I think well I'll just wait till Thursday and see if I can make it or not. Guess guess what? Guess where I'm gonna be on Thursday. I'm not gonna be here. Because I don't know. anybody else busy? Anybody else got stuff going on There's always something else to do. Always. And uh so I think I you know I I myself and maybe others, we just we need to choose uh to uh if you choose it ahead of time, well I'm gonna be there. And if something comes up, well I'll just have to move that around. I'll have to do it. But I just thought about visitation. I think uh I think one thing that would uh encourage our pastor Maybe more than anything, he's never told me this, but was trying to put myself in his shoes would be for for for more people uh out visiting and and getting the gospel out. And like I say, it doesn't have to be on Thursday night Um but that's just one thing that area that I need I know I need to. Oh you know it's uh we said I think we were talking about this in one of our lunch one time that uh it's getting it seems like it's getting harder. It's getting harder. Used to kids would ride the buses and stuff, but it's getting harder now. Seems like you'd have to work harder. You gotta you gotta knock on twice as many doors. And uh and I think there's a reason for that. It's because uh you know, the stance that the church takes, it's Uh you know, if you want to tickle tickle the people's ears and uh water down the gospel and uh and get rid of m all most of the standards. You know you can you can you can get people to come to that. Um but it's getting harder and harder to uh to get 'em to come out. Uh thinking of Bible time, you know, if we want to have a if we want to get if we want to have a good Bible time, we're gonna have to get out there And uh I was hoping Ed was gonna be here tonight because I think him and Charlie are taking care of the visitation tomorrow. But I saw a bunch of uh folders back there on the uh with the the Bible time Uh what are the canvassing folders. So it's getting time to do that. So we need we need to get out there and and get after it. I feel like I'm rambling now. Um So I'm just going to quit. I'm just going to read that verse one more time. Joshua 24:15 says, if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. uh then at the end but as for me and my house uh we will serve the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father we uh thank you again for uh all your blessings Lord and uh Thank you for uh for dying on the cross, Lord, that we might have uh have the hope of heaven. And uh Lord, I know I struggle with uh with making the right decisions. And uh I just pray, Lord, you would help me uh to take uh the advice of Joshua here and uh to just make up my mind. Uh whether I'm gonna serve the Lord and whether I'm gonna serve the the world. And uh pray it help us to serve you, Lord, and uh to get out there and tell people about you and And uh we just uh ask now your blessing upon the rest of the service, in Jesus' name frame it. Or else I'll stand