Verse number twelve, our memory verse for the month of October. And uh but I want to read the first verses leading up to it, beginning in verse one of James chapter one. I'm going to begin reading verse one down through verse twelve, and I want to just quickly in a little time we have left point out a few things from this verse that hopefully the Lord will be able to use and challenge us uh in our Christian life and in our ministry and our service to the Lord, whether it's in the bus ministry or whatever capacity God's given us to serve Him By the way, a father buffalo's son, little baby buffalo, grew up and moved out of the house. And do you know what he said to his little baby buffalo when he grew up and moved out of the house? Anybody know? He said, bison. Bison, bison, bis and uh James chapter 1, verse 1, the Bible says, James, the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Now note that word temptation there. We're going to see that again here in a little bit. Kind of all joy when you fall into divers temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith. Now he's this he's defining what he means by temptation when he says that the trying of your faith. Again, we'll look at that here in a minute. Knowing this that the trying of your faith, this temptation, worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. For let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, but the rich in that he is made low, because as a flower of the grass he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth, so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. Now here's our text, our memory verse. Blessed is the man that endureth temptations. Temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. I want to speak this morning just quickly in the little time we have on Christian endurance. Christian endurance The Christian life, let me begin by making a statement. The Christian life is not a 50-yard dash. If you're familiar with track, it's not a 50-yard dash, it's a marathon It's a cross-country thing. It's a lifelong, long-term uh endeavor. And so endurance is incredibly important In living our Christian life and in serving the Lord in our Christian ministry. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us in this matter. Father in heaven, so grateful for a good day today already to be in your house. The song sung and the fellowship, Sunday school lessons we've had, and the bus ministry emphasis today, Lord, it just blesses my heart, and we we praise the Lord for all of it. Now we have our Bibles open. Father in heaven, this is your word. We recognize that, acknowledge that. Your Holy Spirit is the author of this book And I ask, as I try to preach this passage, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you would speak through me, and that you would teach us this passage and apply the truths here to our lives As uh you see fit. So I yield my will, present my body as a just a tool, an instrument in your hands, Lord, to build your church and help us grow in our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I like the book of James. It's hard for me to sometimes people say, what's your favorite book in the Bible? Generally, my favorite book in the Bible is usually whatever I happen to be reading at that time. But James would stand out as far in my mind as the favorite book of the Bible. James was written about the same time, just a little background here of the book of James, it was written about the same time as the book of Galatians. So who was the human penman of the book of Galatians? Somebody went, Paul, the Apostle Paul. He wrote it to a small group of churches that were in this region, Galatia. There was a number of churches there. They were small. They were new churches just been planted. And he's writing to them. There was some false doctrine that was creeping in these early churches. And by the way, false doctrine is nothing new to 2021, the churches of today. It was from the get-go. Satan was trying to corrupt the churches and inject false doctrine. So Paul wrote the book of Galatians to address these couple small, these handful of small churches, he wrote them trying to help them stay true and stay on track doctrinally. So James was written about the same time as that. However, in contrast to the book of Galatians, James was written, if you notice there in verse number one, it was written to Jewish believers. And not any one particular church, but to the Jews that look at verse 1, what's it say? Those that, 12 tribes that were what? Scattered abroad. Now here's the question. Why in the world are they scattered abroad? What are they doing being scattered? What scattered them? And persecution is what scattered them Opposition from their fellow Jews, hatred towards the Lord Jesus Christ, religious pride, and self-righteousness Turned on these humble Jews who had recognized Jesus as their Messiah, recognized themselves as sinners And had trusted Christ as Savior. Do you remember the Pharisees rebuked Jesus and they said, what, are you saying we're sinners? Jesus said, if you were without sin, then I wouldn't have had to come. And so the self-righteous, proud Jewish leaders had driven these humble Jewish believers out of their homes and they were scattered abroad. And James is writing to them. Now I think it's important for the context of our message and the text we're looking at, it's important to keep in mind These are not believers who are sitting in beautiful half a million dollar homes driving $45,000 chariots. You know, wearing uh designer clothing and uh just living in luxury and comfort and pleasure, it's not it at all. These are Jews who were being s intensely persecuted. They had lost everything because of their faith in Christ Now, if you've been attending Sunday morning, Sunday night, and uh on Wednesday nights, uh you'll notice a common theme, I guess, or a common situation we're finding in Scripture. You know what that is? God's people are perpetually persecuted. God's people are continually facing opposition and affliction from this old world We're studying Peter in Sunday evenings. You talk about intense persecution, those believers that Peter's writing to. And so we have this book, James. Is written and being sent to these Jews who are scattered abroad, who are suffering affliction, who are under intense hatred. They're hated for no other reason than their faith in Christ. Their jobs are taken. They're beaten, literally being beaten and imprisoned for no other reason. That they've trusted Jesus Christ, they're Christians. That's the context and the recipients who he's writing to, and that's the background of the things he says here And so the book of James, it's written by anybody want to guess who the penman is of the book of James? Brilliant crowd this morning, man. I'm telling you, you guys are on top. Yes, James, that's obvious. Now the question is Who is James? Who is this guy, James? Well, there's four James mentioned in the New Testament. Four different fellows that go by the name James. The James here, we understand, is the half-brother of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The half-brother of Jesus Christ. You say, well, why do you say what do you mean he's a half-brother? Well, they both had the same mother, who was the mother of Jesus. Mary. The mother of James? Mary. They had the same mother, but they had two f different fathers. How about that? James's father was Joseph. You read of Joseph and Mary? That was his father. James, uh Joseph and Mary had, and by the way, James It wasn't the only son they had that they had. They had a host about four or five other boys and had several girls. We don't know their names. They had sisters. They had kids. James's father was Joseph. His mother was Mary. Jesus' mother was Mary, but Jesus' father wasn't Joseph. Who is Jesus, Father? God Almighty. Jesus the Son of God, the only begotten Son of God. And so James is the half-brother of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And we're not told a whole lot about James in the Bible. He's mentioned several times. Of course, we have this book here But we can go back to contemporary writers of this time frame and we can learn about uh some things about James And we notice in the book of Acts particularly, now the Bible does make this clear, he was the pastor of the church in Jerusalem The very first organized church there in Jerusalem that was had a pastor and all the very first one organized in Jerusalem James was the pastor of that church. How many people here you would say, you know, that would be significant to be the first pastor of the first church ever organized and empowered by the Holy Spirit? How many people agree with me? That'd be something. Man alive. And so James is a significant man in church history Half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, first pastor of the church in Jerusalem. Now we pick up a few things about James, the man himself. And this is a message in itself. I got stirred up just studying about James. First thing I put down about him was, and again this isn't the message, but um uh it's uh I he's a significant man, I put down he was a man of great convictions. He was a man of great convictions. James was martyred for his faith. Now think about that. Here's a man, and according to my calculations, he would have been in his mid-50s, probably. So he was younger than me, not a whole lot younger than me, but he was younger than me Mid-50s, probably, in that range, is my guess. And he would rather die than forsake his Lord Jesus Christ. How about that? He said, more important to me is my faithfulness to my Savior and my commitment to the Word of God and the God that created me. That is more important to me than living life itself. How many people agree with me? That's conviction. Right there, conviction. I want to suggest to you we could use a heap more conviction. in our churches and in our Christian lives today. How often we'll compromise obedience to Lord just to avoid some discomfort, just to be a little more convenient, just so somebody doesn't make fun of me or think I'm weird. James was a man of tremendous conviction, willing to die, willing to be martyred for his faith. So he was a man of great conviction, I put down. I put this down. James was a man of great compassion. Now, the contemporary writers of his day tell us that James was a very loving man, particularly for poor people. His heart went out to the poor. In fact, it's kind of referenced, and I think Paul kind of references that a little bit in the book of Galatians indirectly, but to have a heart for people who are needy. To have a heart for people that maybe I can help them in some way. I can be a blessing to them. I can help them in their life and meet some needs in their life. He had a heart of compassion. And I say this again, we could sure use a heap more of compassion in our churches and in our Christian lives. Amen or not. I think compassion is the key. You realize this? Now, there's nice people unsaved that are very nice. Don't misunderstand. But for the most part, there's lack of compassion in society today. Would you agree with me? James was a man of great conviction. He would rather die than forsake his Lord or compromise his faith. You can kill me. I'm not denying my Lord. I'm not denying my faith in my God. Great compassion. He was concerned that poor folks were met and poor people were reached with the gospel and you don't overlook the poor and And uh when I first came here, I just remembered this, when I first came one long, and we're talking about bus ministry, um I was at a preacher's fellowship, that was about a year or so, we had just bought a bus And I was excited. I'm a young preacher, 33 years old, and uh, you know, God's blessing the church. We're seeing some people saved and baptized, and we got our first bus, and I went to this preacher's fellowship And um I was just on cloud nine. We got a bus. I want to tell the whole world we got our first Sunday school bus, me as pastor. And so we were there and they had testimonies. They had some time. I got up and I said, Well, we praise the Lord. We were able to get our first bus and we're starting our bus ministry. And uh afterward a preacher came up to me and he said this. Listen to this. He said, Brother Leatherman, you will never build a church running buses. He says, you've got to go after the people that have some money. The people have some influence in the community. He says you'll never get anywhere running those buses. I thanked him for his advice. Under my breath I said, you're a knucklehead. But uh I didn't say it outwardly because I don't have a lot of courage, but I I asked my wife to send him a letter and tell 'em I said that And I and I what I did say to him was this, I said, well, you know, we're not we're not going after poor people, we're not going after rich people, we're going after people If they're poor, we'll try and win them to Christ. If they're rich, we'll try to win them to Christ. If they have a lot of influence, we'll try and win them to Christ. If they have little influence, we're going to try and win them to Christ. And James was a man of great compassion. He wanted people to know the Lord, regardless of their status. He was a man of great convictions. He was a man of great compassion. He was a man of great Of humble character. Of humble character. Look at verse 1. Now keep in mind what we know about James. He's the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the first pastor of the first Baptist Church of Jerusalem. That's my injection there. He's a first pastor of the church. He's a half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. But look, look at verse 1 how he describes himself He doesn't say, James, the half-brother of our Lord and Savior, the one that created everything, is my half-brother. No word about his physical relationship to the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say James, the first pastor, most reverend and revered Pastor of the church in Jerusalem. He doesn't say any of that. James, a what? Servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what that tells me? That tells me James didn't see himself as some big shot or some high pollutant big name pastor or Christian. He's just a what? Just a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Doesn't even mention his physical relationship there You know, in God's family and in God's ministry, God doesn't have any big shots. Just servants. Just servants. And so James is of humble character. He's of humble character. No claims or titles, just a servant of God Oh, by the way, let me just throw this out there. If you'll study your Bible carefully, when God wants to honor somebody, he refers to them as his servant. Notice when he references Moses, most almost almost without exception, he'll refer to Moses, my servant. Moses. Now, humanly speaking, I mean, as far as man, now John, there's none greater than John the Baptist. Jesus said that. But in my mind, Moses is one of the greatest leaders. At least in scripture throughout history. But he doesn't refer to him as my leader, my great leader, Moses. No, my servant. David, man after God's own heart. What a man David is. We're studying him. And God refers to him, my servant David. Paul, over and over, perhaps the greatest Christian ever lived. Paul over and over refers to himself as a servant of God, a bond slave. Listen, we got to get over this idea that somehow we're big shots or we're something or I'm I'm the best this, or I'm better at that, or I'm more of this. We're nothing but a bunch of sinners who God saves by his grace. And we serve him as his servants. Amen or not. I mentioned before when I was in Indianapolis, uh, we had a fellow there one time, got all worked up about stuff. He's just in the lobby there, he's just running his mouth real loud. He made this statement, I'm the best Christian in this church. I knew right away he was the worst Christian in that church. As soon as he said that. That's not what God's looking for. That's not what Christianity's about. James is just a humble character. I'm just a servant. I'm just a servant. And then I put down he had unwavering consistency. Great convictions, great compassion, humble character, and unwavering consistency. James pastored that church, and he stuck to it till the Jews came and killed him. He just stayed at it and just stayed at it and just stayed at it. Highly respected by all that knew him. He just stayed at it. I tell you, one of the greatest characteristics in the Christian faith is just consistency. Just consist. Just stay at it. Just stay at it. Just stay at it. James, what a man. He writes this book of James Of course, under the inspiration of God, and God is prompting this, but the book of James is designed to challenge you and I as believers to live out our faith. That's the design behind the book, to live out our faith in practical ways. The book of James is very practical. Has anyone here ever read the book of Proverbs? Anybody here ever read the book of Proverbs? You ought to read that. I like to read one chapter every day. Today I read, this morning I read Proverbs chapter 10. Today's the 10th. And just work my way through the month that way. James And the book of Proverbs are very similar in the fact that they're very practical. Do this, don't do that, watch out for this, pay attention to that, be careful here, make sure this is in place. It's like a how-to guide on living the Christian life. Now, the Bible is a practical book, but some parts of it, Galatians we mentioned, and others are very theological, a lot of doctrine. Romans has tremendous doctrine on the scripture, up at least the first 11 chapters on the gospel, I should say. Ephesians, the first three chapters in Ephesians, first four chapters, are very, very doctrinal. And then he gets a little practical. James is practical from beginning to end. You say, well, how do I live the how? All right, I got saved. How shall I live the Christian life? Read the book of James. Very practical. This is what you do. Don't do this. Be careful here. Make sure you do that It's important to understand that the Christian life is more than just doctrines to be believed, but it is a life to be lived. Some guy, a guy was witnessing a fellow. He says, Well, what do you believe? He said, I believe the same thing my church believes. He says, What's your church believe? Same thing I believe. He didn't know what he believed. Now we ought to believe the right things, but just having a head knowledge of what this book teaches isn't going to do us a heap of good. We've got to live it out And that's what James is about, a very practical book on living out our Christian life. As I said, very similar to Proverbs. Now, if you'll study the book of James, and we already see this in the verses we already read It makes it very, very clear in all the scripture really, but here particularly, it makes it very, very clear that the Christian life is not to be lived in luxury And in pleasure and without trials. Now, if you don't get anything out of the message this morning other than this next statement, I hope you'll get this because Uh if you listen to the wrong voices, there's a wrong idea, a wrong image, or the wrong presentation of Christianity being given out there. Christian life is designed to deal with trials and difficulties and opposition and adversity. The Christian life is not designed by God to live in luxury and have all my pleasures fulfilled, and all my dreams will come true. That's not biblical Christianity. And these yardbirds on TV going around preaching this health and wealth and prosperity gospel are as about as unscriptural as you can possibly get. You study the scriptures, you start reading in Genesis, go all the way through Revelation, and you find God's people dealing with difficulties and dealing with adversities and dealing with trials and dealing with failures. And that is the nature of the Christian life. And we make a mistake when somebody comes and trusts Christ and they're a new believer. And we give this image as, oh boy, it's all it's all a bed of roses from here out. And your wildest dreams will all come true, and it's gonna, no, you're gonna face opposition. You're going to have difficulties and trials. That's the nature of the Christian life. We are the people of God living in a world Where Satan is the God of this world. And you can't put that mixture together and not have friction. You can't take the people of God and put them in a world ruled by Satan and not face opposition. Now, I'm not suggesting we're better than anybody. We're not. We're sinners just we deserve to go to hell just as much as the guy, the next guy. Amen or not? But, brother, when God saves us soul, He changes the direction of that life, He changes the character and the nature of that person, and we no longer fit in. We are round pegs living in a square hole. That's a great thought I just thought of that. That reverts back to my kindergarten years. But it's true. It's true. He said, blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he's tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him Christian life and Christian ministry is designed by its very nature to deal with opposition, to deal with difficulty. I put this down. Jesus never promised us a life without sorrows. He never promised us a life without trials and adversities. In fact, he said just the opposite. He said, In this world, ye, he was talking to his disciples. Are you with me? He said, In this world, ye shall have tribulation. Mark it down. You say, oh great, I want to be a Christian. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, and I got a whole church full of folks here telling you, it's worth it. It's worth it. It's worth it. And so he writes us here. Three things. I see my time, so I'm uh we'll have us out regularly, but I want to give you real quick three observations here. Number one, I notice the promise of blessing. Blessed in verse 12 is the man that endureth temptation. Blessed. We all want to be blessed. How many people here want God to bless you? Yeah, you're a knucklehead if you don't. We all want to be blessing. We all want to be blessed. And by the way, God wants to bless us. But the Bible's clear. I want you to bless me. God's up there, I want to bless you. The Bible's clear, God doesn't bless everybody. There are some folks that have God's blessings and some people who do not. Some people are blessed of God, and some people are not blessed of God. You say, wait a minute, preacher, no, don't hold it. God is good to all. He sends the rain on the just and the unjust. God is kind to the most wicked sinner, and he's kind to the most godly saint. God is good to all, but the Bible's clear that God's blessings are not just thrown out indiscriminately. How many people are familiar, a little bit familiar with the book of Psalms? Sure. Probably one of the most popular books in the Bible. Somebody says, what's your favorite book Psalms would often be said, Oh, I love the book of Psalms. How many people here say, Preacher, I love the book of Psalms? That encourages me. Man, from the heart of David and Moses and other writers The book of Psalms is great. Go with me very quickly, and we're not going to get through this message, I can see it. Go with me, if you would, very quickly, to Psalm chapter number one. Now if you just open your Bible, smack dab in the middle, just open it right up in the middle, you'll be in Psalms. And then just work your way back to chapter number one. Psalms chapter one. Give me a moment to find it there. Now James chapter 1 verse 12, the verse begins with the word blessed. Now look at Psalms, perhaps one of the most popular, most well-loved books of the Bible, the very first word. In the book of Psalms, the longest book in the Bible, the very first word is what? Blessed. Blessed. There are conditions for God's blessings This is what I'm trying to say. You and I have a role. You and I have a responsibility in our Christian lives. As to whether we are victorious or defeated in our Christian life, the victorious, blessed, fulfilled Christian life doesn't just happen. Well, I'll sit back on my sofa and drink iced tea and watch uh comedy shows and God will just pour his blessings out on me. It doesn't work that way I have a responsibility. If I want God's blessings, I have a responsibility. What does verse 1 say? Notice what he says: Blessed is everybody, no matter what they do or who they are. Blessed is everyone. Does it say that? No. He says, Blessed is the man that walketh or uh that walketh not The counselor of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Do you see some conditions there for God's blessings? Yeah. He says, you don't run with the wrong crowd. Don't sit around with people with bad attitudes. Don't get bad advice. Walk within the counsel of the ungodly. Listen, if I want God's blessings, I need to be careful who I listen to. You're listening to these country and western singers telling you, oh, my wife cheated on me. I'm gonna take my dog, go get drunk Huh? You're not gonna get God's blessings on that. These kids in their rap music. You old folks in your country music I know I made half you're mad at me. That's all right. I don't care. But what I'm saying is this: he says, don't take counsel from the ungodly if you want God's blessings. Blessed man that walketh not in the counsel of the unly, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Scornful, that's talking about your attitude. The first statement, counsel is advice. Don't give bad advice. Then the attitude, scornful attitude. Listen, you're not going to have God's blessing. You walk around with a bad attitude all the time. Just mad at everything. No wonder you're miserable because you don't have God's blessings We have a responsibility. What the Bible is very, very clear. I must conduct myself. I must be very, very careful on my actions and my behavior and my attitude if I want God's blessings. Oh Christianity's stupidest thing ever. With that attitude you're not going to know what Christianity is I got saved, 19 years old, I trusted Christ. Man, my whole view of Christianity changed totally. This is not even remotely what I thought it was. This is great So we have a responsibility. Blessed is the man, Jane says. Psalm says, blessed is the man And walk not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the stormful. I got my attitude out of out of the out of order there But he sitteth in the seat of the scornful. What I wanted to say there was ungodliness, standeth in the way of sinners. That's the associates. So you got bad advice, bad associates, bad attitude. Stand in the way of sinners. I tell you what, you hang around with a bunch of people with stinky attitudes, guess what you're gonna get? You gotta hang around with a bunch of miserable, fault-finding, criticizing, hateful, mad, bitter people. Guess what you're gonna be? It's what you're going to be. Listen, if you sleep with the dogs, don't wonder why you wake up with fleas. That's a great statement there. And so God says, listen, you want my blessings, you want the blessings of God. You have a responsibility. So the Book of Psalms, one of the most popular books in the Bible, one of the most favorite, begins with blessed women. By the way, we don't have time. You go down to verse 2 there He says, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. So if I want God's blessing, number one, I need to separate myself from some stuff, some junk. And then I need to dedicate myself to the Word of God. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And his law doth he meditate day and night. Tell you what, you want God's blessings, you fall in love with that old book. You read it. Memorize it. Get it in your head and heart and mind. Brother, you'll see your whole perspective on everything changing. And the blessings of God. Real quickly, and I'm only going to get the first point this morning, not even that. But go with me real quickly, if you would, to Matthew, chapter number five. Psalms? James 1. 12, blessed is the man that endureth temptation. It begins with that statement, that promise of blessing, but it's a conditional promise. We go back to Psalms, we see the very first word of Psalms talks about this man that is blessed. And there's conditions attached to it. This promise, there's conditions. Look at Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7 is the most famous sermon that's ever been preached by the greatest preacher who's ever preached. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And we call it the sermon on the what? Mount. Suppose he's on the side of a mountain. He's preaching to his disciples. Somebody had come down there. Notice with me down in verse number three. The very first word off the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ on the greatest, most popular sermon ever preached, the very first word is what? Blessed. Here we go again. Notice what he says. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. And then he goes down through here. Blessed. Are they that mourn? Blessed are the meek. Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. What I'm trying to say is this God promises his blessings on those that meet the conditions. And James begins that great verse that we're memorizing: blessed is the man, and then he gives the conditions that endureth temptation. I want God's blessings, don't you? I do. I'm convinced in studying Scripture in 42 years of being a Christian, walking with the Lord, I am convinced that God wants to bless us. And he has and often does. But you and I have a role to play in whether we're blessed of God. I want God to bless our church. But we've got to do things right. We've got to follow his instructions. Or we won't have God. You know, not all churches are blessed of God I'm not being judged by that. That's between them and God. I'm not standing in judgment of that, but I'm not that dumb that I can't say that God doesn't bless all churches. There's a responsibility we have. Responsibility. Now here, let me real quickly inject this and I'm going to quit. Don't confuse happiness With the blessings of God. It's a world of difference. A fool can be happy He's living, getting what his foolish heart desires. Be happy. That's one of the problems with this world. They're happy in living in subpar conditions. They're happy on their way to hell. Oh, I got a a drunk can be happy A wicked person can be happy. A thief can be happy. A lawyer can be happy. But only God can give us his blessings. You follow what I'm trying to say? There's a world of difference. Somebody said happiness is the ripples on the surface of a lake. Affected by the wind or whatever's happening. But the blessings of God is a well, a well and a spring surging up from within. And filling the lake with the water. You see the difference? Oh fool can walk out there and smoke some pot. Oh, I'm really I got some good pot, man. I'm happy. Right? Happy as can be. Some old pervert comes across something, oh I I'm happy. But I tell you what, that doesn't even come close to the blessings of God that fill our heart and give us purpose and peace of mind and fulfillment. The blessings of God. And James says, blessed is the man. And then he goes on, then endure of temptation he'll receive the crown of life. I'm just going to end there. I want God's blessings. I want God to bless me. My father was anything but a perfect man. He was not a perfect man. I tried to honor, I tried to honor my parents, the whole Christian, I tried to honor my parents sincerely and honestly. But I tell you, my father wasn't a perfect man. I think sometimes I present him and you think, well, you he must have been perfect. No, he wasn't perfect. But I tell you what, my father was faithful. And I saw God's blessings on a man that had one fork, one knife. One spoon, one plate, one cup, right or wrong, Kathy. That's all he had. I said, Dad, why don't you get more plates and cups? He said, I don't need them. Okay. So we go to visit them. We brought our own forks and knives and cups But he was blessed. He had peace in his heart. He had purpose in his life. And he had something, hey, he had something this whole world knows nothing about. There's nothing about it. I want that. And there's conditions to be met. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to hunger for your blessings. Help us, Lord, to desire your will to be done in our lives, and that our lives to reflect your glory in this world see what a man or a woman or a young person. That is blessed of God, that they could see what that is. That you could use us to bring others to Christ. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how we smart to say, preacher, I want God's blessing. Maybe you've just taken it for granted. Well, God, maybe this morning God's stirring your heart, you know, there's some adjustments that need to be made that I can have what God wants to give me. And advice, associates, attitudes, we talked about that. We didn't get into the Sermon on the Mount much. But God spoke to your heart and you say, Preacher, I need to give some attention to this. God's dealt with my heart. Any like that by the uplifted hand? I need to give some attentions, some adjustments in my walk with God. Maybe getting in that book, like we ought to. Being faithful. Wholeslow. Let's come and maybe this morning just say, Lord, give me that hunger. Help me to want that more than I want the pleasures of this world. Maybe that's what my prayer would need to be. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.