Announcements Brother James is preaching this evening, seven o'clock, and uh I hope you'll be able to make it back and uh get on. Brother James is a good preacher and uh God used him a great way. So we would encourage you take a little time this evening, come on back out to the house of God, and um I know you'll get a blessing for it. I noticed a couple of Other visitors slipped in and the back here and we're glad you folks are here. God bless you. And we're always uh thrilled to have folks visiting in the service with us. And uh trust you get a blessing from the service. Luke chapter two. And if you would notice with me verse number eleven, I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Luke Chapter two and verse eleven. Let everybody find it there. Would you read this verse with me? Ready? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. You can write in the margin of your Bible, Christmas Day there. And this day is the phrase that caught my attention. Christmas Day, this day, and uh entitled the message This Day. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless our thoughts here from this passage. Father, as uh we take some time on this Christmas morning to uh assemble together in your name in the house of God. Lord, we have our Bibles open before us. We're looking at this verse. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would impress upon us and open our hearts and minds to your word and your will for us on this special day. I pray that this day will be a day of significance in our lives, not just here and now, but in the coming weeks and months. That we would understand a little bit clearer your will for our lives and your love for us and your plan and purpose for mankind and for the world. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, I yield my soul I present my body anew. I pray that you would speak through me to each of our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. There never has been in the history of time, a day like that Christmas morning. If we stop and think about it, God becoming a man Never in history, in all of time, before time, had that happened. God becoming man Spirit. The Bible says God is spirit, yet God taking on flesh. Now I have a few introductory statements, I guess I'll call them. Then I had the thought of my message this morning. But just by way of introduction, I want us to first of all think of the significance that one day can make in a person's life. The events of one day can Change everything. Now I think about, as I think about that fact, how when you get up in the morning, there are events that may take place that day that will change your life forever. I think of our brother Job in the Old Testament. How many people are familiar with the story of Job? That's not a very Christmassy story, but the fact is, there was a certain day, the Bible says. When Job's life was altered forever. And now it was in a negative way, obviously. He lost his family. He lost his possessions. He lost his friends in a very real way. And that one day, when he got up that morning, he had no idea that when he went to bed that night, how different his life and his world was going to be One day can change everything. I thought about uh David when uh the armies went out to go to war and traditionally the uh the kings Responsibility was to lead the armies. But this day, David stayed back. He stayed home. And the tragic events of that day when He uh got involved with Bathsheba and committed the awful sin of adultery, and his life was altered, and his testimony scarred. One day When we get up in the morning, my father said to me uh a number of years ago, he said, he said, you never know when you get up in the morning and put your shoes on the morning You don't know who's going to take them off that evening. There's a lot of significance to that. The events of one day. This day, the angel said. I thought about uh how many people remember the story in the Gospels of little Zacchaeus? Zacchaeus. Remember Zacchaeus was a wee little man, and a wee little man was he? Remember that? He climbed up in the Sycamore tree for the Lord he wanted to see. You know what? I think when Zacchaeus climbed that tree, he never dreamed that when he come down, he'd be a totally different man. Jesus said to him, while he was in the tree, Jesus said to him, this day is salvation come to this house. One day changed everything. The significance of one day. Job, David, Bathsheba, Zacchaeus, we could go on down through scripture. Their lives would never be the same because of the events that took place one particular day. Here in our text, Luke chapter 2. 11, they say, unto you is born this day. Very significant day. A life-changing day. I thought about Mary and Joseph's life. The day that the angel appeared to Mary and told her that she was to have a child that was conceived of the Holy Ghost. Ladies, how many of you think if an angel showed up and told you that that would change your life a little bit? Yeah. Her life was never the same. One day when she got up that morning, she had no idea. That what would happen that day. The significance of one particular day. The day that Jesus was born. Did you ever think about it? How it changed the city of Bethlehem? Bethlehem was before the birth of Christ a very insignificant town. It was very basically unknown. It was the city of David. But as far as any religious significance, as far as any spiritual significance, there was nothing. But Christ was born in Bethlehem. That changed everything. Everything. This day changed the the significance of an entire city. I thought about Herod. How many people are familiar with Herod? King Herod Uh the wise men show up and they ask, Where is he that's to be born, King of the Jews? Herod says, I don't know. Uh so they look around and they check with the scribes and They find out it's in the city of Bethlehem. And uh so the uh by then Jesus had been in Nazareth. And so then the wise men show up and uh they leave and Herod gets jealous and what's he do? Uh he goes and he kills all the children. Under two years old. One day changed everything. So think of the significance of one day. We get up this morning, we have no idea. What our world, what our situation will be like when we go to bed tonight. Significance of one day. Second thing I thought, just by way of introduction, was uh think of the surprise one day came have. Things we never expect. Things we never anticipate can happen in a single day. Then I thought of this, the secrecy of this day here The secrecy of the day Christ was born. Now, it's not a secret anymore. But the fact is, the morning that Christ was born in Bethlehem, only a select few people were told about that. A handful of shepherds, Mary and Joseph. Afterward, shepherds went and told a bunch of folk But as far as the world was concerned, that Christmas morning when Jesus was born was just another day. No fanfare, no trumpets No special meetings of the UN. The kings of the world didn't gather to unite and recognize it. Just another day. People got up and went to work. Ladies got up and prepared for the day. They did their responsibilities. The kids played and ran around and they went to bed at night and had no idea. the significance of that day. Society was completely unaware, for the most part, of the events of Bethlehem. Actually it wasn't until the wise men showed up that anybody, even outside of the little circle, knew anything about what had taken place. And I found that that's true in God's work in our hearts often. God will do things in our hearts that are unknown to anybody else. Else around. Let me illustrate. May 7, 1979. Back outside of Philadelphia, I trusted Jesus Christ my Savior. Could I ever tell you about that? 1030 at Night on a Monday night. What a day that was. Christ came in my heart and life, saved me, changed my life completely. Here I am, 51 years old. I was 19 at the time And I still haven't gotten over it. What God did for me that day. Here's the interesting thing about that. God had been working in my heart for five months. Leading up to that day. And nobody in the world knew anything about it. God was convicting me. God was bringing about an awareness in my heart of my condition spiritual Spiritually, there was a tremendous concern taking place down in my soul for my spiritual standing before God, and God was working and God was doing things in my life, but outwardly nobody in the world knew And that is often the way God works. God is working in a heart. I may be speaking to someone this Christmas morning. God's been dealing with With your heart about your relationship with the Lord, about your condition and your standing spiritually. God has been working and working and working, maybe some area, God's trying to accomplish His will. Outwardly, no one else in the world knows, but between Between you and God, there's a tremendous amount of interaction going on. That's often the way the Lord works. I got saved. Uh did I mention Monday, May 7th, 19 And uh that following week, God transformed my life like that. I mean just tremendous transformation In unusual ways. About a week or so later, my mom was by there and was with my mom and she got my dad aside and she made this statement. I found this out later. She made this statement. Uh now I need to say this. My parents call me Denny. Don't you dare call me Denny. She said, What in the world got into Denny? My dad said, Something's happened. You know what happened? God had been working in my heart for months and months and months. May 7th, that night, Christ was born in my life. I trusted Christ. Now there was an outward manifestation. And suddenly people began to realize. This is the point I'm trying to trying to make. God works in our hearts often in ways that other people are unaware of. Uh it's been maybe a year or so ago. I was up at our our fellowship hall. That's one Walmart. And um I was up at Walmart, I bought some things, probably didn't need, probably wasn't planning on buying them when I went into Walmart. Walmart. But uh I was going through the checkout line and uh the lady there and I really didn't recognize her at that time and she says, Pastor Leatherman I said, Yes she goes, I just thank you so much. She said, My kids Went to neighborhood Bible time at your church. This was a couple years ago. She said, they went to neighborhood Bible time. My son and my daughter got saved at Bible time. She goes, I just want you to know how much their lives have changed She said they were running around and smoking and drinking and uh and drugs and all that. She goes, they got saved, now they've buckled down, they're studying and they're home and they've got jobs. She goes, God has done something wonderful in a lot You know what? I never knew that happened. Just a couple kids came through the program, trusted Christ, went on. We never heard anything of it. God often works in ways that we're not aware of We don't even see if Jesus is born in Bethlehem. World doesn't even know it. Just going about their business. Um another time up at Walmart, I spend a lot of time time at Walmart. Uh I was up there and there's a young fella there behind the uh cash the um The register, little conveyor belt there. And um we're we were going through and I was talking a little bit. I said, Can I leave one of my gospel tracts with you? I said, would that be alright? He goes, Pastor Letherman, I'm already saved I didn't know who he was. I said, Really? He says, Yeah, I got saved at your church. I said, Well, I'm sorry. I said, I didn't recognize you. I said, uh, uh how are things going? He goes, Oh, I'm and he said Said his church, it's out of the area here. He doesn't live here. He has the drive to work ways. He said, uh he said, but I'm a leader in the church. I lead the singing. He says, God has just changed my life. didn't know anything about that. God often works in ways we're not even aware of. God changing lives, doing things of significance. And we don't even see it. Now let me just say a word to the folks in our church that have ministry, which I trust would be most, if not all of us. When we witness to folks, when we share the gospel with people and we teach the word of God. Don't ever despair. God is working in ways you may never be aware of. May never be aware of. Let's Just stay faithful. Let's just keep on giving out the gospel. Let's just keep on living for the Lord. You say, I don't see any results. You leave the results to God. God may be doing things we may not find out until we get to heaven. So the secrecy of this day it wasn't really a secret, but as far as the world was concerned, they were unaware of what was taking place. Now, this day is a very significant day The day Christ was born unto you is born this day. What made that day so significant? Well, here it is. I believe the prophecies Concerning this day made it very significant. For thousands of years God had been telling his people and sending his prophets with the message, a Savior is coming. A Messiah is coming who will take away people's sins, who will provide salvation, make salvation available for all of mankind. That day is coming. That day is coming. That day is coming. Listen. We have a lot of charlatans, I call them, who make prophecies and predictions, and if they're wrong just one time, they're not of God. Listen, don't you buy into these yard birds on TV and have all these prophecies going on. The Bible says in Deuteronomy, if they're mistaken one time, you know they're not of God. So I don't pay any attention to that. But when God says throughout the whole Old Testament over and over and over and over again that there is a Savior coming, that there is a day when God will take on flesh, when a virgin will have a child. We better pay attention. I want to show you something interesting. This is not, you would not consider this your typical Christmas message, but if you have your Bible, I'd like you to very quickly turn with me to Genesis. First book of the Bible, Genesis, and I'd like you to notice with me chapter number three. Genesis chapter three We're talking about the significance of the day Christ was born, this day, for thousands of years God had been prophesying of this particular day. And in Genesis chapter 3, and particularly in verse 15, we have a statement made by the Lord At the time was probably, and I'm just guessing here, but I would say at the time it was given, it was probably very obscure in their minds exactly what the Lord was saying. But for you and I, after the fact looking back, what's the old saying? Hindsight is what? 2020. We can look back with the information we have, and we see exactly what God was saying And in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, we have a reference, a prophecy of this day. Look what the Bible says here. Now, God is speaking to Satan in the form of a serpent. Mankind, Satan had been very successful in deceiving the woman and getting Adam, the man, to disobey God and plunge the mankind into a sinful nature, a fallen state. God confronts Adam and Eve, and now he's confronting the serpent, Satan. And look what he says in verse 15. God speaks. I will put enmity between thee, that's the serpent, the Satan. I will put enmity Between thee and the woman. Now, we can say a lot about this, but I want to pull one thought out. And between thy seed and what are the next two words? Her seed. Then he goes on, it, the seed of the woman, shall bruise thy head What type of wound would that be? If it's a blow to the head, it's most likely a what? Fatal wound. That's what the reference is there. He's going to kill you, he's going to destroy you. And thou shalt bruise his what? Heel. Would you say bruising your heel is a fatal wound? No. It's not going to be destroyed by this. It's going to be hurt. It's going to be a price to pay. It's not going to be destroyed. So there's a lot in this passage we could extract. But I want you to notice something right in the middle. I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. Now you need to know a little bit about human biology to fully appreciate this. The fact of the matter is, woman does not naturally have a seed. The seed of mankind is in man. And so when God makes reference to the woman's seed, he is now us looking back and we look at other passages of scripture and we understand this fully now, maybe at the time they did. But it is a reference to the fact of a woman having a child without ever receiving the man's seed. It's simply a virgin earth. Jesus born not of man, but of virgin Of a woman. Thousands of years before Mary, that precious virgin young lady Gave birth to the Lord Jesus Christ thousands of years before God, in rebuking and judging the devil, makes reference To this day. This day. That makes this day significant. Now, if we had more time and there wasn't other things going on today, I would love for us to go to Isaiah chapter 7 and verse 14 and Micah chapter 5 and verse 2 and uh Isaiah chapter 9 and faces all throughout scripture that reference the coming, that reference this day The day Christ was born, the day God became man. You and I, On this Christmas day, we're assembled here together, are recognizing and celebrating an event that was prophesied by God for thousands of years before it ever took place. You say, Brother Leatherman, was Jesus born on December 25th? Probably not. We don't know what date he was born born on. But the event that we celebrate today, the birth of Christ, whatever the exact date may or may not have been Nevertheless, was a day that was prophesied for thousands of years. That makes it significant That makes it significant. Second thing I put down, it makes this day significant. Not just are the prophecies concerning this day that make it significant, but the person born on this day makes it significant. I have no doubt there was hundreds of probably thousand I'm sure there was thousands, maybe tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of babies born that day when Jesus was Was born. Throughout the world, no doubt the maternity wards were filled with babies born that morning. So what is so special about this baby? The way the world looks at Christmas, they say it, oh, what a cute little story. A homeless man and his wife. Have a little babe in poverty. And the angels saying, and what a nice little thing a baby is born. I want to say to you, that was more than just any old baby born that morning. And by the way, Mary and Joseph were not homeless. They were traveling. And neither were they necessarily super poor. He had a job. He was uh he took care of himself. So then don't portray this as some political thing. Nevertheless, that was not just another baby born. On that day, on this day, God became man Now think about that. We hear that so much, it just kind of goes off the top of our head. But think about God becoming man The eternal spirit took on the flesh of man. Think about this. Our Creator Of all this universe, of the billions of galaxies and the and the most minute detailed little microbes, the God that spoke all of this into existence. The Creator became the creature. Imagine that That wasn't just a baby laying in that manger. That was the creator of everything there is laying in that manger. I put it this way: the Lord of man became a servant. of man. Jesus later on said, I'm not come to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give my life a ransom for many. Listen, if anybody should be serving anybody, it should be man serving God. But yet our Lord came down to be a servant of man. The infallible judge of all the earth came down into a position to be condemned. For man. That person in that manger, nobody ever liked him before or since. The God man. One hundred percent God, one hundred percent man in one being What a significance. What significance that gives to this day. The prophecy concerning this day make it significant. The person born this day make it significant. And last of all, and I'm going to have to explain my thinking here a little bit, but I put the process that began this day makes it significant. it again. Now don't misunderstand, I am not suggesting that salvation is a process. Salvation happens instantaneously. the moment we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we are instantly saved. It is not a process. Brother James and I were out yesterday forenoon and we were We made some visits and whatnot. We were able to visit with a young couple. And we were able to go through the gospel. And uh Todd and Tanya bowed their heads with us and prayed to trust Christ as Savior. If they were sincere, I have no reason to doubt their sincerity. The moment they called and put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, they were saved. It's not a process that takes place. But having said that, providing salvation, making salvation possible, available to mankind, was a process on God's part. This is what I mean to say. The day that Christ was born, this day, was the first of three days that had extreme significance. One of three days that have an unparalleled impact on mankind. Let me give you those three days. First day was the birth of Christ This world has never been the same since Christ was born. It has changed the course of history. You wrote a check perhaps this morning for the offering. You put up there 12, 25, 11. You are recognizing the birth of Christ by using that calendar. That's 2011 A. D. Follow what I'm saying? So the birth of Christ that day was tremendously significant. I'm going to give you what I believe, uh not just for our salvation, but in the history of the world. But I'm going to give you another day that's phenomenally significant in the salvation of mankind, and that is this, the day of Christ's resurrection. You say, oh, what about his crucifixion? Hey, if it had not been for his resurrection, the crucifixion would have been meaningless. The day Christ walked out of that grave, the devil was defeated, salvation was paid in full, and you and I have hope of escaping hell, of having meaning and purpose in life. Of finding forgiveness of sin and having a home in heaven because of the day of the resurrection of Christ. Now that day could not have happened without this day, the day of Christ's birth So the day he was born is tremendously significant. God becoming man, God taking on flesh born of a virgin. Then he lives 33 and a half years thereabouts, perfect sinless life. Without one thought that displeased our Heavenly Father, without one deed, one word said that violated the holiness of God, a perfect sinless life For you and I, as our substitute, he did that to be put on our record that he's crucified for our sins. Our disobedience, the thoughts and words and deeds we do that violate the holiness of God, the judgment of that is placed on Jesus Christ in our place. And he is buried. And on the third day he rises again. Victorious over the grave, alive forevermore. That's a significant day when Christ. If he would not have risen from the dead, it would have been just another person dying like tens of thousands of other Roman criminals died. But Christ rose again Now there's a third day that has tremendous significance, and that's this: the day of Christ's return When that day takes place, nothing will ever be the same. He'll come to judge the world, he'll come and establish his kingdom, and what a day that will be When Jesus we shall see. The significance of this day, it began a process where Jesus was born lived a perfect life, died a sinner's death, was buried and rose again, and is in and waiting the day of his return. That began that whole process. And so this day, this Christmas morning, will you and I sit here in a Sunday service? Had family time together this morning, no doubt, or perhaps last evening But the event that we are recognizing this day is of tremendous significance. And here's the thing: the world misses it completely. Say, preacher, are you against celebrating Christmas? Absolutely not. I am always for getting gifts. I say let's do it more often. No, I'm not against it. I like the Christmas tree. I like the Christmas carols. I like everything But if all Christmas is, if all it is, is trees and trinkets And family and gifts and snowmen. If that's all Christmas is, then Christmas is as empty as the line of those who know not Christ. It's just trachis. It's just an empty celebration. But if underneath and beyond, if if as the basis of that celebration we recognize the significance of this day, the birth of Christ, salvation being made possible, then those other things have tremendous significance. We opened our gifts yesterday. I think this is kind of weird, but we opened them yesterday at half time of the football games. How Christmassy can you get? At least they won But it was a we really had a great time. We really did. But you know what? It wasn't just an empty, meaningless Ritual. We stopped, and many of you do this, but we stopped and read the Christmas story. And we reminded ourselves that sharing of gifts is simply a response to the greatest gift that's been ever given. The Lord Jesus Christ. You see what I'm saying? All the celebrate celebratory type things have significance when we understand what this day is all about. But if we don't understand what this day is all about, then it's just empty ritual. It's meaningless Jesus Christ came, Matthew tells us, to save his people from their sins. This past year flew by. Flew by. A year ago today, Lewis and Kim went down to New Zealand. I can't believe it's been a year Some of us have allowed things into our lives and allowed some events to take place That we regret terribly. We look back, say, man, how did I ever let that happen? I'm here to tell you because that babe born in Bethlehem years ago Go, we can find forgiveness and cleansing, and we can start anew through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. How many folks here this morning? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Now, I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, although I'm awfully tempted. How many folks here, since you've been saved, don't respond. Just in your mind respond. But how many folks since you've been saved? Well go ahead and respond. How many folks here since you've been saved you've blown it somehow to some degree in one way or another? Come on now. Some of y'all are blowing it right now Here's the good news. Once I trust Christ as Savior, I can look anywhere and everywhere for my sins. And I will never find it. I can't find it. I can go to Mongolia, go to Kazakhstan, go to South America. You can dig swim down into the deepest parts of the deepest sea. You will never ever find your sins because when we trust Christ as Savior, they're gone. What took place Christmas morning began the process of getting rid of our sin. Where are you at this morning? Have you trusted Christ as Savior? Do you know for sure that your sins are gone, cleansed, forgiven? That you have a home in heaven. God says we can know that. We can have that for sure. These things have I written unto you, but believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have Have eternal life. Isn't that great? That's what Christmas is about. If for those of us that know Christ as Savior Let's pray in this thought this. For those of us that know Christ as Savior, wouldn't this Christmas forenoon Be a great time to just come anew and present ourselves anew to the Lord Jesus Christ. Say, God, I just want to give myself to you this Christmas Day to be yours, to live for you, to please you. I want my mind to be pure. I want my deeds to be right. I want my life to have significance for the cause of Christ. God, I give myself to you. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? Now we're going to take part in the Lord's Supper here in just a moment. By the way, I don't think there's a more biblical thing you can do to recognize the purpose of Christmas than to have Lord's Supper. That is exactly what Christmas is all about. Before we take part Lord's Supper, what about those of us that know Christ? Why don't we just come to an altar old-fashioned alder and say, Lord, here I give myself to you. You gave yourself for me. I give you my future, my hope, my dreams. I dedicate My life to you, Lord, to live for you. Father, bless now, this Christmas morn, this day. I pray it would be a day of submissions. I pray, Father, that um It would be a day of renewed. Renewed life. Lived for the Lord. Lord, maybe it'd be a day of salvation for some. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many Christians this morning say, preacher, you know, my My heart is stirred this Christmas. I want my life to have significance for the Lord. I want my life to count for the cause of Christ. God stir my heart and preacher pray with me. I would just like to dedicate my life or renew my dedication to the Lord this Christmas morning and be fully sold out for Jesus Christ. Is there any life I don't know how that would play out in specifics in your life, but God has stirred your heart. Say, preacher, I want my life to be lived for Jesus fully and completely. God bless you. Many, many hands. Let me ask this are there some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell I would like to have that assurance in my heart and life that when I die, my sins are completely forgiven. And that I can go to heaven. The Bible says we can know that. This morning you'd say, preacher, this Christmas Day, that God will help me settle that. And I can know that our sins are forgiven. Have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the apostles? Lifted hand, preacher, pray with me. That God will help me settle that. Any at all? Any at all. Father, bless our invitation time now