But um I hope you're working on this. Get this verse memorized, and I want to pick up where we left off last week, review just briefly, and then pick up where we left off last week and ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us in our lives as we try to live for the Lord and serve him. James chapter number one, look at verse 12. Let's read it together. I know we just quoted a little bit ago, but let's Once again, read verse 12 together. Ready, everybody, all together. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. And I'm entitled a message, Christian Endurance, Part 2. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now as we look into your word. I ask, Father, that your Holy Spirit would help us open our hearts and minds to your will and your word for us as individuals. I pray that you would strengthen those maybe are struggling in their faith a little bit That what the truth's given this morning, you would use that and help us to be a little stronger in our faith and our confidence in uh your working in our lives. Lord, maybe Some are struggling with um uh sins or defeated in the Christian life. I pray that today would be a day of victory. Lord, if there's some that do not have assurance of sins forgiven and a home in heaven, I ask, dear Holy Spirit, you'd bring great conviction. And they make the decision to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. So, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask that you fill me With your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, you would speak through me this morning. In Jesus' name, Amen. You remember we pointed out, we gave a little background in the book of James. It's a fascinating book. I I say this, I said it last week, I say it again. My favorite book is whatever I happen to be studying at that time, seems like. But I do like Jace James kind of corresponds with the Old Testament book of Proverbs. It's very practical. Very how-to. This is how you live the Christian life. This is how you walk by faith This is how a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ interacts with others and deals with the issues of life. So it's a tremendously encouraging book. It's a tremendously challenging book. But it's very, very practical in its application. I like the fellow James. If you'll remember, we said that he was the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ, the penman of the book of James. Now we know who the author of James is, right? The author is who? It's God. This is God's Word. James is the man that the Holy Spirit inspired to record this, gave it through inspiration. And he was the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, the interesting thing about that is he makes no mention of that uh in his in this book at all. And nowhere does James ever uh capitalize on the fact that he's the half-brother of Jesus Christ. Of course they had the same mother. James's father was Joseph. Jesus' father was God Almighty, Jesus the Son of God, and He never He never exploits that position he held, that relation, physical relationship that he had with the Lord Jesus Christ. He never exploits it How many people here, how many of you uh us would think, you know, if Jesus was my half-brother, I'd kind of make sure everybody knew that, huh? James doesn't do that. He doesn't say a word about it. He had uh as the half-brother of Jesus Christ, James had no more access to Jesus than you and I do as believers. And by the way, neither does Mary. We don't have to go to Mary to get to Jesus. We can go directly to God Himself. of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he doesn't exploit that relationship he had with the Lord Jesus Christ. He was the first pastor of the first church. there in Jerusalem. And again, a pretty significant position, a pretty honor, a great honor to be able to be the pastor of the very first church. after the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. But again, he doesn't make reference to that. James was a tremendous man. We had pointed out that he had great convictions. He died for his faith. He was martyred for his faith. He had great compassion. He was concerned for the poor. We see that in the book of Acts. You want to make sure they had opportunity to get to the Lord Jesus Christ. He wanted to make sure those that uh did not have the resources to uh grow in their faith and and uh come to the Lord that they uh that uh they had that opportunity. I think That James would have been a great lover of the bus ministry, to be honest with you. To uh get to the Lord. So uh great compassion. Uh he's a man of great character, very humble man, as we pointed out, and uh very, very consistent. Now, in verse number 12, he makes this statement. And we've been memorizing this, and this is a good verse to encourage us. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation For when, not if, when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to all them that love him. And we noted three things. I see three promises in this verse. And the first one we looked at last week, if we remember, we noticed the promise of blessing. How many people remember last week? We talked about the promise of blessing. Five people remember it. Praise the Lord Hey, don't feel bad. Sometimes I don't remember what I preached on last week. So, but um uh but the promise of blessing Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. Now and if you again, I don't want to re-preach it, but I do want to keep this all this thought all together, all three thoughts we have. We pointed out, if you remember, not everybody is blessed of God. You say, wait a minute, God blesses everyone. Well, God is good to everyone. God is kind to everyone, the righteous and the unrighteous. He provides. Hey, every day you and I take a breath. Every breath we take is the goodness of God to us. Every spoonful of food we put in our mouth, God's goodness to us. If you've got a couple bucks in your pocket, God's been good to you. If you have a roof over your house, God's been good to you. And man, we live in abundance. I've last these last several years, I don't know, it's just something in my life, but these last several years I have tried extra hard to express my gratitude just for every new day of life he's given me. And at the end of the day my wife and I have our prayer time and I try to every single evening thank you, Lord, for another day of life you have given me. God is good to all But if you study what the Bible says about God blessing people, not everybody is blessed of God In the sense the Bible refers to it. And we looked at Psalm chapter 1, where it says, Blessed is the man that walketh not. in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scorpion. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night And so there, the very first word of the biggest book in the Bible, the longest book in the Bible, one of the most popular books in the Bible, the very first word is blessed, and that blessing comes with conditions. I am to not stand walk in the way of the scam walking not in the council of the ungodly, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of the scornful, but I'm delight in the Word of God. So there's a condition for blessing. If a person's walking in the counsel of the ungodly, or standing in the way of sinners, sitting the seat of scornful, he doesn't have God's blessing. If he doesn't delight in the Word of God, the Bible's clear, no blessing of God. And then we looked at the most famous sermon ever preached with Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7 is a sermon on the mount. The very first word off the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the greatest sermon ever preached, was blessed. are the poor in spirit. And again, he goes down the Beatitudes there and he announces who is blessed of God. And again, there's conditions. A lot has a lot to do with our attitude and our actions towards others. And so, blessedness, not everybody is blessed. And there's a difference between being blessed of God and being happy. If you remember, we said anybody, a fool can be happy in his foolishness. A drunkard can be happy in his drunkenness. But I tell you, only certain people are blessed of God, those who meet the conditions. And so when we talk about God's blessing, the blessings of God, it's not just some superficial happiness. It's not just some external, shallow, temporal happiness in my life. It's a deep-seated peace and joy. that springs up within. How many people know what I'm talking about? The blessedness of God. And it's hard to define, but we know what it is. So, number one, we notice the promise of blessing. Now look here with this. I see another promise here. Now that's a positive promise. The blessings of God. How many people want God's blessings on your life? Yeah God wants to bless me. God wants to bless your home. God wants to bless your employment. And God wants to bless your family. Your children. God wants that. Now we've got to meet the conditions. Now there's another promise here. Now that's positive. This next promise isn't so pleasant. Blessed is the man that endureth what? Temptation. And notice it says, for when he is tried, not if, but what When? That means if we say, if you're if you say, well, when is this going to happen? It means it's what? It's going to happen. I just don't know when. And there's a promise here of this, first of blessings. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation for what? The blessing, the promise of trials. You say, preacher, you're promising trials. I'm just saying they're coming, trust me. Everyone here, if you're not just coming out of a trial, if you're not in a trial right now, I'm done I got good news for you. You're fixing to go in one here for long. Because trials are a part of life. The Christian life, and we made this statement before, the Christian life is not designed to be lived in luxury. The Christian life is not designed for laying back on feather pillows, drinking iced tea, watching uh Yosemite Sam cartoons on TV. The Christian life is a battlefield. And if you've ever been on the battlefield, which I have not, but anybody's ever been on the battlefield, they'll tell you there are trials and difficulties and adversity on the battlefield. And you and I as Christians, you and I as believers and disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, we face trials. Now look here, if you would. It says, Blessed is the man that endureth. Notice the word he uses, that endureth, what's the word? Temptation. That word temptation is a unique word in Scripture. It's used in three different ways. It has three different, if you study the context, you'll find it's used with three different meanings. One of the meanings for the word temptation in the Bible is exactly what we usually think of when we think of temptation, and by that we mean an enticement to do evil. A temptation to sin. A temptation to do wrong. How many people have ever been tempted in your life? Raise your hand. Yeah. Some of y'all tempted not to raise your hand. See that? Temptation and enticement to evil. Verse 13 and 14 of chapter 1 here describe this enticement to do evil. Look at verse 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, let's I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, enticed to evil. Neither tempteth he any man. Now look, here's the description of this use of the word temptation. But every man is tempted. Now look at this when he is drawn away of his own lusts, and what? Enticed. We used to sing a little song with the kids on the bus. I met Jesus at the crossroads. Well I've been listening to Lester Rolloff and he sings in his preaching a lot and I thought I'm gonna sing in my preaching too. And all God's people said, Oh no We were saying, I met Jesus at the crossroads where the two ways meet. Satan too was standing there. And he said, come this way. Lots and lots of pleasures I will give to you today. But I said, No! There's Jesus here And so that's the idea of the word temptation. How many people like that song? I was tempted to sing that song today. Enticement to do evil, enticement to sin against God, enticement to do wrong. So sometimes, and probably most of the time in the Bible, that word temptation is used in the idea, in the context of tempting to do evil, enticing to do wrong in sin. And we know that every enticement to do wrong is of the devil, is of our own sinful nature. It is not of God. God never entices anyone to sin. So, one use of the word temptation in the Bible is this enticement to evil. But there's a second way that that word temptation is used that has a very different meaning than enticement to do evil, and that is this to test. someone or to prove their faith. Much like you would uh sometimes uh they make uh um uh metal uh objects and they will test the integrity of that steel beam or that gird or whatever they're making. They'll test, they'll tempt, they'll prove whether it's sufficient to hold the weight or not. Everybody know what I'm talking about? They'll test it. And sometimes the Bible will use the word tempt or temptation in describing that. idea, tempting or testing or proving. Keep your place here, but I'd like for you to come back to Genesis chapter 22 real quickly with me. And here we see a classic example Of where God uses the word tempt, not in an enticement to do evil, but to test or prove or try someone's faith. In Genesis chapter 22, now don't lose your place in And James there, because we're going to come right back here in a minute. Here we have Abraham. And Abraham has a son he loves dearly, Isaac. And God is preparing Abraham to be the father of the nation of Israel. Sometimes Abraham is referred to as the father of the faithful. We can look to him as a man of faith. We look to him as a man of great confidence in God's love and God's wisdom and God's purpose for his life. If you remember, God called Abraham out of his homeland. to a place he didn't know where he was going. And Abraham just trusted God, had faith in God, and said, all right, we don't he tells his wife Sarah, Sarah, hey, we're moving. Where are we going? Don't know. God just said move. We're moving. I would say she probably had a little bit of faith too. There might have been a discussion about that. I don't know. But here in Genesis 22, God is proving Or testing Abraham's faith. And look with him, if you would, at verse number one. And it came to pass, notice the term that God uses. It came to pass after these things that God did what? Tempt Abraham. Now, remember, James 1, verse 13 and 14 says God does not tempt any man to sin God does not entice someone to do evil. Let me ask you a question. Are there contradictions in the Bible? No So when he uses the word tempt here, he obviously there's a different definition, a different meaning. Behind that word he's using here. I put in the margin of my Bible, I underscored that word tempt. In the margin of my Bible, I put this to test or to prove God wanted Abraham to understand how strong his faith really was. Question: Did God know how strong Abraham's faith was? Yes, God's all-knowing. God's not trying to gain information here. He already knows. He wants to prove to Abraham and through him in the scriptures, challenge you and I. To trust God and see that God comes through. So God tempts Abraham. And he said, Behold, here am I. Abraham responds. Verse 2: And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest And get thee up to the and get thee into the land of Moriah and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I shall tell thee of. And so what a test this is, what a trial, what a temptation This is for Abraham, where he has to take his son, his only son, really, that he loved dearly, and offer him up for a sacrifice. Now we know the end of the story. Does he ever actually offer him up for a sacrifice? Well, Abraham offers them, but God intervenes. It was never the intention for Abraham to kill his son. This was a test. This was proving Abraham's fate. Everybody on board? But God uses the word tempt there. Turn over to Proverbs chapter 17. I just read this in my devotions this morning. And I thought, right there it is again. Now he doesn't use the word tempt here, but it's the same concept. Proverbs chapter 17. Today is the 17th of October, so this morning I read Proverbs chapter 17. By the way, to don't tell my wife, today is her birthday. How about that? You say, Did you get her anything? Yeah, I gave her me And all my glory and wonder. Yes, I got her something. What do you think I am? Uh Proverbs chapter 17 and look with me if you would at verse 3. I read this this morning. First thing out of bed, I saw this The fining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold. Why in the world would you put silver in a fining pot? Do you the to burn the uh uh dross out of it, to make it pure, to t and then you test it to see how pure it is. Look at this what it says. And the furnace for gold, same thing. Putting it through a difficulty, putting it through a trial, testing it, see what quality it is. Get that draw sat. And then look at the last statement. But the Lord does what? Tries the hearts. You know what it's saying? God will test you and I. God will allow you and I face a situation, or He'll put us in some circumstance. And he will allow us to have a decision whether to trust and obey him or not trust him and lean on my own understanding. That's what it means sometimes in the Bible when it says God tempted Abraham. Sometimes that word means to test or to prove. And by the way, that's part of Christian life. It's not to give God any information. He knows what we're going to do. He knows the end from the beginning. But it's to help you and I determine where we are at. In our walk with the Lord. Anyone here ever think you were stronger in your faith than you really were, and you went through something and said, Man, I thought I was stronger Christian than that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's a pretty regular basis for me. We have a tendency to think that our faith is stronger than what it really is. We have a tendency to think that we're better Christians than what we really are. Peter thought that. Lord said, Oh, y'all are gonna deny me, forsake me, all y'all are gonna forsake me. Peter said, I'll never forsake you, I'll die before I forsake you, Jesus. What'd Jesus say? Oh yeah, before the cock crows three times, you're going to deny me thrice. Peter said, I'll never do it. Do you agree with me? Peter thought his faith was stronger than what it was. And God tempted him. God tested him. He went through that trial. And you know what he found out? He wasn't nearly as strong Christian as he thought he was. His dedication to the Lord Jesus Christ wasn't nearly as strong. And after he denied the Lord, the Bible says the Lord looked on him, and what'd Peter do? He wept. He wept. His testing, his quote-unquote temptation, revealed to Peter that he had a lot more growing to do. That he had a lot more development of his faith. He wasn't there yet. He wasn't there yet. So the promise of trials, one of the words, one of the meanings, the way the word temptation is used in the Bible is to entice us to do evil. Another way it's used is to test our faith or to try our faith. But there's a third way, and it kind of goes along fairly closely with The first, uh, the second term, but it means this, to face a hardship, trial, or difficulty. Now, if you would, come back to James chapter number one. How many folks still with me? Everybody alright All right, we're making good progress here. We're covering ground, so hang in there. Is to uh face a hardship, trial, or difficulty. Now often God will use a hardship, trial, or difficulty to test us But sometimes a hardship, trial, or difficulty isn't to try and prove anything, but just to develop my faith. Look here, if you would, come back up to verse number two. Here we have the word used, and it's defined. And by the way, this last term is what he means by the word temptation here. Hardship, trials, difficulties. Look at verse 2. My brethren. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse what? Temptations. He's not talking about enticement to do evil there. Oh boy, I'm being tempted to do evil. It's not what he's saying In fact, the next verse defines what he means. Look at verse 3. Knowing this, that uh what's it say Trying of your faith. He's defining the word tempt in verse. He's defining the word temptation in verse 2. It's the trying of my faith. The difficulty I'm going through. Come down, if you would, to verse number 12. He says, Blessed is a man that endures temptation, for when he is tried. He's defining the word temptation here. And so what he means in our memory verse for this month. When he says, blessed is the man that endureth temptation, he's not talking about enticement to evil. He's talking about going through a difficult time. Going through adversity and hardships. A faith is being tried, and he endures that. By the way, we are never instructed in Scripture to endure enticements to evil. I'm in a situation, I'm being tempted to do wrong. The Bible doesn't teach us to say, well, you just hang in there and endure that temptation. No, we're told over and over, what are we supposed to do when we're tempted? We are to what? Flee! Get out of there. Don't hang around. And if you're in a situation you're tempted to do wrong, you're in a circumstance where you're enticed to sin against God, don't just stay there and endure it. Get out of there. Flee like Joseph did from Potiphar's wife. Don't endure it. But when our tet when we're going through a hardship and we're going through a difficulty and we're facing adversity And maybe we don't even have the option of fleeing. He says, you endure. You endure. So the promise of trials. The promise of adversity. Now, by the way, it is interesting that verse 13 and 14 follow verse 12. 13 and 14 are talking about enticement to evil. Verse 12 is talking about going through adversity. You know what I found? I've been a Christian now 42 years, a little over 42 years. Some of y'all have been Christian longer than I've been alive, maybe. Fewer and fewer folks like that, but you know what I've found? Sometimes if we're not careful, we're going through adversity, we're going through hardship. We are enticed to do wrong while we're in there. You follow what I'm saying? Oh, everything's gone bad. This is rough. Oh man, I don't know what's happening in my life. You know, I just I'm done with church You know, I've been reading my Bible every day and trying to walk with God, and I still have hardships. I'm done reading the Bible. You know what that is? That's enticement to do wrong. That is a result of a trial I'm going through. You follow me? Follow me? If we're not careful, not careful, things start going bad. Are you with me guys? You guys listen? If we're not careful when things don't go our way, we get angry, we get bitter And we give in to the temptations of the flesh and maybe get bitter at God, angry at God. We need to be very, very careful about that. Listen, God will not bless an angry, bitter Christian. I can do one of two things. When I face hardship, when I face difficulties, I can endure them, we'll see what that means here in a minute. I can endure them, or I can get bitter and angry about it. And by the way, I've been doing this long enough, and some of y'all have been around long enough, we've seen people do both of those. I've seen people get bitter when hardships came and difficulty and angry and walked out on God. And I've seen others say, you know, I don't understand what all's happening. But God's sure been good to me, and I'm going to trust him I'm going to stay faithful and I'm going to endure. By the way, that word endure there, let me give you a definition. That word endure means this: to hold one's ground. It means to remain in position. It means to hold fast. Here's my definition. I looked it up, all different words, the way it's used. Here's my definition: refuse to quit. Blessed is the man that endures. Refuse to quit when he faces difficulties and trials and heartaches. I'll tell you who the man is that will have the blessings of God. I'll tell you who the woman is, the mother, the teenager that has the blessings of God, is the one that when difficulties and hardships and trials come and setbacks hit us. Maybe failure, they get back up, they hold their position, and they stay faithful to God. Endure temptations. Listen, I believe Well, we are living in the last days. Anybody aware of that? Actually, since the ascension of Christ until the rapture, that whole period is the last days. But I have a i i I'm of the persuasion we are in the last days of the last days And at any point in time, Jesus Christ, the rapture could have taken place. But I'm telling you, every day goes by, we're a day closer to that event. And one thing we know is we're going to have to deal with in the last days, and that is increased adversity. Increased difficulty, increased opposition to our faith and our commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ as disciples, we are going to face adversity and difficulty for that more and more and more as the days approach. Amen? Everybody aware of that? We're seeing it already in our lifetime. And I tell you, if we're going to be a witness on this earth, and if we're going to have God's blessings on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as a body, and on each of our lives as individuals in our homes We have got to determine that we're going to plant our feet on that book and we're going to love the Lord Jesus Christ and we will not quit. Absolutely has to be. Has to be So the promise of trials, God says, Blessed is the man, he gives a promise of blessing, but it's conditioned here in this verse For those that endure temptation, those that endure those trials. I'm telling you, this modern-day soft-soaked, self-centered, health and wealth Christianity did not exist in New Testament Christianity. You read the book of Acts. There was none of that. Man, they're being thrown in prison. They're being beaten. They're being stoned. They're being beheaded. And every one of them, with few exceptions, endured those trials and temptations. And God poured out his spirit, and multitudes were saved. Multitudes were saved. Listen, listen, this modern day, easy, squeezy, get by pink lemonade Christianity does not work in Iran. You get some dedicated disciples of Jesus Christ in North Korea, and you try and tell them that the Christian life is a life of wealth and prosperity, they'll say, I don't even know what you're talking about. That is nonsense. I tell you what Christianity is. Christianity is enduring the trials and oppositions of a world that is set against Christ. And experiencing God pouring out his blessings on those that remain faithful. Even unto death Even unto death. There's no room for this sissy fied, snowflake Christianity, Christians that are so offended by every little thing that comes along, and something didn't go my way, and God doesn't love me. God have mercy on that weak need Christianity. God give us some Christians with some backbone and with stamina and some guts and determination. Say, I'm going to endure I'm going to stay faithful by God's grace. Amen or not. And so he says, blessed is the man. Man, they'll have fulfillment. They'll have an inner peace and joy and purpose in life that this superficial happiness of the world does nothing about. But you've got to endure temptation. You've got to be able to stand and face the trials and difficulties of life without getting offended and getting angry and getting bitter and quitting on God. No, you stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. So I see the promise of blessing. I see the promise of trials. I put this down. If we're going to be offended and hurt over every misunderstanding or difficulty that comes our way, we're never going to have God's blessing. And last of all, very quickly, I want to end with this. The promise of blessing, conditioned, conditional, the promise of trials, when they're going to come If we're not in them now, hold on, they're coming. But I'm just determining by God's grace, I'm going to stay at it. I'm going to hold my position. I'm going to go forward for Christ. And then thirdly, the promise of reward. The promise of reward. Look here at verse 12. Blessed is the man that endure temptation, for when he's tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Which the Lord hath promised to them that loved him. The Lord has promised not only his blessings now in this life. Now get this. But great reward in the life to come. For those who are faithful For those who are endure, the opposition in this old sinful world, he has great reward. Real quickly, I want to remind you that the end of this life is not the end of our existence. You understand that, right? This isn't all there is. After this old heart quits beating, these lungs quit functioning, this body dies. It's trans it we enter into an another realm and it is either heaven or hell. There's no other options. Say preacher, I don't think I don't think in the 2021 people ought to be preaching about Dying in hell and all that. Listen, as long as it's in the book, we'll keep preaching it. And the reality is, and the truth of the matter is, whether this world recognizes it or not Whether ABC, NBC, CBS announce it or not, truth of the matter is when a person dies, they either go to heaven or hell. That is a fact of life. And where I spend eternity determines on my relationship with Jesus Christ. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. No man comes to the Father, heaven, but by me. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot get one person to heaven. That baptistry, as important as it is, does not get anybody to heaven. Only Jesus Christ gets people to heaven. Amen or not? I'm telling you, we better stand on that. And by the way, heaven, eternal life is a gift of God. It's not something we are, not by works of righteousness which we have done. For by grace are we saved through faith, not of works. There were some fellows down at the parade yesterday giving out literature. That literature is unscriptural. It says you have to work your way to heaven. And that is a lie of the devil. Say, preacher, you ought not to say that. I'm going to say it again. That is a lie of the devil. Anybody that teaches or preaches that there's a way to heaven apart from the grace of God through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is not scriptural. And so the end of this life is not the end of our existence. There's either heaven or hell. And heaven, eternal life, is not a reward. It is a gift That I received by faith. Now there are some conditions there. I need to recognize myself as a sinner. I need to turn to the Lord Jesus. Put my faith and trust in Him and Him alone He gives me new life. He begins to change my life. I become a child of God. I have a home in heaven. That is a gift that God gives us. That is a gift that God bestows on us in response to our faith in him. Mark this down. Salvation is not a reward for a life lived. It is a gift from faith enacted. Is that a great word enacted? A faith exercised in Christ, in Christ. And then God makes great changes in our life. God does great things in our life. So when he says they will receive the crown of life, he's not talking about, boy, you better do right and live right and hang in there so you can go to heaven. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, listen, if you're faithful and you endure temptation, you know that I'll reward you. Now I don't know about you, but that almost makes my head explode. Not literally, but um You think about this. I am such a sinner. I deserve to die and go to hell. The Bible's clear, every one of us. We've taken God's name in vain. We've broken his walls over and over and over. We have sinned against the holy God that gave us everything we have, created this whole world, and we've had the audacity to sin against him. The judgment of God that is upon you and I as sinners. And Jesus Christ loves you and I enough, he comes down old rugged cross. He takes responsibility for our sin. He takes the judgment of God in our place for us because he loves us. And then he offers that forgiveness, that new life to us for free. We by faith come and accept it and receive it. How many people agree with me that Jesus Christ would do that? The least we can do is live for him. The least we could do would be faithful to him. After all he's done for me. How can I do less than be faithful to him and to live for him? And then on top of that, he comes to say, all right, if you do that, I'll reward you. Good night. Gives me eternal life for free. Just trust Christ, receive and turn from a sin. Trust Him. God gives me eternal life. Then He says, if you live for me, I'll reward you. Our God is an awesome God. Our God is amazing. And he would do that. And he rewards us for being faithful. See the crown of life, the promise of reward, the promise of reward. All through Scripture, those whom God blessed. All through Scripture, those whom God used were those who stood faithful, those who endured difficulties, those who remained faithful. If we had time, we could look at Joseph. How faithful he was in every trial, every quote-unquote temptation that God put him through. He was faithful And God blessed and used them in phenomenal ways. Daniel, Paul, just go through scriptures. Esther God used them. God used them. They were faithful. Then we stand before Christ and He gives us a reward. Gives us a reward. What a God. What a God we serve. The Christian life is not designed to be lived on flowery beds of roses. It is designed to endure, to be strong, to press forward in a world that has gone the opposite direction. I've talked about, I told you my salvation story 10,000 times. When I was 10 years old, and I mentioned this last week briefly, when I was 10 years old, my daddy trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. Going through difficulties in the marriage. This world was falling apart. In the basement of our house they had fixed up the one corner into a little den area. We called it the den, had TB and sofa and different things there. One night when I was ten years old, Daddy was down there at night praying, pleading, weeping. Everything's falling apart. And he told me, he said, that night I called on God. I called on Lord Jesus Christ to be my personal Savior. He said, God saved me. And I ten years old, I didn't see a big difference. He was a pretty religious guy. You know you can be religious and lost. He's a religious guy, but he was as lost as the drunkard in the street. He got on his knees and he called him Lord Jesus Christ from his heart be his Savior And God changed his life inwardly more than outwardly. There wasn't outwardly he's a pretty good guy. But now he had assurance. Now he had purpose and confidence. Standing with God. Assurance of a home in heaven. And it changed his priorities and it changed his values. And it changed his perspective on his situation and his world. Daddy started living for God, one of his buddies And said, I want you to come on. He was in a church that wasn't really preaching the Bible. He said, come on over to our church, our Independent Baptist Church. Come over there. I think you'd like it. Dad got there, got under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. He began to grow. He got baptized. About working in the bus ministry, about out visiting, got involved in the work of the church. For all those years, Now my daddy, I said this last week, I'll say it again, my daddy was not sinless. I know that. But I'll tell you, he was faithful. He was faithful. He moved down here the other year, spent the last 18 months of his life down here living just right in here. He said, I want to spend the last years of my life with my son. I haven't lived at home since eighty-one. I tell you, I saw the heart of my daddy in a way I never saw before. He was faithful. Let me read something he had for many, many years in his kitchen, hanging on the wall. I can still see it there in my mind's eye, I see it hanging on the wall. There's a poem, and I'll end with this. This was the poem Dad had. This is where I was introduced to this poem. When things go wrong, as they sometimes will, when the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high You want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must. But don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learns. And many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out So don't give up, though the pace seems slow. You may succeed with another blow. Often the goal is nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up. When he might have captured the victor's cup. He learned too late when the night came down how close he was. To that golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out. The silver tint in the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It might be near, but it seems so far. Now listen to this. So stick to the fight when your hardest hit. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. I'm saying if my daddy had not been faithful, I would not be pastor of this church. I am confident of that. His faithfulness to God has such a profound impact on my life. God used that to change my life. I'll be very honest with you. Am I dad enough in faithful? Very reality, I'd be burning in hell right now. Let's be faithful. There's a crown, there's a reward for those who are faithful. But not only that, there's another generation that are impacted. By your faithfulness and my faithfulness to Christ. Amen. Don't quit. Father in heaven, please bless. Help us, Lord, to endure temptation Lord, help us stay faithful. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm getting hit. The world's hitting me pretty hard right now. Old sinful natures. Been wreaking havoc. Old devil's been giving me a rough time. You'd say, preacher, this morning, God stirred my heart. By his grace, I just want to stay faithful I'll stay the course, hold my position in the Lord. Any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, that's my determination. God bless you. I know folks in our church are going through it. Let's stay faithful. Let's stay faithful. How many say, preacher, I know someone that's struggling. I know someone that's getting beat up pretty good spiritually. You'd say, preacher, pray that God, pray with me that God will help me. To be to them what my daddy was to me, a faithful example. They can God can use me maybe to help them, encourage them. Any like that? I know someone that's going through it. And I want God to use me and help me. To help them. God bless you, hands all around. Will there be some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled. I need to have that settled in my heart and mind. Any at all? Any at all. God bless you. God bless you How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I need to have this settled. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation time. Help us, Lord, to respond to what you spoke to our hearts about. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together.