Colossians 1 27. Ready? Got it there? Let's read it together. to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Did you catch that last phrase in that verse? Christ in you I want to talk this morning a little bit about Christ in you. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless our time. Father in heaven, we are grateful for the Word of God that we can come and Lord, you can reveal yourself to us, that you can teach us the things of God in eternity, the spiritual realm. And I pray this morning you would speak to our hearts about this matter of Christ dwelling within us, Christ in us. And Lord, a few moments ago, the vast majority testified that we know we're saved. I pray that those of us who do know you as Savior, that we would grasp this truth and we would find encouragement, stability. and direction in our life. And Lord, by chance, any that are listening in, or Lord, are in the service, whatnot, that do not know Jesus Christ as personal Savior, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. So, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak this morning. Help us grow in our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I like to, when I preach from a book of the Bible or a passage of the Bible, I like to do a little background on that book or that passage, and I think sometimes if we know Maybe who is the one penning it and who it's being penned to, what the circumstances are. It helps us grasp a little bit. The book of Colossians, of course, was penned by the Apostle Paul. We see that in verse number one. He makes it pretty clear there of chapter one. He says, Paul, this is Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ. So we know that Paul is the penman of the book of Colossians. We also know that though he's the penman, God is the author of the book of Colossians. And I try to point that out every time we say, Well this man penned this sometimes a preacher will say well Paul said this and Paul wrote that And that's true to an extent, but behind all of Scripture is the is the inspiration of God And so God led Paul to pen these words. God put the thoughts in his mind. Peter said that these holy men of God were moved by the Spirit of God to pen down these particular verses. So though Paul is the penman, a great Apostle of God. The Lord is the author behind it. Paul penned this book while he was a prisoner in Rome. and uh uh sitting in a prison in Rome. Uh the church at Colossi, the town of Colossae was just a small little town. wasn't very big at all, as I understand it, just maybe the size of Oakland, maybe a little bit bigger, but not much. Just a small town But in that town, they had a good, strong, Bible-believing, Christ-honoring church And that who Paul was writing to, this church in this small town. It was very near another town there, Laodicea, and you'll have references in the Bible about the church over at Laodicea. And if you would, look at chapter 2 and notice with me verse number 1. I'm just kind of giving a little background here. Paul had never been to this church. And I find this interesting. Notice in verse 1 of chapter 2 he says, For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you. He was concerned about him. That's what he means by that word conflict there. I'm very concerned about you. But then he says this, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh He had never been to this church. He had never met these people personally. He did not start this church. Now there's a lot of churches in this whole region during the New Testament time that God used Paul to establish. He was a phenomenal church planter. And he's a pattern for us today as we start new churches. But he did not start this church At the end of the book, he references a lot of individuals and he says, this person salute you and this person greets you. And he was making a connection with them, though he had never been there personally, never been there in person physically, but they were connected one with another. And uh that's often true uh for Christians. Uh anybody here ever go on vacation and you go to a church and you just feel like you've been part of that church the whole time? Anyone know they're singing the same songs, preaching. Anybody know what I'm talking about at all? Yeah, five people. Praise the Lord. And um uh but uh uh that's the way it was. Paul says, Hey, I know these people and you know them and we we have this connection there. We're a family And so he'd never been there personally. He did not start the church. So the question that came to my mind was this: if Paul didn't start the church, and nearly all the churches mentioned in the New Testament, Paul had a part in starting them. Who did start this church? We believe it was a fellow by the name of Epaphras. Epaphras was won to Jesus Christ by the Apostle Paul. Paul was a personal soul winner And he had won this man, uh Papphras, to the Lord, and he had taken the time to take Epaphras in under his wing, and he trained him, he mentored him On what it means to live the Christian life. And Epaphorus, as he grew spiritually, he developed into a spiritual leader there among the Christian community. And he became a tremendous man of God. And he was sent out of the church at Ephesus to this little town, Colossae. He was sent out and he established this church. No doubt he won many of these people to the Lord himself. He discipled them just as Paul had discipled him. He discipled them and trained them and developed leadership there. They organized the church. And then we have this church at Colosse. Now something I take away from that is this. Churches start churches. It was a church out of col out of Ephesians out of Ephesus, the Ephesian church, had sent Epaphras here to Colossae. He started the church. And so churches start churches. And so I found that interesting. Paul had never been there. He had never met these people in person. But nevertheless, it was started by a man that was trained under Paul. What was the purpose of the book of Colosseus? Why did God stir his heart? What was the whole purpose behind it? Well, he is confronting and he's correcting false teaching. If you would, look at chapter two there again, and notice verse number six. He says, as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him Says, don't you drift away from your faith in Christ. Don't you wander off away from the truths of the Word of God. Look what he says. Verse 7, rooted And build up in him and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. Now here's verse 8. Look what he says. Beware, lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the tradition of men, the teachings of men, the ideas of men And after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. There was false teaching was creeping into this church here at Colossae Uh false teachings about the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. There was folks who are creeping in and teaching that Jesus was not God. And he was simply a man, and they had some bizarre ideas on that that was creeping in. They were underline undermining the teaching that Jesus Christ is the creator of the world. He is God Almighty. He created the world. Look to chapter 1 with me real quick, and I'm trying to lay some foundation here. Look at verse number 16 of chapter 1. It says, uh he says, for by him, that's Jesus Christ, were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. Visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, look at this. All things were created by him and for him And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Jesus Christ is the creator of the world. Back in Genesis chapter 1, verse 1, the Bible says, In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. It was the second person of the Godhead, Jesus Christ, that spoke this world into existence. He is God. By him all things consist. Not only does he create this world, he holds this thing together. By him all things consist. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ is God Almighty And that man that walked in the flesh back 2,000 years ago by the Sea of Galilee, that little babe that Mary held in her arms. That little boy that was the carpenter's son there growing up in Israel. That little boy, that man That died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, was not just a man. He was God Almighty in the flesh. And there was a movement coming into the church that was undermining undermining that. Denying the fact that Jesus is God, denying the fact that Jesus is the Creator. False teaching. And Paul's addressing it uh in this letter. Uh they were undermining and attacking the teaching that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer. He is the only way to be saved. Nobody ever gets saved apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's defending this truth. Jesus is the Redeemer. That tells me something. That tells me that Bible doctrine, Bible teaching is important. We can't just set aside some Bible teaching to appease people who might have a problem with the truth of the Word of God. We were talking about this before, Justin and I, and we're discussing it in Sunday school. We're beginning a series on the book of Jude, which deals with apostasy and standing for the faith, contending for the truth of the Word of God And listen, we must never, ever, ever, at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we must never, ever neglect the teaching and preaching of the doctrines of the Word of God. Say, well, we can reach more people if we just don't talk about the deity of Christ. We can reach more people if we just don't do this and don't teach that and water this down and put this aside. I'm telling you, we never compromise biblical truth for to get crowds. We never compromise truth for unity I'm all for unity. I don't like to fuss. Uh I uh I just uh you know, I just want to sing kumbaya all the time, you know. And just we are one in the Spirit. And I'm all for that, but not at the expense of biblical doctrine. Truth is truth, whether everybody believes it or not. Say, preacher, no hardly anybody believes the way we believe anymore. As long as it's in the book, we're going to hold to it. I like what uh Anastasia, uh uh Athanasia A church father thousands of years ago, early church, he was teaching and preaching on the deity of Christ and the Trinity. And there was a huge movement against the Trinity and against God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, yet one God And somebody, he was pre teaching and preaching, a great crowd. Somebody yelled out, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Athanasha, the whole world is against you. And without hesitating, he stood there and he says, Then I'm against the whole world. You know what he's saying? He's saying we're sticking to the Word of God. We're sticking to biblical truth, whether the world accepts it or not. Amen. Are you with me on this? I mean, that's where we're going to be at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're not compromising on the doctrines of the Word of God in any way, shape, or form. And so Paul is writing them, he's urging them And he's confronting this false teaching, this unscriptural doctrine coming in there. I told the Sunday school class this morning, part of the pastor's responsibility is to protect the church from false teaching. And we have to be very, very careful. You say, oh, that's not I'm telling you, from day one, when the church started, from day one, false teaching tried to creep into the church. Way back yonder, 2,000 years ago They were having to deal with it. I'm telling you, it hasn't gone away. And so be very, very careful. Be very, very careful. So he's writing to the church here. He's dealing with this false doctrine, this false teaching coming in undermining the person of Christ, the deity of Christ, his role in our salvation, watering all of that down. And then he makes this statement in verse number 27 He says, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Christ in you Talking to believers. Hope should have been saved. He says, Christ in you. If you could come back to chapter 1. Look at verse 1 or verse 2 of chapter 1. He says to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ, which are at Colossae, grace be unto you, and peace from God the Father, Lord Jesus Christ. There he says to the saints and faithful brethren, in Christ. Chapter 1, verse 2, he says, you're in Christ. Chapter 1 verse 27, he says, Christ in you. What is he talking about? What does he mean? We're in Christ. Christ is in us Well, there's a lot we could say about that. Just a general, I think what he's, just a general assessment of that is this. You and I, as believers, now let me ask this again. How many folks you're saved? You know it. Say amen. That being the case, you and I as believers are so identified with Jesus Christ. That in the eyes of God, when God sees me, He sees the righteousness, the glory, He sees the holiness of Jesus Christ. We are so identified one with another. Christ in me. I am in Christ. The believer is so connected with Jesus Christ, we're seen as one in our standing before God. Now, this this was hard for me to grasp when I first started learning this early in my Christian life But when God sees Dennis Leatherman, he doesn't see me as I actually am here on planet Earth with all my faults and failures and flaws. I'm glad nobody said amen there. Thank you. He doesn't see me as I am. He sees me as if I'm in Christ. In other words, if we could go to heaven and open the books in heaven, Peter opens the books in heaven, and see my legal standing before God. My positional standing before God. And look it up and say, alright, look up Peter, look up Dennis Leatherman. Alright, Dennis, Leatherman, Leatherman, Leatherman, Dennis, Lee, how do you spell Lee? L-E-L-K, yep, here it is, Lee. And uh Dennis Lee Leatherman. All right, what's my legal standing, positional standing before God? Well, it says here in the books of heaven, God's book, it says holy, sinless, pure. Without sin, completely separated, sanctified unto the Lord. You didn't know that, did you? Wow He will say, Oh, I know Brother Leatherman. He ain't holy and godly and pure. I know I'm not in my my practical, but I am positionally before God. I'm in Christ. How many people follow what I'm saying? I mean, yeah, ten people, good. We are so in God's eyes, the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ, these young ladies down here, these fellas uh all across uh the little children down in children's church. The moment that young person or that middle-aged older person the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior I am in Christ, that person is in Christ, and Christ is in them. Before God. I tell you, that's a phenomenal truth. God sees me in Christ. If you would take your Bible and turn with me to 2 Corinthians. Now keep your place here in Colossians. Go with me to 2 Corinthians. back towards the beginning of the New Testament, 2 Corinthians, and chapter 5 And verse number 21, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and verse 21. Now, this is to believers. This is not to the person that's never been born again, the person that's never trusted Christ But look at verse 21, 2 Corinthians 5, for he, God, hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us. Who knew no sin. Now, that little phrase knew no sin is not talking about us. It's talking about Christ. He never sinned. He knew no sin. But God made him to be sin for us. Now look at this. That we might be made the righteousness of God, where? In Him In other words, when Jesus Christ died on that cross, when he hung on that cross, God took your sinfulness and my sinfulness. And he placed that on the account of Jesus Christ. He held Jesus responsible. For my actions, my sin, and my disobedience. And in Christ, my sins have all been paid for. My sins have all been just judged. My sins have already been paid. The wrath of God has already been poured out. and fulfilled my sins, my debt to God because of my sins. That's where I say. Amen for that. You say, what do I owe God for my sins? If you're in Christ, you don't owe God a dime for your sins. It's already been paid. You don't know God one second in hell, because Jesus already paid that for us. He hath made him, Jesus Christ, to be sin for us. He took responsibility. He took our sin upon himself. That's why a believer who understands this truth can sleep at night without an ounce of fear of the wrath of God. Without the fear of the wrath of God. Now, the chastisement of God, that's another story. But as far as God's wrath, God's eternal judgment, he made him to be sin for us. But the verse doesn't end there. He made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin. He didn't, it wasn't his own sin there. He was dealing with his mind. He made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. That's what I was saying a few moments ago. When God sees the believer When God sees the person that has come and acknowledged their sin and turned to Christ as their only hope of forgiveness, salvation. And they trust Christ. They're born again. Now they're in Christ. And Christ is in them. They're so fused together in the eyes of God. And when God sees the believer, he sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus ever sin? No, he was sinless. He was without sin. Did Jesus ever take God's name in vain? Did Jesus ever tell a lie? Did he ever did he ever deceive someone stealing or t no, he never did any of that. Have we ever done any of that stuff? Uh yeah. How many people here have never lied? Raise their hand. How many people here have ever told a lie? Raise your hand. See, some of you are lying. You didn't raise your hand. Yeah, we've done that stuff. But when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God sees me as pure and holy as Jesus Christ. Man, what a tremendous fact. What a tremendous thing. So we are in Christ. Christ in us. The hope of glory. My hope of heaven, my confidence and assurance of heaven has nothing to do with what I am in and of myself. It has everything to do with my position in Christ. And Christ in me. And so he says, Christ in you. All this is made possible by the indwelling Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the common denominator that puts me in Christ and Christ in me. Now, my understanding of Christ, who Jesus is, and what he is, must be correct if my understanding of my Christian life is going to be correct. They were undermining the deity of Jesus Christ. Well, he's not the sinless Son of God, he's just a man like everybody else. If Jesus Christ is just a man like everybody else, then you and I have no hope of salvation. We have no assurance of salvation because we need his righteousness as the perfect Son of God to be put to our account if we're ever going to be accepted by God. And so do you understand correct teaching and understanding of who and what Jesus is, the truth about Jesus is vital If I'm going to be able to live the Christian life like I should, because my salvation, my understanding of Him is so important I think what he's saying, he says, Christ in you, the hope of glory. I think part of what he's saying there is this. Now get this. This is pretty much the gist of the message. The way God sees me in Christ, pure and holy and godly, just, the way God sees me positionally In Christ ought to be. Ideally, is what we seek to accomplish is the world see Christ in us. You follow what I'm saying? God sees me as pure and sinless and holy and flawless in every way, perfectly acceptable, justified, just as if I never sinned. That's the way God sees me. Now, I want the world and how I live my life. That positional standing with God ought to be reflected in my practical living. Am I making sense? Everybody follow? Let me try and illustrate. If you would, come to Acts chapter 11. Acts chapter 11. And notice with me verse number 26, Acts 11. Here you have the disciples, and persecution is cranking up pretty heavy. And um Acts chapter eleven and uh uh Let me get find my place here. Persecution is uh cranking up here a little bit. And notice in verse 26, and when he had found him, uh this is uh uh uh Barnabas Air, he found Paul, and he brought him to Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people. Now look at this last phrase And the disciples were called what? Christians first at Antioch. Now that doesn't mean much to us in 2023. We Christians, we pull everything in the world anymore is Christian, anything's a Christian. I had a lady up in Philly. I was out knocking on doors, talking to people about the Lord. I gave her a gospel track. I said, uh uh I I this was early in my Christian life. I reword it now, but I just said to her, I said, Are you a Christian? And she was indignant. She says, Of course I'm a Christian. And uh I said, Oh, wonderful. I was just I was only a few months old in the Lord. I didn't know what I was Didn't know a whole lot. I said, oh, wonderful. When did you become a Christian? Now she was really indignant. She goes, I was born in America. Of course I'm Christian. I tell you, you can be born in a barn, it don't make you a horse. Right? Just because a person's born in America doesn't make them a Christian. That term Christian in our day and age has been so misused and abused and watered down, it doesn't mean a whole lot. Now we identify as Christians, but we understand the biblical term. In this passage here, When they were first called Christians at Antioch, it was a derogatory term. They were mocking them. They were ridiculing them. They were using it as a slander against them. The word Christian means little Christ, small Christ. And the unsaved world who had rejected Christ and mocking these Christians for how they were living their lives. For their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, look at those little Jesuses. Look at those little Christs. Those Christians. Those New Testament believers, rather than being offended by that title, and rather than retaliating back, they embraced it. They said, yes, thank you. That's what we want to be. In other words, they were saying, we want to reflect in our behavior, our lifestyle, the Christ that dwells within us. What they were saying, the people mocking the Christians, what they were saying is, we see Jesus in you. We see the characteristics of Jesus Christ in you. We see some of those moral attributes that Jesus were so obvious in Jesus Christ. We see it in you. You know what was happening? Their positional standing, the way God saw them, was leaking out, and the world was starting to see Christ in them. They saw some godly. They lived godly lives. Were they as perfect as Jesus? No. They had humility. They shunned sin. They wanted to do right They had compassion, unconditional love for people. And those are all characteristics of Christ in us. And they saw that. And they mocked them for it. And they said, thank you. We'll own that. We'll take that title any day. A little price. If someone tells you that they that you remind them of Jesus Christ, that is a tremendous compliment. Just like Jesus. Christ in you. You are in Christ. Um They were so thoroughly committed to Jesus Christ. The lives so reflected the characteristics of Jesus Christ, they mocked them for that. Our union with Christ, as I just said, our union with Christ in the eyes of God ought to be evident by our lifestyle in the eyes of the world. One more passage. You're in Acts. Come back to chapter 4 with me. Because something very similar took place. Acts chapter 4. And notice with me verse number 13. Now, verse 12 is a tremendous key verse in the Bible. Neither is there salvation any other. There's another name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now look at verse 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, boy I can relate to that, uh unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled. They say, good night. These guys are ignorant. These guys haven't been to seminary and university. They don't have PhD degrees. What in the world? But look at this They marveled and they took knowledge of them that they had what? They'd been around Jesus. You know what they were saying? They were saying, you remind us of Jesus Christ. There's something about the way you talk. There's something about the way you live your life. There's something about what you spend your time doing. There's something about how you treat one another We see Jesus Christ. You've been around that man Jesus. We see his influence in your life. You know what they were saying? They're saying, we see Christ in you. The characteristics, the attributes of Jesus Christ were coming out in their life. Christ in you. Those of us that know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, we are in Christ and Christ is in us. And the Christian life, the Christian life is living out the reality of Christ in me. Paul put it this way, and I'm getting way ahead of myself, but Paul put it this way: for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul is saying? He's saying it's not me living the Christian life. Christ is in me. And I'm in Christ. And as I die to self and I see myself as crucified with him, then Christ lives that life through me. Christ in you. The Christian life is a supernatural life It's not something we work up. It's not something we grit our teeth and I'm gonna live the Christian life. No, the Christian life is me dying. Me saying it's not me working it up, it's not me, it's me yielding over and Christ living his life through me. You cannot explain biblical Christianity from merely human perspective. It's God. It's God Almighty and the person of Christ giving me new life, birthing me spiritually. And then that life of Christ in me being lived out. Lived out. Christ in you, the hope of glory. A few thoughts. I got a couple minutes. Let me give you a few thoughts. When Christ is in us, Christ in us, this means, number one, we have life. If Christ is in me, we have life. Did you keep your place in Colossians? Come back there if you would. And chapter number three, Paul kind of builds on this thought that we're in Christ. Christ is in us. And verse number four, he says, When Christ, who is our life Shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Christ, who is our life. He's talking about our spiritual life. Christ is our eternal life. 1 John chapter 5 and verse 12, He that hath the Son, he that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. My salvation, my eternal life It's not something I work up. It's Christ in me that establishes the fact that I have eternal life. I have the Son. It's sad if a person doesn't have a house. Would you agree with me if someone's homeless? You ever see those pictures in some of the cities and in our country? I think it's horrific. And we have that condition in the United States of America, the most prosperous nation on the planet. But nevertheless, we see pictures in the news of people living under bridges. And on street, anybody know I'm talking about they have a little tent they put up tent cities? Would you agree with me? That's sad You see people living like that. It's sad if somebody gets a circumstance in a situation where they lose their money They have no money and they're dependent on others. That's a sad thing if they don't have a house, if they don't have a money. Maybe they don't have somebody who doesn't have friends. You know, see a little kid sitting at a young person in school sitting at a table all by themselves and everybody's over here kind of laughing and making fun of them. Would you agree with me? That's sad. That's sad It's sad to not have a house. It's sad to not have any money, no means. It's sad to not have friends. It's sad to not have health. And I remember when we first moved here, um it was actually little Tiffany, Morgan, up in uh uh I was asked to go visit. I'd only been here a few months. They asked me to go to Morgantown visit. Little Tiffany was in the hospital at the time. She's been with the Lord now a long time. And I went up there and it was the first time I was at Ruby Memorial Hospital and they took me up and I want to say it was the ninth floor but I'm not I don't remember. It was the floor where all the children were. I walked in there, I walked down that hall, and I saw these little children, so sick, and tubes in them, and on walkers and Visited Tiffany and we talked we had some scripture we prayed and I walked out of there and I'm telling you I was crying. I'm not a real emotional. I come out of there crying. I say, God To have a person not have their health, to not have a home, a house, not have money or friends, that's sad. But I'll tell you what's even sadder. A person that doesn't have Jesus Christ. You can have the nicest house in the county. You can be the most popular person in Oakland. You can have a bank account overflowing, you don't know what to do with all your money. You can have tremendous health, but if you don't have Jesus Christ as Savior, you are lost and without eternal life. He that hath the Son hath life. To have Christ in you means I have eternal life I have eternal life. Jesus Christ is the one that provides salvation, eternal life. Says in this life, 1 John 5. 11, and this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in his son. I love Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I love this church dearly like my own family. But Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot give anybody eternal life I I uh I I'm all for the baptistry. I'd love to baptize folks that get saved, follow Lord in baptism. I'd like to do it every service if we could. That baptistry never gave anybody eternal life I'm all forgiven. I thank God for a church that gives and gives generously. We can build buildings, support missionaries, give to projects, help people, advance the gospel. Because God's people give and give generously. But I'm telling you right now, you cannot buy eternal life. It is only in the person Jesus Christ. You can be religious, you can be a baptized church member and give generously and yet still be without eternal life if you don't have Christ. Charlotte, I thought of Paul. And Paul years ago was, I think he was a deacon at the time, am I correct? And there was a revival meeting. And they gave him the invitation to be saved. And Paul came down the aisle here, church member, leader in the church. And yet never been truly saved. And he came, and he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ And now he had Christ as Savior and has eternal life. My daddy was a religious man, a good man. Anybody you talk to back home when I was growing up, oh, your daddy's Clyde, he's a good man Daddy was religious, but he was lost. God had to break them until he came to trust Christ. I tell you, Christ in you, he's the only way of salvation. Jesus Christ. Christianity is not a religion, it's a relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ provides this life And Christ preserves this life. Christ in you. I like what John 10, 28 says, I give unto them eternal life. I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never perish. You say, why don't they ever perish? Hebrews 13, 5 says, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. When I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior on May 7, 1979, 1030 on a Monday night, Christ came into me. I was in Christ. Christ became in me. The moment I trusted him And I have this promise, I have this promise from God Himself that He will never leave me. Never leave me. He's in me. Say, preacher, have you ever failed God? I fail God more than I want to admit. But Jesus Christ has never failed. And He's never left me. He's never left me. My assurance of my salvation is not based on my lifestyle, my goodness. Assurance of my salvation is based on the fact that Christ is in me and he said he will never, ever, ever, ever, ever leave me. So, Christ in you, that means you have life. Let me give you a second thought real quick. Not only Christ in us doesn't mean that we have eternal life, but it means that we are a light. In John chapter 8 and verse 12, and for sake of time we're not turning to all these, but in John chapter 8 and verse 12, he says, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He's the light of the world. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 14, he said to his disciples, saved people, he says, You are the light of the world. Huh? I thought Jesus was the light of the world. He is the light of the world. Then he says, You are the light of the world. You know what makes us the light of the world? Christ in us. It's not alright. He says later on that chapter, Chester quotes this verse sometimes. He says, let your good works What Chester said. Let your light so shine before men That they may see your good works, that's our light, our good works, that they may see your good works and glorify you and tell you what a great person you are. They may see your good works and glorify who? Your Father in heaven. You know what he's saying? He says, I'm the light of the world, and Jesus is the light of the world. He's the truth. He bears witness to the truth. He sheds light on the darkness of unbelief and sin and wickedness of the world. He's the light of the world. And he says, you're the light of the world. And as you live for me, and that light is borne out, those good works are carried out in your life, people see Christ in you and they glorify your Father. Are you with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? I like the moon. I reference it a lot. Last night I walked out of here after Dale and I prayed. Walked out here it was about ten o'clock or so till I was able to get out. I went out. I didn't see the moon at all. In fact it was pouring down rain on me. But normally on Saturday nights when I walk out of here, that big old moon's out there. I like the moon. Did you know? Did you know this? That the moon is very ugly. Do you ever see a picture of the moon, just the moon itself, like a photograph of it? Man, it's just a big gray rock. Has craters all over it. Um Nothing grows. It's dead. In fact, the moon in and of itself is of no use to us as far as functioning here on Earth. You know where the moon gets its beauty? You know where the moon gets its usefulness is when the sun Shines on it and it reflects back to us. You walk out at night on a clear night and that full moon's up there, tell me if I'm right or wrong. You can't help but turn your eyes up and take notice, right or wrong. Dominates the night sky. It beautifies the night sky. You look up at that moon and you say, wow. The only beauty that the moon has is its reflection of the sun. You know, sailors, years ago, and I guess still a little bit, but you can navigate by the moon where it's at Some people use the moon by to regulate whether they're going to go hunting or fishing. Oh yeah, the moon. Oh, this whole moon ain't no good tonight. You know? And all that. The moon is very, very helpful, but only And the fact that it reflects the sun. Do you know what you and I are without Christ? Spiritually, we're pretty ugly. Read Romans chapter 1. There is in me, Paul said, in me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. Without Christ, we don't do this world much good. But when Christ is in me, Christ is living his life through me. Then the glory of God is seen. Are you with me? Will you be a blessing? Will you be a help? So Christ in you is the light of the world. This world needs to see Christ In a world that is darkened with sin, and a world that is ungodly and proud and hateful. We see it every day in the news. The world needs to see some, see Christ in some believers, see some godliness in an ungodly world, see some integrity in a dishonest world. See some humility in a proud world. See some compassion in a hateful, angry world. It's Christ in us. Christ in us. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. The world needs to see the lifestyle that God designed us to live. designed us to live. Did you ever go uh ever go on vacation and um You're in a store maybe somewhere. You don't know anybody. You don't know anybody around. You stop at a store to get some supplies or whatnot, and you're on vacation. And you look across there and you see a family And they're dressed very nicely, and they have a very very pleasant disposition about them. And there's just something about them, and you say something like this. I wonder if they aren't Christians. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Just something about them, the way they conduct themselves and their attitudes and their actions, treatment of one another. And you say, I wonder if they're a Christian. And sometimes you get up the nerve and go over and say, excuse me, uh, would you guys happen to be Christians? Oh yeah, praise the Lord. So am I. Oh, wonderful. And you get talking a little bit, and it's like you've known each other your whole lives. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That was the light of Christ. You saw some characteristics of Christ. You saw a little bit of Christ in them. And it attracted them to them. If Christ is in us, number one, we have life, eternal light. Number two, we have light in a dark world, and I'll end with this. We can love. If Christ is in us, we can love people the way we should. 2 Corinthians 5, 14 says, For the love of God, for the love of Christ constrains us. When Christ is in us, I'm able to love like I should We live in a we live in a world that desperately needs some love. We see things taking place in our world are absolutely shocking. Am I right? In our community, the anger The level of bitterness and hatred that saturates our communities And here's the thing, if I'm in Christ and Christ is in me, I don't have to be that way. I can love people. The love of Christ. You say, well, I'm just not naturally a loving person. Well, if you're in Christ and Christ is in you, then you have the love of Christ can be shed abroad in our hearts. We can love people. It doesn't mean compromise. It doesn't mean capitulate to their lifestyles and their sinfulness. But it does mean we can be kind and compassionate and loving unconditionally, not because I have the ability, but because Christ is in me and the love of Christ can be shown through me. The love of Christ in us. Christ enables me to love our enemies. Jesus told the disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. We don't react in kind as a as a child of God, as a person and dwelt with Christ. I don't react in kind. I don't react the same way they're treating me, and oh yeah, eye for eye, I'm gonna Nobody's going to treat me that way and get away with it. It's not Christ. That's the world. That's the old sinful flesh. Read Galatians 5. But Christ in me, I can bless those that curse me. I can do good to them that despitefully use me. I can pray for them that revile me. Study, would you do this? Study Jesus Christ on the Calvary road and hang it on the cross. None of us have been reviled the way Jesus Christ was, and yet He did not respond in kind. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. They reviled it. He answered them not a word. While we were yet sinners, God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. And that Christ that loves to that degree indwells you and me. And he enables us to love like we should love. I want to use little Kaliano's. She you can't help but love Kaliana. Am I right or wrong? Good night. She's like the cutest little sweet. I just want to squeeze her till her head pops up. Not literally. And it's been a year, it's been maybe a couple years ago, but I I get all these little notes from the kids. And uh they write, oh pick, preacher, your your jokes are the funniest That's what I like about the kids. They're brilliant. And um I got one some time ago. Preacher, you're the best looking preacher How about that, Aubrey? Boy. And little Kayleana wrote me a note. It's been a couple years ago. And she said this. She is, Pastor Leatherman, you're the best preacher in the world because you told me you love me. This world needs the love of Christ. This world needs to see Christ in us, being lived out through us. You say, preacher, I can't live that life. I've had so many people tell me, I can't live the Christian life. I always do this. Put her there. Join the club. We can't in and of ourselves. It's Christ in us. It's a supernatural thing, Christ in us. To love the unlovely. Care for the dying. To give ourselves for the good of others, that others can come to Christ, to go to foreign fields. And tell them of Christ. Christ in us enables that. Work bus routes. Teach little children and love them even when they're naughty. Christ in us. Paul put it this way, and I gotta end. He said, For I am crucified with Christ. He said, I've gotten myself out of the equation. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, but it's not me. Yet not I, but Christ in me. What we need to do is die to self, get our pride, our self-worship, our self-love, and put that on the cross. Crucify that. And say, Christ, you live through me. You live through me. Somebody asked George Mueller, one of the most Christ-like men that I've read a biography of in London years ago. They said, George Mueller, what's the secret to your Christian life? Your faith, your godliness, your humility, your love for the orphans. He said this, and he got down on his knees and he lay down prostrate on the floor in front of a crowd. And he said, There came a day when George Mueller died. Died to myself, died to my pride, died to my self-righteousness. And it's Christ that lives in me. We need to die to self and let Christ in us be lived out. Let's pray. Father, I pray you take these thoughts, and I hope they made sense, Lord. Now we as Christians in a world that has gone nuts, a world saturated with hate, ungodliness, I pray in humility and dying to self that you would live your life through us. Be Christ in us, and people would see. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to die to self. There's areas in my Christian life I need to get myself out of the equation. And let it be Christ living through me, yielded fully to him. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. I know there's areas in my Christian life. I gotta get self out of there. And let Christ be in there. I wonder if there's some, and this is maybe personal between you and God. I wonder if some have we've allowed sin to creep in, ungodliness. We know it's wrong. We know it ought not to be a part of our life, and yet it creeps in. Maybe we need to come altar and say, Lord, I want that out. I confess that. I forsake it. I want Christ lived out in me. Pride and self-righteousness. All this needs to die. Christ and Christ alone lived out in us. Father, bless the invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name.