I'd like for you to notice if you would, in uh verse number eight, it says, They were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the fields. keeping watch over their flock by night, and lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them. The glory of the Lord shone round about them. They were sore afraid. An angel shows up. They're out doing their job, middle of the night. Making sure the sheep are okay, probably dozing maybe. And uh an angel shows up, glory shines about, and they're and they're terrified. They were sore afraid. Come down if you would. Verse 13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, now not just an angel, now you have a multitude of angels. appear in in the sky. And they make this profound statement, this profound announcement, glory to God in the highest, earth, peace, goodwill to our men. Then if you would, come over to verse number 21. And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Jesus' name was given to him divinely by God through an angel instructed Joseph to name their baby Jesus because he would save his people from their sins. An angel A multitude of angels. An angel, all through the Christmas story, all through the incarnation of Christ, we find these references to angels They're showing up and they have a part in all this whole scenario. Angels are playing key roles in the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning I want to speak for a few minutes a little bit on Christmas angels. Christmas angels. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for this Christmas season. Lord, well, we can just stop and celebrate the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, his entrance into the world of man. Not pray that our focus as the world is out there doing their thing at Christmas. I pray our focus as believers will be on what this is all about. The birth of Christ, the hope of the world, the way of salvation. So as we consider these angels, Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. It's best I know how. With all my heart I present my body anew. I pray, Lord, that you would just fill me and speak through me your word and truths that would help us and impact our life. And your will be done in each of our lives. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Angels are mentioned in the Bible over 250 times. From Genesis to Revelation, you find angels showing up. You find angels on a mission Um angels have played key roles in man's history, all the way almost just right from the beginning of our uh our existence here on earth after God created. Angels have played a key role in the history of man. Now man has become fascinated with angels. There's two extremes And man's understanding of who angels are and what they are, there's two extremes. One is some deny their existence. There's a certain element of society that would say angels are just mythical beings. They're like uh they're like uh fairy tales, like the uh they're like um uh the uh not the fairy tooth. the the tooth fairy. I was going to say fairy mother. That didn't sound uh there I angels don't exist. In fact that's not a new position for people who say I don't believe in angels Ah, big deal. That's nothing new. In fact, if you read the Gospels, you're going to find a group of religious leaders that go by the term Sadducees. And the Sadducees didn't believe in angels. They rejected the spiritual world. They rejected miracles. They didn't believe in miracles. They didn't believe in res Direction, they didn't believe in angels, that's why they were sad, you see. And um Sadducees Then there's another extreme in man's understanding of angels. One is they deny their existence. There's no such thing as angels The other extreme is where they worship angels. And again, this is nothing new. Way back Paul in Colossians addressed the worship of angels. And they would, man would uh exalt them uh to uh above what they actually are. There's been various pagan religions throughout history that worshiped angels There's cults even in our day that uh worship angels to some degree. So you have two extremes. You have On the one side you have folks that say we don't believe they exist. I like the little boy was in school and the teacher said Um he says, uh, there ain't no God. He says, if I don't see it, I don't believe it. Little boy raises his hand and says, Sir, I don't see your brain either. So I don't believe you have a brain So one side says they don't exist. I don't believe in the spirit world, I don't believe in angels. The other stream over here They say, oh, angels, we worship them like God. They uh and and give them these uh uh abilities and positions that they do not have. Now the fact of the matter is angels do exist. The Bible is very, very clear. There are angels. There have been, there is now, and there always will be. No. And so angels do exist. They're very real beings. An angel is just as real a being as you and I are. They're very, very real. Angels are not to be worshipped. The Bible is very, very clear. There's a few occasions in Scripture where an angel appeared to somebody And uh that person uh would respond in fear and uh maybe intimidation, and they would bow down To that angel, bow down to worship that angel. And without exception, the angel rebuked them. In ver Revelation, they said, You worship God. I'm here to tell you, God and God alone is to be worshipped. We do not worship a man, we do not worship an angel, we do not worship an object. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we worship God and God alone. So angels are not to be worshipped. They're very, very real. But we are not to worship them or exalt them above measure. Angels are described in Scripture very differently than what a lot of artist presentations are of angels, paintings of angels. That's man's idea. But the way they're described in Scripture and the way man describes them in some paintings and drawings and things like that, they're very, very different Angels described in Scripture are very different than the way Hollywood portrays angels In fact, anytime Hollywood portrays anything from Scripture, they 99. 999% of the time got it dead wrong. I don't trust Hollywood with anything, especially the Bible. And so the way Hollywood presents angels, the way artists present angels, are very, very different than what the Bible tells us angels are. Uh and just uh this time of year it's probably important to clarify, every time a bell rings, angels don't get their wings. Clarence was wrong And by the way, angels don't look like Clarence. Praise the Lord for that, huh? The way the world presents angels, the way the Bible describes angels are two very, very, very, very different. Very different. And the world's wrong. The Bible's right. We'll say you say, well, preacher, what does the Bible say about angels? How does the Bible describe angels? Well, number one, the Bible says that angels are created beings. God created the angels. In fact, let me be a little more specific. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, created angels. They are created beings. Just like man is a created being, angels are created beings. That means that they are limited. They're limited in time and place. They can only be one place at a time. An angel can only be one place at a time. They're limited in their knowledge and their understanding. They're created beings. By the way, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. Satan was an angel, he's a fallen angel, and he is a created being. He's limited. He has to answer to his creator. Every created being has to answer to its creator. And Satan, the angels do. They're created beings. They're spiritual beings. Now, on occasion, they will appear in physical form. But they are spiritual beings. They are bodiless beings. Unless they're appearing to somebody, they'll take on form. By the way, every angel in the Bible takes on the form of a male. That seems like a big issue these days, but angels are presented as male. Um and so, ladies, you can refer to your husband as, well, you're just like an angel. And um a fallen angel, but uh But they're spiritual beings. You say, preacher, do we ever encounter angels today? I think so. I think we do. I think we encounter angels. However, Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews uh Chapter number thirteen, verse two tells us that if we do encounter angels, we do so unawares. We don't know it. The Old Testament, before the Bible was finished, they would appear with messages. We're going to look and see a little bit what their role was But nowadays we have the completed Bible. God doesn't need to send angels to give you and I a message from heaven. We have everything we need right here in the old King James Bible. We got it right here But nevertheless, we do encounter angels, I'm convinced of that. Both fallen and holy angels We deal with them. I believe, this is me, I I I think I've got scriptural support for that. I believe with all my heart, just Israel, as a crowd sitting in this auditorium here, I believe with all my heart there are angels in this room right now I think they're observing. I think they're ministering in various ways, spiritual warfare going on. I believe there are fallen angels fighting for the souls and the lives of people in this auditorium right here. The night I got saved, you will never convince me. You will never ever convince me. The night I got saved, there wasn't a spiritual warfare going on for my soul. I sensed the presence of evil presence there that night as real as the air I was breathing. I sensed the Holy Spirit of God. Now I didn't understand it all at the time. But I understand sense the presence of the Holy Spirit of God and stirring my soul to trust Jesus Christ as Savior I believe right now, every person under the sound of my voice in this building that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, there is a spiritual warfare going on for your soul right now. Devil and the fallen angels fighting to keep you unsafe, spirit of God drawing you to Christ. There's a warfare going on. So angels are very, very real. They're spiritual beings. We don't see them. We encounter them, but we don't see them as physical beings. However, I believe sometimes we may encounter an angel and not be aware of that. In fact, uh he talks about entertaining uh strangers, angels unawares. It's possible that an angel would come by and you and I do something for them. And say we just see a person there, we do something for them. Lo and behold, that might have been an angel Now, I don't want to go to seed on that, but that's a very real scenario. It's very possible. You and I may have met someone in need, maybe somewhere, we did something nice for them. We go on, in heaven something has taken place, and that may have been an angel. I don't know. But I know they're real. I know they're spiritual beings. I know this. The Bible tells us the angels are highly intelligent. They are very intelligent beings. Now they're not the term we use, they're not omniscient. By that I mean they are not all-knowing. God is the only omniscient being there is. God is the only all-knowing being there is. As created beings, they're highly intelligent, but they don't know everything. They're limited in that great intelligence, but nevertheless it's limited. And so they're very intelligent beings. By the way, the fallen angels are very intelligent beings also. Listen, I'm here to tell you, Satan is pretty smart. He is very good at what he does. And you and I, as believers, make a big, big mistake if we play Satan's games. And we toy with him, and we think we can somehow bargain or negotiate with the devil in some way. I'm telling you, you're going to come out a loser every single time. They're intelligent beings. Satan, the holy angels, very intelligent. They're created, they're spiritual beings, highly intelligent. The Bible says there's an innumerable amount of angels. When the Bible refers to the number of angels, it'll use terms like this, thousands upon thousands, and thousands of thousands. Now I don't know what that mathematical equation comes out to, but I I'm confident there are hundreds and hundreds of millions, maybe hundreds and hundreds of billions Trillions of angels. I don't know what the the final count is, but it is a huge number There's a lot of angels created by God. Innumerable amount. The majority of the angels are holy angels There was one-third of however many angels there are, one-third of them sided with Satan in his rebellion against God. And when Satan raised his fist and said, I will be like the Most High God. I will sit on the sides of the north. When he did that, one-third of the created angels sided, allied with him against God. And they're judged. They were judged And they'll and many of them are even the Bible says in uh in the New Testament, the Bible says that many of them are uh bound in in in the pit, the bottom bottom place, in hell right now, not all of them And so the number of angels is innumerable. Majority of them are holy angels. They were faithful to God. They were loyal to God in Satan's insurrection. But a third of them sided with Satan. There's only three angels in Scripture that are given a name. Only three angels named in Scripture. One of them is Gabriel. Gabriel is a fascinating angel. He's a high-level angel, maybe we could say. But his task appears when we find him in Scripture, he is always delivering a message. He is always giving some information that God has that he wants an individual or uh person or uh or people to have. He's the m he appears to be a some sort of messenger angel of God, Gabriel And then another the second angel named in Scripture is Michael. Michael is referenced various times And here's the thing about Michael. Every time Michael is referenced, there's some sort of spiritual conflict, some sort of spiritual warfare going on. Michael is what we would refer to as a warrior angel. He goes to battle against Satan. He goes to battle against the fallen angels. And again, I want to reiterate this. Don't ever underestimate the reality of the spiritual warfare that takes place constantly in our world, in our universe. So you have Gabriel as the messenger angel, you have Michael as the warrior angel, then there's another angel named in Scripture, and that is Lucifer. We refer to him as Satan or the devil. Lucifer was Satan's name before he fell. He was the anointed cherub. He served in the very presence of Almighty God The Bible tells us and implies to us that he was somehow over the praise of God in heaven. He was heaven's choir director He is a master musician. And there's tremendous studies done On Lucifer's role in heaven with music and his use of music as the devil here on earth. I'm telling you, music can bring glory to God or it can deprave the heart of a man. It is a power, powerful spiritual source. It's more than just tapping your foot. It's more than just a little ditty. Music is used to either draw us close to God or drive us away from God. And I believe Christians and I believe churches ought to be very, very careful as to the kind of music we allow into our lives and into our services. Very, very careful. Very, very careful. So we have three angels named. Gabriel appears to be a messenger angel. You have Michael, who's the warrior angel, then you have Lucifer, the fallen angel. Three mentioned in Scripture. Every time an angel shows up in the Bible, something supernatural takes place. I mean they stirred stuff up. Whenever they appeared, there was going to be a big impression made. When an angel showed up, there was one of two things going to take place, sometimes both. A message of God was going to be delivered, or a miracle's taken place. Angels stirred things up when they appeared. Now we come to Christmas. Angels played a major role in the events surrounding the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. We looked at just a few here. There's more, we'll see here in a moment. Angels played a huge role. In God the Son, becoming God becoming man. Angels were active all around that event. They announced the coming birth of John the Baptist to Zechariah. Angel appeared to Zechariah in the temple as he was serving and doing his role as priest. The angel appeared and said, you're going to have a son. Now Zechariah was old and his wife Elizabeth, right? Elizabeth, you should have known that Elizabeth. Elizabeth, uh, she was very old, and the angel shows up to Zechariah and says, You're gonna you and your wife are gonna have a baby He goes, yeah, this is in the Greek. Yeah, right. Um And the angel said, Oh yeah, I'll prove it to you. You're not going to talk until the baby's born. And lo and behold, it happened exactly the way the angel. The angel announced the conception that Zechariah and Elizabeth that they were going to conceive and give birth to John the Baptist The angels announced to uh uh the supernatural conception uh to the Virgin Mary Angel showed up to Mary and told her that she was going to have a child. She goes, how in the world can this be? The angel showed up to Joseph and assured Joseph that this pregnancy was sanctioned by God. That she had not committed adultery, she had not been unfaithful to him, that what was taking place in the womb of Mary was a supernatural act of God And Joseph, he told, an angel appears to Joseph. He says, you go ahead and take her. You go ahead and be her husband. You go ahead, look at this, you go ahead and raise the Son of God to be a man. Oh, by the way, the angel told Joseph, and you name him Jesus because he's going to save his people from their sins. Angels, John the Baptist, Mary, Joseph, they announced the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ to the shepherds in the field. We just read it here this morning. They instructed Joseph and Mary to flee to Egypt with the baby to escape Herod Sometime later, Herod finds out about this, and he's about to kill all the children in Bethlehem, two years and under. The angel appears to Joseph and says, You get your wife And you get that little baby, you hightail it down to Egypt, and you stay there until we tell you to come back. Angels, angels, angels, all through the Christmas story. We have these angels. I call them Christmas angels. Now, I want a couple thoughts here about these angels. I want us to notice, first of all, the mission of these Christmas angels. Look at verse number 10 with me, if you would, in chapter 2. And the angel said unto them, Fear not. Now remember back in verse 9 it says that they appeared, the glory of the Lord, and they were sore afraid. How many people, you're sitting out at 2 o'clock in the morning, you're out watching a bunch of sheep, it's nice and quiet, you're half dozing off, all of a sudden an angel shows up and plays like how many people will be sore afraid? Um, they could have said whatever they wanted. I'd have had no idea. I'd have been blacked out. I'd have passed out They were sore afraid. The angel says, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, and it shall be to all people. These angels, their mission was to deliver some good news to mankind. That word good tidings there means literally good news. That's exactly what it means. In fact, it's translated multiple times in our Bible. It's translated gospel. They said, Behold, we bring you the gospel. Good tidings. Good news. Exact same word. These angels were commissioned by God To bring this good tidings, this good news, this gospel, and deliver it to the shepherds. That was their mission. That was their job. That was their commission. To tell these shepherds of the gospel of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Their mission was not to initiate some new holiday. I like what pastor a friend of mine up in Pennsylvania, Andrew, he says, Christmas is not about a new holiday. It's about God making eternal life available to mankind. These these angels didn't show up uh to announce and initiate a new holiday. I like Christmas holiday. I like uh I like presents. The older I get, the more I like giving presents and I like getting presents. Now uh don't misunderstand me. I like that impressions. Uh but um I like giving them But Christmas is a ho uh is not uh uh just about a holiday and trees and all that, and I love all of that, I'm all for all of that But I'm here to tell you, Christmas is about the good news that Jesus Christ became man to give himself as a sacrifice for your sins and my sins. So that we can have eternal life and end up in the presence of God in heaven and not end up in hell. His angel's mission was to communicate that information to these shepherds A Savior is born. Um wasn't to initiate uh uh A new holiday. It was to announce the coming of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. It was to deliver the message of the gospel, good tidings. So what was the mission of these angels? To take this information that God is now initiating The plan of salvation, the process whereby man's sins can be forgiven, purged, washed away, and man can stand before our holy God, just, forgiven, pure. Because of Jesus Christ's coming and the work he'll do here on earth. That was their mission. Now I want to remind Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. The mission of those angels is the same mission we have as a church. We are to go into all the world. Our great co-mission is to preach the gospel, the good tidings, to every creature. That's our job. You say, preacher, when I give out a uh I'm telling you, when you give out a gospel tract, you are doing angel work. That's what the angels did We support these missionaries, send them out all around the world. I think we got missionaries on just about every continent, all around the world. You know what we're doing? We're doing the mission that those angels had that first night when they brought good tidings. We're bringing good tidings to flow. So their mission was to deliver this information, this gospel. Number two, my second point. Thought is this. Second thing I notice is the message of these angels. Now I reference the good news, the good tidings, the gospel. But everything about Christmas is unique. Everything about Christmas is unique. The virgin birth of Jesus Christ is unique. Now, let me just say this, and don't brand me as a heretic. Think this through with me. It wasn't really the birth of Jesus Christ that was miraculous and unique. His birthing process was the same as every other child that's ever been born, other than his mother was a virgin. It wasn't the birth of Jesus that was miraculous. It was the conception of Jesus where the miracle took place. A woman conceives a child without the seed of man. Never before in the history of mankind has that happened, and never again will that happen. Miraculous virgin conception of the Son of God. In the womb of Mary, God became a man. In the womb of Mary, God took on flesh. Hebrews tells us that God prepared a body. For the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe on that night, that which she conceived of the Holy Ghost, and I don't understand the logistics of all of this But God placed in Mary's womb a body that he had prepared. And in that womb, that little baby, that little uh conceived baby by a Holy Ghost developed and grew, was born, became a man. I tell you, nothing like that has ever happened before, never happened again. It's unique. The virgin conception and birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing, what an amazing event Christmas is. What a mind-boggling event took place there in that little town. Everything about the birth of Jesus Christ is unique. Everything about Christmas is unique. The angelic announcements I can't find anywhere else in Scripture with the exception of the book of Revelation. where you have such an assembly of angels to declare a message. Now in Revelation, they're all over the place by the thousands and thousands and thousands of thousands. But nowhere else previous to the book of Revelation do you find such an assembly of angels gathered together for one message as you do the night Jesus was born. Never happened before and won't happen again until the Lord comes back. The divine purpose. No one was ever born like the Lord Jesus Christ. No one ever lived like the Lord Jesus Christ. Sinless. The sinless, perfect, godly Son of God and Son of Man. No one ever died like the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, it's important for us to understand. When Jesus Christ died on that cross, uh the thieves on either side, they were nailed uh just like Jesus was. They uh they had their legs for mil uh uh thousands and thousands. Of uh criminals and political enemies were crucified by the Romans over the years. But nobody ever died of death like the Lord Jesus Christ. He died as a sinless, pure Son of God. When he died on that cross, he wasn't dying for any crimes he had committed, he wasn't dying for any sins he had ever committed. He was sinless, Son of God. But he died for your sins and my sins. Everything about Christmas is unique. Jesus' birth, his life, his death, his resurrection. Say, preacher, Jesus wasn't the only one that rose from the dead. Yep, that's correct, but he's the only one that never died again. Jesus rose Lazarus from the dead. You know what happened to Lazarus? He eventually died again. The little widow son, Jesus raised that, eventually died again. Jesus rose to die no more. He's the eternal living Son of God. Nobody was ever born like Jesus. Nobody ever lived a sinless life like Jesus Nobody ever died uh as a sacrifice for the sins of man like Jesus. Nobody ever rose from the dead like Jesus Everything about Christmas is unique. And the message of these angels was unique. Man now has a Savior. Say, preacher, why Christmas? All you talk about is being saved and getting saved and uh talking about savior and being saved. Why do you do that? Uh because Christmas is about getting saved and a savior coming and people needing to be saved. I had a fellow tell one of our people, I told this often, but he told one of our people one time, they're out businessing, he said, uh they said, Why don't you come on? He goes, I go I've been to that church, he goes every time I go there, just say, You gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. That's all they ever say is you gotta get saved. He said, why do they do that? They said, well, because you got to get saved. Man now has a savior. That's what Christmas is. We can be saved from sin. We can be saved from a wasted life. We can have purpose and meaning in our life now. We can have fulfillment We don't have to fear dying. We don't have to fear hell. We can have assurance of sins forgiven, accepted by God. It's the same message the angels gave Joseph in Matthew 1:21: Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Salvation is salvation from hell. Deliverance from sins, the addiction to sins. There is deliverance. I'm here to tell you there is deliverance. There's not a sin in the world, there's not an addiction in the world that the power of the Word of God and the power of the blood of Jesus can't break that addiction. There's new life and there's purpose. We have the presence of God in our lives. Notice again, verse 10, he says, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to What's that last two words? All people, not some people, all people. All people. The message of these Christmas angels So a Savior is born. We can be saved. And then last of all, I notice the meeting of these Christmas angels. Say, what do you mean by that? I want us to look at the people they met with. The people they met with. If you would come back to chapter 1 of Luke. And notice with me verse number 37. The angel appears to Mary, tells her she's going to have a child. She says, How can this be? I've never known a man. This is impossible. Biologically, this is impossible. And then look at verse 37. The angel responds, says, For with God nothing shall be impossible. I'm glad our God is able to do the impossible. Notice how Mary responds to the information this angel gives her. She said, Mary's, and Mary said, verse 38, and Mary said, Behold the handmaiden of the Lord. She's talking about herself. Behold, the handmaiden of the Lord, look at this, be it unto me according to thy word. Her response to this angel's message was total submission to the will of God, total dedication. To the will of God. She's saying this. She's saying, I don't understand. What you're saying is going to happen to me. I don't understand how that can be. But you told me that nothing is impossible with God. And I'll believe that. And God I dedicate myself. I present my body. I yield my will to you. Whatever it is, whatever the consequences of me being supernaturally uh uh uh um uh uh uh conceiving this child, whatever the consequence, whatever people may say about me, however I may be rejected, however people may misunderstand, God, I want your will done. I don't know what the consequences are going to be. It's going to cost me to raise a child. I'm just young. I'm a young lady and the cost that'll be there. I don't know what all that's going to involve But Lord, I submit to you whatever your will is, regardless of the cost, I want it done in my life. Regardless of what the uh uh outcome will be. I don't know how much she understood of what was going to happen to her son. He knew he came to be the savior She had Isaiah 53 where it tells very clearly that he would be a suffering savior. She had Psalm 22 where the The crucifixion of Jesus Christ is detailed pretty thoroughly way back by David, hundreds of years uh before Jesus was even conceived in her womb. She had all that information available to her. Mary, did you know? I think maybe she probably did. To some extent. That this child of hers, this little boy, that she, this little baby boy she's about to hold in her hands, was going to be a sacrifice And she says, Lord, be it unto me according to your word. Total surrender. Total submission. Here's what we do a lot of times, God, I'll do what you want me to do as long as it isn't costing me too much. If I've got time, if it's convenient, if nobody makes fun of me, if I'm not some weirdo, Lord, I'll do. Mary pushed all of that aside, said, Lord, whatever it is. I want your will to be done. I'll tell you what God's looking for. God's looking for some Christians that'll say, Lord, I'll submit to you, I'll surrender to you, no matter what the consequences are. How many people believe we need revival in our land? How many people believe we need revival in our churches? God have mercy on our churches. We need revival in our homes. Revival will never come. I'm telling you right now, revival will never come until Christians start saying, Lord, your will be done, not my will. We've got to take Mary's attitude and say, your will, not my will. And then the angel appeared to Joseph. Notice, come with me if you would, back to Matthew, real quick, first book of the New Testament, Matthew. Chapter one, Matthew, chapter one And verse number twenty four. Matthew one twenty four. You got it there? Then Joseph being raised from the sleep, he had this very angel deliver this message to him while he's sleeping. Joseph being raised from the sleep, look at this Did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife. This angel shows up. He says, Joseph, what's going on with Mary? It looks like something bad has taken place. It looks like she's been unfaithful. It looks like she's engaged in fornication. But Joseph, she didn't. She's pure. What is taking place in her is of God. And Joseph, you go ahead and take her to be your wife. He was going to put her away. He said, maybe. He goes, no, no, no. Joseph, here's what the angel's saying. You trust God. And you do what he tells you to do. You go ahead with this. You trust God. You trust God. Joseph. Her was encounter had an angel encounter he he encountered an angel. He got this information from God that Mary was legit This was supernatural, this was of God, and angels said, you trust God, and you go ahead and go forward. And then we had these shepherds that we looked at. The shepherds got a message from Angel, and their response was immediately twofold. Number one, they went down to where Jesus was, they worshiped him. And then they went out and told everybody. They went out and told everybody. They got word that a Savior was born. And they went and esta and I don't think I'm stretching it, they established a personal relationship to an extent with that Savior. They went and they worshiped him, then they went out and told everybody else. Now here's my challenge this Christmas Eve. Here's my crowd challenge for Christmas 2023. I want to challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to challenge every member, every Christian. Let's follow Mary's example. This Christmas, let's submit ourselves to the Lord in total submission to His will for our lives. I wonder how many Christians would be willing to now kneel before God, just you and God, and say to God, God, not my will, but thy will be done in my life. I have no doubt, I'm talking to some Christians, you've been fighting the will of God. And you know what God wants you to do, and God's been dealing with your heart. You've been saying no and you've been holding on. I say, why don't this Christmas Eve say, yes, Lord, I submit. Whatever your will is for my life, I submit to it. Amen? Not my will, but thy will be done. That's what Mary said. And God used her phenomenal way How about we challenge us to respond to this Christmas? Respond like Joseph did. Now we don't have angels showing up to us and appearing and giving us messages. We got the Bible How did Joseph respond? Total faith and total trust. He trusted and he obeyed. Hey, I want to challenge us this Christmas. Let's take God at His Word. If God said it, let's just do it. Amen. Let's just trust them. You say, well how God tells us to do this, how can that be? Just trust him. Just step out in faith. God, what do you instruct me to do? I'll do it. I'll trust and obey. There's no other way to be happy in Jesus, but to trust and obey. Joseph trusted God. He allowed God's word to direct him. We need to allow God's Word to lead us. And then last of all, I challenge us to follow the shepherd's example. Number one, make sure of your personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Make sure that you know your sins are forgiven, that you've accepted what He did for us on that cross. Make sure you've trusted Him as your Savior. And if you did, and once that is settled, let's give ourselves to go out and tell everybody about the Lord Jesus Christ. Every single person in Oakland, Maryland ought to know how to be saved. It's our responsibility to get that information to them. Every single person in Garrett County and Preston County and Tucker County and what's the one to the east? Mineral? Mineral County and Whatever's north of us, I don't know what that is. Everybody in all that area ought to know how to be saved. Amen or not. Now whether they get saved or not, that's up to them, but we ought to make sure everybody knows how to be saved. We've done this for years, off and on over the years, by a big ad in the newspaper, how to be saved, how to be saved, how to be saved. Why? Because we want to follow the shepherd's example and tell everybody how to be saved. So here's my invitation. Number one, if you're saved, you come on and submit to the Lord. Say, Lord, not my will. I just dedicate my life to you. Like Mary did. Uh if you say, maybe like Joseph, say, Lord, I'm going to let your l your word lead me and direct me. Whatever you instruct me from your word to do, I'm going to trust you. I'm just going to obey. I'm just going to follow you. You lead me in life And then maybe follow the shepherds, make sure of our own salvation, and then go out and tell others how to be saved. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would help us learn from these Christmas angels. That as a result of decisions made today, maybe lives would be changed. Or maybe others would hear of Christ and the coming weeks and months find salvation for their souls. And so, Father, stir our hearts. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's any this morning to say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ as Savior. There's no doubt about it. But to be honest, in my Christian life, I've struggled with this submission to the Lord. I tend to want my own way. I tend to hold on to my own will. I don't want to be that way And I want to I want to sincerely say, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I struggle with that. My will over the Lord's will. God bless you. Hands all around. The truth were known, it's probably a heap more of us. That hold on to our will. And maybe this Christmas, 2023, we say, Not my will anymore, Lord, I yield. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want the Lord to lead me in the coming year I want him to instruct me from his word and give me direction in life. And I'll trust him and I'll obey him as he leads me. I wonder if there's any like that. Say, preacher, I want the Lord to lead me and direct me in his word. God bless you. Hands all around. Now we've got to get in the word if we're going to be led by the word. And there's there's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me. That I have eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. Is there any at all? Preacher, I need to get that settled. Just slip your hand up. I'll pray. God will help you settle that in your heart and mind. Ain't it all? Father, I pray you'd bless our invitation. Stir us, we pray, in Jesus' name