Before we went. And uh that was good. And it's not too late. If anybody wants to get in, we leave tomorrow morning. We meet here at seven o'clock tomorrow morning. Get back sometime Saturday And we have a great, great time. There's no cell phone, there's no internet, there's no television, but there is a jacuzzi. I like that. I've got a birthday card. Yesterday was Pastor Grant's birthday. So we're going to have a little surprise birthday cake and stuff for him afterward if you can stick around about quarter after eight. So there's a birthday card. If you did not get this signed, I'm going to send that around. You'd like to put a little greeting in there, a little birthday greeting for the grant. I know that he would appreciate that It'd be a blessing to him. Matthew chapter five. We are preaching through the greatest sermon that was ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. Of course, the Lord Jesus Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mount. And we're up to verse number, let me get everything turned on here. All right, we're up to verse number uh chapter five. Verse number 17. I'm going to read down I'm a little bit loud, Dave, at least in my ears. Down verse 17, I'm going to read down through verse 20. We already looked at 17 and 18. Tonight I want to look at verses 19 and 20. The Bible says, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill, referring to the law, of course. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled Now we looked at that portion and we noted that that he Jesus is speaking about his relationship to the law, the Old Testament law of God. And uh he said, I didn't come to put it aside, I didn't come to uh uh to destroy it, I came to fulfill it. And so we preached about Christ in the law now Verse 19 and 20, notice what he says. Whosoever therefore Now anytime you see the word therefore, you always want to consider what it's therefore. And he's saying, because I did not fulfill the law, but I can't because I did not abolish the law, because I have to destroy the law, but I came to fulfill it Because of that, now these following statements should be true. Therefore, these following things should be true. Look what he says Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees Ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. So verses 17 and 18, we had Christ and the law. Now I'm suggesting verses 19 and 20 is the Christian and the law. Now, our relationship to the law. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this passage. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present myself, my body anew, and ask that you would speak through me Challenge us, teach us tonight, Lord, and help us to be stronger in our faith, a little clearer in our understanding of your will for us and what you'd have us to do and not do. I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. It's kind of an odd subject that is stuck here in the middle of this sermon, right towards the beginning. Of course we went through the Beatitudes there and uh in verses um five, uh beginning verse three down through verse uh twelve we had the bat beatitudes, blessed are ye, and he went through that That was very practical and we understood that how it relates to us and very clear to understand uh basically what he's saying. Then he said, You're the light of the you're the salt of the earth and you're the light of the world, verse thirteen down through verse uh uh 16 and we understood that what we are and what he'd have us do. Now he comes in here and he says, I didn't come to abol I didn't come to destroy the law, I came to fulfill the law. And uh he talks about the law here And at first when I got digging into this and looking at it, I thought this really seems out of place. This looks like something that should be in the book of Romans or Galatians. But as you look at the rest of the chapter, as we pointed out before, I believe what the Lord is doing, he's kind what the Lord is doing, he's setting the tone for his message. This whole sermon is very early in his ministry. And he's kind of laying some groundwork, particularly for the sake of the Pharisees, who are going to be very, very critical of him And so he's kind of clearing the air here a little bit just before he gets started. And basically I think this is what he's saying. He's basically saying something like this. Listen I'm going to be making some statements that if you want to criticize and you want to twist them around, you're going to be able to, but let me tell you how it is right up front here. He's going to be saying and doing things that will be very the Pharisees and the critics will have opportunity to misunderstand his actions And they're going to misunderstand his message. In fact, uh go ahead and keep your place here, but go over to go over to John chapter 6. That very thing happened. A little bit later on in John chapter 6, we have a record where people completely misunderstood what he was saying and got pretty upset about it. John chapter 6 Towards the end of the chapter, uh verse number sixty It says, many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, some of these statements he had made, they said, this is a what? Hard saying. Who can hear it? That phrase, this is a hard saying, what they were saying was: we don't buy this. I don't agree with what Jesus is saying here. And uh he goes and tries, he explains himself a little bit, but they completely misunderstand what he's saying. And look down at verse 66, look what happens. And from that time, many of his disciples did what? They went back and they walked no more with them. And so Jesus says and does some things throughout his ministry. that the critics will have an opportunity to misunderstand. The people that aren't really open to to the will of God, they're going to have an opportunity to misunderstand. In fact, they're going to have an opportunity to misre misrepresent him. And the Pharisees did that. They did that deliberately. They would over and over again accuse the Lord Jesus Christ of blaspheme when he would forgive sins. And what they failed to realize was that Jesus was not blaspheming God. He is God. And so he can exercise the prerogatives of deity and forgive sin. Only God can, and he can because he is God. And so they misrepresent him when he was before uh Pilate The Pharisees threw everything, every accusation they could at him, and nothing would stick until finally they said, Hey, if you release him, the Pharisees said to Pilate, if you release him, you are not a friend of Caesar's. Because Jesus is making himself king in Caesar's place. Well, that was a flat-out lie. Jesus said over and over again, my kingdom's not of this world. Father's kingdom was my world, my followers would take up arms and we'd overthrow you. He said, that's not the point at all. They completely misrepresent them. So I think what's happening here in chapter 5, verses uh 19, 17 down through 20. I think before he gets into the meat of his message, so to speak, he says, wait a minute. I want you to clearly understand here. I am not destroying the law. I'm going to make some statements. You're going to think I am, you're going to accuse me of it, but I'm not destroying the law. I'm fulfilling it. And your relationship to the law is, this is how you what your relationship to the law is. Now, here's my question as we get into this. Why was he so misrepresented? Why was Jesus so misunderstood? I'm going to give you a few reasons, just by way of introduction. One reason was he did not fit into their world. Jesus was completely different than anything the Pharisees represented. Their world was a very superficial world. It was all show, it was all outward. And uh man they could put on a good front. Does anybody here remember there used to be a show on TV, I don't know if it still is or not, used to be a show on TV, Laverne and Shirley. I can tell by your reaction. Uh yes, you want to hear the story? The night I got saved, as most of you know, the night I got saved The Laverne Showy's on. I was watching Laverne and Shirley. Now this sounds silly, we laugh about it, I joke about it, but I'm telling you, I was under conviction that night And as I sat there watching that stupid show, I was under such conviction, and this was what was going through my mind. I thought this is all phony. They put makeup on, they act like they're funny, they act like they're happy, they've got these laugh tracks going on behind. What they're saying is not even funny And it's all a show, and it's all a show, and it's all a show. And my whole conviction was my act out there with my friends is just a show. Inside, I'm dying. Inside I am a wretch. Inside I have made an absolute mess of myself. And out there with my buddies, out there publicly, I've got this show on that I've got my act together and brother I look good and you know and I'm all this stuff and I'm cool And inside I was a dead man. And God convicted me so much of that. And as you read and you look at these Pharisees, that's exactly what they were. In fact, the word hypocrite, which Jesus accuses them of over and over He says, you hypocrites. The word hypocrite itself means to put on an act, to put on a show. One thing Jesus did not do, Jesus did not put on a show. He was the real deal. And what he was, he was. And he did not fit. Jesus Christ did not fit into their make-believe world, their hypocritical world, their self-righteous judgmental world. He didn't fit into that. And thus they would misrepresent him. They would take his words and twist them and uh and ultimately ended up crucifying. So one reason uh that I think he had to clarify he would clarify this up front. One reason they would uh turn on him was he didn't fit in their world. I put this down, he wasn't trained in their schools. Here is Jesus Christ, a guy that had never been, a man, we're looking at it from the Pharisees' perspective. Here's a man that had never been to our schools, were the experts on the law. We're the experts on the education of God's Word. We know the law. Yet here is Jesus Christ, the son of a carpenter, teaching them the Word of God. He's teaching them what God is like. He's telling them how God operates and what God expects from us. And I'm telling you, it steamed them Who is this guy? He is no letters. How is he teaching us? How does he speak with such authority? Where does he get this doctrine? And so he didn't fit in. He didn't fit into their superficial world. He wasn't trained in their schools. He's teaching them the Word of God. He's exposing their man-made doctrines. He says, you're taking the traditions of man that you've come up with and you're teaching them as doctrines of God. And uh and it just didn't fit in. Number one, he didn't fit in the world. Number two, I put he wasn't trained in their schools. I put this down. He did not behave the way they behaved. The word Pharisee itself, I am told, means to separate myself from Now there's a Bible teaching of separation, and we talk about that and we preach that. It's a biblical concept. But what the Pharisees practiced was as unscriptural as you can get. Um, Jesus, see if you'll agree with this statement. Jesus loves sinners. I mean people are glad for that. If he loves sinners, he wouldn't love me Jesus loved sinners. The Pharisees despised what they considered sinners, never realizing they were one also. Jesus sought out sinners. He would go out of his way to find a woman, a Samaritan woman by the well. He would go out of his way to find somebody that was a misfit or a rejection from the uh uh Pharisees. He sought them out. He loved them. Jesus was kind and patient with sinners. Jesus sought to bring them around back into fellowship or into fellowship and knowledge of his Father. Where the Pharisees would drive them out. The Pharisees would condemn them. You have the classic example of the woman taking in adultery in the very act. They bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ, and you know the event there that took place. He says, the law says we should stone her. What do you say You know what they're trying to do? They're trying to catch him in his words. They're trying to misrepresent him. They're trying to do the very thing that he's clarifying here in this passage. And they want to stone him. Jesus in wisdom and tact says, all right, whoever has without sin, you throw the first stone at her. Of course they don't. And Jesus says to her, what does he say to her? Neither do I condemn thee. But he doesn't stop there. He says, what? Go and sin no more. You see, he loved sinners. He had compassion on sinners. He sought out sinners, but he never lowered the standard. He was trying to bring them to God. He was trying to bring them to salvation. He's trying to bring them into relationship with himself. And so they're going to misrepresent him. They're going to take his words and twist them around. They're going to say he's not teaching the law. He's he's destroying the law. He's uh uh he says we don't have to keep the law. And he says that wait a minute, hold it, hold it. No, no, no. Before I even start, that's not the case He did not fit into their world. He was not trained in their schools. He did not behave the way they behave. The Pharisees hated the fallen. They condemned the lost, and they taught their followers to do the same thing. And something else about the Lord Jesus that graded, I think, the Pharisees was he emphasized the grace of God. The interesting thing about the grace of God, the grace of God always deals with the heart of man. The law deals with my actions. The grace of God works begins with my heart. God always deals with the hearts of people. That's where he begins. That is where he communicates the love of God to the heart of a person You want to get a person saved. If a person's going to get saved, they get saved because God touches their heart. Their heart is turned. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart That's where salvation begins in the heart. Just going through some external things, just going through some forms, some rituals, some type of thing. That doesn't save my soul When a savi is my soul, is when from my heart I trust Jesus as my Savior. And God gives me a new heart. And that's what he emphasized. And the Pharisees were all about the external The Pharisees were all about the show, the image. And Jesus cut to the heart of that, and uh they despised it. The Pharisees were more concerned about the condemnation of the sinner than they were about the conversion of the sinner. They were more about the rejection of the sinner than they were about the restoration of the sinner. And Jesus was all about seeking and saving that which was lost. And so They were diametrically opposed. He did not fit into the Pharisees' world. He did not fit into the Jewish world of that time. And so right up front he's saying, Listen I did not come to destroy the law. I came to fulfill the law. And that law will be fulfilled by me. Not one jot, not one tittle is going to pass away until I absolutely completely carry out what the law intends. Now we come to verse number nineteen. Whosoever therefore, because I'm the fulfillment of the law, I'm carrying out this law which is an expression of God's holiness, I'm carrying out. Therefore, uh whosoever shall break one of the least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. He's saying, listen, you go around telling someone that it's okay to break the commandments of God, you're leased in the kingdom of heaven. Jesus is clarifying he's not abolishing the law, he's fulfilling the law And why was he fulfilling the law? What was the purpose of Christ fulfilling the law? Carrying out everything the law intended, everything the law required. Jesus Christ met that. He filled it completely. What was his purpose for doing that? What do we say? To be ours, on our behalf. Because we fail to live up to that. We cannot fulfill the law. So he does on our behalf, and so he's not abolishing the law, he's fulfilling the law so that those who trust him, we can have transformed hearts We can meet that standard that God requires, and then, this is important, I believe this is what he's getting at, then because Christ has done that for us, He's given us a whole new heart Now in our hearts we want to we love God. Now in our hearts we want to please God. We want to live up to that holy standard. Then we seek to live out the law. Not to be acceptable to God, but because we are acceptable to God, I want to live up to that standard of holiness. Does that make sense? So the Lord says, be ye holy, for I am holy. Not be holy so that God's holiness will accept me, but live a holy life because in Christ I'm already accepted. And I love him and I want to live that out. So that's where he gets the word therefore. Whosoever therefore shall say, go around and say, Oh, you don't have to fulfill the law. You don't have There's no law. You don't have to live by the law. Christ has done away. He says, I'm not saying that at all. Now I broke this down into three thoughts here. Number one, I put this, the divisions of the law Now I got that I get that from a word he uses here that kind of caught my attention. Verse 19, whosoever therefore shall break one of the least commandments and shall teach others uh teach men so he shall be called least in the kingdom If Jesus says, who shall let me read again, shall break one of the least commandments. If there's a least commandment, that implies there are Great commandments. What would be the opposite of least? Most or growth. So most important. There we go. And so I don't have time to study, so I just ask you ideas and stuff. But if uh the here's what caught my attention, to break the least of these commandments. If there's a least, then there must be a most. You know what the Pharisees were experts at? They had perfected the ability to divide God's law up into levels of significance. The word least there means the smallest, the most insignificant, of the littlest value. And the Pharisees had, you know, they were they could manipulate God's word uh amazingly so. And they had come up with these laws based on the law of God that these were the most and greatest commandments and these were the least and These are insignificant, and these are very significant. As long as you carry these out, those there aren't so important. That's not a big deal. Now Granted. A fellow came to Jesus. He said, what's the first command? And what did Jesus say? He said, the greatest command is what? Love the Lord thy God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength, and body. He said, the second is like unto it to love your neighbor as yourself. So granted, the Lord did Lend credence to the idea that loving God is the greatest, the first. And we understand that It is possible to love my neighbor as myself and not love God. You know that There are some unsaved people, there are some atheists, there are some false cult people that absolutely love others and give their lives and give themselves in ways that put Christians to shame In caring for others and helping others and doing all this. Doesn't necessarily mean they love God. They just love others. They care about man on a human level. They have great love for others. And we met meet people like I've met people like that over the years. We lived out in Boulder, which is extremely liberal, and there were some folks out there You know, they're very, very compassionate, very giving of themselves. So, but you can love your neighbor and not love God. But here's what I'm getting at. You can't love God and not love your neighbor. That's impossible. That's impossible. So if we're going to say least and greatest, if we're going to look at it that way Then yes there is. Loving God is the most important thing. In fact, Romans says if we love God, we'll fulfill the whole law If I love God, then I'm not going to have any problem doing what God wants me to do and following the Lord and and carrying out out. So but the Pharisees had taken this to such an extreme That uh, you know, these laws, if you kept this law, then these laws here are not significant. Listen, regardless of how the Pharisees divide up God's law All of God's commands are important. That's what the Lord Jesus Christ is saying. There is, I put it this way, there is no insignificant obedience. And there is no insignificant disobedience. You follow what I'm saying Well, as long as you got the big things in place, the little things don't matter. Ask um uh Uzzah about that when they're moving the ark You say, oh, what are those little rings on the side of the ark and a little rod? That's not important. The main thing is get that ark to where it's supposed to be. No na no. Those little rings on the side, they seemed insignificant. They might seem that big a deal. Of course the mercy seat and the And the cherubim over it and the gold and all that's the important part. Those little rings aren't important. Oh no, no. Listen, if God says do it, it's important. It's not your place or my place to decide what's insignificant, what commands of God are insignificant or significant. God expects us to obey his instructions. God expects us to listen to what he says and do what he tells us to do. It's not our place to say, oh, it doesn't matter how you carry the cart, we'll just put on a new put it on a new ark. Uh how you carry the ark. We'll put it on a new cart, just like the Philistines did, and uh it'll be fine. God says, no, it's not fine. I told you exactly how that thing's supposed to be moved. I expect you to move it the way I said. And Uzzah dies. And so that is the principle that the Lord is touching on here. He says, wait a minute. I didn't come to destroy the law, I came to fulfill it. And because of that And you go around teaching people, well, it's just a little command, it's not that big a deal, it doesn't matter whether you do it or not, because you're going to be least in the kingdom of heaven. But if you do exactly what God says and teach others to do exactly what God says, you'll be great in the kingdom of heaven. So he's not teaching that keeping the law saves us. He is teaching the fact that just because we're saved does not mean we do not have to obey God. I got into a row with this a couple years ago with a person I went to school, Bible college with, and they had this idea that we're saved by grace, therefore it doesn't matter what we do, it doesn't matter how we live, it's just grace. And we just do the best we can, and if we mess up, it's no big deal. That is as unscriptural as you can get. That's right. Because I'm saved by grace, I should seek to live for God. I should seek. I want to suggest to you Grace's standard is higher than what the law is. That's what Jesus is going to teach here in a little bit. Not to be saved, but because we're saved. And so they have the divisions of the law, the least of the commandments, and he's referring to them. And it's interesting as we get on through here, Jesus is taking direct shots at the Pharisees. I think that statement there, the least of these commands, I think that was the Lord Jesus taking a shot across the bow of the Pharisees, because they're the ones going around saying, oh, these are great, these are least, these are these are important, these are important And he's and he's taking a crack at them. It's kind of like a backhanded smack there at them. Number one, we have the divisions law. Number two, then I notice the demands of the law. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whosoever shall do And teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. And notice a little phrase there. Shall break one of the least of these commandments and teach men, and shall teach men so. I think that was another shot at the Pharisees. They're going around teaching people, well, it's it's this here command doesn't matter. This here command doesn't matter. He says you go around and you're teaching people that it doesn't matter whether you obey God or not And he's directing them. God expects his people to obey his commands. God expects his people to follow his instructions. Here's a sad thought that came to my mind as I was preparing this. I'm convinced that the only thing some Christians know about the law is that we're not saved by it. The law? Oh, well, we're not saved by that. As if it has no role in our lives. Well, we're not saved by keeping God's commands. That's true. But that doesn't mean we don't keep his commands. Follow what I'm saying? It's still whether I'm not saved by keeping the law, I'm saved by accepting Jesus as my Savior. He fulfilled the law for me. But that doesn't mean it's okay for me to go out and kill. Still says thou shalt not kill. Bible still says thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal Those laws are still in place. It's not, oh well, we're not saved by keeping the law, therefore it's no longer in effect. And the Lord's saying, no, no, no. There's still a demand there, there's still a requirement there. That does not mean the fact that the law doesn't save us does not mean it does not apply in any way or should not be obeyed. Here's the thing. Man looks for every loophole he can find. Am I right or wrong? We look for every loophole we can find to disobey God's clear command. We preached on this on the we've been looking at this on the parable of the Good Samaritan, and the lawyer comes trying to what? Justify himself. And he says, okay, well, who is my neighbor? He didn't care who his neighbor was. He's looking for a loophole You wasn't living up to it, and that's the way we are. Uh we look for every loophole we can find to justify our blanton disobedience Now we're all guilty of this, some a little bit more obvious than others, but over the years, pastoring, I wish that had kept a book on reasons people have given to me why it's okay for them. To disobey God's law, whatever it might be, some little area that they're blatantly doing wrong and say, you know, here's what the Bible says. This is what God expects from us. Yeah, but in my case God doesn't have any loopholes. He expects us, as Christians, to obey him. To follow his instructions, do what he says. Not to be saved, not to stay saved, but because he is holy And because we love them. And then the last one I put on, and this gets to the meat of the situation, verse 20. For I say unto you, now, we're familiar with this, we've read this, we're 2,000 years removed from the time that this statement was made. So go back in time And put yourself in the shoes of the people sitting there listening to Jesus Christ. All they've been taught their whole lives, all they know Is that the Pharisees are the ultimate people of God? They are everything You want to aspire to be if you want to be right with God. If you want God's blessing, if you want to be what God wants you to be, then you look to the Pharisees, you look to the scribes. They are the ultimate of God's people. Now that's ingrained in their minds. They are the most holy. They are the most sacred They are the most righteous people that walk this planet. They look it, they act it, they talk it, they have the show, they've got it all out there. Now Jesus makes this statement. For I say unto you that accept your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. Do you know what I hear when Jesus says that? I hear a gasp throughout the crowd. What? I see people leaning over. Did he say what he did you hear what he said? How in the world can anybody be more righteous than them? How can our righteousness exceed the Pharisees? They're the most righteous people in the world. I think he shook things up. I think he stirred things up. The word exceed there means to go beyond and overflow. It's not the idea of just be a little bit better than. It's to be completely, radically different, better than they are. The Pharisees and scribes were considered the ultimate in righteousness. Now, what was their problem? He's going to expose this. As his ministry goes on, he exposes it more and more. And the more he exposes what they were, the hotter they get. What was their problem? Ah. It was all what? Show. It was all superficial. Something superficial, what does that mean? It's just the outside. It's a veneer. Right? The Pharisees, all they had was appearance. There was no substance to them And Jesus knew that. And as his ministry goes on, and as he goes on through this sermon, he's going to be digging down deeper and deeper and deeper, and he is going to the heart of man. And he's getting the people, his followers, his disciples, he's getting them to look beyond the image And see what they really were. And he's saying this. If you ever expect to get to heaven, you've got to be absolutely pure and righteous from the inside out. And there's only one way to do that. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. We can't do that. Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And so what he's doing, he's coming right back around to what the law requires in the first place, complete and total obedience. Now the Pharisees had to show out there as if that's what they were, and they weren't. They were whited sepulchres. Inside were dead men's bones. All the outside of the club was clean. The inside was all slimy and coffee stains and moldy grape juice. I'm just thinking of stuff that's inside a cup that set out overnight. Anyway, disregard those last few statements. But um Outwardly, yeah, they looked great, but inwardly they were nasty. And he's saying there has to be some depth to our righteousness. Genuine, biblical, God-acceptable righteousness. is the result of a righteous heart. I put this down. If my Christianity is superficial, I do not have Christianity. It's just a show. If it's just an image, then it's not Christianity Jesus is beginning to brobe the hearts. Now let's just jump ahead to illustrate, and we're going to look at these in depth, but come over to verse number 21, Matthew 5. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. But I say unto you that he that is what? Angry. You're talking about the condition of the heart. And he does this over and over and over again. He'll talk about the outward action. He says, yeah, that was condemned. He says, and justly so, but I'm telling you There's more depth to it. My requirements of righteousness, true biblical righteousness, is a lot deeper than just not killing somebody. It's not hating them in your heart. And he comes down through here, and we'll look at each of these in a little more depth. But he's probing the heart. I made this statement earlier in the message, and I want to end with it. God always begins with the heart of a person. Salvation begins with a heart, a convicted heart. I realize in my heart that I'm lost, I'm a sinner, I'm under the judgment of God. And I need a Savior to cleanse me and forgive me and give me a new heart. Jeremiah talks about that Revival in a Christian begins in the heart when God turns my heart back to him. We've left our first love. That's a heart. We come back and we fall back in love with the Lord. So, anybody here familiar with the term antinomianism? That's a sixty. I s I use these big words every now and then just to remind you how educated I am. Anyone know what antinomianism? Remember that from Bible College, Brian? It means there is no law No law. We're saved by grace, therefore we're not under any law. That is not the Bible. We're under the law of Christ. We're under the law of love. We love God. And therefore I want to keep his commands. I want to keep his inst follow his instructions. I want to Obey his instructions to me, not to be saved or make me acceptable. I'm accepted in Christ. But I want to obey and keep them because I love him and he is holy. And I want to please him with my life. I don't want to violate that holiness. I don't want to grieve the Spirit of God. I want to live for Him and please Him. Does that make sense? So the law is still in effect. The law is still there. Not to save us. The law spirit comes along and say, I can't keep that. Alright, you need a savior. Once I have a savior, say, alright, I can't keep that. But I'm going to live by it. I'm going to trust Christ. He's given me a new heart and from within. I'm going to seek to live for God and live for Him. Make sense? And so he's laying that foundation. So later on he comes and says, You've heard it said, I'm saying unto you, so I'm not saying the law is in effect. I'm saying we're going to go a whole lot deeper than what the Pharisees did with it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us to from our hearts love you and trust you. And seek to live for you. Lord, I pray that none of us would have a superficial Christianity, a superficial walk with God But it'll be genuine. And down in our heart and soul, we're yielded to you. And we're trusting you and loving you and walking with you. I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher, I know God saved me, there's no doubt I've accepted Christ as my personal Savior. But sometimes, you say, I find myself slipping into a superficial Christian life. And sometimes I just get the idea, not deliberately, but I just get the idea, as long as the outward looks good, I kind of neglect my inward walk with God. I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, pray with me that I'll pay close attention to my heart and soul and my personal, private walk with God. And I need the Lord to help me there and stir me there. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need that down in my heart and soul. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. It's very easy. to fall into that just an external, as long as I've got this and that and that, everything's okay, and neglect our heart walk with God. Would there happen to be someone tonight say, preacher, I need I need I need heart Christianity. And my whole Christianity has been a show. It's just been superficial. And I need the Lord in my heart and make me a real, genuine Christian from the inside out. Would there be any like that tonight? Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me. Now, Father in heaven, you know where we're at. You know what we are. I pray, if nothing else, you just put a desire in our hearts to be real and to have you work and move and change us from the inside out. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I notice we don't have a piano player, so uh Father, I just ask now as we do a uh modify our invitation. That even here at our seats, dear God, that maybe it just be a little personal altar. Whatever work needs to be done, I pray you do it in our hearts. In Jesus' name, amen.