Bibles there. I just want to uh notice something in the scripture reading that Pastor Matt read a little bit ago from Luke chapter number one. And of course we have the event here where the angel is informing Mary that she is going to be with child and she is going to give birth. To the Messiah, the one who had been promised for thousands of years to come, be the Savior of mankind. And I just want us to notice verse number 37 out of this conversation that her and the angel are having. And the angel makes this statement. It's Gabriel, the angel Gabriel. He makes this statement. For with God nothing shall be impossible. I have that underscored in my Bible. And I want us this morning to consider this just for a moment, the fact that with God, nothing is impossible. There's a theological term we use, and I'm going to touch on it here just a bit later on, but um it simply means that the term is this, omna the omnipotence of God. And uh that's what I want to talk about, uh Christmas omnipotence. And I'll explain what we mean by that. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the kids staying in the program. We're grateful for the parents and grandparents, friends, and family that have come out in this special Christmas service. Not pray now as we look at just a thought in your word that you would challenge us I pray you'd open our eyes, help us to see our need of the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us see the reality of eternity, heaven and hell, the reality of God and the devil and the great warfare, spiritual warfare going on on this old world. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. I pray that you would speak through me your word to our hearts. That we would believe this tremendous statement that's given to us here. Again, bless and have your way, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This conversation has taken place between the angel Gabriel and Mary, the eventual mother of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in verses 26 through 33 that Pastor Matt read a little bit ago. The angel is informing Mary that she is going to give birth to the Christ child. Now, in verse number, notice if you would, verse number 34, how Mary responds. She says this. She says, then said Mary unto the angel. Now the angel just told her she's going to have the ms she's going to give birth. She's con going to conceive of the Holy Ghost. He's going to give birth. He's going to be great. Verse 32. He's going to be called the Son of the Highest, the Son of God. Your child is going to be called the Son of God. And notice how Mary responds Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? Now let me put that in Leatherman lingo. How in the world is this going to happen? Mary responds, how can this be? And she says, I'm not married. I'm a virgin. This is impossible for me to have a child in my womb. This is humanly, physically impossible. How can this be? Now, Mary, at this point, as we said, she was not married. She was espoused to Joseph. That would be very similar to what we have today, an engagement period, although it's much more binding. Once you were a spouse, though you were not married, and you did not come together as husband and wife, nevertheless it was a Somewhat of a covenant agreement that we are going to be married. Much more binding than what we have today, uh have engagement and get an engagement ring, and oh, you know We're gonna get married. It was it was much more uh uh binding than that. So she was espoused to Joseph, but they were not married yet. They had not come together They had not been married or had consummation of the marriage. In fact, it says there, she's a virgin. Mary was probably, we don't know her age. Uh she's referred to in the Old Testament as a young maid. Uh I know back in the day uh folks would marry much younger than often today, sometimes in their mid-teens. I worked with a lady down in Tennessee when I was working my way through university. I worked with a lady in the hospital. She was married at the age of 13 And so back in the day, and in this in this context, in this culture, often folks married much earlier than what we do today. So she could very well have been maybe 15 years old, possibly 14, maybe a little older. We don't know. We're not told specifically. So she's thinking, I'm not married. I've never known a man. I've never been with a man. Just a young girl, a young teen girl This is impossible. How in the world can this be? And then the angel goes on, and uh, oh, by the way, let me say this. When Mary questions the angel and says, how can this be? Mary is not doubting what the angel said. She believed, when that angel said, You're gonna, Holy Ghost is gonna come upon you, overshadow, you're gonna conceive in your womb the Son of God, she believed that was true. She believed that was going to happen. So her questioning the angel is not doubting the angel. She just doesn't understand how it's possible. And there's a world of difference between not believing something can happen and not understanding how it can happen. Right? You follow what I'm saying And so I want to be very, very careful. Now Mary's not sinless. Some churches teach that Mary was sinless. And Mary was just a person, a human being, just like you and I. She uh you know had a sinful nature. She needed to be saved like everybody else. She believed the angel. It's important What that angel says is true. But I don't, for the life of me, I cannot figure out how in the world this could possibly take place. I tell you, there's a lot of promises in the Bible. And we believe it. Right? Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we believe the promises of God. But here's our problem. Sometimes we wonder, how in the world can that be? How how in the world would this ever happen for me? I've talked to people over the years and I'd share with them the gospel, how to be saved, how to know for sure your sins are given, that when you die You go to heaven and not to hell, have a whole new life. I've explained that thousands of times to people. A lot of times people will believe that, but they'll say, I don't know how I could ever be saved How could God ever do that for me? That I could have eternal life, that my sins could be forgiven, that my life could be changed. And be a life that pleases God. How could that be? Oh, Mary believed the angel. She just didn't understand how in the world this could come about. Well, Gabriel goes on and tries to explain a little bit, if you would notice there, verse 35. The angel Gabriel responds back To Mary, it says, and the angel answered and said unto her, and he's saying basically, okay, Mary, I'll try to explain how this is going to come about. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee And the power of the highest, now that's God Almighty. The power of God shall overshadow thee Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. Gabriel is explaining, in so many words, he's explaining to Mary, Mary, what's about to happen to you is a supernatural event. This is something only God can do. And you conceiving and giving birth to a child as a virgin is going to be because of the power of Almighty God. She goes on and references her cousin Elizabeth, the angel does, verse 36. Behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age. And this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. Now, I think I don't know exactly the purpose why Gabriel referenced her cousin Elizabeth. Of course, she's going to give birth to John the Baptist eventually And the thing about Elizabeth, her cousin, and Zacharias giving birth to John the Baptist, that was miraculous, but Elizabeth was not a virgin. The birth, the conception of John the Baptist was by normal human event. It was not a miraculous conception. It was normal. Elizabeth and uh Zacharias were married, and now they were in their old age. She was beyond the point of giving birth, so it was miraculous in that sense. But Mary's conception, and as we studied in Sunday school this morning, Mary's conception, she conceived without the seed of man. Never happened before, never happened again. A miraculous supernatural event where a young girl conceives in her womb without any involvement by man. Would you agree with me? That's incredible. I don't blame Mary for saying, how in the world? How in the world? So Gabriel tries to explain to her a little bit. Well, the Holy Ghost is going to come in. The power of the highest is going to come upon you. God's And I don't know, this is just me, but I'm trying to picture this conversation. I see this young Mary there just dumbfounded. Her mind is spinning. What in the world? And Gabriel's trying to explain to her, well, the power of the highest is going to come upon you, and the Holy Spirit and And I this is the way I pictured, okay, so this is not inspired. Uh but this is what I uh the ho and finally the Gabriel looks at her and Mary is just And finally, Gabriel says, listen, and she quotes verse 37, or the angel does. Listen, Mary, with God nothing shall be impossible. I know you don't understand. I'm trying to explain it, but your head's spinning. Just take this. Just take this. Let me simplify it. With God, nothing is impossible. Isn't that a great statement? I don't know about you, but sometimes I look at my situation, sometimes I look at myself And I think, God, how in the world? God, how can you solve this problem? How can you meet this need? God, how can you make me what I don't see any way possible? And then God reminds me With him, nothing is impossible. Nothing is impossible. And so the angel gives this. She makes this great statement In fact, later on, eventually, of course, Jesus is born. He grows up there in the household with Mary and his stepfather, Joseph. And uh he becomes uh an adult and he begins a three and a half year ministry before he's crucified. For three and a half years, he gathers these twelve men around him Refers to them as disciples, and he trains them to serve him eventually when he's gone. And so he's doing this ministry these three and a half years before he's crucified. And the interesting thing, he repeats That statement that Gabriel made to Mary, when Mary was dumbfounded, how in the world she could give birth to a child Gabriel says, with God nothing shall be impossible. Jesus repeated that truth, that statement, numerous times during his ministry. In Matthew chapter 19, verse 26. Now, this is from the lips of Jesus Christ Himself. With God, all things are possible. In Matthew, in Mark chapter 9, verse 23, all things are possible to him that believeth. That's from Jesus Christ. By the way, let me point this out. That's not some preacher telling you all things are possible with God. That's God telling you all things are possible with God. In Mark chapter 10, verse 27, again, Jesus makes this statement. With God, all things are possible. In Mark 14, verse 36, Jesus, the Son of God, is speaking to God the Father. He's praying, and he makes this statement to God. He says, speaking to God, he says, all things are possible with thee In Luke chapter 18, verse 26, again, Jesus said, the things that are impossible with men are possible with God. We refer to that truth that all things are possible with God. We refer to that truth as the omnipotence of God. Now that's a theological term. We don't use that term very much unless you're in Bible Institute or Bible College, something we use that term. But it's a it's it's a important truth. The word omnipotence, the word omni, the first part of that word, omni means all-encompassing or complete. Potence means what it sounds like, it means powerful. Power. And so when we talk about the omnipotence of God, or we say God is omnipotent. We are saying God is all powerful. His power is complete. In fact, throughout the Old Testament, he's referred to 56 times. God is referred to as the Almighty God The all-powerful God. God is able to do that which is impossible with man. God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above anything we could ask or think. What I'm trying to say this morning Is our God an awesome God? He is an all-powerful God. He is limitless in his power You say, preacher, is there anything God cannot do? Well, the Bible says there are a few things that God Will not do and he cannot do. When we say he's all-powerful, it doesn't mean that he can or would do something that contradicts his nature. We set up at the fair uh every year. We set up a booth there, and um I don't know many have maybe been by and we have different things we put up in boxes just Little um I hate to use the term gimmick, but just little ways to catch people's attention. Get them to stop by and talk with us a little bit One of the items we have there is a box with a hole in the top of it. And on the outside it says, See whom Jesus died for And you look inside that box, and what do they see? There's a mirror. They look inside there, oh, and people walk by. They say, who Jesus, look in there, look, you'll see who Jesus died for. Well, who did he die for? And they look in there and they go, Oh. He died for you He died for me, he died for all of us. And so we have various things like that. One of the displays we have is a board goes across, has three doors on it, says three things God cannot do. We had a gospel tract for years. We used to give it down at the parade. We'd give out thousands of them. It said five things God cannot do. I was giving one of those tracts out down at the parade one time, and I handed it to a lady. She looked at it, five things got and she got offended. She said, There's nothing God can't do. I said, Well, read that and see what you think. So I made my way down, I came back, she read it, she goes, Well, sure enough, there are some things God can't do So people come by and they open these little doors, and some of the things that the Bible says God cannot do, number one, is God cannot lie. Titus chapter 1 and verse 2. God cannot and would not lie, even if he could, but he can't. God is truth. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. He didn't say I know the truth. He didn't say I have the truth. He said I am the truth. So God cannot lie. He would not lie. Now that brings me back. If God says something so in the Bible, you mark it down, it's so. If God says I'm a sinner and you're a sinner, you mark it down, He ain't lying. We're sinners If God says He'll take care of us, you mark it down, He'll take care of us, He cannot lie, He will not lie. If God says that we cannot go to heaven without being saved, then you mark it down, nobody's getting into heaven. that isn't saved. If God says there's a very real literal place called hell, you mark it down. He ain't lying about that. And so God, He He nothing's impossible with him, but He cannot lie. God does not lie to you and He does not lie to me. We emphasize this strongly here because it's true and we believe it. God's word is true. You mark it down. Oh man be a liar. God's word is true. God's word is true. I don't know about you. I got where I don't believe nothing the media says. I just pfft, I don't care what they could say, uh the sky's blue. I say, you're lying, I don't trust you, I don't believe you at all. But I believe God's word. God doesn't lie. You mark it down. God does not lie. Something else the Bible says. The Bible says he cannot be tempted to sin. God is pure. God is holy. There is no sin with God. You mark it down. And by the way, God doesn't tempt you and I to sin. Our temptation to sin, and I know when I talk about being tempted to sin, I know I'm addressing everybody. Myself included. There's no man that's not tempted. When we're tempted to sin, and often we give in to that temptation, that temptation is not coming from God. And by the way, it doesn't always come from the devil. Sometimes that temptation, in fact I would say the majority of time that temptation comes from our own sinful rotten heart We have simple hearts. Jesus said, out of the heart of man proceed blasphemies and cussing, and I'm putting my own words, lying and filth. Hatred, hateful words, blasphemy God, criticizing and condemning others All of this comes from our own heart. It's not from God. God is not tempted to sin, and He does not tempt us to sin. God cannot deny Himself, 2 Timothy 3. 18. Malachi 3:6 tells us God cannot change. Thou changest not from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Yesterday, today, forever, thou art the same. The God that Abraham, the God that Isaac, the God that Jacob and Moses and Noah and David, Paul, these great men through history. The God of them is the same God you and I deal with today. Hasn't changed one bit. The God that spoke this you this infinite universe and world into existence hasn't changed one bit. He's just as powerful today. God. There's some things God cannot and would not do. And I'll throw this one out there. God will not let anyone into heaven. That doesn't trust Jesus Christ as Savior. He absolutely will not. I don't want anybody to have the idea That somehow you are going to escape hell and get into heaven without accepting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Mark it down. That will not happen. A lot of people end up in hell who thought if I did this and I did that and I earned this and I was good enough here and I did enough of that that somehow I get to heaven, and they find out Jesus says, I never knew thee. Depart from me. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, the light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. So God is all powerful. He's unlimited in his power. But he will not do anything that is contrary to his nature, that is contrary to his word. And so he is the Almighty God. Now let me leave this with you. If that's true, with God nothing shall be impossible. Let me leave this. There's no problem that you and I face that God can't solve. I know when I'm talking to people, I'm talking to folks that have problems. Amen or not? I got problems. Maybe there's right now in your point in your life, this time in your life, I don't have as many problems as I I did before. Everybody I'm talking to now either is just coming out of a problem, you're dealing with a problem I hate to tell you, you're fixing to go into one here real soon. Life, I mean, the sooner we get a hold of this, life is filled with problems. In Psalms chapter number thirty-four, verse nineteen, King David said this: Many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth them out of them all. I'm here to tell you, God can solve your problems. God can solve my problems. Um I won't, but if I chose to get into some personal things in my life, throughout my life, I could give you testimony after testimony after testimony where God helps solve problems and issues I faced. I mean miraculously. I don't know what problem you're dealing with. I don't know what you're struggling with. I don't know what's got you upset and fretting and worried But I know this. God can help you deal with that problem. God can solve that problem for you. That's absolute truth. Absolute true. You know what we need to do? We need to take our problems. We need to take those things that got us so worried, so upset. And we need to bring it to the Lord and say, God, I'm just trusting you with this. Lord, I want you to solve this. I want you to leave. God, you show me what to do. I'm just trusting you with this. I'm here to tell you, God will help you with your problems. Amen. Peter said, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. He careth for you. I put this down. Again, there's not a situation God cannot change. There's not one situation we face. God can't turn that around. In Nehemiah chapter 13, verse 2, Nehemiah said they were dealing with some enemies of God. were threatening their lives and had all kinds of an awful situation. And it says God turned the curse into a blessing. God can turn that which you feel like is such a curse in your life. I'm here to tell you God can turn that into a blessing. I want to say this. God can do for you and do for me what the government cannot do. I'm telling you, we've got a mentality in our country and even in our churches where we're looking to the government to do things for us, and I'm telling you, we ought to be looking to God. God can solve our problems, God can change our circumstances. God can take we get ourselves in. Am I right or wrong? We get ourselves in a mess. We think, what in the world? God can take that mess and turn it into a miracle. God can take that which we find ourselves in and just change that thing around. I'll tell you, however Sometimes God doesn't change our circumstances. Sometimes He lets us get into difficult times and hard times and our heart is broken and our and our faith is challenged sometimes. He lets us go into that for a purpose. He has a reason. Again, we don't have time. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, the Apostle Paul, the great man of God. He said that he had a thorn in his flesh. Now we don't know what that was. It's a thorn, so obviously it's very painful. He refers to it as a thorn. It's in his flesh, so it's a physical pain. There was some sort of ailment that Apostle Paul had that hurt him badly, and he said, I sought the Lord three times to remove this from me. When he says three times, he's talking about three extended periods of time. In other words, for a long time, the apostle Paul was coming to God and saying, God, please take this storm from me, this pain. God, please take it from me. And God said, I'm not going to do it. And God said to Paul, and I wish we had time to look at it. We don't, but Paul, God said to Paul, He said, Paul, when you're weak Then I'm strong for you. And he says this difficulty, this thorn, this pain is actually going to help your faith be stronger, and you're going to see me do greater things. in your life than if I would take it away from you. God didn't change Paul's circumstance, but you know what he changed? He changed Paul's attitude about it. In the very next verse, Paul said this most therefore I will most gladly rejoice in my affliction So that God's power can be displayed. I'm here to tell you, I've been serving God coming up on 40 years. I've been in the ministry I was saved for a little coming up on 46 years ago, I trusted Christ. I've interacted, and some of you longer than me, but I've interacted with a lot of Christians I've been in a lot of ministries over the years. I thank God for it. It is the joy of my life to serve the Lord. But I tell you, some of the sweetest, most godly, happiest people I've ever met in my life are people who have been through some awfully dark valleys. People who have been hurt deeply. But they learn to trust God. They learn to bring that hurt And that fear and that worry to God and put it in God's sake, and God gives a peace in the heart. And God gives a joy that this world cannot give. This world can't take it away. This world can't give it. But God is able. To give us joy and peace in the midst of the storm, the midst of heartache. Nothing's impossible with God. He can solve my problems. He can change my circumstances. And if it's not his plan to change my circumstances, then he can change my whole attitude about that. And I can have the joy of the Lord even in the midst of a very difficult circumstance. God is able. He's all-powerful, omnipotent, almighty God. He is able. There's not a sinner God can't save. My Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever. Shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. Listen, there's not a sinner that sins so bad that God can't save him. Jesus said in John chapter 6, verse 37, He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out You can take the lowest, sorriest, dirtiest, filthiest sinner that has ever walked this earth. You can take a man or a woman whose heart is so corrupt and so perverse You can take a person who is absolutely addicted to some sin or liquor or drugs, the most hardened addiction there can be. You can take the most vile person that has ever walked this planet. But if they'll come to Jesus Christ in humility, acknowledging their sin, believing that he died for their sin, was buried, and rose again. God can and will save that old sinner. God will do it. I've had people say to me, preacher, I'm sinned too bad to ever be saved. That's a lie of the devil. I'm telling you, that is a lie of the devil. Not one person sinned too bad, they can't be saved Our sins, all the sins of mankind, were nailed to Jesus Christ when he died on that cross. He took responsibility. For every last sin, he drank the last drop of God's judgment on every sin that man ever committed when he died on that cross, was buried, rose again. God will save you. God will forgive your sin. God can change your life. There's people over here. Our church folk know my testimony. If you knew me 46 years ago At this point in time, 46, 1978, December of 1978, if you knew me, you'd say that's sorry, degenerate There's no way in the world he'd ever be saved, but I'm here to tell you nothing's impossible with God All across this auditorium, men and women stand up and say, there was no way anybody ever thinks I'd get saved. But God is able. God will save you, and God will change your life I tell you, I lived for the devil for 19 years. I wouldn't trade one day with God for all those years with the devil. I'm telling you, he's a liar. God's plan and purpose for your life and my life is so much better than anything this world gets. I tell you, every year goes by, I get more disgusted with this old world. Now I love the planet, it's beautiful. God's creation. But I'm telling you, society and what this world has to offer is nothing. God can save the worst sinner. He can change their life and give them a new purpose, a new plan. God can give you peace in your heart. I'm testifying to that. God can give your life purpose and confidence that when I lay my head down at night, I know that if something happened, I know God would accept me into heaven. Not because of me, but because of what Christ did for me. Nothing's impossible. Mary's like, how in the world can I? What? How can this be? Gabriel said, nothing's impossible with God. I'm telling you, if God can have Mary conceive a child in her womb without the involvement of man, God can change your life. God can bless you and lead you and meet your needs and take care of you and change your life. Last of all, I am with this There's not a saint that God will forsake. God will save. God will save any old sinner that'll come to him, trust him. God will save that sinner Come in humility, confessing my sin, acknowledging, turning to Christ, trusting my Savior. God forgives me, gives me a new light. I'm accepted by God into heaven. And then I go on and then I blow it. And I say something I shouldn't say or I do something I shouldn't do. And then I do it again. It's like, man, I'm alive. God says, oh no. I can keep you Peter says we are, Jude said we are kept by the power of God. Sometimes we get criticized a little bit because we believe what the Bible says, that once a person is saved, God keeps them saved. Now I can uh you if you question that, I wish you'd let me sit down with you for ten minutes. I can show you in the Bible. God does not forsake his own And when we fail, he doesn't let go of us. The Bible says we're kept by the power of God. It's not me that keeps myself safe. If I had to keep myself safe by my own determination and my own Uh gna uh uh self-discipline, I had to keep myself safe, I would have lost it the first day I was safe I can't, I couldn't save myself in the first place. I can't keep myself safe. But nothing's impossible with God, and He's able to keep me safe He said in John, he says, no man, no man is able to pluck them out of my hand Tell you when a little child, teenager, adult, uh had a lady, uh Michael's mother passed away this past Thursday, having her funeral Tuesday, but about a month ago in the hospital, she was what was she seventy something? 73. 73 years old lay in the hospital. She was concerned about her salvation. We went through the plan. And Joanne bowed her head and trusted Jesus Christ with me as her personal Savior. I just got that settled. We're confident that she's in heaven with the Lord now. There's no doubt in my mind. God is able, take Joanne or a little teen girl got say, child, he's able to keep us He holds us in his hand. He does not let us go. He said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. You've trusted Christ as Savior. Don't you ever believe for one minute that God has forsaken you? God has left you. Say, well, you don't know what I've done. It doesn't matter what you've done. I know what Jesus did. He paid for that sin. He says he'll keep you. I got saved on a Monday night, May 7, 1979. Our church folk have my testimony memorized. Every week, 27, 1979. I'm excited about it. My daddy was a truck driver. He was out in the road all week. I lived there with my dad, just two of us. Uh by ourselves, us Just turned 19, I trusted Christ. God changed my life. I mean overnight. Took the drugs, everything, liquor, all that Dad got home Friday night and I was home. It's a weekend I was home. And he walked in and said, What are you doing? I said, Dad, I gotta tell you something. He said, oh brother, now what he's going to jail something. I said, Dad, Monday night I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. He's changed my life. He took all the drugs away. It's gone, Dad. It's all gone. The liquor is gone. Dad began crying. And he said this, he says, I've been praying and praying and praying you'd be safe. My daddy was a good Christian man. He said, but I never thought it would actually happen. He believed God. He wasn't doubting God. He just didn't see how in the world could that happen? Like Mary. I'm telling you, God's able. God can save you, God can keep you, He can take care of you, He'll lead you through life if you just let Him. Just trust Him. And he'll do it. Nothing is impossible with God. I've talked to some people, you've got a child that's so far from God, you just see, I don't see how in the world, I don't see how in the world they could ever come back. I'm here to tell you, nothing is impossible with God. Talk to some people, you say, my marriage is so messed up. My marriage is so messed up. There's no way it can be saved. There's no way it can be salvation. I'm here to tell you, nothing is impossible with God. God can take care of us. God can. Do you get the point? The omnipotence of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you would help us just to believe this one simple truth. And God, wherever we're at, as individuals in life, help us to see this fact and believe it. And to trust you and to let you do that which we don't understand how could possibly happen. I wonder if I'm talking to some this morning you're saying you say, Preacher, I just got some problems that are just overwhelming. They just seem to pile up and pile up and pile up. We say, preacher, I need to learn to take these cares and these problems and bring them to the Lord. I'm just going to trust God What he tells me to do, I'll do it. And I'm just going to trust him to help me with this problem. Is there anything like that? Uplifted hand preacher. I need God to help me with some problems. And I don't know what they may be. That's between you and God. God can do anything. There's some this morning say maybe I'm in a situation. I really didn't do it. I just find myself in a situation and I really I need the situation changed or my attitude about it changed. Something. I'm here to tell you God can do it. Maybe you'd be a little repetitious, but is there any, say preacher, I'm in a situation, I need God I just need God to help me in this situation. Anything like that? Maybe change my attitude about it. Maybe that's what's needed. But whatever, I own it, God. God bless you. There's someone here, say, preacher, I'm not saved. I can't honestly say that I know my sins are forgiven and that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. And I need that settled in my life. And I need to know that God has forgiven me, that heaven's my home. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray with me. I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. Any at all. Any at all. Pray with me, preacher, that God will help me. Maybe, and I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but maybe there's some say, preacher, I know I got saved, I've been saved, but I've I've backslid and I've let some things in that I know aren't right. I'm here to tell you God can bring you back, God can get you back on your feet. God hasn't left you. He hasn't forsaken you. If you'll let him, he'll get you back up and running again where you need to be. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name.