Alright, if you would please, I'm going to um the message I'm preaching, I almost I almost to be honest felt bad about preaching it because y'all are doing an absolutely amazing job. In fact one of the best jobs I've ever seen. So maybe for this message It might not convict you at all. You might just be like, hey, I'm doing what's right. And maybe it's just a message to encourage you to keep going. Um but for some of you, even myself Um it can it's easy to fall into a routine, a rut, of doing the same thing over and over again without with um and then lose the the joy and the reason we're doing it. Um so the t um we're gonna turn, please take your Bibles, turn to Matthew chapter 19. Matthew chapter 19. The title of my message is um Uh oh boy. I told him the title and then I forgot it. Um uh wow, that's embarrassing. Not something you should do. Um do you remember what it was, brother? Christ's View of Children. Yes. Christ's View of Children. I'm sorry, I wrote down a different title and then I changed it last second. So that's why I have another title, but I don't like it as much. Anyway, so um So um um um um that's let's try not to use that word. So someone said I heard it from my dad, but it was it wasn't original. If you hear something great that comes out of my mouth, it probably is not from me. I paraphrase a lot from other people. So Someone said that you can give without loving, but you cannot love without giving. And that's really true. If we look at Christ's example, we'll talk more about Christ's example of love later on. But Someone else said the greatest force on earth is love. And that's really true for the believer, for anyone. The greatest force on earth is really love. And um Christ, we're going to look at today how Christ views children. And it's my this is one of my honestly my favorite picture of Christ. When I see Christ, like if you s if you can imagine a picture of Jesus Christ, my favorite picture would be this picture right here. Jesus, he loved everyone, but he especially loved little children. I'm going to prove that to you from the Bible. So um So all three Gospels have something in common. So Matthew chapter 19, verse 13. Look at Matthew 19, verse 13. And it says, Matthew 19, verse 13. Then they brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them and said, And Jesus said and Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me. For of such is the kingdom of heaven. And then turn right over to the next book in Mark chapter ten. Turn to Mark chapter ten. The next book over. Mark chapter 10. Also, we're going to start at verse 13. And this isn't a coincidence. I was looking at this and I was like, wow. All three different of the gospels have something in common right here. In Mark chapter ten, verse thirteen, it says, And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked those that brought them But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God That word much displeased there, that is the only time that I could find in the entire scriptures where Jesus Christ said he was much displeased about something. If you read the passage, you get the point that Jesus thinks these children are pretty important. Especially when you see that all or that three of the gospels include this. Turn the next passage to Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18. The next passage says in Luke chapter 18. We're going to start in verse 15. Luke 18, verse 15. Don't worry, I'm a short preacher. I remember short messages way better than like three-hour long ones. So don't worry, I'm not going to keep you here all night. I like short messages. And I'm nervous. That probably adds helps to the shortness. So um Luke chapter 18, verse 15, it says, And they brought unto him also infants. that he should touch them, uh that he should touch them. But his disciples saw it, they saw it rebuked them. But Jesus called unto them and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. The context between all uh of all these passages, I looked at the context, what is around the chapter, is all talking about salvation coming to God as a child. Well, I just like to leave you, and like I said, this might be more of an encouragement, but I just thinking, uh whenever I get up and do a rally, whose blood is gonna be on your hands? Whose blood is gonna be on my hands? Are you fervently praying for someone? Did you pray for someone today? Anyone at all to be saved? Did you pray for a neighborhood Bible time? If you did, amazing. I could do better. I could pray more. Who's someone we're all going to give an account at the judgment seat of Christ for what we did Whether that's good or bad, even though we will not be judged, we'll go to heaven if we're saved. We will all be judged. Whose blood is going to be on your hand? Are you praying? Are you trying to stop someone from going to hell? When was the last time you personally witnessed to someone? Or at least tried. Maybe you couldn't, but you tried. When was the last time? That's why we're here. If you're a Christian, God didn't leave you here to be a robot for Jesus. God made you an individual. God wants you to try to see to lead others to him. That's what our life is about, to bring honor and glory to God. And winning souls, he that winning souls is wise. But right, you don't have to turn there because I'm going to read this, but in Proverbs 24, verse 10 it says, If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If thou forbearest to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain, if thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not, doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? And he that keepeth the soul, doth not he know it And shall not he render to every man according to his works. That verse means, if you know that someone is in trouble. And you're not doing anything about it, your blood is on, their blood is on your hands. That's a proverb. That's a timeless truth. So I I read this quote over there in the fellowship hall, but I had it in my notes already, so I'm going to read it. Charles Spurgeon said, If sinners be damned, at least let them leap to leap to hell over our dead bodies. And if they perish, let them perish with our arms wrapped around their knees, imploring them to stay. If hell must be filled, let it be filled in the teeth of our exertion-exertions. And let not one go unwarned and unprayed for. Some people, they get they get annoyed with kids. They get like um I was sitting in church today and there was a little kid that was being a little loud. I like that. Some pastors get annoyed with that. Your pastor doesn't. He's awesome. He's amazing. But some people they would get annoyed. They're like, that kid shouldn't be here. What do you think Jesus would have done? You think Jesus would have vent all that kid should No. I don't get that picture from Jesus and if you read the chapter I don't think you'll get that picture either. You should be thankful, hey, at least there's a kid here that can cry. At least there's someone in God's house. Because otherwise What's what's our future? They are our future, but don't for you for those of you, I know we look at the kids as the future But what about us? We are this generation. I am this generation. You are this generation. If you can hear me, you are this generation. What are you doing with what you can do? And y some of you are a lot of you are doing an amazing job, so I would say give yourself a pat on the back, but we usually do that in the uh thing. So I'm just begging you, don't quit. You all have a bus ministry This is the first church I've been to that has a bus ministry. I go to school when we have a bus ministry. Buses are not cheap. It takes a ridiculous amount of money getting bus drivers, figuring all that out. I ran a bus right home. It's incredibly hard. And there's a that's a reason why a lot of churches don't have bus ministries because it's too expensive. It's too hard. But y'all have that. Y'all are doing a fantastic job. Don't lose that vision. Don't quit, don't give up because even if even if there wasn't one more soul saved, even if there wasn't If we did our best, that will be enough. Even if we don't see one soul saved. But if we do our part, God promises to bring fruit if we're doing it right. So don't quit and I'm just lying through my notes In s one of my favorite verses that uh a soldier gave me. Um I was like twelve, something like that. It's 1 Corinthians 1558. If you want, you can turn there. You might know it. First Corinthians 1558 And it says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. What you do for God, it's gonna last. If you lived a thousand years, what you can't, if you lived a thousand years and you weren't saved, what would it matter? Nada, nothing. But if you live as long as God wants you to live in His strength, in the power of the Spirit, it does make a difference. And so one of my college professors told me, kids spell love. Time. T-I-M-E. That's how kids really know. That's how a kid knows if you really care about him. Because your time is your life. And if you're willing to invest your life in a kid, they know that you love them. Not just that, okay, he's cool. Okay, they like them. No It's something a little bit deeper. It's called love. Something charity. So right here I'm going to read a poem that my f one of my first p uh whatever it is. This um when I heard this poem, I wrote it, I typed it up or got it printed up and put it in my Bible. I keep this in my Bible. It just reminds me, um The poem you might know it. The title is I didn't write this someone else did. Through the eyes of a buswor of the busworker Some see a fight, a push and a shove. I see a despert cry for love. Some see a brat, he acts so bad. I see a boy who's never met his dad. Some see the messes and the trouble they give. I see the poverty and the places where they live. Some see a teenager who won't dress right. I see a girl who has to protect herself at night Some see a smart mouth, disrespectful and loud. I see a kid made fun of the crowd. Some see a woman who comes just to use. I see a lady by a drunken husband abused. Some see a drug addict, withered and worn. I see a soul the Lord once reborn. Some see the dirt, the filth, and the rot. I see a kid who without Jesus doesn't have a shot. Some see a crook who you don't trust much. I see a man who needs the Lord's touch. Some see a bunch of heathen who holler and yell. I see a kid. I see kids with parents in jail. Some see a teenager who gives a lot of flack. I see a boy whose whole family's on crack. Broken homes, broken lives. Those with no hope. They need compassion and God's grace to cope. For every little girl who lies awake, who lies hungry at night, Lord help me to keep in the fight. For every scared boy who sees his mommy get hit, Lord help me to be faithful and never to quit. For every mommy who needs a new start, Lord help me to show you show her how to ask you into her heart. For every man On whom sin has its hold. Lord help me to make sure the old story is told. The Lord to me, his mercy has shown. Lord help me to reach out. So that others can make heaven their home. May others judge gently when those folks they see. If not for God's grace, that's where all of us would be We are no better than anyone else. We are no better than any kid. And if your vehicle, if your vehicle is too nice to where you can't pick up a smelly Snotty, whatever, bus kid. Your vehicle's too nice. I had I've had that experience two weeks ago. And you know what? Your vehicle's too nice if you can't pick up a smelly little bus kid. If you can't wipe the mucus off a kid or help him out. There's something wrong. You need to get a heart check. Jesus would have. And that's what, and we're supposed to follow Christ's example. There's a um I was try I I travel on the basketball team. I'm also like the worst player. I'm not just saying that. I am. If you ask anyone you say you'll find out But um we travel around sometimes to stay at churches and um uh because the instead of motels sometimes churches since we're all you know we know 'em we'll save the churches. So they the pastor comes in and he says, Sleep wherever you want, pews, pulpit, baptism, whatever. So we you know we're all finding places to sleep. And um I found the nursery because there was two baby mattresses that I put together. I was comfortable. Very comfortable. Everyone else was like on the pews on the ground. I actually had a mattress. So and then when I looked up I saw a um a sign. I've never forgot this quote. Um It says I know the quote but I'm just trying to get it in order. Uh well I don't see it on here. But anyway, I know the quote. It says a child's every child's life is like a piece of paper. on which every person leaves a mark. Everyone has an impact. If you interact with a kid, you are going to have an impact for good. Or for bad. Everyone. No one is excluded. And that's a that's truth. But um one of the greatest things I don't know why I put this in there, but for your fathers, one of the greatest things a father can do for his kids is love your mom. Love their mom. Someone told me that and I'll just take their word for it. So take it where it's at, one of the best things you can do for your kids is love your mom. Love your wife and love your mom, that'd be good too. But um my dad I'm gonna try to tell this really quick story if I can remember. When I was about eight years old My dad told a story from the pulpit, and I'm going to try to remember what I can remember. I haven't ever heard it repeated or anything. So there was a disease, a virus. It wasn't COVID. But there was a disease, a virus. And um these people over in um Africa started dying from this virus. They but then some of them seemed to start getting better, but then it got worse. And eventually everyone that seemed to get this sickness died. Sure enough, it spread to China. It spread to India. Everyone that was getting this disease was dying. The death rate was 100%. You got the disease You died. So when it came once it got to America, by that time, all the smartest scientists, pharmacists got together and they were trying to find a vaccine, a cure for this virus. People were dying and it started getting serious. They started doing tests and all that stuff and they said We can make a vaccine. We can make a cure for this virus. All we need is one person's some blood. We need some blood that hasn't been contaminated. But during this study, they found that you got the disease a year before you even started showing symptoms. So They're going around. They started doing all the tests, kind of like the COVID lines, only a lot bigger because everyone was getting tested, trying to find out if they had blood, if they weren't contaminated. After two weeks, they couldn't find anything. Everyone was contaminated. The entire world population. After two weeks in a small town over in um I forgive Getware in a small town, there was lines And the doctor came running out, the head doctor of the hospital, holding up the piece of paper, yelling out the name for Jeremiah, I forget the last name, for this name. He's yelling out the name. The man, a man, stands up, raises his hand And the doctors and a whole bunch of other guys come over with their masks all this skirted up and they're all ready and they say, We found your blood. You don't have you are not contaminated We need you to come. But then they looked closer at the sheet and it wasn't his blood. It was his son, Jeremiah Juniors. So we had this little boy, so he took him um they took him away to get some blood drawn. And then when the dad was looking at the piece of paper that he was supposed to sign to give the blood for the for his son. He looked on one slot and the slot for how much blood was empty. And the dad said, well how much do you need And the doctor said, for all we know, your son could be the last, the only one that doesn't hasn't been contaminated. He said, We're gonna need all of it. The dad. Obviously it was his only son. He didn't want that, but there was no other option. He signed the papers and he the boy gave his life. So that everyone could be saved. Now that's not a true story, but there's a story that's even more convicting, more heart-wrenching than that. Jesus Christ. Died on the cross. You know, you can think of the worst thing that you want in this world. Nothing. The worst thing that ever happened on earth was Jesus Christ dying on the cross. It was also the best thing that ever happened. The worst thing. What can be worse than a perfect, sinless see if if I were to die? If you were to die, we deserve it. We've sinned. But Jesus Christ did not deserve to die. Nothing is more precious than that. He died on the cross for all of our sins so that we could go to heaven. Jesus Christ made a way when there was no other way Some people, and I don't know, I don't know the crowd here, I don't know if you know for sure you're going to heaven. I'm not gonna assume that you are. I was unsaved for 18 years of my life. I know what it's like. You feel empty If you don't if you and for some of you say, well I do know for sure where I'm going when I die, what are you doing to tell people about the only way? If this building was on fire and you saw some people in here, will you try to go in and pull them out? I would hope you would. Jesus Christ is the only way to get to heaven. What are we doing to tell people? Y'all are having neighborhood Bible time. You're doing an absolutely amazing way. We're going to be able to give the gospel out. But what are you doing personally? Are you contributing? Are you doing your best? One of my favorite preachers, Jerry Ross, said, if you only know one thing for sure, know for sure that you are saved. You can't everything else and going to hell is not worth anything. I've had people mock me and say, I'm going to hell and I'm having a party. If you're on fire, you're not having a party. What are you going to do with the cross? Whether you're saved, on your way to heaven, or whether you're not, what are you going to do with the cross? Christ proved that he loved you. He proved that he loved children. Between the age of the 414 rule. Between 4 and 14. Eighty-five percent of people make that's when they get saved. Between four and fourteen, eighty-five percent of people Either decide whether they're going to heaven or hell. We have to reach that age group. Not to discount the other ones, but what are you doing about that? If you look at the graphs, just Google it if you don't believe me. Look at the graphs What are you doing about what are you going to do? The Bible says, come now. God's favorite day is today, not tomorrow. You don't know if tomorrow's promised I've seen people I preach to people and they literally laugh at me when I'm talking about hell. You know what? Just just just get a picture in your brain. If you were to go down and you were to open up if there was a trapdoor to hell and you were to yell down ass it worth it down there, isn't it fun? They would say, no, it's not. Nothing about hell is good. And some people make fun of it and joke around. But let's just be honest, there has to be a God. There was I sometimes for the kids I'll call my cell phone. This couldn't just evolve and you're a lot more complicated than a phone. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. What are you gonna do? There is a real God. There's a God that loves you, loves you enough to die on the cross for you. What are you gonna do with the cross? If you have not asked Jesus to forgive you of your sins, it's not too late. For those of you that are older, I didn't understand that I wasn't saved until I read the verse, 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. When did you have a change? Was there ever a change in your life? If you can't point to a change in your life, then you're not saved, according to the Bible. That's not what I have to say. Forget what I have to say. Throw it in the trash because it doesn't matter. But what God has to say means a lot If you never if you've never seen a change in your life, you're not on your way to heaven. If you're small, like really young The change probably was just a change in your attitude. But it wasn't like super, you know, doing drugs and all this stuff and then changing. Hopefully not. Um But John 14 verse 6 says I am the way, I am the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You're not getting into heaven unless you have asked Jesus to forgive you. If you haven't asked Jesus, the Bible says in John 3. 16, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever, that means You. That means me. That means every kid. Do you have the compassion for kids that Christ had? If you're saved, Are you trying? You say, well, I don't really like kids. You know what? Why don't you pray and ask Jesus to help you give you a love for kids To be honest, I didn't used to like teenagers because for me I had one word that would describe teenagers. It was called loser because they were just mostly idiots around me. They're just weird, dorky. That's but you know what then I realized? Who's really trying to reach them? Who's trying to show love to them? And then that got me thinking, man, maybe that's why there's so many losers. Because people like me aren't willing to step up and try to help them out. Maybe Some kid is going to go to hell and their blood will be on your hand. I don't know. I hope not. Maybe me. I hope not. I pray not. Please pray for Neighborhood Bible Time. Pray for me, thou of wisdom. And pray for souls to be saved. If you are saved, what are you doing? Are you telling everyone, if you're not saved? You don't know if you're gonna die today. I I've buried children, I've buried teen I've seen teenagers buried, I've there's a lot. You've all seen death. You don't know if you have tomorrow And I'll leave the invitation up to Pastor. So Pastor shouldn't come at this time. Thanks, Brother Daniel. Good message.