Good thing I'd like to do is find a piece of paper, or maybe the fly leaf of your Bible, and number three, find a pen or pencil. I want you to jot just a couple thoughts down this evening on Christmas Eve. Um about the Lord Jesus. Matthew chapter 1. Let me get turned on here. And verse number 21. tells us a lot about the the Lord Jesus Christ and the purpose of his coming to earth. We touched on it this morning. And we preached on it this morning. I just want to touch on it this evening. In verse 21, very familiar, the Bible says, and she shall bring forth a son. And thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall what? Save his people from their sins. That tells us the whole story of Christmas, what it's all about. And uh this is my thought. Christmas is for sinners Christmas is for sinners. He came to save his people from their sins. Let's pray. I'll give you three thoughts jot down, and then we'll have our Lord's Supper. Father in heaven. Again, we're very grateful for what you've done for us. And as it's recorded for us in Scripture, please speak to our hearts and help us to know you and love you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Would you write this first point, first thought down? God keeps his promises. God keeps his promises. For hundreds and thousands of years, not hundreds of thousands, but for hundreds and thousands of years, God had been promising to the nation of Israel and to the world that He was going to send a Messiah. He told them where he would be born. He actually, in Daniel and Jeremiah, told us when he would be born. He told us how the Messiah would be born of a virgin. And uh he gave tremendous details, all these prophecies, not just of the birth, but then of the life and crucifixion, resurrection of Christ. And for hundreds and hundreds of years, Israel waited on God to fill his promises. And they waited and they waited and they waited. And here's the thing. I don't know about you, but I've been frustrated. There's been times in my Christian life where I've gotten frustrated with God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now get frustrated with God. Guess who was in the wrong on that whole deal? It was me. It wasn't God. And my frustration with God hasn't ever been that He doesn't keep His promises. I found without fail that God does keep His promises. But you know what my frustration is always? I'm impatient. He doesn't do what he promised on my schedule and when I think it should be. And uh but as I look at the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, And as we celebrate it, one thought comes to my mind. God does keep his promises. And it's our responsibility to trust him and wait. Trust him and wait. How many people hate waiting? Oh, I keep waiting to the for the day I don't have to wait. But God keeps his promise. Number two, jot this down. God loves us. God loves us. He didn't have to do any of this. He didn't have to leave his glory. Think of the humiliation on God's part to become a man. God, the creator of the universe. having to be cared for by a young woman, teenage girl probably, having to have his clothes changed and washed, having to be fed and cleaned. Think about that. Almighty, the God of Isaiah chapter 6, when Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. That was the Lord Jesus, John 12 tells us. And the and the seraphim crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, and that God now being totally dependent I'm telling you, all of that was done because he, our Creator, our God, loves us very, very much. And then gave his life for us. What does Romans 5. 8 say? But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And that's Christmas. He came to earth, took on that body so that he could die and pay our sins for us. So number one, God keeps his promises That's a good thing to remember at Christmas and any kind. Number two, God loves us dearly, dearly. Number three. God can deal with our issues. God can deal with our issues. How many people here know someone that have issues How many pee how many how many people the person you look at in the mirror has issues? Sure we do. And I'm here to tell you God can deal with our issues. You know what the most impossible issue facing mankind is? Is our sin. Is the fact that we are sinners under the judgment of God. Now listen to this, and there's nothing we can do about it. There's nothing we can do about it. We are sinners under the judgment of God. Yet God solved that problem. Romans 8. 30. Well tell you what, turn there with me. Romans 8. 32. One of, to me, is the most precious, precious verses in the Bible, and they're the Bible's full of them. Romans 8. 32 I've got this underlined, highlighted, bracketed, marked in red. This verse is tremendous. Romans 8. 32. Are you there? You see it? Romans eight thirty-two. Now here's the my point is uh God can deal with our issues. Look at this. He that spared not his own son But delivered him up for us all. Now God is able to deal with the greatest issue facing us is the issue of our sin and the judgment of the holy God on our sin. He dealt with that. He died for that. He paid the price for it. He provided forgiveness. He provided a way out of God's judgment. And here's the point. Look at this. He that delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also, what's the rest of it say? Freely give us all things. And here's the point I'm trying to make. If God is able to solve my sin problem, which is the greatest problem facing man, I'm here to tell you he can solve any other problem I have. If he can do that, anything else is cake And so we can trust them. We can trust them. You say, preacher, you don't know my problems. Uh I'm telling you this, none of us have any problems greater than the fact that we are sinners under the judgment of a holy God. And God solved that by dying for us and giving us eternal life. And he can if he can take care of that, he'll freely give us all things. Does that make sense? So one, Christmas time, as I look at this, I think God keeps his promises. Two, God loves me dearly, and God can handle the issues I face in my life. I'm here to tell you there's not a problem you're ending up 2017 with or going into in 2018. There's not a problem that God can't deal. You know what the problem is? We just need to trust them. We just need to say, Lord, I'm going to put this. What's the verse I kept referring to a year or so ago? Be still and know that I'm God. Just be still. Let it go. God can take care of that. Trust him. Follow his instructions. Do what he says. And trust him and he can deal with that. So a couple thoughts I wanted to share on this Christmas Eve. God loves us, God keeps his promises, and God can can help us. Father in heaven, I pray now, as we come into the Lord's Supper, that you would just somehow burn in our hearts and help us to sense in a real real way your presence as our Savior in our lives. I pray your love, the great love you have for us, would be very, very clear in our minds. And that we could somehow comprehend that which is beyond knowledge, you say, your great love for us. Help us to come with humble hearts this Christmas Eve, pure hearts, repentant. As we bow before you at the Lord's Supper, and Lord, we ask you to search us and try us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, and before we go to the Lord's Supper, I think it might just be appropriate to give a simple little altar car, let's stand together. And Kathy's going to play the invitation. And maybe