Appreciate that. Tammy, as it said. Matthew chapter five. If you want to while you're looking up verses, we're gonna go to Not a whole lot, but if you want to find Galatians while you're rooting around there in your Bible, we're going to go over there here in a little bit. Matthew chapter 5. I'm going to read verse 17. Starting verse 17 down through verse 20. Of course, we're in the Sermon on the Mound, the most famous sermon ever preached by the most famous preacher that ever preached And still setting the stage here. We're not I don't think we're really into the meat of the sermon yet. Still a little bit setting things up. The Beatitudes there, verses 3 through 12 were pretty much an introductory statements. As powerful as they are. Verse 13 and 14 was addressing um what we are in this world, salt of the earth and light of the world. Now, as I pointed out last week, if you remember, the Lord It's kind of seems out of context at first. He just kind of out of the blue starts talking about the law and um but If you start when we study the rest of the sermon, we're going to find out he's setting the stage here. He's answering objections or questions people might have before they come up. Because if they have this clear in their mind, then they're going to understand a little bit more of what he's saying later on. So we're spending a little bit of time on this. We're going to have these two messages, probably one or two more on this section But I'm going to begin in verse 17. He says, think not that I am come to destroy the law. So he says, don't think that. Don't get that thought out of your head before we even get started. Or the prophets. I am not come to destroy the wall, but to fulfill it. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, One jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least commandments One of these least commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter in the kingdom of heaven So he makes some uh statements here, but uh the the subject is this Jesus Christ and the Old Testament law and the relation they have to each other. Now that's a weighty subject. I don't know anybody that sits down over coffee and says, let's talk about Christ and the law. You know, I mean it's just it's something you talk about in theology class and doctrines class. But the Lord's Giving it here and it's very, very important we understand this. So as I said, we're taking a little bit of time and going through it. So I hope you'll give your attention and really think this through as I'm presenting because it is a little bit weighty. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study. Of this portion of the Sermon on the Mount, Lord, I enjoyed studying it. I believe I learned some things. And I pray as I present it that you would fill me with your Spirit, that we would grow in our understanding of the truth of your word and and how it applies to our lives. Lord, we always always want to be practical. I think you're practical, Lord. And so I pray your Holy Spirit would somehow apply these thoughts to how we live our lives and our faith And so blessed now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Christ and the law, or you could say law and grace. We pointed out last week that the Lord is He's laying some groundwork, he's given this principle, and he anticipates, of course, being God, he knows what they're going to think. So, but from our perspective, he is anticipating That these Pharisees and the scribes, did you notice he referenced them there in verse number 20? He said, Except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees I think that's who he has in mind that they're going to challenge him on some statements he's made. He's going to make in the in from verse 21 on through the rest of the sermon, the end of chapter 7, he's going to make some strong statements And he's going to challenge these followers of his, his disciples. He's going to challenge what they've been taught. And in fact, let's go ahead and look there a little later on in verse number 21. He says, You have heard that it was said by them of old time. So this is something they've been taught a long time. Verse 22 he says, but I say unto you, huh? He's challenging something they've been taught a long time. Come down verse 27. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, verse 28. But I say unto you, verse thirty one, it hath been said, verse thirty two, but I say unto you, verse thirty three, again ye have heard that it been said by them of old time For a long time you've been taught this, verse thirty-four, but I say unto you, verse thirty-eight, ye have heard that it been said, and Ipen I verse thirty-nine, but I say unto you, verse forty-three, ye have heard that it been said, verse forty-four, but I say unto you You see what's happening? And so before he even gets into challenging what they've been taught and challenging what they have in their heads as far as what the God's law is and what God expects from them Right up front he says, listen, before we even get into this, don't you think I've come and I've laid the law aside, that I'm putting the law aside. I'm not. We talked about that last week He said, I've come to fulfill it. And um so I want to suggest to you, we're going to take a little time tonight as we get into this and just consider some Some things about God's wall. The Old Testament, the things that God required of man. Excuse me. Alright, everybody alright? Good. Okay. Ah, it is impossible. My voice just went up. No. It's impossible to fully understand the gospel unless I understand God's law Uh I'm I'm gonna get you involved here a little bit. Um what uh how would you define grace? If somebody came to you and said, What are you talking about, grace, the grace of God, the grace of the gospel, what are you talking about? How would you define grace? Somebody talk to me. tonight. We're a small crowd. Something we don't deserve. Anybody else add to it or anything? Unmerited favor. Getting something I did not earn. I did not merit this favor that God is showing me, God doing something for me that I really don't deserve it. I've said over the years, and this is really overly simplistic, but it helps us understand Grace is getting something I do not deserve, and mercy is not getting something bad that I do deserve. So for instance, God's mercy, when God is merciful to me, he doesn't judge me for my sin. He doesn't send me to hell. He's very merciful. He doesn't give me what I do deserve. God's grace is he blesses me and meets my needs and leads in my life and he takes me to heaven someday. I don't deserve that. But God does that for me. Now, until I understand the law, what God demands of me, I really don't appreciate grace a whole lot. Because we get this idea. Tell me if I'm wrong. No, later. But we get this idea that, you know, I really deserve this Do we or do we not? Every time we complain, what we're saying is I deserve better than what I'm getting. Right or wrong. Every time we get upset or somebody says that we get offended by that, we don't verbalize it, but what we're saying is, hey, I deserve to be treated better than that. But when we understand God's law and what God requires of us and how far we fall short of that, wow, then grace. is an amazing thing. Grace suddenly has tremendous significance when I understand uh the law. So The law is very, very important. I don't think I can really appreciate the gospel and the grace of God until I really understand the law. Now notice, verse 17, we point it out. He says, think not that I have come to destroy the law or the prophets. He says, I didn't come to abolish it. I didn't come to, all right, you're no longer under the law. The law no longer has application. Uh we just do away with the law. We're all under grace now. The law has no role. He doesn't say that at all He goes, no, I didn't do away with the law. I didn't destroy the law. I came to fulfill it. I'm meeting its demands. I'm meeting its requirements. The law of God, uh, and and what do you think of? When I say the law of God, what comes to mind? What do you think of? Ten Commandments. That's the law of God, the moral law of God. Of course, there's a gazillion others that surround that, but that's the pinnacle of God's law, the Ten Commandments. And so the law has two purposes. Two purposes. One purpose um One purpose is to express to us God's holiness is to express to us God's holiness. Now you're going to have to think with me a little bit. This isn't some this isn't a casual type sermon that you just pick it up without really paying attention. You really got to pay attention to this The law is given to us by God. God met with Moses on top of Mount Sinai. He, with his own finger, he wrote the commands into the stone tablets Then he gave a gazillion others, as I said, not quite a gazillion, but there's a bunch. And uh all that was was an expression of God's Holiness. Now we do not hear much about the holiness of God in Christianity today. But the fact of the matter is, God is first and foremost a holy God. That is his most fundamental characteristic of God, his holiness. It is the beginning point in understanding what our God is like. This God that is here right now, that can see us. We can't see him. We can't hear him We can't feel him, but I'm telling you, our Creator, the God we're talking about here, is here now. He sees us. He hears us. He knows our innermost thoughts. And this invisible, eternal, creator God, that we are constantly in his attention. He is first and foremost holy. And I will never understand what God is like if I do not begin with his holiness That is the very fundamental characteristic of God, our God, our Creator. He is holy. Remember in Isaiah chapter 6, the year that King Uzziah died? Isaiah said, I saw the Lord high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. And the seraphim and cheraphim around him, the Bible says, They cried out and they made a statement. They made it three times. What was that statement? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Now this was a this was Isaiah. Now he didn't see a physical representation of God. But this was God revealing himself to Isaiah. And the very fundamental characteristic of what God was like is it was his holiness. That is what he communicated. And the wall is an expression of that holiness. I'll try and explain it here in a little bit. We will never. You say, oh no, God begins with love. Love is the fundamental characteristic of God. Love is the beginning point with God. No, you're wrong. The holiness of God is the beginning point for God. In fact, the love of God without the holiness of God becomes very, very shallow It's very shallow. It's nothing for an unholy being to love another unholy being, but for a holy God To love an unholy creature. That is amazing love. You follow what I'm saying? Uh The love of God without the holiness of God, which is what much of modern Christianity wants to do, is remove the holiness of God, is destroy the law put away his the expression of his holiness and we're just going to celebrate the love of God. Listen, I thank God for the love of God, but it's pretty shallow until I understand, first of all, how holy this God is that loves me a sinner. I had a lady, I'm I use this fairly often, this illustration, but it communicates what I think the Lord is saying here at a down. Years ago and I was preaching, it was a Sunday night, I remember what I preached on, she came up to me afterward, and she took issue with some of the things I'd said, I'd preach from the Bible. She said, she goes, Pastor Leatherman, as long as I love God, it doesn't matter what I do. Now that sounds respiritual, but that is dead wrong. If I love someone, then it is very important to me. How I treat them, how I behave, how I interact with them. And the holiness of God, the love of God without the holiness of God becomes so shallow This gal did not comprehend the fact that the God she was talking about was blindingly, incomprehensibly holy, infinitely holy. And that God loved her as a sinner. And to say that, well, as long as I love him, it doesn't matter what I do. No. The fact that He, as a holy God, loves me I love him back, and more than anything else. I want to please this holy God. I want to honor that holiness of his. And so God has given us the law for two reasons. One is an expression of his holiness so that we can understand uh how holy is. And the second is is along those lines is to not just an expression of his holiness, but to educate us to our sinfulness. Now here's where I want you to turn your Bibles. Now stay here in Matthew. We'll come back to this, but turn to Galatians chapter 3. Galatians is a great book to study if you want to understand the law. Galatians explains very clearly the role that the law has for you and I as believers in Jesus Christ. Galatians chapter 3 and verse number 24. I have this verse underlined in my Bible. Again, it's very theological. It's a little weighty subject, as I've been saying. But it's incredibly important if we're going to have biblical Christianity. Alright, number 24. Wherefore the law, all right, there it is, the expression of God's holiness The law was our what? Schoolmaster. I circled that word. That's an important word. The law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ That we might be justified not by keeping the law, but be justified by what? Faith. Faith in Christ. So what he's saying here, and he expands on it through there, and for sake of time, we're not going to go to all of it, but what he's saying here is the law was given by God to man. First of all, to help them understand how holy God is. This is his standard of acceptability. And it is it is intense. Then he says it was also given so not only we understand how holy God is, his holiness, but it was also given so that we understand how sinful we are. That word schoolmaster there has the idea of a tutor. Now what does a tutor do? You got a student and uh you hire a tutor to come in and work work with a student. What's that tutor do? Alright, he teaches them, but he does a little more than that. Teacher stands up in front of the class and talks. What's a tutor do? Ah, it's more of a one-on-one. And taking them very carefully, very thoroughly, step by step, where that student is as an individual, and alright, this is what you need to do, this is what is expected, this is how this applies. You need to understand this. And that is the idea here, that God has given mankind the law to express how holy he is, but also the law takes us right where we're at And shows me as an individual that I have sinned against God, that I have broken the standard of holiness. That this law expresses. And it brings it home to me. It tutors me. It shows me that I need a savior. Notice, it says there, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ. It's to take me from point A to point B. Here I am. I'm going through my life, just a human being Doing my thing, not paying any attention. Yeah, God's alright by me, and you know, everything's whatever. Then suddenly somebody starts introducing me the Word of God And I start seeing to some extent the law of God and what God requires of me because he is holy. And I start realizing, whoa, wait a minute. I haven't lived up to that. I've said this often when I was under conviction of sin leading up to the night I trusted Christ. I was under such conviction. I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell What I saw was is how badly I had sinned against this God. What a sinner I was. And that was the law God was showing me. Now here's a little here's a little important Instruction, if you're going to witness to folks and try and get people saved, you've got to first make them see how badly they've sinned against God. You don't win someone of Christ. Nobody trusts Christ without first seeing that they're a genuine sinner needing a Savior. Follow what I'm saying? So we've got to show folks that we've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. We've got to show folks that we violated God's holiness. We've transgressed his law. And because of that, that leads us to Christ. Remember years ago, I haven't seen this for a long time. They used to have it in commercials and different things. They would have the words to a song, but if you didn't know the song, they had a little bouncing ball go across. Anybody ever remember seeing that? And you would just follow the little bouncing ball. And it would go across there That's kind of the idea of what he's saying here about the law. The law takes me, I see myself, I'm a decent guy, I'm not perfect, but I'm better than the guy down the road there. I'm better than average, you know, I'm a decent person. But then the wall comes along and says, All right, follow this little bouncing ball. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind Huh. I haven't always done that. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Well, I've done that a few times. Just keep following that bouncing ball. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Good heavens, I've broken a bunch of these laws. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Then Jesus here in a few verses comes and says, I mean if you just look at a woman to lust after her, you've committed adultery. Good heavens And by the time I get to the end of it, I'm a sorry wretch deserving to go to hell for all eternity. And that's what the law does. It teaches us that unless I have a Savior, unless I have Jesus Christ, I'm hopelessly lost. And so the law has two two twofold purpose. One To show to mankind how holy our God is, and number two, show us how sinful we are. Here's the picture I want to try and put in our minds. You have God. Of course, it's impossible for us to comprehend all that God is, but God exists. He is holy Uh absolutely pure and just perfectly. Um he's wise, he's all powerful And he creates a world, a universe. He speaks it into existence. And then on planet Earth, he takes Some dust, and he molds out of that dust, that clay, the body of a man, and he breathes into that man the breath of life, and man becomes a living soul made in the image of this holy, wise, perfect God. Incomprehensibly so. And man is made in his image. And God loves this man, and he created him for the purpose of being in fellowship with him. As a holy God, he created us to be in fellowship with him. And God saw that all that he had made, and he said that it was what? Good. Very good. God is holy. Man has no sin. There's nothing between man and his Savior and his God. But sin enters. Boom, and man disobeys God. And because God is holy, He cannot tolerate that sin. He cannot endure it. And immediately God and man are separated. Because of the infinite holiness of God, man is separated from God. Man sins. God's holiness cannot tolerate that sin. The wages of sin, the consequence of violating the holiness of God, of transgressing his holiness, is death. That's the consequence of it. You know, sometimes people say, well, I just can't see how there can be a hell. How could a loving God create a hell? Hell is not the result of God's love. Hell is the result of God's holiness. You see, when we understand how holy God really is, and we understand how grievous what we consider meaningless sins to be. But how how much of a violation they are of God's holiness, hell is perfectly just. Um how many people here like me feel like if someone would molest a child or children And hurt them and maybe brutally kill a serial killer of little children, molesting and killing killing them. How many believe like me that person ought to be judged very severely for that? How many people would be telling me their life ought to be taken for something like that. You know why we feel that way? Because of how heinous that crime is. Now wait a minute. God is so holy And even what you and I consider to be innocent little things before the holiness of God is very heinous. Our problem is we don't comprehend how holy God really is. Thus we don't see how sinful our sin really is. And thus we denigrate the righteous judgment of God. You follow what I'm saying? And so God Blindingly holy God created man. Man sinned. Because of God's holiness, man is separated. But here's the rub. God loves that man. You create him in his image. So God gives a law to man. Calls Moses up in the mountain and says, Here's my law. This is the standard is required for man to be reunited in fellowship with me. To be able to be together. Because of my holiness, here is the standard. Man can't live up to that. We're sinners. We can't meet that. We can't be as holy as God requires. So God sends his son. The son doesn't do away with that law, because the law is still in place because God's holiness is unchanging. And the law is expression of God's holiness. The law is still in place. That standard still is required to this day. Because God's holiness hasn't changed. So he sent his son, and his son lives a holy life for us in our place. This isn't new to any of us. And then he takes the judgment of our sin upon himself, because he doesn't have any sin of his own. He's as holy as God is. He is God. And so he is punished in our place for us. And so that law brings us to Christ. And when we accept Jesus Christ, when I come to Christ God accepts me not as I am, but he accepts me in Christ. You follow what I'm saying? He accepts the sinner in Christ. Now you say, oh, well there's then the law's done. The law has no role anymore. No, no, no. God's holiness hasn't changed The law doesn't change. The law was still there. Here's what happens. Now I have kept the law. Christ has kept the law on my account. So legally before God, my position before God, it's as if I kept God's law perfectly. It's as if I'm as holy as God is. Here's the problem. I'm not. I still sit. I still fall short of that law in my practical everyday life. Now my standing before God is that, but that's not what I am here But here's what happens. When I accept Christ as Savior, God puts his law in my heart now. And now in my heart I want to keep that law. Follow what I'm saying? Before I got saved, now some of y'all might have been different, but before I got saved, I didn't care if I told a lie or not. In fact, it might have helped me out if I did tell a lie. After I got saved, if I tell a lie, that bothered me. You know why? Because that holiness of God has now become part of my nature through trusting Christ. Follow what I'm saying? I'm telling you, the day I the I got saved at night. Did I ever tell you about that? 10 30 at night. That day, during the day, Danny Swarton and I, we're out partying, carrying on. I took God's name in vain. I said words that today I would crawl under the pew, so ashamed The next day I got saved that night. The next day I let fly a couple words. You know what happened? I felt so guilty. I felt So dead. Why? Because that holiness of God that the laws express now, because a believer in Christ, it's been infused into my heart. See what I'm saying And so God doesn't, I said all that to say this back in Matthew. He says, I didn't come to destroy the law, I didn't come to abolish the law, I came to fulfill it To raise us up to that standard of God's holiness requires so that that can be fulfilled in all our lives. I'm getting a little ahead of myself The law was now infused into my own heart, in the heart of man, through believing in Christ. Here's what I'm trying to get at. Now it's no longer, I put it this way, it is not an external demand that I live up to the law. Now it's an internal desire. Now I want to live up to that law because he saved me. Am I making any sense? I'm having fun talking, but um so you follow what he's saying now. So let's come back to Matthew. I said all that to look at the what he says here in verse 18. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law. Now that last phrase is important, till all be fulfilled. Now notice the certainty of that statement. Verily, I say unto you, whenever you read there, Jesus uses the term verily, stop and pay attention. That word means it means this. What I'm about to say is absolutely true. What I'm about to say needs your special attention It is almost the same word as the word amen. In fact, it's translated some places in the Bible, Amen. If a preacher makes a statement and somebody says, Amen, what does that mean? What do they say? I agree. Or that's the truth. What you said is true. I know it's true. You'll read in the Bible where somebody will make a statement and they'll say, Amen and Amen. You know what they're saying That is true. That statement is true, absolutely true, needs special attention. That is the same concept as the word verily at the beginning of a statement Jesus is saying what I'm about to tell you is incredibly important. Verily, I say unto you, the Lord's saying this is very important. Then notice, that's the certainty of his statement. Then notice The continuity of the law. Now I said this was going to be waiting. But look, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no eyes pass from the law. He is not talking about the preservation of Scripture here. I read a bunch of commentary, say, oh, this is talking about preservation of scripture. No, he's not talking about Scripture as a whole here. He's talking about the law and it being fulfilled. Now, there are other passages he talks about God preserving his word Matthew 24, 35, Mark 13, 31, Luke 21, 33, Heaven and Earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. God tells us in those verses that God's word is going to be around forever. Alright? But that's not what he's saying here. He's saying the law is going to be in effect until it's completely fulfilled. What's a jot and tittle? Jot is the tenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet. It is the absolute smallest letter in the alphabet. In the Hebrew alphabet. I was trying to think, what's the smallest letter in the English alphabet? What's the smallest, tiniest letter? I don't know. I can think of it as like I, maybe? The letter I? Any other ideas? Uh what? No letter. Punctuation. Little O, maybe? So he says, not one jot, the tenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet, the very smallest one. Then he says, or title. What in the world is a tittle? A tittle is like if you had two L's and you drew a little line between them to make those two L's a letter H, that little line would be a tittle. It's just a little it's a little line or a curve that would change one letter to another letter. In other words, he's saying the minutest detail of the law is going to be in effect until it's completely fulfilled. God's law will never pass away until it's completely fulfilled. It will not pass off the scene. It will not be out of commission until every demand of God's law is fully met. You say, well, it was met in the Lord Jesus Christ. Correct. But it's not met in us yet, practically. Now look at the last part, the completion of the law. Till all be fulfilled. Fulfilled. The word fulfilled means carried out or performed. Right now, Dennis Leatherman before God, God looks down and sees me, he sees me through Jesus Christ. And he sees Dennis Leatherman as a man that has kept the law completely, fulfilled the law. I am everything that God's holiness requires me to be. Now you and I both know that ain't what I am down here. That's my legal position before God. That's what Jesus has imputed to my account. That's how God sees me. I'm not that way yet. Jeremiah 31, 33. I wish we had time, but we don't, and my voice is gone. Says that God puts his law into their hearts. He said, In the days coming, When my holiness and the demands of my holiness are going to be put into the hearts of people, my followers, my believers, my people. And when we will not just be positionally holy, but we will be practically holy. And the emphasis is this whole passage, he's saying, listen. The law is still in effect, folks. Now I fulfilled it. I didn't come to abolish it. I came to fulfill it. And it's going to remain in effect until it's. Completely fulfilled until everybody is living up to the standard that God's holiness requires. When's that going to happen? When are all of us going to live as holy as God is holy? Not until the millennium, not until we get into eternity. Because we still got this old sinful flesh around. As Christ has fulfilled the law on our behalf, as believers in Christ, the law is fulfilled on our record. The law is put in our hearts, and one day we're going to live out. We're going to live as holy as God is. Because do you need a law where there is no sin? No. You know why communities instill laws? Because crime is there. The more crime there is, the more laws they are. The less crime, the less law. The law is not made for the righteous. The law is made for sinners. And until there are no sinners, The law is going to be in effect. You follow what he's saying here? So he's going to go on. He's going to say, hey, you've been told this, you've been taught this. Don't think I'm saying all right the laws are and but I say to you don't think I'm abolish the law will always be there until it's completely fulfilled. So he's grounded that. So I took a long time to say that You don't look as excited about it as I was, but um it's it's important to understand that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope this helps Lord, and I know you serve my heart as I prepared this. We look forward to that day when the old simple nature is gone. That desire of our hearts that be as holy as you are and will be true in our lives. And I pray you'd help us. Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, very good. We'll uh just go right into the oscillatory. Thanks, Kathy. She was waiting for this. So I guess the invitation if we did one would be let's try and live for God out of a heart, a desire to, not because we have to outwardly. Alright, ushers, if you guys would come on down. Uh remember our fake promise? For those that didn't catch it Sunday night we had some more fake uh promise cards come in and we are up to just under one hundred and thirty thousand so hundred twenty-nine thousand eight hundred some dollars committed So praise the Lord for that. Now we've got to carry that through. Puts us up to about twenty four hundred dollars a week is what we're committed to. So be sure and indicate that on your giving so we can get that out to our missionaries. Charlie, would you pray for us, please? Well again we do not before you may we get to look to your whole mission we'll let you know