And Betty, while I'm thinking about it, I got a letter here for you that came in. Matthew chapter five. We're working our way through. I'm going to turn this on, Dave, so. Being prepared. We're working our way through the um uh Sermon on the Mount. I am really enjoying this study. I don't know if anybody else is getting anything out of it, but um It's been a on my end it's been a blessing to me and I hope if it's just half for the others that uh what I've been getting out of this. Um I trust it's a blessing to you also. We're in chapter six. Chapter five begins the sermon. Always start every Wednesday night when I start the message. Always say this. This is the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, of course, and the Sermon on the Mount. It it takes up chapter 5, 6, and 7. Ends at the very end of chapter 7. It's the longest recorded sermon. in the Bible and probably the most well-known sermon in all of history. He's preaching it to his disciples. He's not preaching to an unsaved crowd He is not telling people how to be saved, particularly in the Beatitudes. Later on in the sermon, he deals with salvation about folks who think they're saved, who go through the motions trusting in works and whatnot to save them But the message is designed for disciples, and it's basically how to live for God, what a disciple is, how a disciple thinks, their character, their behavior. And so we get to chapter 6. If you would notice verse number 1, we looked at this some time ago. He says this, take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Verse 2, therefore, because of the statement in verse 1. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound the trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues. and in the streets, that they may have glory of men, verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth That thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. I just entitled the message, for lack of creativity, I just called it Christian Charity. How is a Christian supposed to perform our charity? How do we do charity? And so the Lord teaches us here. I'll try and pull some things out of this. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I thank you particularly for this sermon here that you've recorded for all eternity for us. And as we've been looking in this, I trust that you're Moving in our hearts, you're changing the way we think, the way we view ourselves, the way we be view others. I'm asking Holy Spirit, you would help us to be the Christians you saved us to be. uh our character would be what you're trying that we would allow you to develop our character into what it ought to be. And so please bless this time together. I'm thankful for the folks out. I ask with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit that you be the one teaching your word through me to all of our hearts and pray we be a little different, little stronger Christians as a result of tonight's lesson. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I pointed out last time when we got to chapter 6, we're actually beginning a new section of the sermon. The Lord's uh uh uh sermon has sections. If you remember uh my opinion, my view of it is uh the Beatitudes kind of the introduction to the sermon. And he goes through uh there a little bit what the Christian character is to be like. Blessed are ye And he goes down through the list. Then he talks about what Christians are in this world. He says, ye are the salt of the earth. Ye are the what? What's the next one? Saw the earth and light of the world. And so he talks about what they are. And those were shocking statements when they were initially made by the Lord. Then he goes through and says what true righteousness is. Remember the Pharisees had the external righteousness. They did all these external things. They had their little list of do's and don'ts. As long as they did that, everything was fine Lord says, No, no, no, your righteousness has to exceed that. It has to be what you are in your heart and soul. And he gives six illustrations there of what genuine righteousness is, what heart righteousness is. Now he's at a new section And uh he's dealing here with, the way I see it, practical Christian living. How are we supposed to live as Christians And he deals with two areas primarily, and it'll kind of switch later on, but in this section here, he deals with our motives. And according to the Bible, the Lord is very much concerned about our motives why we do what we do. Not just what we do, but our motive behind it. The Pharisees, it seems like I I got the impression as I was preparing this and uh I almost got the impression that the Lord is picking on the Pharisees. I mean he just is after him and just uh exposing them and uh I it's not correct to say he's picking on 'em. I think what it is is he's exposing. He had such tremendous influence over the people They had such tremendous impact. People held them so high and they were so wrong. And so the Lord goes uh to extreme lengths to expose their hypocrisy, to expose their error and to establish what uh genuine Christian living is. Uh in this section here up through verse 18, he addresses, he's teaching the disciples how to be charitable verses 2 through 4, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. Then verses 5 through 15, he teaches them this is how you pray. And he says what not to do and what to what we should do when we pray. And then verse sixteen and seventeen and eighteen he talks about how to fast. And uh that's a lost practice in our churches today in many areas, fasting. But he addresses it and he says, This is how you should fast. This is what you shouldn't do when you're fasting. And uh he addresses all that. Now I thought this was interesting. I came across one of um a Bible scholar from years ago, and he made this statement, and I I wasn't aware of this, I can't document this But he suggested that fast, almsgiving, prayer, and fasting were the three fundamentals of the Pharisees' religion. They held those three things up. If you give your alms, you say these prayers, and uh you uh fast Then those were huge in the mind of the Pharisees. And he suggests that's why Jesus is addressing this, because they had so misrepresented what charitable giving is and what uh prayer is and what fasting is. To them, of course, it was all show, it was all formality. It was all ritualism you go through to make you look righteous and one one they wanted to make sure everybody saw their prayer, them giving their alms and their fasting. They made a big deal about that. Well the Lord takes those three areas And he he addresses it. And so he's teaching them. This is the right way to engage in charitable giving. This is the right way to show compassion. This is the right way to pray What they're doing is wrong. This is the right way. Fasting. And so he's teaching them all that. And again, the uh uh motives are so important. He keeps talking through here. Why you're doing this, why are they doing this? Why you ought to be doing this. And motives are huge. And so I my prayer going into this, and as I was preparing this, and maybe for us, is ask the Lord and ask the Lord to challenge us, what are my motives? For my church attendance, my Christian service, the things I'm doing. What are my motives for all of this? And so um that's what the Lord is addressing. Verse number one, I pointed out last time we looked at that. I believe that's just a general statement He says there, he says, take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Otherwise you have no reward of your father which is in heaven. I think he's just making a general statement there. And I I I would almost take and he says, Do not your alms, the phrase there, uh I don't think he's just limited just to the giving to the poor But he's talking about the whole sub the all the subjects he's addressing here in a little bit. Alms giving, prayer, fasting is included in that. And he's saying, listen, be careful why you're doing this. Don't do this just to be seen of men. Now that's the subject. That's the object he's getting to. Because if you do, then uh you have no reward of your father which is in heaven. And we talked about the rewards and all that. So now we get to verse 2. And he's addressing, as I said Christian charity. Christian charity. Notice, key word here, and I already highlighted a little bit, verse 2. Therefore Because of the statement made in verse number one, don't do your alms to be seen of men, or you're going to get no reward from your Father in heaven. Because that's true. Therefore, the following statements need to be implemented. The following statements need to be carried out. So I broke this down to three thoughts. uh these couple verses here. First uh my first point is this. I want us to notice first of all the Lord's uh presuppositions Presupposition, there's a $65 word. I throw them in every now and then just to keep everybody impressed with how educated your pastor is. I have no idea what it means, but it sounds really smart. Actually a presupposition is simply this. It's when we assume something to be true ahead of time. Assuming something, pre-assuming And so there's the Lord makes some statements here that he doesn't try and defend, he doesn't try and prove, he just begins with the assumption that they are true. Two in particular The first assumption that's made here is one, disciples of Jesus Christ are charitable. Disciples of Jesus Christ are compassionate. Look at verse 2. Therefore, what's the next word? When? Notice he doesn't say if. He says, when thou doest thine alms. Not if you do it, but when you do it. Do you see where he's making the assumption you are doing it? Right? If I say to you, listen, you all be careful when you go home tonight, I'm assuming you're what? Going home tonight. At least I'm hoping you'll eventually do And so he's making this assumption that Christians um uh duons, that Christians are charitable. The assumption is this that God's people are compassionate people. The Lord begins with the assumption that you and I, as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are kind to people. That we help people that have needs, that we are compassionate, that we are gracious. God assumes, the Lord Jesus here is making a statement that assumes that his people are nice. Nice to each other, nice to people that have needs, that we help people that have needs. Doesn't say if you do it, and he doesn't say you should do it. He says what? When you do it The assumption is you are going to do it. Listen, that speaks volumes to me. My God assumes that I, as a child of his, am going to help people that have needs He just makes that a statement when you do that. An unkind disciple of Jesus Christ is abnormal as far as God's concern. An uncompassionate disciple of Jesus Christ, a disciple of Jesus Christ that does not have compassion on others, as far as God is concerned, is deformed. is abnormal. There's something wrong with a disciple that doesn't care and doesn't help others. And that's the assumption here. A selfish disciple of Jesus Christ is an abnormality. Is a deformed disciple. There's something wrong with that disciple. An uncaring person that claims to be Christian and doesn't care about other people. Something wrong with that And so the assumption here, the uh uh the assumption on our Lord's part is here is that his disciples are going to be doing all. Now there's a second assumption here Uh look down through here. It says, therefore, and we'll come back and look at alms what it is and all this, but look at this. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms Do not sound a trumpet before thee as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. The second assumption is this: there are hypocrites That's the he doesn't say, well, there don't be it like sometimes there might be a hypocrite. No. He's beginning. They are out there Um uh as I was studying this, this thought came to my mind. The world's greatest actors are not found in Hollywood, but they're found in churches all around the world I mean there's some folks in churches that put these star actors to shame in their ability to put on a show and to act something they're not. Now what does an actor do? An actor they act. That's very good, Carolyn. I'm glad you're on top of things. What does an actor do? An actor gets a part. And they'll study what that person is, what their personality is, this fictitious person maybe, or somebody portraying somebody, whether they're real or fictitious. They'll study that. They'll study how they act, how they think, how they behave, how they talk. And they're not that person, but they will portray themselves as if I am that person Might be a gangster, it might be a policeman, it might be a a very romantic guy. And in reality, they may not be romantic at all. They wouldn't have a clue. They'd be scared to death to be a policeman Uh they maybe yeah every now and then you'll see something on TV and they're shooting a gun and they have no idea. You can tell they've never actually shot a real gun. They're not holding it right, they're just it's dumb And so they're portraying themselves to be something they are not. My wife hates to watch shows with me because I always say, that's fake, that's dumb, they're just acting, they're not doing that And uh uh and so the Lord makes this statement, assuming that everybody understands That there are hypocrites in religion, in the church. Oh, by the way, I put this down, both in the pew and in the pulpits. And putting on a pr pretty good show. Uh Sunday mornings, and I'm not saying anything about us, uh uh here, I'm sure uh to some degree we're all a little hypocritical, I'm sure You boil it down to some degree we all aren't everything we portray ourselves to be. But um uh man is pretty good at putting up a front and making people believe that he's something that he really isn't. And that's what the Lord is addressing here. I've had people um say to me over the years, and many of you no doubt had the same thing. They'll say, oh yeah, I ain't going to church. It's full of hypocrites. And I'll say, you know, I can't deny that. I wish uh I wish it was true. I don't know that it's full of them, but there's hypocrites in the church. There's no doubt about it. In the best of churches And as I said, no doubt some all of us to some degree are a little hypocritical. We're not it we present ourselves better than what we actually are, no doubt. But I always try and come back with this, and I have yet to have somebody answer this uh in a reasonable way. If they don't go to church because there's hypocrites in the church, then they ought not to go to the doctor or the hospital. Because you know, I worked for four years in the surgery department. I found out there are some hypocritical doctors. There's one doctor there and he would always he had a lot of uh uh folks that uh smoked and whatnot come in and there was one gal had her leg amputated and uh she was a heavy smoker and he was talking to the family in the room there and I was doing my thing and I overheard him. Uh he says she's got to quit smoking. If she doesn't quit smoking she's gonna keep losing and it's gonna kill her. Now that rascal, he went back in the doctor's lounge. Guess what the first thing he did every time he went into the doctor's lounge? He fired up a cigarette. That guy was as big a smoker as anybody. Now how many people agree with me? That's a little hypocritical. Sure it is. Sure it is. That's as bad as a preacher getting up saying you ought not to do this, and the preacher goes and does the same thing And so if we're going to hold the standard that I'm not going to go to church because there's hypocrites in the church, then that's going to lock out, uh lock out a lot of stuff. We're gonna not be able not gonna be able to go to the doctor anymore because there's hypocrites of doctors. Hey, I found out there's folks working banks are hypocrites. They put on like they've got all kinds of money. They don't have any money. Well I'm not going to the bank anymore. And uh I found out there's hypocrites that uh work in restaurants. They'll come out and be real nice and put on a show. They want the tip, then they'll go back. Those people are nasty. Right? So that means we can't go to the restaurant anymore. My point is this We understand that mankind is sinful and hypocrisy is part of religion. It's in the churches. And the Lord makes that assumption there. A hypocrite is somebody that perce portrays themself to be one thing when in reality there's something very different. The Pharisees had perfected that And they had everybody convinced that they were these tremendous people of God and so righteous and the Lord is just exposing them here. um left and right. By the way, this is as far as I can tell, this is the first mention of hypocrisy in the New Testament. And At least twenty times through the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, at least twenty times the Lord addresses the matter of hypocrisy. So that tells me it's a very real issue It's very serious to the Lord, and it's something you and I need to take very, very seriously, and we need to be sure that we are not hypocritical in our Christian life and our Christian service That we don't try and present ourselves to be something we're not. And um and by the way, uh the Lord, some of his strongest condemnations from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ were against those hypocrites. He says, Woe unto you hypocrites, woa. And he makes these horrendous statements of God's judgment on people who are hypocritical. So, um and so uh he addresses that on there and so the two assumptions is this. Number one God's people, Jesus' disciples, are going to be very compassionate. They're going to be very kind. They're going to help people that have needs. Number two, hypocrisy is a reality. And uh something that has to be dealt with. So, number one, my first thought is this the presumptions on the Lord's part, um, uh compassion and hypocrisy. Now He's addressing the matter of almsgiving. And he makes, number two, some prohibitions Some things we should not do when it comes to almsgiving. Look at verse two. I see two prohibitions here. Two things we should not do when it comes to Christian charity. Number one In verse number two, look what he says. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, what's the next two words? Do not. And then he goes on. Come down to verse number three. But when thou doest alms, what's the next two words? Let not. And then he goes on. So that tells me there's two things when it comes to giving and helping others in need. And doing charity, there's two things I need to be very, very careful that I do not do if I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. Now, let's back up a little bit. What does he mean by alms giving? What does he mean by almsgiving? Almsgiving was simply uh charitable giving to the poor. You boil it down, it simply was a matter, somebody was very poor Somebody didn't have food to eat or whatever, and I would give to them. I would uh uh provide maybe finances or food or whatever for them. Almsgiving was established by God In the nation of Israel. He instructed them that they were to care for the poor. They were to care for the needy. It was basically set up, if I understand it correctly, it was basically set up as God's welfare system. It was God's way of providing for people that could not provide for themselves for whatever reason, people that were poor and needy, to make sure their needs were met, they had food to eat, they had clothes to wear, and they were taken care of. Um the difference between the almsgiving in in uh the nation of Israel as God set it up and welfare as we know it today in the nation of Israel, it was voluntary It was not the leadership of the nation taking money from others and then they deciding who to give it to. It was God's people of their own their own voluntary decision that they were going to give as they saw fit, where they saw fit. And it worked beautifully And the poor in Israel were well taken care of. When Israel followed God's instructions, when Israel followed God's uh design, uh they were well taken care of. poor w the needs of the poor were met and it worked beautifully. It wasn't coerced, it was voluntary on everyone's part. Now one uh Bible scholar I was reading, uh uh historian, now I can't document this either, but I thought it was interesting. He said that there is no record of begging before the captivity in Israel, that before they went into captivity. uh the system was working fairly well and there wasn't a whole lot of begging then after that point up through Jesus' time then you had people out beggars. And uh you had such extreme poverty. So I don't know uh the the significance of that or even the accuracy of that, but um it caught my attention. I thought it was interesting. But the point is this In almsgiving, he says, he points out, he says, do not let, do not sound a trumpet Do not let your right hand know what your other hand does. Self has no place in genuine Christian living. He keeps bringing this up over and over and over again through here. Self, the self-will, self-praise, self-seeking, self-exaltation, self-promotion. That has no place in in the life a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's condemning it here. In my Christian living. I am not to live the Christian life so that I look good. So that my self is exalted, so that people praise me. I'm not to do my Christian service. Whether it's working a bus route or any just name anything, nursery singing a special uh preaching a message, any of this, none of it is to be done so that I am exalted, so that I am made to look good. Motives are so important to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now notice he makes two makes two statements here, as I said, that two two prohibitions. Number one Do not seek attention or praise of men in my charitable giving, in my alms giving. When I'm helping others, I'm doing some sort of Christian service or doing that. Do not seek the praise of men. Look at verse 2. Wherefore, when thou doest thine alms, Do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites in the synagogues and in the streets. Look at this, that they may have glory of men. Just don't do this to be honored by other people. Whatever you're doing, do not do this so that people will think highly of you and people will exalt you. My Christian life should be independent of man's praise. I should not do what I'm doing so that men praise me I should be blind. I should be deaf to the praise of men. And conversely, I should be blind and deaf to the criticism of men. My motive, my pure, my sincere and single motive of serving the Lord and doing living the Christian life and s and doing my Christian service, my my sincere and single motive should be what? The glory of who? The Lord God, whether men praise me or not, I should be deaf to that. I certainly should never seek it. I should never promote what I'm doing for the Lord, living my Christian life in the peace to be seen of men so that they can glory and boy, what a great Christian he is, what a great Christian she is. They're so great, they're so wonderful. That should never be my motive in any way, shape, or form. Now sometimes if the Lord's using someone, people will praise them. But we've got to be deaf and dumb to that. I like what Charles Spurgeon said Say if you're going to serve God, you've got to have one blind eye, one deaf ear, and the height of a rhinoceros. That's good advice. Because you're going to get praise on one end, you're going to get criticism on the other, and if you're not careful, that's going to become the motivating, governing factor of your Christian life and your Christian service. He says, don't let any of that happen Don't you go out there and seek the praise of men. Don't you do this to be exalted and lifted up. Somebody said this, if praise lifts you up, if praise puffs you up, criticism will crush you I think there's a lot of truth in that. So he says, one thing, do not seek the attention or the praise of men for what we do. The second thing, and now this is where it gets a little interesting Verse number three. But when thou doest thine alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. Now I'll be honest with you, I thought what in the world, obviously that can't be meant literally. My hands can't don't know anything And so my left hand can't not know what my right hand does because my hand can't know anything. Right? You follow what I'm saying? That's deep right there, I'll tell you. So obviously he's talking figuratively here, and what does he mean when my left hand uh doesn't uh uh shouldn't know what my right hand does and my right hand shouldn't know what's he talking about? I think can I can I suggest this? This is Leatherman. This is my thinking. I think he's suggesting, whether literally or in your mind, don't keep a record of everything you're doing for the Lord. Don't put that in your mind and think, oh yeah, boy, I did this and I did this this past week. I did all these things. Man, that's really something. I'm really something. I'm better Christian than I thought I was. I'm a great Christian I'm doing all this stuff. And well I think the idea here is is almost he's saying and and I don't know that exactly what he's saying, but it's almost the idea, don't keep a journal Of how great stuff you're doing. Don't keep a diary. Listen, I did this and this and that. He says that's just as bad as going out and making sure everybody else praise you. Don't praise yourself. Don't exalt yourself in your own mind. And so don't bring it, don't give, don't, don't look for attention from others on myself. and don't give myself attention. Where should my mind be kept? That will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of faith. The Lord who worketh us both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Here's the thing, anything that is good, that pleases God, anything that comes out of my life that is good and beneficial and what it ought to be, none of that goes to my credit That is all the Lord's credit. God gets all that. What does he say? Our righteousness in and of itself is what? Filthy rags. Filthy rags. And so I start saying, boy, I'm really something. I'll tell you what I am without the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm nothing I'm nothing. So the very fact that I'm able to do something good, the very fact that I can forgive somebody, the very fact that I'm able to show compassion to somebody is simply the grace and mercy of God. He rewards us, we notice this, we'll see this throughout this whole section. He rewards us when we do it with the right motive. But Revelation tells us when we get to heaven, what are we going to do with those rewards? Cast them at his feet anyway. We understand it's all him. And so I think he's telling us here, listen, have that mindset now. It's all Jesus Christ. And don't keep records. Be compassionate. Be kind. Be gracious. Be forgiving. Be patient. Go the second mile. He gave us this whole list of stuff here. But don't dwell on that. In fact, I'll tell you here what I think the idea is behind it. So number one, he has some pre uh pre uh presuppositions. He assumes, one, that Christians are going to be compassionate, two, there are hypocrites. Then he gives some prohibitions. Don't Don't try and seek attention from others. Don't even give yourself attention. And last of all, he gives the principle behind all this. And I think hopefully this will make it make sense. Look at verse 4. Verse 3, when thou doest thine alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. Verse 4, why? Why shouldn't I blow the trumpet? Why shouldn't I let my right hand know what my left hand doeth? Verse 4. That thine alms may be what? In secret. That thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee what? Openly. Here's the principle. Now you need we need to understand what the word secret means here. The word secret here means something that is hidden, something that is unseen. I think this is the point. This definition here is what he's getting at. It's something that is inward. In fact, the word translated secret here is translated other places in our King James Bible, inwardly, the inward man. I think what he's saying here is when we do our Christian charity, when we help others, we're gracious and kind to others, compassionate and forgiving, and we do these alms, how whatever that entails When we do that, it should not be in public view. In other words, it's not to be seen. Now, people may see it, you know, obviously we can't control that. But that's not the motive behind it. It's from my heart. It's from it ties back into chapter five That our righteousness exceeding that of the Pharisees. Pharisees, their only motive for giving a piece of bread to a starving man, their only motive was that photo op. I think the Pharisees would have been experts at taking selfies. I really do. And that was their whole thing Oh, this guy, uh, you need a place to stay for the night? Hurry, I've got a little room. This is the guy stayed w I kept I gave him a place tonight And the Lord says, no, no, no. You don't do that to be public knowledge. You do it because your heart is compassionate to that person. It's not for a show. It's not to be praised. It's simply because you care. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus die on the cross to put on a show about how great he is? Or did he die on a cross because he loved us? He loved us. It wasn't a show. It wasn't a publicity stunt. God loved us. And whether anybody recognized it or not, whether anybody praised it or not, he was going to do that for us. And so that same frame of mind, it needs to be driven from a secret part of my life, the inward part of my life, not the public What I am is compassionate to people. I care about people. And it's not uh whether people see it or not has nothing to do with it. Whatsoever. For a disciple of Christ showing compassion, this is what I got out of this For a disciple of Christ to show compassion, it ought to be such a reasonable thing to do that it doesn't even enter my mind that I'm doing it. It ought to be such a natural thing that I don't even give it attention. Um and it ought to be, and I use this term And I I struggle whether you use this term or not, but it ought to be insignificant. If I'm helping somebody, I'm forgiving someone, I'm being compassionate somewhere, whatever that alms giving may be I'm doing something for someone else, whether they deserve it or not. It ought to be insignificant in my mind compared to what Christ has done for me. Christ has been so compassionate for me. How in the world can me showing some compassion to someone else, how in the world could I be praised for that? It's like the least I can do. Being praised and lifted and exalted and thought highly of has absolutely nothing to do with it. God's been so compassionate. It's just a natural reaction. What does Romans say? It says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. I think that's what he's talking about. That it's simply a the love of God, compassion of God He's put in my heart. And I don't even think about it, it doesn't even enter my mind. It's not a show at all God's kindness and compassion should so overshadow our compassion we show that no one that that uh that we get no attention from man He says, why are you doing, why are you being so nice to that guy? Why are you being so forgiving? Why are you being so patient? Well, I'm just a great Christian. No. Why are you doing all that? Because God has been awfully patient with me. God has been awfully compassionate with me. Good heavens I owe God far more than this guy owes anybody. Surely I could just at least help in some way. You follow what I'm saying? I think that's what the Lord is telling us. Let God keep the records. Just love God and praise Him and let His love and His compassion be shown through us. There's a beautiful example in Matthew 25. Turn over there and I end with this. And I don't know that it's deliberate. uh tied into this, but when I was when I was coming to this conclusion, what the Lord was saying here, Matthew 25, the Lord has some goats and he has some sheep, and he's got them divided up And he's judging them. Of course it's figurative. And notice what he says in verse number 34, Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 34. Verse 33, well verse thir 31, 32, he says the two nations, some are goats, some are sheep. Verse 33, he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left. Now he's judging them. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Alright, they're being rewarded. Now look what happened. Look what he says. For I was what? Hungered and you gave me meat. I was Thirsty, you gave me drink. I was a stranger, you took me in naked, you clothed me. Sick, you visited me. I was in prison, you came and see me. You know what that sounds like to me? Almsgiving. Doesn't it? That would fall in that category. Then shall the righteous answer him saying, look at this, Lord, what's the next word? When saw we thee hungered and fed thee, or thirsty and gave thee drink? They don't even remember doing it. Never entered their mind. And he has to point it out to him. He says, When saw we we estran uh saw we thee a stranger, verse thirty eight, and took thee in, or naked in clothing. When saw we thee sick or imprisoned and came to thee, and the king shall answer and say, And verily I say unto you Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Why were they giving water to the thirsty and Bread to the hungry and housed to the strangers and visiting them in prison so that they would be taught how great they are? No. Never even entered their mind. That they'd get attention for this. They were just doing it because God had put it in their hearts. Because they loved the Lord. And the Lord says, I'll reward thee open thee. You didn't do that for show. It was secret It was an inner thing. It was from your heart. Because you love the Lord. And I'll reward thee open thee. And that's what He's telling us. That's what He's telling us. Now, is it wrong to share a blessing? I was able to lead someone to Christ? Is it wrong to say, hey, praise the Lord, I was able to lead someone to Christ? As long as my motive is that God gets glorified, I understand I'm nothing. I don't see anything necessarily wrong with that. But we have to be very, very careful. That we're not present our motive is not so that people think, oh boy, preacher, he's quite a soul winner. As soon as I start thinking that way, or that's my motive Then boom, I've lost all reward. God will not praise a person who is seeking the praise of man And God will not reward a Christian who's seeking reward from men. He won't do it. He says it over and over and over. So let's ask the Lord to challenge us. Let's ask the Lord to search our motives. Are we even compassionate? Is that even in it, if there isn't, then something is seriously wrong. If we're not compassionate and kind and gracious as described here, if that isn't true about us, something is majorly wrong. But when that compassion is there, let's not look to build ourselves up. Let's just love God and live for Him and don't even think about it. Just gonna make does that make sense? Make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask the Lord that your Holy Spirit would challenge us in this matter And that our motives would be pure, and that we just die to self, to praise and criticism, and just love you with all our hearts and keep our minds stayed on the Give us a love for others, shed your love abroad in our hearts, Lord, and uh we ask that you would help us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how can you