And we just thank God. I just love the Christmas season. I love everything about Christmas. I love the decorations. I love the music. I love uh I love uh g the gifts I love the food. Um I love the food and uh I really love the food and eggnog. Now I'm mine my eggnog's straight, alright. Don't get any ideas there. But I tell you, uh Brother Ken and I were talking, I think we were talking about eggnog, were we the other night? Um, yeah, and Brother Jerry we're talking, but uh I mean I if I have a gallon of eggnog in the house, it's gone. I just absolutely cannot control myself. And so we can't put it in the house. We can't have it there And so, but I love Christmas time. I love everything about I especially rejoice in the fact that there was about four or five folks this morning raised their hand. that they had prayed to trust the Lord Jesus Savior. Isn't that fantastic? And uh I tell ya, uh our my f I think one of the most significant Christmas that I've had. Now there's a lot of favorites in the family and all. I just there's nothing beats that. But uh one that just stands out in my mind that was real unique was we were going, the boys were small I've told this before, but the boys were small. We were going to go home to my folks in Philly. We were going to leave early Christmas morning because we did the Christmas Eve service and we got up about 4 30. We had an old Dodge caravan Uh the thing was used when we got it and uh we piled in that thing and it was snowing pretty good here. We pulled out the park the driveway about, like I said, about four thirty. I think I'm getting a little strong here, Dave, uh, on here, but um By the time we got to Kaiser's Ridge, it was just pouring down snow. I mean piling up. And about every now and then that old van in the snow it would just all of a sudden like shake a little bit and the steering wheel would go. And um uh I'm thinking, hmm, that's not good. And um I was hoping nobody else, fence, and I thought, well, um Uh none all else fails. I'll just keep driving until it falls apart. And so um so we got down on the interstate there at Kaiser, I'm going across sixty eight and every now and then boy it would do it again and got worse. And finally Kathy picked up on it one time and Did that and she looked at her s head snapped over at me and I'm just trying to think, oh there's nothing, it's not and uh she goes, What was that? I said, I think it's just ice on the muffler or something. It's not a problem, it'll be fine. Well it was a problem. It wasn't lace on the muffler. By the time we got over to Rocky Gap, that front axle had completely blown out or whatever And so we were alongside the road. I was able to cross over and try and make it back to Cumberland. By now it's just getting light out, you know, and it is pouring down snow and there's no cars on the on the highway and we're sitting along the r road there by Rocky Gap and w back that was this is hard for some young people but they did all the phones back then were attached to the wall And believe it or not, and you couldn't bring them with you. And so we didn't have any phone. And um we sat there and uh the boys were just small. And uh they were a little worried and Kathy, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? I said, Well we'll wait here. Sooner or later a policeman will come by and he'll help us. The cops are the good guys. They're the good guys. And so anyway, uh we sat there and uh we sang a few songs. I was trying to keep peace in the family, everybody settled, and we sang a few songs. Long make a long story short, we got the carb towed back and the state police helped us. They were great. I think Lonnie came up and picked us up at the barracks there in LaVale, brought us home and um Uh so we everything on Christmas that day just kind of collapsed. We didn't have any uh Christmas food or anything at all of that. So Kathy went down the only place that's open on Christmas Day, sheets So she went down the sheets and we were going to eat our Christmas MTOs, you know, and um she's coming back and this lady's walking along the road. It's snowing, this uh older lady's walking along the road, so she pulled over, said, Can I give you a ride? She hopped in and Kathy introduced herself. She said her name was Martha Lewis. Some of you remember that name. Kathy drove her up on High View Apartments, the old High View Apartments, took her up there. She said, Martha Can I show you how you can know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven? And Martha said, sure. So she went in, and on Christmas Day, Kathy led Martha to the Lord. She got baptized about a week or two later, faithfully attended here, sang in a choir, and uh went to be with the Lord. Boy, it's been a number of years ago now. But I always thought that God had a plan And that breakdown all that, there was a dear lady here that needed the Lord Jesus Savior. And if somebody come by and tell her, she would get saved And so that's a special Christmas for us. Look at Matthew 1, verse 21. I'm going to read verse 21, 22, and 23. And I just got I just jotted a few things down. It's not even a full-blown sermon. It says, And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why in the world would you call his name Jesus? Well he tells her. For he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold A virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. I changed my message to what I was originally going to preach tonight. I altered it a little bit for tonight. And I want to preach a message I've entitled Christmas Promises. Let's pray together. Father, please bless now. I just want to be brief, God. I just want to share a few thoughts. And I pray you'd challenge us this Christmas to see the world through your eyes. And to see that little baby in a manger through your eyes, Lord, and see ourselves as you see us, and not as this old phony world tries to present things. But help us see things as they really are. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Three Christmas promises. One is the promise of salvation. Look at verse 21. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. The main mission of Jesus Christ coming to earth was this to save people from sin and sin's punishment. So that we could be saved from eternity in hell. You say, well, Jesus came, he was such a great teacher. Hey, I'll be the first to stand up. Jesus was not just a great teacher. I think he was the greatest teacher that ever walked this earth You read his teachings in the gospel, it's it's uh it's eternal. It's uh it's it's uh it's uh cannot be refuted. Jesus was a phenomenal teacher, but I'm telling you, he didn't come to be a teacher That's not why he was born. That's not why God took on flesh and was born in Bethlehem, not to just be a teacher. He was a great teacher. Say, well he came to be a miracle worker and heal the sick and make the blind to see and the lame to walk and Uh even raise the dead. Uh hey, Jesus was a miracle worker, no doubt about it. And uh you take the you take these miracle workers on TV today, quote unquote, and you put them up against Jesus, they fall short every time. But Jesus was a miracle. But that's not why he came. You know those folks that he healed, even the ones he raised from the dead, you know what ultimately happened to them? They ultimately ended up dying. They didn't live forever physically. Now mo most maybe all of them got saved. But as far as physically was concerned Uh so he didn't come prime his main mission wasn't to be a healer, to be a miracle worker. His main mission wasn't to be a teacher. Uh he said, oh, he came to be an example for us how to live I tell you what, he's a great example. And uh boy we can learn from him if we would uh stop and think a little bit about Jesus and the testimony, but there's not one of us here been able to walk on water yet. So he didn't come to be a the example. That wasn't his primary mission. We can't emulate him in every aspect in every way. What did Jesus Christ come for? I'll tell you why he came. That little Christmas morning When Jesus was born, that was God taking on human flesh. So as the children presented this morning, so he could take our judgment for our sin. Are you listening? to take our judgment for our sin and suffer hell in our place, be buried and rise again. That's the promise of Christmas that people can be saved. I like what John R. Rice said. He said this: no man can ever truly enjoy Christmas. Until he can first look up to God and tell him that he has received his Son, Jesus Christ, as his personal Savior. Because anything short of that, I'm missing the point of Christmas. The most important thing here tonight now I don't know. You're here this evening and you cannot honestly say That you know you've trusted Jesus as your personal Savior, that you've been born again through faith in Jesus Christ. If you cannot honestly say That you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, that is the very reason why Jesus came so you can know that. He's buried and rose again. And if we will accept him by faith, for me, it was May 7th, 1979. I knew I was a sinner. I knew it. And I knelt by my bed and I said, Jesus Christ, you're the only hope I have. And I accepted him by faith into my heart and life to be my Savior. And I'm telling you, he changed my life And I know for sure that when I die, God forbid something would happen. I know for sure when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. Why? You think you're something preacher? No, I'm nothing. Believe me, I know me better than you do I'm nothing, but Jesus is everything. And by accepting as my Savior, he gives me eternal life. So the promise of salvation, the promise of salvation. I like what Luke 19, 10 says. For the Son of Man has come, that's Christmas, to seek and to save that which was what? Lost. The whole purpose he came is so that you and I can be saved from hell and have eternal life and live forever with God in heaven. But we must accept him as our personal Savior. I cannot overstress that. Second Christmas promise I see here in verse 22 is the promise of sincerity. Now I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 22. Now all this was done I underline the next phrase in my Bible, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets saying You know what he's telling us here? He is saying that Jesus was born in the manger. When Jesus was born in the manger, God was keeping a promise. Dale mentioned it a little bit. He referenced some promises from the Old Testament. God had been promising Israel, been promising mankind, I'm sending a Savior, I'm sending a Christ I'm sending a Messiah. You trust me. You look forward. In the Old Testament, you look forward to the day a Savior will be born. And if you'll trust that coming Savior. You'll put your trust in my word that I'm promising I'll send you a Savior. That's how the Old Testament saved. Trusting, looking forward, trusting a Savior would come. And on that Christmas morning when Mary as a virgin gave birth to the Lord Jesus Christ, God kept his word. I want to say this to you: God always keeps his word. Every aspect of Christianity is based upon God keeping his word. Every aspect of Christianity That God's word is true. God will keep his word. Absolutely. Say, well what's the significance of that? Oh praise the Lord. That's great. God promised He'd send a Messiah. God promised over and over again He'd be born in Bethlehem. God promised He would be the Savior of the world God promised the Old Testament he would be a sacrifice for our sins. Read Isaiah 53. God had laid this all out, and Jesus fulfilled every promise to the T. You say, What's that have to do with me? I'll tell you what it has to do with us. If he pro if every promise that he gave concerning the first coming of Jesus Christ was true, then we can be absolutely confident That every promise concerning the second coming of Jesus Christ is true. And just as sure as Jesus came the first time in prom in the fulfilling the promises of God, he will come again Fulfilling the promises of God. I never want to celebrate Christmas without stopping thinking he's coming back again. He's coming back again. Jesus is coming back again. We can be certain Jesus will come again. I'm thinking 2015. Who in the world ever dreamed? I told someone uh this afternoon, this evening, I said, I never dreamed I'd be married to a grandma. I thought, what? And I I married my I married pretty young she was pretty a bit younger than me, just so you know and uh lo and behold, here we are. Whoever thought we'd see 2015 Us or us folks from the previous century, you know? And uh here we are, and uh who knows? Maybe 2015 Maybe the year. Wouldn't that be something, Brother Harry? That trumpet sounds, that angel shout, we'd be out of here. I'm ready. You say, oh, come on, brother. I mean, you don't really think all that. I'm as sure Jesus is coming again the second time as I'm sure he came the first time. God's word is certain. And his coming the first time was a fulfillment of promises. His coming the second second time are just those promises are just as sure. Let me give you my third thought here real quick. This is pretty impressive, isn't it, Ed? Going through here pretty quick. Ed likes it when I preach long, so I try and look at verse twenty-three. Look at verse twenty-three That which was spoken of the Lord, verse 22, by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son. I like this. And they shall call his name what? Emmanuel. What in the world does that mean? What's that mean? Well, it's being interpreted God with us. Number one, Christmas. The Christmas promise, the first one is the promise of salvation. By the way, if you don't have that promise in place, you're not ready for the second promise. If I've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, the second coming of Jesus Christ is not something to look forward to. That's something to dread. So and then the promise of sincerity. God keeps his word. And then last of all, I put this down: the promise that God will stay with us. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That word Emmanuel, that name Emmanuel, God with us, you know what that tells me? God will never leave me nor forsake me. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I have the promise of God that he will never, ever leave me. He will never forsake me. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Hebrews chapter 13. Preached on this not too long ago. I love this passage. Now, if you've been saved any length of time, in fact you don't have to be saved very long, you know that Christians can and do fail our Lord. Am I right or wrong? We come up short. Even after we're saved, we come up short. You say, well, preacher, if I don't live it, then I'll lose my salvation. You won't find that anywhere in the Bible. You might hear that from some pulpits around, but you're not going to read that in the Bible. My Bible says that He gives us eternal life, and we shall never perish. And just the very concept of eternal life. If something's eternal, how long does it last? It lasts forever. You say, oh, but uh if I would sin and lose eternal life, then it didn't last eternal. It was temporary life. It was maybe probationary life, but that's not what the Bible promises. I give unto them eternal life. And then Jesus goes out on the limb and he says this they shall never perish. He doesn't put any qualifiers on that. He doesn't put any conditions on that. He says, if you have eternal life, if you've been saved, you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. You have eternal life. And he says, Emmanuel, my name is Emmanuel. I'll be with you. I will never leave you. I'll never forsake thee. A Christian is never, ever, ever alone. You know, Christmas can be lonely for some people. Set at home years ago, the whole family was there. Now I'm by myself. But I'm telling you, we can be lonely. As a Christian, I might be lonely sometimes, and I get lonely sometimes. But I'm never ever alone. Never ever alone. Look at Hebrews thirteen verse five He says, Let your conversation be without covenants. By the way, that's good advice. And be content with such things as you have. That's good advice. Look at this. For he has said You ought to highlight this some way in your Bible. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I have a promise from God. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I have a promise from God that He will never, ever leave me. This year will be 36 years. This may be 36 years since Jesus Christ came in my life and saved me. I wish I could tell you I never failed the Lord in all those years. I wish I could say that I can't. Now y'all are looking at me so pious. You can't say that either, all right? I wish I could say I've never failed him. I can't say that. But I can tell you, I can tell you what I can say. The Lord has never failed me. The Lord has never forsaken me. Every time I've needed him, I've come to him, and he's been there. He's always been present. He's the unseen guest at every meal. He's present. Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night, get a little fearful about something situation going on? I'm telling you, the Lord Jesus Christ is right there. Now if you don't know Jesus your personal Savior, you can't claim that promise There's a progression to these promises. He came to save his people from their sins. He keeps his word. He'll never leave us. I've got to know that I've accepted Jesus Christ. as my personal Savior. I was thinking this afternoon, my first Christmas as a Christian May uh it was December 1979. I wish uh the Christmas befores were just horrendous. It was just horrendous. The home was broken. Daddy was a faithful Christian, and I was just a mess. It was just another reason to sin. But that year I got saved. And I still, 30 some years later, 36 years, I still remember that first Christmas, and I saw everything differently. That baby Jesus, the hymns, the whole concept of God becoming man and being born, it wasn't just some flimsy little thing suddenly had tremendous significance that God loved me enough that he would leave his throne in glory and come in this ungodly world And live in the moral filth of this world and be rejected by people he had every right to obliterate, spitting on him And he would die for me and give me eternal life. What an amazing, amazing thing. I want to challenge us this Christmas. Three days is Christmas. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, four days is Christmas. I want to challenge us. Two things. Number one As believers, let's make sure, let's let's determine we're going to look at Christmas through God's eyes and see what it's really about. Enjoy family. Praise the Lord. We're going to have a wonderful time. Enjoy family. But behind it all, this is God's promise and God's love to give himself for me. Second thing I want to challenge us, let's find some way, as Cody did. Let's try and find some way to share that message with someone else. Every year goes by, this world understands what Christmas is less and less and less. And that makes our responsibility greater to share the truth of what this is all about clearer and clearer and clearer. Now, if you're here tonight and you don't know for sure, you don't have that settled He said, I don't know about this being say business. I don't know about this going to heaven, not to hell business. I'm telling you, I know one thing about you. There's an empty spot in your heart and soul. If you don't have Jesus Christ as Savior, there's an empty spot there. And we can hide it and we put on a good show and we can come across everything's, we got our act together. But without Jesus Christ, there's an empty spot. And tonight, God's invitation is for whosoever will can receive Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. Let's pray together. Father, I hope, Lord, that the truth of your word would pierce our hearts. And God help us to see these promises from your perspective. Challenge us as Christians to live for you. To understand how deeply our sin hurt you and cost you. That we would determine to live pure, godly Christian lives and be a testimony of your grace. Help us to share the message of Christ with others. Challenge us, I pray. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know that. That's settled. But I'm going to make a special effort this year as I go into the Christmas week that I'm going to look and see things as God sees. And I want to recognize that Christmas child as the promise of God for my sins. I just want to look at it F through God's perspective. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. Is there any like that? Preacher, I just want to look at it more of a spiritual aspect than just of tinsel and show. God bless you, hands all around. Of course we would want to be that way I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want to be a testimony. This year at Christmas, I want to be a real special testimony. Maybe there's that family member, maybe there's a co-worker, a neighbor. You'd say, preacher, I want God to lead me and direct me, give me courage, give me wisdom, and be able to share the message of Christ. With somebody that's on my heart. Is there any like that? You're thinking of someone right now that I really want to share this Christmas opportunity. God bless you. Many hands there. Now the best way to start that is praying for them, that God would open their heart and give you the words to say. Let me ask this, is there some here this evening say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? You say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me all my sin, and that he accepts me and and that I can know I'm going to heaven. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I need him. And you'd like for me to pray with you and help you. Any like that at all? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, a lot of hands. I trust you've stirred our hearts today, and we ask you to now decide upon what you've touched our heart about, what you've spoken us about. To yield ourselves, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. You're ready