Of the most beautiful songs in the hymn book. I just love that song. Good job, Connie. Appreciate that. Alright, if you would turn in your Bibles to Matthew chapter five I am going to turn my cord the lapel mic on, so hold your ears. And uh there we go. Very good. Might be a I think it sounds good. Perfect, Dave. Thank you Matthew chapter 5. We've been away from this for a little while, and we're coming back to the Sermon on the Mount. And we're probably going by past history, probably going to be here for a while. But I got a report from the website for April. 2015. Um we had during the month of April 710 sermons were downloaded off of our website around the world. in the month of April uh of those onto little cell phones, smartphones, two hundred and thirty-eight were listened to it on their phone. The number one sermon downloaded 90 times in the month of April was Dr. Smith when he was here, Principles of Soul Winning. uh that he preached when he was here. The number one state that downloaded downloaded 62 sermons, take a guess, California. Was number one, Wyoming was the last. Um, number one country had 92 sermons downloaded. Anyone take a guess? China, again. China and Canada, the number, the last one was Indonesia. There was 39 states downloaded sermons off our website and 24 countries. downloaded sermons off our website. Isn't that an amazing thing? I think we pay about fifty, sixty dollars a month, you know, maybe twenty bucks a week at the most to have that thing up and run and make that possible And uh I love getting that report at the uh beginning of each month. All right, Matthew chapter five. I'm gonna begin reading in verse seventeen I'm going to read down through verse 20. This is a section here. We're not going to look at all these verses. We're only going to get to the first verse or two But I want to read them all together because this is a passage, this is a thought in this section. Notice verse 17. Jesus, of course, speaking here to great multitudes in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. Important verse. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law. till all be fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven But whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you, that except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees Ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. That was a profound statement at the time. But I want to look at that first passage where he says Think not that I am come to destroy the law of the prophets, I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill Christ and the law Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you bless our study tonight. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would be our teacher and uh that you would uh help us to understand uh a little bit more about our Bible, its layout and the relationship with Christ and what it means to us And so please bless now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Most famous, but greatest sermon, without a doubt, greatest sermon ever preached, Sermon on the Mound, preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you remember the first number of verses, verses 3 through, we come down through verse 12, I put it this way, for sake of just kind of getting us up to speed what we're talking about here, Jesus addressed the character. of the child of God. Verses 3 through 12, he's telling us what we are as a child of God, how we're supposed to be, what our character is. You notice there he says poor in spirit. Uh mourn, meek. Of course we're mourning over our sin. We understand our spirit. I'm I have nothing to offer God. I'm poor in spirit. He comes down through there being meek, peacemakers, merciful He's addressing our character as a Christian, as a child of God. Then in verses 13 through 16 He addresses our concern as a child of God. He says, You're the salt of the earth. You're the light of the world And he says that ought to we need to understand our role in the world. We ought to be concerned about why I'm here and what my role is as a child of God. And our role is to be assault. Our role is to be light. That's what we are. Uh I summarized it if you remember in one of the last messages on this section is that uh the world I live in ought to be a little bit different because I'm there Uh would you agree with me when the room in the middle of the night you get up, it's pitch black in the room, you turn the light on, that room's a little bit different when you turn the light on. Or somebody walks in with a flashlight. It changes things. Well that's the way it ought to be for a Christian We're the light of the world. We're the salt of the earth. You dump some salt on a cheeseburger, it tastes different. It's affected. Now we're getting to another section, and I'm At this point, as I'm studying through here, I'm taking the rest of the sermon and I'm putting it under this category, the conduct of the child of God. The Beatitudes, he's talking about our character, what we are. Verses 13 through 16 are concerned. We're sought. We're light. We don't be concerned about that, our role in the world. Now he comes down through here and he's going to be talking about how we conduct ourselves. Verse 17 through chapter 7, verse 27 is really where the the sermon ends. It goes for three chapters. I believe verses 17, chapter 5, verse 17 through chapter 7, verse 27, is addressing the good works of verse number 16. Look at verse 16. He says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Now I believe in verse 17 here He's addressing what those good works are as we get in through the rest of the chapter. Look over here. Just page through the rest of chapter 5, chapter 6, and uh through chapter 7. What do you see instructions on conduct there at all? Does anybody see instructions on conduct? Sure. What are some of the things that he instructs us that we how we should conduct ourselves? What are some things he says there? Alright, we shouldn't kill. That's good. So yeah, and then he takes it another step farther. You shouldn't even have anger in your heart towards someone. You go down through there, what else is there? Yeah, not putting on a show. And if you'll notice, if you look at it real carefully, the rest of that chapter is dealing with how we are to conduct ourselves. That I believe is the good works that he introduced in verse 16, that they may see your good works. They see that you don't just you don't not just you don't kill people, but you don't even tolerate hatred in your heart towards someone Not that you don't commit adultery. You don't even tolerate lust in your heart towards someone. Not that you do uh don't do alms and stuff, but you don't do it just to be a show And the whole thing goes through there. And if we will practice what is taught from chapter uh twenty-one on through the rest of this sermon, if we'll practice that Those that's the good works that we're displaying to this world. And they see that, and it has an impact, and it opens the door to share the gospel. It makes our message much more effective I put it this way, verse 17 on through the end of the sermon and chapter chapter 7, it's telling us how to be sought. It's telling us how we are to shine as light to the world, what these good works are. Now, this whole passage from here on is not telling us how to be saved. We understand that. We're saved by Grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But this is telling us how to be savory salt, how to be that shining light. Fact of the matter is, Christian living is righteous living. If I'm going to live a Christian life, it's going to be righteous. If it's not righteous, it is not a Christian life. And so that's what he's addressing here, and he's bringing us in. Now, I want to come back to verse number 17 here. Well, actually, 17 through 20, my first point tonight, my first thought in my three-point outline is this. First thing the Lord does, He makes a clarification of His teaching. Particularly in verse number 17. Notice what he says. In chapter 5, verse 17. The first couple words, first two words are what? Think not. What's another way you could say that? Don't think this way. Before he gets into his subject in the rest of the sermon, he wants to clarify their thinking. It's kind of like he's setting them up. For the rest of the message. Because he's going to, and later on in the sermon, he's going to be making statements like this. You've heard it said before, but I say unto you And he makes that statement several times. And he references back to some Old Testament instructions, commands, and he takes them another step farther. And so I it's like he's anticipating in their minds, they're going to be confused what he's saying here. And he wants to clarify things in their mind. He wants to remove Any questions or any confusion about what he's going to teach them. Think not. That phrase think not is interesting. It has this idea. Don't make an assumption When you hear what I'm going to say in the rest of the sermon, don't make any assumptions. Don't come with preconceived ideas or preconceived biases Hear what I'm saying, and it's like he in verse 17 it's like he removes any objections or accusations people are going to make. He's answering those accusations before they're ever brought up He says, notice what he says, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. That tells me he's anticipating somebody coming by and saying, hey, Jesus is destroying the law and the prophets. He says, don't think that. When you hear what I preach, when you hear what I say, don't think that. Don't have that mind. So he's clarifying what's wrong. I put this down. Wrong thinking produces wrong living Father, you can take that to the bank. When somebody's living wrong, it's because they're thinking wrong. They've got things. I keep coming back to Romans 12, but uh this is a powerful passage. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable in God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conform to this world, but be ye what Transformed by the renewing of your mind. Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, by the changing of the way you think Changing of the way you think. And so uh he's addressing that. He says, listen, you've got to don't think this way, or it's going to mess you up. You've got to have clear thinking. You've got to have correct thinking if you're gonna uh be what uh uh if you're gonna understand what I'm saying here. I really need everybody's attention up here if we could, please. Um the reason I say that, I I hope you understand, I don't think that I have something tremendous of myself to offer. Everybody understand that? This is the Word of God. And if anything in the world deserves our respect, it's the Word of God. If anything in the world deserves our respect, it's the Word of God. And so whenever the Word of God is being preached, it's very important we give our attention to the Word of God. This is the book we're going to be judged by when we stand before Jesus Christ. God says that he has exalted this book above his own name. Now, how many people think when God's name is used we ought to just disregard it or scoff it? Nobody thinks that. But when God's word is being preached, it's something that God has exalted above his own name. And so that's why I always make a big deal. I like to have uh I believe it's important uh that we give our attention to the Word of God. So he's saying you need to clari he wants to clarify his teaching. He wants them to not come with these preconceived ideas. He doesn't want to come with Some uh them uh uh anticipating something that isn't correct. Um Jesus and the disciples, they're about to come under some intense scrutiny. They're about to come under some intense criticism. In fact, it is going to escalate to the point where they're being killed. They're literally being persecuted, physically persecuted. So he wants to be sure that in their minds they are clear exactly who Jesus Christ is What he's all about, why he is here on earth, and what he's fixing to do. And that has to be clear in their mind because when things start coming down on them If they're going to stand, if they're going to be able to be true, they've got to be real clear in their mind what is so, what is right, and what is wrong. Listen That's why it's so important in churches that we have Bible teaching, that we have doctrinal teaching, that we know exactly what is true, because I'm telling you the day very well could come when you and I have to stand and we may take oppos well we'll take opposition. We may face persecution. And if we're not clear in our minds about who Jesus is and what this is about, we're going to waver and we'll crack And so he's trying to clear this up. He says, think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. He says, Don't get your thinking wrong. By the way, we all need our thinking clarified sometimes, don't we? We all need that. That's why it's so important to read our Bible every day. It amazes me how quickly our thinking can get messed up. Anybody here ever come to a revival service or have a big meeting and uh man your heart stirred and boy, you like you see the Christian life, you see where you're at, and you say, boy, I really see that. 24 hours later, you're all whacked out already. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And just fall right back into that. I'm telling you, it's amazing. I'm telling you, this missions conference stirred my heart. Man, I saw the world anew and I saw the need greater and uh we need to keep our minds clear, be able to see things clearly That's where daily Bible reading come in. That's where faithfulness to church and a Bible preach in church all comes in. We need our minds, our thinking clarified on a continual basis. What does it mean to clarify something? The Lord wants to clarify their thinking. before he goes on to this passage. What does that mean? When you clarify something, you're doing what? Alright, you're making it clear, you're cleaning it. It's good. Anybody else? I like this one definition I I came across. To remove impurities from To take the impurities out. You know what Jesus is doing here when he says, think not? They had some thinking that wasn't right. They had some quote-unquote impurities. Now I'm not talking about moral impurities, but wrong processes going on. and they needed to be removed before he could ever get in and they would get out of what he was saying. So I thought it was fascinating. I said, look, and and to be honest with you, I first started studying this, I saw verse 17 and 18 in this little passage here. And I thought, this doesn't have anything to do with what he's talking about. It's like it didn't even fit in the message. But once I got studying afterward, I come back and look at it, then I understand, oh, I see what he's doing Because some of the stuff he's going to say later on in this sermon, people are going to say, What? Is he saying that the wall's been destroyed? He goes, No, don't think that way. Don't think that. Even from the start, don't think that way And so, first of all, we have a clarification of his teaching. Then, number two, we have the confirmation of the Old Testament teachings. Now look at verse 17 again with me. Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. You know what he's saying? He's saying the Old Testament law is still in place. That Old Testament, that law and prophets, I'm not destroying it, I'm not abolishing it, I'm not, it's still there. It just, you need to understand its role There's two errors, and they're still true in the church today. The first error is this, that as Christians we are still under the law. Groups like Seventh-day Adventists and others will teach that we save by grace, but you have to keep the law in order to genuinely, ultimately be saved. And so they're saying we're still placed under the law. We're still under law. That is wrong. We get the Galatians, Ephesians, Romans, you go all down through there, we see. We are not under the law anymore, not for our salvation. In fact, the law never was a means of salvation. So one error is that God's people are under the law, that we are to keep the law for ultimately going to get to heaven. The other error is this, that the law's been completely abolished, that it has no application, it has no role in my life as a Christian. In fact, the idea is you could just take your Old Testament and just rip your Bible, the binding down between the Old and New Testament, push the Old Testament aside, you got the New Testament, you got everything you need. Now that's not correct either The New Testament without the Old Testament is an incomplete Bible. The Old Testament, the law and the prophets, still has a role, is still part of God's word and part of the Christian life. And so what the Lord is doing here, he's saying, listen, this is my relationship to the law. I'm going to make a few statements, gonna raise questions. Don't think that I've come to destroy the law and prophets. I'm not coming to do that. Don't think that way. I've come to fulfill it. But some questions are going to be raised. What is the Lord's relationship to the law? And what is our relationship to that Old Testament law? Well, let's look at it. The law. When he refers to the law, he's talking about God's commands in the Old Testament. So the law was made up of three, we can categorize it into three parts Part of the law is this, the moral law. This is where God taught Israel and all humanity really. God taught man what is right and what is wrong. the moral law. The Ten Commandments would fall into the moral law. Lying always has been and always will be wrong. To not bear false witness. Say, well, we're in the New Testament. Hey, that that moral law is still in effect. I think people agree with me, it's still wrong for a Christian to lie. Sure. That is unchanging. That's an eternal principle that's rooted in the holiness of God. And until God's holiness fails, that law will still be in place. Um and you go down, uh honor your father and mother, you just go down the whole list, uh mur uh murder and those types of things. The moral law, the moral principles are unchanging, they're once for all And by the way, they apply in this day and age. So there's the moral law, but the Old Testament law that was given to Israel and mankind. also included a second category or part. It was what we refer to as the civil law. And if you'll read through Leviticus and into Numbers and Deuteronomy kind of resummarize it. It's touched on throughout the Old Testament. These were how Israel was to function as a society. These laws were given to address the well-being. Of them as people. You'll notice when you read through Leviticus, and I don't have the reference here on top of my uh tip of my tongue, but in the old t in Leviticus, you'll read through there. They were instructed to put little guards, I'm just using my terms, guards around the tops of houses as a safety precaution so people wouldn't fall off. They were instructed to do that Um it was kind of like a building code, God's building code. And they were instructed to not eat certain types of animals, and they were instructed Uh anybody ever read through there and it says don't plant plant this type of seed with that type of seed. Do you ever read that and say, what in the world does that have to do with anything? had a lot to do with the well-being, the health of the agricultural society. It was a societal law. It was the civil laws That was for the well-being. They found a little spot, they called it leprosy, in a house on the wall. They would scrape it off, and if it came back They were to tear that whole house down and and wash it and burn the the timber and everything. Why? It's for the well-being of that of the the society. So you had the moral laws, these are unchanging. They are right and wrong. What is right and what is wrong? Then you had these civil laws that had to do with the function, the health, the safety of society. By the way, this is where folks And um I don't mean to be unkind, it's a Bible term, but the sodomites love to pick up on this. And they will go through and they'll pick out, and I believe me, I can tell you firsthand, this is what they do They'll pick out these Old Testament laws and say, oh, you're not allowed to eat shrimp. Why are you eating shrimp? You're saying You know what? It's just total ignorance on their part, 'cause they understand that was a societal law. That had to do with the health and well being. They had no ways of keeping the shrimp and treating it and all that. You follow what I'm saying? And they'll pull out these ridiculous things and uh and then say we're being inconsistent. It's not inconsistent in our application. They're being inconsistent in their interpretation of what's being taught, what was given. So you had the moral laws and you had the civil laws, and when you read through there, watch and look and pay attention. You'll see it becomes clear If you can categorize these and you understand, oh, I see, that was for the well-being of that society. And then there was a third category of laws, and that is what's usually referred to as ceremonial laws. This had to do with the sacrifices, the offerings, the feast days, the worship at the temple. And there were very detailed laws on what days to bring what and how many of this and what type of this and it had to be without blemish and all these ceremonial laws. These were all part of uh of uh the worship of Jehovah in that and here's the thing every one of these ceremonial laws that were part of the worship were pointing. They were prophetic in nature. They were pointing the Lord Jesus Christ. And the fulfillment of Messiah coming and all they were what we would call today object lessons. About the coming Savior. And I tell you, there's some men that have just uh are tremendous at um uh I have some books back there on the tabernacle and the types of the tabernacle that are absolutely fascinating About how that all points to Christ, points to Christ, points to Christ, every part of it, and all the ceremonies, all the sacrifices And so when Jesus makes reference, he says, come not that uh uh he says think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. When he's making reference law He's talking about all the Old Testament instructions, all these commands, the moral, civil, ceremonial laws that were given. He said, I didn't come to destroy them, I came to fulfill them. But then he also references the prophets Notice he says there, um think not that I'm come to destroy the law or the prophets. Now the prophets uh uh we understand if you look at other ports of scripture when he references the law and the prophets, what he's referencing is the entire Old Testament. Now the prophets, what was their responsibility? Their responsibility was to declare the law. Their job was to get out throughout the ages. uh throughout the history of Israel and preach to the people, teach the people what the law was. The priests were involved in all of that. But they were also pr to uh teach and preach how to apply the law And they would point out to the people how they failed in keeping the law And then we think of prophet, we think of prophetic future type thing, and what they would do is they would say how that law was to be fulfilled in the coming Messiah. And the events and circumstances that the future would have when the Messiah would come and fulfill all of this. So when he says, think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets, he's referencing the entire Old Testament And he's saying this, when you hear the following statements, don't think that I have come to destroy all of that that you have been taught for these hundreds and thousands of years. that God has instructed, the prophets have preached, all this Old Testament teaching. Don't think I'm coming to destroy that to get rid of it. In fact the word destroy there has the idea of dissolving it, abolishing it, just doing away with it. The Lord says, no, I'm not coming to completely do away with the law. Don't think that. He says, I am come to what? Fulfill. Now what does that word fulfill mean? This is important. When he says, I am come to fulfill the law, the word fulfill has this idea to consummate something. He says everything that law was leading up to. Everything that law was building up to. I am come to consummate it, to bring it to fulfillment. It has the idea of filling up or carrying out. I didn't come to abolish it. I didn't come, I'm not adding anything to the law. I am fulfilling. I put it this way, everything that God's law demanded of mankind, Jesus Christ fulfilled it. Everything. Jesus Christ fulfilled all of it. The wall is an expression of God's holiness. That's why it doesn't change. The Ten Commandments are an expression. They are a result of God's holiness. And Jesus Christ says, I am fulfilling that law. I'm everything that that law demands of mankind. Jesus Christ is literally the personification of God's holiness and God's love. I've come to fulfill that. Everything in that law is met in me. That's an amazing thought. That Jesus Christ is everything that God requires of man. Jesus Christ is that. Now, you and I, we're not We fall so short of that. We fall so short of that we don't even have a chance. But Jesus Christ steps up and he says, I am everything. I fulfill it. I consummate all of that. So, the rest of the Sermon on the Mount, when we get through here, now you and I probably understand this, but at the time, these were uh most of these are Jews. They've been raised up. This wall was it, this was in stone. And Jesus Christ comes and says, Listen, I'm going to make some statements. Don't you think I'm throwing that all out? I'm not. I'm fulfilling it. I am what the law requires. And uh he wanted to clarify that in their minds and um and uh uh confirm them in their minds who exactly he was and what he was all about. The rest of the Sermon on the Mount is not throwing out the law. He's not adding anything to the law. But what the law is, I like this thought. The rest of this chapter, and really you should sit down and read the rest of the chapter to appreciate this maybe. But the rest of the chapter is really um uh What is demanded of us as followers of Jesus Christ? He's fulfilled that law completely. Alright, this is what that requires of us And he goes through there, because I am the fulfillment of that law and you're trusting in me, you're looking to me as your Savior, then these other things ought to be true in your life. This is how you go about it We keep I f I like this thought. You and I keep the law by conforming to the image of Christ. See what I'm saying? Jesus Christ is the law personified. He fulfilled it completely. It's all met in him. Say, well, how do I keep the law? I can't keep the law. I'm saved by grace. But as I conform to the image of Christ, as I yield my will to him, I die to self, and he increases and I decrease, it's more of Jesus in me than that law Is being worked out in my life. Jesus told Jeremiah, or God told Jeremiah, he goes, I'm going to remove the heart of stone and replace it with what? A heart of Anybody remember? Flesh. I'm going to give you a tender heart, a heart. In other words, he is saying this, listen, I'm going to change your very nature. Where you do the things that are right, where you do the things that God demands, not as an outward conformity, but because you've been changed in your heart and you want to do that. It's from within out. Am I making any sense? I'm having a good time. I don't know if anybody else understands a word I'm saying. I don't either so uh so he's saying this. Uh we conform to Christ. Christ is everything the law requires. I trust Christ as my personal Savior. He saves me, forgives me. His righteousness, his fulfillment of that law is put to my account. You say, well, what role does the law play to me? All right, it's fulfilled in Christ. So I yield myself to Christ. I'm conformed to the image of Christ. And that is the role the law has to make. Then last of all, I want to add one more last thought here. The contradiction of man's teachings And we're going to see this statement through the sermon. You've heard it said before, but I say unto you, you've heard the scribes and Pharisees teach you this. But I am saying unto you. Now he says, don't think that by me making those statements I'm throwing a law. I'm not. I'm the fulfillment of the law. But you've been taught wrong. And he says you need to understand and need to correct this. God's teachings, you ever notice this? God's teachings contradict man's teachings. Anybody find that to be true? God's teachings contradict man's teachings. That is why the Bible got thrown out of the schools. Because it contradicts man teachings. The direction man was wanting to take our the next generations contradicted the way God taught. So you're going to throw that thing out. Uh that's why that's why you can't pray in Jesus' name in public things, or they tell you you can't. Why? Because it contradicts man's. God's teachings contradicts man's teaching. God's religion, so to speak, contradicts man's religion. And so that's the reason there's so much animosity against the Word of God. Did anybody here ever get frustrated that they l let Muslims pray, but Christians try and pray and they they bring the hammer down? Anybody ever does that frustrate you at all? You say, why is that? I'll tell you why. Because God's teaching contradicts man's teachings. And as ridiculous as that religion is, that seems to be okay. But God have mercy if you bring Christianity in And so Jesus is saying, listen, the truth of God is very, very different than what man says. It's the reason that there's such animosity on the world towards believers. Jesus did not just state the truth. He also confronted falsehood. There's this mentality in certain circles of quote-unquote Christianity that says, don't ever teach or preach anything negative. It's gonna be in the positive. Don't talk about what is wrong. I heard uh and and and you know I'm not trying to be unkind too much, but um Uh old Joel Olstein, I saw this with my own eyes. I heard it with my own ears. He was back, remember Larry King? Old Larry King? I think he's like 400 years old now But he was interviewing him and it was homosexuality is blowing up and all of that. And he said to him, he says, Well, what's your position on s on a sodomite marriage? Larry, uh Joel Olstein said, you know, Larry, you know, Larry. Um he said, um, that's really not what I'm all about. He goes, well we have a position on it. He goes, you know, we're trying to help people and we're not really into addressing things like that and address That's wrong. The Bible addresses that. If something was wrong, Jesus addressed it and he pointed it out. He says, This is wrong. You've been taught this. That's wrong. This is what is right. And Jesus confronted man's teachings. When it was wrong, he stood up and said, that is wrong. He exposed false teaching of the Pharisees. And uh on on any stripe he exposed it. Uh man alive. Uh uh uh he he addresses the Pharisees there and and the heat's coming down on him as he's approaching the time to go to the cross And these Pharisees are just coming down on him and he says stuff like this, You hypocrites talks about hellfire I mean, he didn't just say, well, you know, I'm not all about that. I'm just trying to be a blessing to people. He goes, no, that's wrong. That's hypocrisy And so uh he ca he contradicts man's teaching, he confronts it, and he exposed the false teaching. So I thought it was interesting. Then he comes down here, verse 17 Uh verse eighteen he says, uh heaven and earth pass away, not one jot, not one tittle is now wise passed from the law, till all be fulfilled. He's expanding what he says there Then he goes down, he talks about this, then you get to verse number twenty one and then he says, All right, you've heard it said, that let me tell you how you should live This is how you your savory salt. This is how you're a light shining in the world. And for the rest of the sermon, he just one thing after another, he addresses it, addresses it, addresses it, addresses it. But he says, I want to clarify things right up front. Don't think I'm throwing the law out. It's not it. That law's still in place. But I've fulfilled it. I've done it. I've done everything that law demands and and I'm the fulfilment of it. I came across a quote by Charles Spurgeon And uh I thought this was pretty good. Charles Spurgeon said this, I want to live my life in such a way that when I lay my head on my pillow at night, I can say, Jesus, I love you. And the Lord can say back to me, Charles, I know you do. I thought, wow, what a challenge. It's one thing to say, oh Jesus, I love you. It's another thing for my life to be lived in such a way that the Lord could come back and say, I know you love me. You love me in truth. You love me sincerely. You love me genuinely. We study the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is saying, our whole life. As we live as God instructs us, it comes out of our heart for a love for God. It's not just external stuff. Jesus fulfilled all this. We don't got to worry about the external. Now we're talking about what we are and the heart of our life. And that's where he says, you kill someone. I'm saying unto you, if you hate them in your heart, you're not right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you would help us to see this and look to you, Lord Jesus, and understand who you are. And I pray as we get into the rest of this ser this uh sermon on the mouth that you would challenge us that from within our hearts You change us and mold us into the image of Christ. And I pray that we would love you. And Lord, that love would not just be something off our lips, but God, it would be genuine in our hearts. And you would see that and know that. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many like me would say, Preacher, I want my love for the Lord to be so thorough, so genuine, that God would never question it That God would never uh uh have question about it, but the Lord could say, yes, Dennis Leatherman loves me, I know he does It's evident. How many of you would say that's my desire for my life? God bless you. Sure, what Christian wouldn't want that? And maybe tonight we need to hit an altar and say, Lord, I I don't think my love's reached that point yet I don't think my walk with you has reached that point. And tonight we say, Lord, help me. Help me to draw close to you. Help me to die to self and yield my will to your will. That everything about me is an expression of my love to you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.