1 Peter chapter 2, I want to begin reading verse number 21. I'm going to read down through verse 24. We're going to mention verse 24 at the end of the message, but we're not going to I want to dedicate a one message just to verse 24. Verse 21, for even hereunto were ye called. Because Christ also suffered for us. Now this is the last statement. We touched on this last week in the message, but I want to bring it out again Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. And then it goes on and describes this example that the Christ left for us. He says, Who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin, should live under righteousness, by whose stripes you are healed. I've entitled the message from verse 21 Christ, our example in suffering. I mentioned last week, 1 Peter is kind of a manual on suffering, particularly the end of chapter 2, then you get into chapter 4. He deals with this as a Christian and suffering unjustly. And then uh he here he's tell uh he's showing us how Jesus Christ is an example for us to follow whenever we uh face unjust suffering. So let's pray. That's come and now is finishing out And as we look forward, I ask that you would help us to keep our eyes on you. Help us to follow the instructions and the examples you have given us in your word. We don't know what this coming year holds. We have no idea. And so we're just going to live by faith. And I pray you'd help us use these thoughts tonight to help us prepare for the coming year. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield myself to you And pray you'd use me as a as an instrument to help build our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Throughout the New Testament, particularly, we are given different people and different instances To be examples for us. Some of the examples that the New Testament refers to are ones that we should follow, are good examples. We want to follow them. Some of the examples given to us in the New Testament, the Bible says that this is an example, are ones that are examples for us to avoid what they did, not to follow their actions or whatever. For instance, if you would, come over to chapter 2 Peter, next book in line there, 2 Peter, and look with me, if you would, at chapter 2. And verse number 6, 2 Peter chapter 2, and verse 6. Here we're told, again, this is Peter writing to the same crowd that 1 Peter's written to, and he says this. Well, verse 5, God spared not the old world, but save Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of ungodly. Then verse 6, notice what he says. And turning the cities Of Sodom and Gomorrah into what? Ashes. He turned them into ashes Condemn them with an overthrow. Now look at this next statement. Making them ensample unto those that after Should live ungodly. Come back to Jude. That's the little book right before Revelation. Second last book of the Bible. And he mentions Sodom Gomorrah again as an example for us. Jude and verse number seven. He says, even as Sodom and Gomorrah, the city, and the cities about them, in like manner Giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh, that would be sodomy, and set are set forth for a what? And example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. So he tells us here in one place, he says Sodom and Gomorrah is recorded in Scripture for one reason is to be an example to us. That we should not follow the path they went down, that we should not imitate their actions. They're an example of the fact that you go down that direction, you live in that sin There's consequences to it. Now I'll be honest with you, as I was preparing this message, I couldn't help but think of the United States of America and how in the world we can celebrate uh the wickedness we do and the perversion how we can saturate our society with fornication and wickedness and think somehow there's not going to be any consequences for that. Somehow there's not going to be any any uh uh judgment of God when we flaunt our sin in the face of God And we look at the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and they're an example to us that you cannot indulge in such blant wickedness and sinfulness and perversion. And not experience some sort of consequences, some sort of judgment. So the Bible gives us and Second Peter and in Jude the Sodom and Gomorrah as an example. We could go to First Corinthians. For sake of time will not turn there. And Paul is writing to the church at Corinth And he references, of course this is all under inspiration, he references Israel in the wilderness and the temptations and the sins they committed. And how they tempted God and how they lusted is the term he uses for different things. And he says they they this is recorded to be an example for us so that we do not follow in their ex uh say uh in their uh uh steps, that we do not um uh lust for things as they did. And so here's another negative example And you can go all through the New Testament. In the Old Testament prophets, James chapter 5, verse 10. He says the Old Testament prophets are for our examples. Paul and Philippians and in 2 Thessalonians. says that he was an example. We're to follow his pattern, follow his example, follow his walk with God. And I'm telling you, you're not going to get much better example than the Apostle Paul You want to follow to be a good Christian. In 1 Peter 5. 3, 1 Timothy 4. 12, the pastor is to be an example. And that's part of the responsibility of being a pastor, is to be an example of the Christian life. In the church at Thessalonica was said that they were a pattern, a model that other churches could pattern themselves after. And now we come to our text here in 1 Peter chapter 2. And we're told the greatest example you're ever going to have is the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. So we're given examples through the Bible On some to follow, some to pattern ourselves after, some to model ourselves after. Some of the examples we're given, we're to stay away, we're to learn from them, we're to observe and say, no, no, no, uh, we're not going down that road But here we have the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 21. The last part. Now we again we touched on this last week. I want to bring it up again to set set the stage for my message tonight. He says Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. If you remember we said that that word example is uh is the term they use When you write out, say, the alphabet, you put a very light pattern. How many people remember me illustrating this last week? This was an example of an example. They put that little pattern and the little child. Hmm, they're gonna follow, they're gonna write over that. That's the idea behind. Or you put the letter there and then beside it, when when I was young, they'd have the letter and then they had a blank spot and you did written on there. Remember the big lines across there and you'd write that and you'd go down and it's just like that and then go on like that and you'd put that across there and you'd follow exactly that there. And so that's what the idea of the word example. Then the word there comes from a word that simply means to put your foot into footprints that are ahead of you Just simply step in the footprints ahead of you. And then he says the steps. That's the footprint. So step into the footprint. So He's telling Jesus as our example. Here we have the Lord Jesus Christ. He goes through some suffering. I'm beside him and say, all right, he did that. And he did this, and he said that. Oh, he didn't do that. And I'm following that pattern. You get the picture in your mind what I'm trying to get here And or uh, all right, Jesus went down that road of suffering. All right, here's his footprint. He stepped here, and then he stepped here. Don't step over there, don't go that way. Follow these footprints. Put your foot right in those steps that Jesus was. And that's the idea. That's the idea. So here's my question. What is this example? What is this pattern the Lord Jesus Christ gave us? Well, I know this. It's a perfect example. He handled suffering perfectly. He did it as a pattern for us to follow. Now, there are some ways that we cannot follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Right? You follow me? Some things Jesus did that I can't imitate. Can you name some things that Jesus did that you and I could never do? Walk on water. Peter did for a little bit. Peter holds the world water walking record. Nobody walked on water as long as Peter did. I can't walk. What's something else Jesus did that you and I can't did? Very obvious. Just I want you to talk to me. What is it? What's that? Yeah, I can't die for people's sins. I I couldn't do that. I can't follow in that pattern. What else? Somebody else. Heal the blind. Somebody else said what? Raise the dead. I can't raise the dead. I can't heal the blind. By the way, these guys on TV can't either. Turn rocks into red. He can't uh I can't uh get a little boy's happy meal and feed five thousand people with it. Uh can't make the blind see. So you get the idea. There's some things that there's no way I can follow Lord Jesus Christ. But there are some things the Bible tells us that we can. There are some Examples that Jesus leaves us that we can and we are to follow. We're to pattern ourselves, we're to follow Jesus' attitude. I can have the same attitude about situations Jesus did. In fact, we're told in Philippians, a couple other places, that we're to have the mind of Christ. We're to have the attitude of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're to see things from his perspective. We're to evaluate things and value things The value that Jesus has, the perspective that Jesus has. I tell you, you want to change your life. Start seeing things and valuing things the way Jesus does. Start valuing people. I think there's a song. Help me to see this world through your eyes. I think there's a song like that, something like that. Help me to see people the way you see them, Lord. And so we can follow the example, the patterns he's left us in our attitude, our mind, have the mind of Christ But also we can pattern ourselves, and this is what we're getting to here, in our interactions with other people. I can interact with people with the same attitude that Jesus interacted with people Uh you read through the Gospels, and there's some situations where me, in and of my own self, I wouldn't have responded that way But Jesus being the sinless perfect Son of God, he responded differently than I, as a sinner, would have. And so what I'm going to do is lay aside the way I would respond, and I'm going to follow his pattern. You follow me? You follow my So we're to follow the Lord. So there are some ways that we are to follow. Now Peter's telling us here when it comes to this matter of suffering unjustly. Somebody treats me wrong Somebody's dirty, cuts, undercuts me. Maybe I somebody lies about me. I lose my job. Somebody steals something. Somebody does something to me. They hurt me. They cause me pain and suffering unjustly. And Peter's saying, all right, here's a pattern for you. When that happens, you follow this example. You do this exactly the way the Lord Jesus did that. Now let me give you three very quickly. Number one, I see the Lord gives us a pattern. Number one, in his sinless suffering. Jesus' suffering was sinless suffering. Look at verse 22 with me. Verse 21, leaving us an example that we should follow his steps. Now here's his steps. Verse 22: who did no sin. Neither was guile found in his mouth. Jesus never suffered one time because of a sin he committed. None of his suffering was because of some law of God that he broke and it was a sin. Um if somebody breaks into someone's house and tries to steal from them and that person is armed to the teeth with weapons and uh handguns and and um other Guns that nobody's business what they have, and they shoot them and they get hurt and they suffer and they have pain because they broke into that house. They are suffering because they sinned, right? Jesus Christ never suffered, was never mistreated, was never reviled, was never rejected, was never cast out, refused, because of some sin in his life. Never was that way. Now, sometimes you and I do something stupid. Sometimes you and I say something unkind, rude, and people react and revile us and say bad things to us and about us. Because we sinned, because we did wrong But Jesus' suffering was sinless suffering, and this is what I'm getting at, this is what I think Peter's saying is we're to follow that pattern. We ought not to ever suffer or be called names or be ridiculed because of some sin we're committing. Why was Jesus reviled? Why did they revile him and reject him? Anybody take a shot? Why did they treat him the way they did Yeah, because he did right. He did right. And he shed light on their sin. Jesus was sinless in his deeds. Look at verse 22. Who did no sin. That word did there means to act, practice, or commit. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. That word guile means dishonesty or deceit Not one time did Jesus ever lie to anybody, never one time did Jesus mislead anybody, no not one time did Jesus ever dis uh um uh uh uh fool anybody or um uh deceive somebody about some situation. He was honest, he spoke the truth, he said he is the truth And you and I ought never to be treated or mistreated because we lie. Can I just say this? A Christian ought not to lie. Christian ought not to lie. Jesus is the truth. God is the truth. And to lie And so our rejection by people and the mistreatment of people ought never be because of some sin in our part. Jesus was the perfect example for us to follow when treated unjustly The sinlessness of our Savior is plainly taught all through Scripture. Jesus was sinless, yet he suffered rejection and ridicule. Now we can't be sinless in our lives. I I can't be sinless. We should try, but we can't be. But any mistreatment by the world should not be cause, be because of some sin. Any ridicule or rejection by the world should never be because of our sin. Listen, just do right and witness. You'll get enough rejection just doing that. You follow what I'm saying? Just being pure and living for God and being kind and gracious. I don't know about you. It seems like this whole world is angry. I think this everything we're under right now is just pushing people over the edge. And I was up at Walmart on New Year's on Christmas Eve in the morning. I went in the morning. I thought nobody will be there in the morning, shortly. Place would be empty, I'll have it to myself. I went there, the parking lot was all the way out to the end of the parking lot. I mean the place was jam-packed. And I had to get in there and get my cranberry sauce. There's no way in the world. And so I ventured in, I put my mask on, I put my helmet on, and I entered the belly of the beast. And I'm telling you, everybody was as grouchy as could be I mean bumping in and mad and blocking the aisle and everything. And you know what I you know what I had to keep catching myself? I started getting grouchy. And I started getting irritated at people being irritated. I'll tell you, irritating people irritate me And I got in there a little ways and got half my list, and finally I caught myself and I said, I don't want to be this way. I don't want to think this way I was mad at everybody. If they just did something stupid, I'd get mad. Finally, the Lord convicted me. I was coming up along the meat aisle. I had to get bacon. And um coming up along the meat aisle there, and uh here was this guy, his oblique grandpa, and he had his little granddaughter, about the age of our little granddaughter, Kenley, and she was stuffed down in the you know where you put the water underneath the square part She was stuffed down in there, her feet sticking out like that. She was down in there. And so finally I mean everybody's grouchy, everybody's mad, he had a mad face. Everybody had well you could tell, you couldn't really see his eyes And uh and he was mad, everybody was mad, and finally I just I said, this I know I don't want to be this way, and I I looked at him, I said, Where'd you buy that? The little girl and I said, Well I need to get me one of them. Where did you get that little thing underneath there? He said, Her? And I said, Yeah. He says, Well you can buy her yourself. I'll sell her to you And I said, Should I take her and we laughed a little bit and that was the first person I saw laughing and any kind of happiness in there and we got talking a little bit and I told him about our granddaughter and I don't know who he was Finally I said, uh I said, can I leave one of my Christmas cards with you? And he said, that sure would be nice. And gave it to him. Everybody's mad. Everybody's angry. Listen, we ought never get caught up in that and then have people recule and get mad at us because we're rude or unkind or because of sin. Jesus never suffered one time because of something wrong he did. And that's a pattern for us. That's a pattern for us. You know what I found out? As we're approached the last days, I preached this morning, the rapture, as we approach that point, we're going to take enough heat just for doing right We just stand and I'll tell you, it's amazing. Even if you just be kind to people, sometimes it sets them off. And so we should never We should never allow ourselves to get in a situation where I'm doing wrong, I'm snapping at somebody, I'm sinning, and that brings persecution on me, that brings retaliation. It ought to be sinless. We must not suffer because of sin. By the way, I put this down. We must not sin because we suffer. We shouldn't suffer because of our sin. And then when people say stuff and do stuff against us, and it happens, we know that here. We learned that. Uh when people do that we shouldn't ever say, oh yeah, well if they're going to treat me that way then I'm let I'm gonna let loose. No no no We should never suffer because of our sin. We should never sin because of any suffering we have. And so number one, we have this pattern of a sinless Suffering, the Lord Jesus left us. I notice also that Jesus' suffering was submissive suffering. Look at verse 23. Who, when he was reviled, what did he do? Revile not again. When he suffered, he what? He threatened not, but look at this. But committed himself. To him that judgeth righteously. For three and a half years on Jesus' earthly ministry, he was characterized by continual ridicule. Continual rejection, accusations, they twisted his words, they attacked his motives. In fact, there was one point when he had thousands of people all left him Except for his handful of disciples, he said, Will you leave me also? They said, To who shall we go? That was the words of eternal life That was his whole ministry. Big crowds, and they turned against him. Pharisees, because of envy, attacked him, twisted his words, accused him of things that were just ridiculous. That was the characteristic of it. Yet not one time did he revile. Not one time did he threaten. Notice it says he reviled not. The word revile means to abuse with words or to abuse verbally. You read your gospels carefully. As you go into New Year, you read through the Bible, read the Gospels carefully. You're never going to hear Jesus saying this. Oh, yeah? Well, shame to you. Not even anything close to that. He reviled not again. He reviled not again. Then it says he threatened not. The word threaten means to declare harm upon another or to be menacing to another. He never threatened them at all. Never threatened them at all. Verbal abuse, now listen to this. Verbal abuse and threats are the tactics of weak people. Verbal abuse and threats are the tactics of weak people, making threats, calling names. Abusing verbally. That's a very small, weak person. And I'm telling you, Jesus Christ was above that, and I'm telling you, you and I ought to be above that. As Christians, we ought to follow his example. He was submissive in his suffering. Self-control in the face of injustice and threats is strength And it's Christ-like. Submission to God when people are saying hateful things about us and threatening us and verbally abusing us. When we just submit that to God, just submit to the Lord, that is strength and that is Christ-likeness. Notice it said he committed. He committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. The word commit there means to place into the hands of another. to place into the care and control of another person. People were reviling reviling him, people were abusing him, people were threatening him. He didn't respond in kind. He just took it and put it in the hands of him who judges righteously. Justice and judgment will come Mark it down. God will take care of that. God will take care of it. You say, preacher, you don't know what they're saying about me at work. They're threatening me and stuff at work. Listen, you commit that into the hands of God, God will take care of it God will take care of it. I remember when I was working at the meat packing plant, just say maybe, maybe a year. I worked there one year after I got saved, and so it was during that time frame. And man, I was growing, I was getting farther and farther away, at least as my values and my interests and the guys that were I was buddies with before And this one guy, um Bob was his name. Old Bob, me getting saved just irritated him to death. He was one of the biggest dope heads in there. Hard drugs And um we were buddies before and I got saved. God took and that just irritated him to death. And man, he would just rag on me day after day after day, calling me names, saying stuff He'd say one time, he said, Leatherman, you're just using religion for a crutch. This Jesus just a crutch for you to lean on. Here's a dope drug addict telling me that I've got a crutch to lean on And um I said no, I said Bob, he's not my crutch. I said he's the whole um what do you call the uh the the you put a person on when they're sick and you carry them Stretcher, I said, he's not a crutch, he's the old stretcher and everything. He's everything, he's carrying me. Boy, that said them all. He said, Leatherman, after work tonight, I'm taking care of you. You know what I said? Huh, bring it on. No, I didn't. I said, okay. I started praying, Lord, I don't want to get beat up. And uh I tell you the whole rest of the day all I could think about was when I walk out and it was wintertime, it was dark, I thought I walk out there, old Bob's gonna slug me, I know it, I'm gonna have a broken nose, he's gonna kick me in my stomach I'm gonna have broken ribs. Oh, it's gonna be terrible. Oh, Lord help me. And so I got out there and he's standing there by the car. You know, I'm like 19 at the time And uh he's a little older than me, a couple years. I I come walking out there and uh uh I tried to look like this. In reality I was like this. And um I said, well Bob, what's what are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? Let's go ahead. He cussed me out, got in the car, and left. And what Jesus was a great pattern for us not to retaliate, not to strike that, just put it in God's hands. I've been praying all these years, I don't know whatever happened to him, but wouldn't it be something get to head and find out old Bob got saved I think if I'd have gone out there swinging, if I'd have gone out there ready to fight and and get into it with them, I think I'd have hurt my testimony. I think I'd have hurt my witness. I'd just come out and say, listen, Bob, whatever you need to do, whatever. And what we do is we take it and we commit it into the hands of him that judges righteously. And God takes care of it. God takes care of it. So Jesus suffered. First, he suffered sinless. He had sinless suffering. And then he had submissive suffering. I end with this. He had substitutionary suffering. Look at verse 24. Who its own self Bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes we were healed. What sin did Jesus commit that put him on the cross? None. Pilate said, I find no fault in him. This man's not worthy of death. Jesus wasn't hanging on that cross for one sin he ever committed. He's hanging on a cross for the sins you and I have committed and the sins of the whole world. And nobody ever suffered like Jesus suffered on that cross. Mentally, physically, spiritually, nobody ever suffered like he did. And yet he was doing it for us. Now I can't die for another person's sins. I can't die for an unsafe. I got uh somebody asked me earlier today, would you pray for so-and-so? They're not saved I can't die for their sins. But you know what we can do? Now, this is what I got thinking about this. Sometimes winning someone else to Christ bring requires pain on our part. Sometimes they're suffering. I got thinking about these missionaries years ago. I'm reading about Adonai and Judson buried his wife. The foreign mission field couldn't come home. Buried his son They couldn't come home. Can you imagine being alone in an island full of cannibals that hated him? Wife gets sick and dies. He has to bury herself. His son gets sick and dies. He has to bury herself. And there he is alone. You talk about heartache and suffering. Why was he doing that? Doing that because he wanted those people to be saved He was suffering the heartache of a lost, a dead wife and a dead son, so that there would be some light, some witness on that island to those dear people. You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes we have to pay a price to bring the gospel to others. I have such respect for our missionaries. Some of them are in horrendous circumstances with this lockdown, this pandemic, trying to be a witness, trying to just get out and get food in some situations is tough. Why are they there? Why don't they come home? Because they want to be a witness. Their suffering is substitutionary. You follow what I'm trying to say? I can't die for someone's sins. I can't suffer for someone else's sins. But I might have to suffer. It might require me suffering a bit to have them come to Christ. To have to come to Christ. What would Jesus do? That's the wrong question. The question is, what did Jesus do? When he faced suffering, what pattern did he leave? And then I follow in that. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to follow the pattern of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray you'd help us to respond to unjustice, unkindness, unkind words. Lord, I just can't help but think we may be facing persecution here before this thing's all said and done. I pray you'd help us to follow your example, follow your pattern, follow in your steps, if that would take place. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say as we finish out a year? Finish out 2020. I wonder if some would say, preacher, I want to respond properly when people cross me. I want to respond properly when people injust me. I want to follow Jesus' example And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that that would be true. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I don't want to revile when I'm reviled. I don't want to threaten when people do things. I just want to commit it in God's hands and be gracious. Bless those that curse me. Do good to them that despitefully use me. Pray for them. And we're following Jesus' example Father, please bless our imitation now. Bless those online. Help us to follow your example in Jesus' name. Amen