Alright, 1 Peter chapter 5, if you have your place here. I want to read the verse first three verses, and then I'm going to pick out one word in the first verse there. The Bible says, the elders which are among you I exhort Who am also an elder, speaking of himself, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed Now here's his instruction to these elders that are among them. Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, important word, not by constraint, but willingly Not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but in samples to the flock Who is he speaking to here? What does he say in the first couple words there? He's addressing the what? The elders that are among you. Now here's the question: what is an elder? What does he mean? By an elder. So what I want to do is just take a moment before we look at this and break this down to coming messages. I want to stop and make sure we all understand what is the Bible talking about when he addresses elders Let's pray for a moment. And it's going to be more of a teaching tonight, not so much a preaching message. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word as we look at this key phrase and a very important part in the New Testament church. And I ask that you would teach us, Holy Spirit, be our teacher. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, Lord, and I pray that you would speak through me, and we would come out with a clearer understanding And Lord may be a greater burden for our church and the makeup, the structure of the church. And so again, please uh bless and speak through me, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Number of years, back when I first came. during the nineties and the early two thousand, uh shortly after the we entered New Century, I would go every May uh had the opportunity to go out to uh what was at the time Boulder, Colorado, for training of neighborhood Bible Time Evangelists. And I loved it. That's what I was. I've been on the board for going on 30 years, been closely associated with Bible time all these years. Our church, this will be our 29th year, I think, or 30th year having neighborhood Bible time. And I was out there training one year and uh when Brother Homster had it, we would travel a lot to different churches, different places, and we spent a lot of time on buses taking these guys. We'd have 50, 55. uh young preacher boys we travel over and I'd I'd you know work with them. So one time we were traveling, there's a fellow y sitting beside me and we got talking a little bit. I asked where he's from, different things, where he's going to school uh what he's studying. I said, well what do you plan on doing? What's what do you think God's called you to do? And he says, Well, I'm gonna when I finish my schooling in about four or five years, he was going to get a master's degree. And when I finish my schooling in about four or five years I'm going to go back and I'm going to be the preacher of my home church. I'm going to be the pastor of my home church. I said, really? I said, what does the pastor there now think about that? He goes, oh, we don't have a pastor. And I said, well you know, what about by the time you get there four or five years, uh, you know, they'll have somebody by then? He says, Oh no, they've already agreed that whenever I finish school, I'll be the pastor I said, you mean they're going to go for five years without a pastor? He goes, oh yeah, we've been a long time without a pastor. And I talked to him a little bit, and of course it's the church's decision. Each church is autonomous But uh what concerns me about that is a church going so long without a pastor. That is not a healthy thing. That is not a scriptural thing. The other thing I was concerned about, unrelated to our thoughts tonight, but I want to throw it out there, would be A church that hadn't had a pastor for so long, and then bringing somebody with zero experience, just fresh out of college, a novice, so to speak, might not be the best approach either. And so I tried to stress upon him, and one thing I took away from that was how important the pastor is, the leadership In the church, in a local church, a local body of believers. God has designed the church, the local body of believers. In such a way that it requires biblical leadership. Now, Jesus Christ is the head of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church Don't understand that. He's the head. He's the chief shepherd. But God has designed the local body of believers in such a way where he designates leadership responsibilities to an individual to oversee that church to provide guidance and direction to the church, to keep it within the perimeters of biblical principles and biblical teaching. I don't think committees are the best way to operate a church. Somebody said a camel, a camel is a cow put together by a committee. And there may be some truth in that. But Jesus Christ is the head of the church. Jesus Christ is the great shepherd of the church. And he has designed a church in such a way that he designates leadership within that church. Now we understand the Bible to teach, and as Baptists were distinctive, a Baptist distinctive and rooted and grounded in the teaching of scripture is there's two offices in a local church. Two offices. Somebody tell me, what would those two offices be? Pastor and Deacons. Pastor and Deacons. The pastor, the term for pastor, there's a number of terms used in Scripture. to identify that office, to identify that responsibility. Pastor, of course, being one of them, Timothy talks about the bishop. If any man desire to be a bishop in a church, a minister is a term used, shepherd. And another term for pastor is what we see here in our text: an elder. An elder. Now, the office of deacon is not a leadership office, so to speak. The word deacon itself means to serve, to minister, to minister to. To serve the church and to serve the pastor. I had a fellow years ago say to me, he said, this is the way I view the deacon's responsibilities in the church. He said, it's like the pastor is the uh management of a business, the m the management. The church members is labor And the deacons is the union to represent the people before the pastor. I said, I think you need to study your Bible a little bit more. Uh that's not a scriptural approach to it The office of deacon is to serve the church, to serve the pastor, assist the pastor in leadership. If we had time, we'd go to Acts chapter 6, where uh the idea of deacons is introduced. And it was an uproar was going on within the church among a lot of the uh Grecian widows and they weren't being taken care of, their needs weren't being met. So they so they selected seven deacons and their job was to keep things going, operating, and the pastor and them could focus on the leadership and the ministry of the church. And so the two offices in a church are pastors and deacons. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said. I've heard it so many times when I was down there, and even since it's become kind of an identifying quote of his. He said this It's a tremendous quote, and it's true across the board. Everything rises and falls on leadership. And there's a lot of truth to that in so many areas. Uh for instance in government, would you agree? You have a poor leader in government, it hurts. Hurts the people. Okay. Okay. We got it. But also in business. Somebody can come in, good leadership, take a business, maybe it's struggling, boy, they can build that thing up and see it grow. Good leadership, providing wise and and make something out of it. On the other hand, here's what happens sometimes, some very successful business, the daddy or the owner passes away and the son inherits it And he never worked to build that thing. He never invested anything. He just got it thrown in his lap. And because of poor leadership, what happens to the business? He runs it in the ground. He runs it in the ground. Dr. Robertson said everything rises and falls on leadership. Now, that's not to diminish the role of followship, and we've talked about that other times. In business, in government By the way, in the home, do you know God has designated the responsibility of leadership in the home? And it is not the teenager. God did not designate the leadership of the home to the kids. Well, we'll see what the kids say. Wrong You guys going to be in church Sunday? Well, we'll see what the kids think. The kids are not designated by God to be the leaders of the home, especially not the spiritual leaders in the home. God has designated the husband to fulfill the role of leadership in the home. Now, I gotta quick say this or I'll get hate mail. That does not mean the husband is more important than the wife. It doesn't mean he's of greater value or the wife is of lesser value. It's two different roles That we play and fulfill within the structure of the home that God has established. And so leadership is important. in government, in business, in the home, and leadership is important in the church. The church. And God has designated, God has designated is not the word I want. God has Um uh what's the word I want? And appointed no. No. We're gonna be here a while if you don't come up with this. Delegated. There's the word I want. God has delegated in the home and in the church the leadership. God has delegated leadership. Jesus is the head of the church. He's a great shepherd. But in each individual body of believers, he delegates To that church, the authority, the leadership, to the pastor, the elder, the bishop, the minister, whatever term you want to use, the shepherd. He delegates to that. And we could spend time looking at that. Now, let's come back to our text here. As we say, just about every time we open our Bibles to Peter, I point out this is a time of intense, violent persecution of these dear folks. They've been run out of their homes. They've been run out of their communities because of their faith in God. Now, here is what I pick up in studying this: is happening. As these young believers, young in the Lord, have been rejected by their Jewish families, turned away by their the pagans. Persecuted, beaten violently, and they're pushed out into other communities, strange communities. And they're scattered. He says that in the beginning of the book. They're scattered through Asia Minor there. And what happened, this is what I picture happening in my mind, is they would get to a community. They're running for their lives. I mean they're packing up and they're heading out. And they get to a community and they begin to contact each other. And they get together and they start meeting together. They start having their church service and they develop the church. You follow what I'm saying? It's like they scattered everywhere. Persecution comes in, man, they're just scattered everywhere. Then wherever they are They start to g assemble together, assemble together, assemble together, assemble together. You know, Christians sometimes are strange people. I I mean some are more than others, but um But this is what I'm trying to say. There's something down inside the heart of a believer. I'm convinced. There's something down inside the heart of a believer that wants to assemble together with other believers. There's something in there. I need to get with other believers. And so they would like magnets, they would attract to each other. And so these churches are being established. They're reuniting and they're establishing churches now in this other, in these extended regions. God's using this as an evangelistic event to some extent. And so Peter's writing to them, and he wants to be sure. That as they reorganize in these areas, they gather together, that they have the proper leadership. in these local churches. I think that's what he's addressing here in 1 Peter 5. He's talking about their suffering. We talked a lot about that, right attitude. Understand it? And they're coming to you and says, hey, uh, you elders, we need to make sure that that the leadership is the way it ought to be. I learned this, I observed this firsthand about this matter of Christians wanting to get together, needing to assemble together. I'm telling you, one of the most appalling things that I've seen in my life, in my time in the ministry, is when our government said that churches are non-essential. That is appalling to me. That they would have the audacity to say that. And of course they shut everything down. We all remember that. But I noticed something. We allowed ten people. So we had Mark and J Mark and his family would come, Pastor Matt, and there was a handful of us here. Jamie did this and I'd preach in that stupid camera. I mean, hi folks, I mean not the folks weren't stupid. camera and um and I'd stand up here and there'd be five people, you know, and or ten of us here, and uh we'd we'd end We say, okay. So we went home. But here's what started to happen. The next week, somebody called and said, Preacher, now don't tell anybody this. But it'd be alright if we just come out and sit in the service while you're doing that. I'd say shh. So we have a few more. A couple weeks went by, and then there'd be a few back here. There's a few more here. By the time that thing, uh, we had more and more people. You know what I s you know what I noticed? You can't hardly keep some Christians away. There's like a magnet. There's something there. It just draws us together. And I think that's what's happening here in Peter is they're being drawn together as a body. They're a body. And they've been scattered, and now all these regions are starting to reassemble. And they're getting these, they're coming together as a church. And Peter's addressing the leadership. And he's pointing out here, he's saying, listen, you need the right kind of leadership as you're going to reassemble here. And especially in a time of persecution, there needs to be godly, humble, biblical leadership And so he's addressing that. Now, real quickly, and I took longer on that than I wanted to, but I want us to give a definition of this word elders. He refers to the elders as these churches are reassembling. He refers to the elders Now, I want to give a definition of the word elder. It's found both in the Old Testament and New Testament. They refer to elders The Old Testament, the term elder in the Old Testament, it means literally, this is the literal specific definition of the word, a bearded one. So you look around, we see a number of elders here in our church and around elders, uh men and a few women, but uh no Very bad. I don't know why I say stuff like that. But the idea behind a when he used the term bearded one, it's talking about what he's referring to. Well that's that's a literal specific definition, but What he's referring to, what it refers to, is an aged person. Someone advanced in years. Just what you'd think the word elder would mean. They're older in years. There would be an aged person. Sometimes it has this definition, the word elder. It means someone who is very influential in a community, someone very distinguished. Someone within a community who is respected and trusted, very prominent in that community, would be considered an elder. He is an elder within that community to be greatly respected. And sometimes the term means to be the head of a household Refer to the elder of a household, the senior, the head of that household, the leadership in that household So in the Old Testament, the term elder has these ideas. An aged person, a senior citizen, maybe you could say. Somebody's been around for a while. Someone who's highly respected and very distinguished, they've earned the respect and honor of their community and they're looked up to Or someone that's in a household and they're they're the leader of that household. So elder. Then we come to the New Testament, and the word elder is found throughout the New Testament here and many, many other places The word in the New Testament, the definition of it means very similar, is an older person, an aged person, a senior. However, part of the definition is also this. Someone that holds a higher rank. Now bear with me, I'm going somewhere. Um does everybody understand what the term seniority means? They've been around for a while. They've worked their way up. They're looked up to. They know a little bit about what's going on. They've got seniority. That's the idea a little bit behind the term elder. Aged, older, sometimes someone who is particular rank has worked up seniority It is it's referred to sometimes just an older person. Now you have to look at the context to determine. You read, come across that word elder, sometimes it just means an old person, like Ed or somebody like that, Chester. Sorry. Sometimes it's referring to someone that has a title. It's a title given, a position that that person holds. Maybe they're respected, they're held up, they are in a position of respect and honor and influence. And they're given a title. In the New Testament, it's more of a title than in the Old Testament But the top context determines the meaning. So that's the definition. Everybody got the definition out? If you took a test, you could pass it, right? On the definition. Alright. Last of all, secondly, and last of all, the designation of elders. Now the title elder actually has An Old Testament background. Now, I told you this was going to be more teaching than preaching. Come with me, if you would, to the book of Numbers, way back. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. Fourth book of your Bible. All the way back in the beginning. And in Numbers chapter 11, Moses is leading the people of Israel out of Egypt. And his responsibilities to provide leadership is overwhelming. Just numbers, the sheer volume. of the issues that he has to provide leadership to is absolutely overwhelming. And so in Numbers chapter 11, if you would look with me at verse 16 The Lord says to Moses, the Lord said unto Moses, gather unto me 70 men of the what? Elders of Israel, do you think that just means old people, or is it somebody prominent, somebody that's respected and looked up to It's all about respected, looked up to, and now it no doubt would include older folks that have been around for a while. Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be elders of the people. highly respected, you know, uh honorable people, and officers over them, and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation that they may stand there with thee. And I will come down and talk with thee there, and I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, the spirit of wisdom God had given them, the spirit of leadership, and they and will put it upon them. And they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone. So there's an office being established within the nation of Israel, and it is elders. And they're to provide leadership. They're breaking this thing down a little bit. Come over, if you would, to verse twenty four, same chapter And Moses went out and told the people the words of the Lord, and he gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people and set them round about the tabernacle. And the Lord came down in a cloud and spake unto him and took of the spirit that was upon him and gave it to the seventy elders. And it came to pass that when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied and did not cease. So here you have God is equipping these men to provide leadership in the nation of Israel. Now, this is not the same as the elders in the New Testament in the church, but the office is being established. And that position as a leader and elder responsible for leadership is being established here The Old Testament actually became a permanent feature in the leadership of Israel. Later on in cities, they would have elders. In each of the cities of Israel, they would establish elders. In the synagogues Later on, they would have elders leadership to provide oversight and direction. So, all through history of Israel, you find these elders providing leadership in Israel. Then we come to the New Testament. And the office of elder is a very distinct and important designation in the New Testament. Come with me if you would, and I'm winding down here. Acts chapter 14. Here the church is being established, and uh God has energized the church in Acts 2 with the power of the Holy Spirit. They're filled with the Holy Spirit. They are turning the world upside down with the gospel. I'm fearless. And in Acts chapter 2, Acts chapter 14, Paul is out on his missionary journeys, winning souls, and he's establishing churches. And look in verse 23. It says, and when they had ordained them what? Elders in every church And they had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. So what's happening here? Paul is out there in Barnabas. And they get to a community, Ephesus or Philippi, they win souls, they're preaching the gospel, people getting saved, they're getting organized, all getting together, they start uh serving the Lord as a church and functioning as a church. He says, All right, we gotta ordain elders. This church needs some leadership. It needs oversight. Jesus is the head. He's the great shepherd, but they need some, not designated, what is it? Delegated leadership here from the Lord to provide oversight and they ordained them elders. Now that word ordained is an interesting word. It means this. Everybody doing okay? Everybody, bear with me, alright? It means this. The word ordained means this. It means to stretch forth the hand. To stretch your hand up. So when he says they ordained them elders, what do you think that how are they establishing these elders? They're doing what? They're voting. Alright, here's we're putting this out. And and they ordained them. Everybody said, everybody for them. Woo! Everybody opposed. And they ordained them elders. You know what they're doing? They're establishing, and I hope you know what I mean by this. I think you do. They're establishing autonomous churches. You know what I mean by that? In other words, there's no hierarchy over them telling them, all right, here's who your elder is going to be. The church itself decided who their elder would be. Now we're an independent fundamental Baptist. I believe that is as biblical as you're going to find. I don't see any hierarchy in the New Testament or anywhere over a local church telling them who their pastor, their elder will should be. That church decides that. And I think some of these denominations are making a mistake. And I pull this guy out. All right, here's your one for the next two years. The church has little or no say. And so Paul's establishing these churches, the leadership, these elders, the pastors, the shepherds, the ministers, the bishops, whatever term you want to use, they're establishing them. And the churches are ordaining them. And you notice prayer and fasting was a part of it. Prayer and fasting. The church prayed, they fasted. Yep, we believe that. I I'm so grateful. I referenced it, I think, this morning. I came in nineteen ninety-three, handful of people here, but um uh the church prayed, they were earnest, they were praying, we came in I well that Sunday night, uh, I stayed in the mission house. They didn't have cell phones back there. I mean this was a long time ago. And I don't know how we made it, but that we didn't have cell phones and there was no phone in the mission house. There was no landline. The only phone was in the office. I didn't have any keys. So I'm over in that mission house. That mission house is scary. It's dark and I I I'm I'm in this w area I've never been before And uh but something down inside my heart that night, I didn't know how the vote would go, it would be next the following week, I'd be back in Colorado. But down inside my heart I thought, I believe this is where God wants me I'd candidated at probably five or six other churches and it just wasn't God's will. I knew it. Finally next day I got over here, was able to make a phone call. I called my wife. I said, I don't know how this vote is going. I said, but I am confident this is where the Lord wants us. Next week we got the call. The church said we voted 100%. All eight people said they think you're the guy. And that's the way the New Testament Church was established its leadership. These elders were, they prayed, they fasted. Then they took a congregational vote, and they brought the pastor in. Go over to chapter 20, and I am so close to being done, you are impressed. You will be impressed. Acts chapter 20, look at verse 17. I want to show you something here. Acts 20, verse 17. And from Miletus, they're still out in their missionary journey. From Miletus, he sent to Ephesus and called the what? Elders of the church. They had established, when he was there before, he had established elders. He had satisfied as pastors in that church in those churches And he called them. He's going to leave. And so he calls them to come and meet with him. And they travel a long way. They meet up with Paul. And look over in verse number 28 He's speaking to these elders, these pastors. Paul's addressing them. And he says, take heed therefore unto yourselves as elders, as pastors. And to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you what? Overseers. Here's a new term. Referring to the elders as overseers. The word overseer is the same word as the word bishop. And it means to what it exactly what it sounds like, it means to provide oversight, to keep that church on the right track, to keep it true to the Word of God, to keep the world out. To keep the Word of God the authority. Not let anybody usurp the authority of the Word of God. And to provide that oversight, that leadership. That's the elders. The leadership of the church. That's who Peter is writing to as they're reorganizing in the areas they've been scattered. He says, Hey, you elders, you ones that provide leadership and oversight for the church. to keep it true to the Word of God, to keep the world out of it, to keep all unscriptural things from creeping in and stir people up and give direction. The elders. Turn with me if you would to 1 Timothy chapter 3. Now Paul here again is writing under the inspiration of God to this young man, Timothy. Timothy's being called to the ministry And Timothy is pastoring churches and he's working with Paul. And Paul writes them in 1 Timothy 3, look at verse 1. He said, this is a true say. If a man desire the office of a what? Bishop. Same word as the word oversight. They're overseers back in Acts that we just looked at. And so there he gives the qualifications. If any man desires the office of bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be, and he goes down through the list here, must be uh Uh must uh the bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach, not given to wine No striker, not greedy a filthy lucre, but patient, not a brawler, not covetous, one that ruleth well his own house, having his children of subjection Though gravity, for if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he care for the church of God? Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into condemnation of the devil, moreover, he must have a good report with them that are without Lest he fall into the reproach snare of the devil. So he gives these requirements for these elders. These elders. One last, if you would, come over to Titus. First and second Timothy Titus And chapter one and verse five, Paul again writing to Titus It's an assistant of his helping him. Titus is out there preaching and winning souls and starting churches. Verse 5, for this cause, left I be increed. That thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, look at this, and ordain what? Elders in every city. Now he's not setting elders up over the city. Preacher doesn't have authority. I can't go into Oakland and set up who the leaders are of Oakland. He's talking about the churches in these cities. That thou ordain elders. Again, ordain, get them to vote, help provide leadership, get them to choose them an elder in every city as I appointed thee. So Titus was to ordain elders in these churches. Now I thought this was interesting. And then he gives the qualifications here. Bishop must be blameless, restore to God, not self-willed, not soon angry, not given to wine. How many people are glad you're Preachers not given to wine. Praise the Lord for that. No striker, not given to filthy lucre, lover of hospitality, lover good men, sober, just holy, temperate. holding fast the word of God the faithful word as he has been taught, and he may do a sound doctrine both exhort and convince the gainsayers. And so he gives the requirements there. What this is what I'll end with. What I thought was interesting was this. The requirements to be an elder. Not one of them says he has to be a great money manager. Not one of them says he has to have great leadership abilities and talents. Not one of them says he has to be a great business administrator. But it does say he needs to be of good moral character. He needs to walk with God. He needs to be honest. He needs to be true to the Word of God. Now, it would it be helpful if a elder or a pastor knows how to handle money? Sure, that's helpful. But if he doesn't, God gives the church members who help in that area. Maybe he's not the greatest administrator. Maybe that's not a strong point of his. But if he meets the qualifications, I believe God gives to the church members that help. in that area of administration. You follow what I'm saying? Read Corinthians. It talks about all the gifts. Romans chapter 14, I think it is, 12. He gives all the gifts there. A lot of them are gifts of of help, the gifts of administration. And God helps. God knows what the weakness of that elder is for that local church. And he adds to the church folks who can step in and help. And step in and work with that. Here's the thing, I learned early on as pastor that I have a there's a lot of areas in leadership that I am lacking in. And I know that. I understand I'm not trying to be overly humble or anything, I'm just being honest But you know what I found? Where we are weak, the Holy Spirit steps in and makes up for that weakness for us. And I look after almost 30 years now, Mount Lincoln and Pan Baptist, and I look at this body that God has brought together. That God has brought together. and how it fits together. Anybody ever pay attention at the wild game dinner? How setting up and putting down, how that thing flows It's a it's an amazing thing to watch. Hoom have God getting to a bunch of people get saved, hundreds of people come out, and they all leave. Hoom And that to me is a beautiful picture of a body functioning together with the gifts and abilities and leadership God gives. You follow what I'm saying? And so he's addressing these folks who have been scattered, they're assembling together. He says, listen, you've got to have the right kind of leadership. You've got to have biblical leadership, elders, and he gives some Some characteristics here. This is my invitation. I gotta end. Here's my invitation. Will you this week, we're finishing out the Lord's Day, we're going into a new week. Will you this week pray every day for your pastor For your elder. And pray that God will give wisdom, God will give direction, God will give strength, keep them from being stupid. Seriously? And that God would just bless this church because every church needs an elder. And while we're at it, let's pray for Accident Baptist Church. Let's pray for Potomac Highland Baptist Church and others around, because they need an elder. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you bless. I hope this was helpful tonight, Lord. I just pray. It'd stir our hearts. We just want to do right, Lord. We just want to be true to your word. And so help us now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play