One last week um I I brought a message on uh leadership in the church. It's kind of uh abbreviated. I really w wasn't able to spend the time in it that I would like to. And we talked about the the uh position of pastor in the church And I want to bring the second half, and I want to talk tonight about leadership in the church and particularly about the role of deacons in the church. We have elections coming up here for officers for the coming year. In fact, uh we have um uh nomination forms that we want to get out and I actually I think uh left them back in the office, but uh we'll get them out to our church members and begin praying and uh about who the Lord would have serve in offices of the church. Philippians chapter one. Just the first two verses kind of get us started this evening. Paul is writing again under the inspiration of God to this church in the city of Philippi. You can read Acts 16 and you get some background information on the birth of this church and how it came about. He's writing years later back to the church and giving them instructions, encouraging them. He's actually writing it from a prison. It's kind of interesting, at least in my mind, that the theme of the book of Philippians is joy in the Lord, and he's writing it from a prison. Not a place you think of joy, but nevertheless, regardless of our circumstances, if we are yielded to the Lord and filled with the Holy Spirit, we can have the joy of the Lord in any circumstance. And so Paul's writing to them, and notice in verse number one of chapter one, he says this, Paul and Timotheus, unto the servants of Jesus Christ, and to uh to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi. So notice how he refers to the members of the church. Now if this was addressed to us, this is how he would be describing You and I, as members of the church, we are servants of Jesus Christ and saints in Christ Jesus. So that's a neat thought there. But then he says this. He says, with the bishops. And deacons. The bishops, the overseers, and the deacons. He says, Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to Talk about this office of deacons just a little bit here for a few minutes tonight. So let's pray together. Ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord. That you'd speak to our hearts on this uh important office that you've established for the local church. Lord, in uh in my mind, I believe it's just as important in the church and in the world as uh the office, any office in Washington, any position a politician holds, or to be a deacon in the body of Christ is a tremendous privilege. Tremendous responsibility, tremendous honor. And of course, to be a pastor is a tremendous thing. And so we look to you tonight. We want you to teach us We ask that your Holy Spirit would be the teacher, that our church would be what it ought to be and operate the way it ought to operate. And I pray that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. Instruct us, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. We've mentioned this numerous times recently, and I emphasized it a little bit last week as a Bible-believing Baptist church We understand that there are two scriptural offices in the local church, in the church. Two scriptural offices, of course, one being the pastor. There's various terms for that, as we pointed out last week. Sometimes God will use the term pastor, not a whole lot, but that's what we're familiar with. Sometimes bishop, as in the case here in Philippians, it's the same office, same position, pastor or bishop. Sometimes the term elder is used to re uh to the pastor. It's used occasionally in the Bible. There's one or two times where he uses the term minister. I know in some denominations they refer to the pastor as the minister, and that's fine. That's a That's biblical. So that's one office, that of the pastor. And we looked at that. The role of the pastor, the office of pastor is primarily a leadership position And through the teaching and preaching of the Word of God, the pastor provides leadership to the church. And by that I mean this, the direction the church ought to go. the focus of the church, the motivation of the church. We get all of this from Scripture as it is correctly preached and taught from the leadership We understand what we are as a church. We understand our purpose in the world. We understand how we ought to behave and function as a church. All of that is the responsibility of the pastor to feed the flock, teach the flock how to live for God, how to be a disciple, what disciples do and what they don't do. And that falls on the responsibility of the pastor to teach that and instruct that and preach on that to the church. And then also the pastor provides leadership Through oversight, overseeing that church, making sure things are going in the right direction, keeping out false doctrine and and false uh and wrong influences and worldly influences That all falls on the shoulders of the pastor. Now I didn't get to these verses last week, but I do want to touch on them real quick. I'm just going to inject these here. If you would keep your uh come with me back to Hebrews chapter number 13 That's the last chapter of the book of Hebrews. And he re-emphasizes, or he references, I should say, this responsibility of the pastor in the church. In Hebrews chapter 13. Let me get there. Hebrews chapter 13. Notice with me if you would verse number 7. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 7. And by the way, every pastor ought to take these instructions in the Word of God very seriously. And uh we are held responsible, as you'll see here in a moment. Notice Hebrews 13 verse 7. He says, remember them which have the rule over you. Who have spoken unto you the Word of God. Now he says these people that have the rule, that's the idea of oversight over the church body. And they've spoken unto you the Word of God. Who would that obviously be referring to? That's the pastor. He's referring to the pastor. They provide oversight. They preach and teach the Word of God. He says, remember them. Now, when he says remember them, he's not saying, listen, don't forget their name. Alright, that's it's a little bit more than that. He's not saying uh don't forget when their birthday is, May 6th. He's not saying don't forget that I'm saying that, but that's not what he's saying there. When he says be remember them, it has this idea of be mindful The idea is this. Remember the responsibility that they have been given by God in the church. Keep that in mind. When they get up there and they're preaching the word of God and they step on your toes, is the term we like to use, or they touch on my sin, or they deal with some issues in my life, you remember that's their responsibility They're doing their job when that is the case. I had a lady got one uh upset one time, left, never came back, and I was just preaching the Bible like we always do, and she says, That preacher don't have no right telling me how to live. And I agree with her to an extent. I don't have any right to tell her how to live, but I have the responsibility to preach and teach what God says, the way God says we should live. And so that's what he's talking. He said, You be mindful of that. Remember them that have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faiths whose faith follow considering the end of their conversation. Then look over, if you would at verse seventeen Again, he touches on this same office. He says, obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, uh submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. They are overseers. That's the idea there. They watch for your souls as they that must give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable to you. The one office in the local church, and the one mostly mentioned in scripture, is that of the pastor, the overseer, the elder. The one that has provides oversight and leadership. Be mindful of them. Remember, when they're touching, when they're stepping on your toes and when they're leading this thing, that's their responsibility And verse 17, he points out they got to answer to God for their leadership. They're going to have to give an account for their pastoral leadership, their oversight. The second office is that of a deacon, and I think we understand this. We've been studied this enough. But a deacon is not directly a leadership position. The pastor is a leadership position, oversight, direction, protection, feeding. That's a leadership position. The deacon, it's not directly a leadership position, but The deacon's responsibility is to assist the leadership. In other words, and we'll see this here, the deacon's responsibility in the church is to get things in such a way that the pastor can lead without distraction and without obstacles. They deal with that. I think you'll see that. So the deacon isn't directly a leadership position, but indirectly, he assists in the leadership. Through serving the church and serving the pastor. By the way, I need to throw this out. I don't think it's an issue. I really don't. But it was in years going by this came up. In one case, a fellow uh approached me one time and he said I was talking about deacons and he was trying to kind of correcting me a little bit and he said Pastor really the deacon and the pastor is kind of like The union and the management. He said the pastor is the management of the church And the deacons are the representatives of the people. We are the union, and we bring the people's concerns to the pastor, and we keep the pastor in line. I said, uh I don't see that in scripture anywhere. The deacons are not representatives of the people. They are servants of the church. We'll see this here in a little bit. They work in such a way so that great ship of the church, local church, can go forward without the strict distractions, without disruption, and keep that thing running uh in the material ways The word deacon is used three times in Scripture, the word deacon itself. The same word that we get our word deacon from is used in other portions of Scripture. It's translated eight times as servant. So more often than it's used as the word deacon, it's used as the word servant. It has the same meaning, exact same word Sometimes God has it as the word deacon. Sometimes He's given it to us as the word servant. Twenty times that word deacon is translated minister. To serve, the whole idea behind it is to serve, to minister. It means to one who car one definition I came across was this: one who carries out instructions One who waits on others and serves them. I guess the best illustration I can think of is kind of like a waiter at a restaurant. The church would be the customers. They come in and they have needs and they have uh different uh things to be doing. And the waiter comes up and he says, How can I serve you? What do you need? You need water, you need this And they make sure that the needs of that guest are met. And that's the same concept with the idea of deacons. They are there to meet the needs of the church, to keep that thing running, to let it function the way it's supposed to function. The idea of an attendant Somebody pulls up a aura maybe I don't know this is a very good illustration, but maybe like a valet You pull up to a fancy restaurant or somewhere and the valet's there and you hand the keys over to them and they go take care of your car and make sure it's parked and They go out and race it around while you're inside, and then they come back and bring it back to you. No, they don't do that. But the whole idea behind the word, the concept behind the word, is to serve To minister to, to attempt to meet the needs of one who serves. And by the way, the idea and the picture in Scripture is that of willingly Cheerfully, it's a ministry. It's almost to an extent a part of life. It's my life to serve. And so the office of deacon, it's not a directly a leadership position, but it is indirectly assisting the leadership In keeping that thing going correctly. Now, let me give you a few quick thoughts here so we get an idea of what the Bible teaches about deacons. Number one, the introductions of deacons in the church. We get an introduction to them. If you would, come back to the book of Acts, chapter number six. I believe Acts chapter six, the first portion of that chapter is introducing deacons to us. I think it's the first time that uh they are recognized and established in the local church Now, some people take issue with that, but um, you know, people can be wrong if they want to. I believe it is. Notice in verse number one It says, in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied, look at this, there arose a murmuring Of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. And it says, then the twelve, that's the apostles. Called the multitude of the disciples, that's the church members, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look at this, look ye out among you seven men, full of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. What business? Taking care of these widows that are being neglected. We can get somebody to take care of this, of this business. We will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude. Look at this. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and then they list these fellas here. Then, verse 6, whom they set before the apostles when they had prayed and they laid their hands on them. And look at the result of this activity they just did, and the word of God increased And the number of disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly. And a great company of the priests were obedient unto the faith. Did you notice? There was a disruption in the church family. There was a disruption within the church, this division, this murmuring among these widows. And so they established what I believe are uh the are these deacons, they selected them. Put them in place. They took care of the responsibility. Verse 7, boom, the church is back up and running. And people are being saved, and the church is growing. I notice, first of all, here the timing of the introduction of the of the of the deacons here. It's during a time of explosive growth. If you would come back to chapter or two, come back to chapter 2 and look with me at verse 41 in Acts. Acts chapter 2, verse 41. Notice what it says. Now notice the progression of the church here Until we get up to chapter 6. Verse 41, Acts 2, it says, Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. I say it again, when a person receives the Lord, they ought to get baptized. Notice when they got baptized. And the same day. And then look what this says. And the same day there were added unto them about how many? 3,000. Can you imagine if the church took in 3,000 members in one day by baptism? Boom! How many people agree that might cause some logistical problems? How would we do it? We'd be baptizing here. Pastor Matt would be back at Broadford cutting open the ice. You know, we'd probably uh appoint several others to be baptized. We'd be everywhere baptizing. 3,000 in one day get saved and baptized, added to the church. Would you agree with me? Might cause some uh administrational challenges there Alright, come over with me if you would to chapter 4. Now what's the church membership here at this point? At least how many At least 3,000 more, because there was 120 to begin with in chapter 1. Look at Acts chapter 4 and look with me at verse number 4. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed And the number of the men was about how many? 5,000. This is 5,000 more being added to the church. So you got at least 3,000 in chapter 2. Two chapters later, you have 5,000 more men being out of the church. There's no doubt there was women in the mix. So we're up to at least how many people in this church in Jerusalem 8,000 people in a matter of weeks. How many people agree with me? There might be some organizational challenges involved with that How are we meeting and how are we teaching the Word of God? And man, they're scrambling here trying to deal with this explosive growth. How many people agree? That'd be a good good problem. We could use some more problems like that. If you would, come over to chapter 5. And look at with me at verse number 14. So we've got 3,000 saved and baptized, chapter 2. We got 5,000 more men plus however many women and children, so we're up to at least 8,000, probably around 10,000 people, little church. Um not a little church. Look at verse number 14 of Acts chapter 5. And believers were the more added to the Lord. What's that next word? Multitudes of men and women. He quits trying to keep numbers. He was a good night. Now it's just multitudes. Would you agree? If God gives the number 3,000, then he gives the number 5,000, now he's saying multitudes, we can safely assume it's more than 5,000 If it was 5,000, he would have said 5,000 again. So we're looking at 15,000, 20,000, maybe more, are now part of this church there in Jerusalem. I mean, within weeks' time. You talk about logistical challenges, and what was happening, I believe, when we get to chapter 6, the church is growing faster. Than what they are able to administrate, what they're able to organize. And so these deacons are chosen at a time of fantastic growth in the church Miraculous growth in the church. Then notice the trouble. Come back to chapter 6. We read it, the second part of verse 1, and there rose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. Because the widows were neglected in the Dewey administration. Now, my personal opinion is: I don't believe it was deliberate neglect. I don't think they were doing it on purpose. I just think they were overwhelmed. Yeah, the apostles are functioning as pastors in this mega church, if you want to call it that. I don't like that term, this fantastic, miraculous church. And these pastors, they're trying to preach to all these people. No doubt they don't have big mega buildings. They're out meeting in places wherever they can, and they're running around preaching to all the people and trying to keep this thing together. And it just got overlooked. The neglect, I don't believe, was deliberate. I think it was simply logistical challenges involved in this whole thing. There's no organization in place to make sure everybody's taken care of and making sure everybody's cared for. And this murmuring results. They're grumbling. That's what the word murmuring. Those Hebrews, they don't care about us. And I mean it's getting serious. It's bringing division into the church and that Oh age old prejudice of the Greeks and the and the Jews rises its head. Notice the Grecians and the Hebrews. They already had that that uh that ingrained prejudice in their minds to begin with. And so there's trouble in the church. They're distracted. There's division. And it's hindering their ministry. And so they come up with these tactics. They say, well, let's choose out seven men, and they'll be responsible for meeting these needs. And I believe that there is our introduction to deacons. In fact, the word there, verse 2, when it says, it's not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Anybody want to guess what that word serves? The same word as what? Deacons Pastor saying, listen, we're overwhelmed with our responsibility. We can't leave the Word of God and deacon operate as deacons in the church, so we need to choose seven out. And so we have the introduction here. The church selects seven men. Now you think about it, the church is at least, everybody, how many folks are still with me? Everybody doing good? Alright? About the third of the crowd. Good. I'll take that. Now think about this. The church is at least 10,000 people. That's a heap. That's a third of the population of Garrett County. And uh they choose seven men to make sure everything's running smoothly. Would you agree with me? That's not a lot of men for at least 10,000 people Maybe 15 or 20,000. That's not a lot of people. I don't think, and let me just throw this out. I don't think a church needs 45 deacons. Don't need a whole heap of 'em. I know some place I get the church runs a hundred and they got twenty-seven deacons. It's like, I don't know. You know, that's their call, but Man, they had seven for a a minimum of 10,000. And so they choose these men out. There's no required number. I don't think it's some people say, well, the church has to have seven deacons. I don't see that anywhere They chose seven, but it nowhere implies that that's a standard or a precedent to go by. It's just what they chose. That's what they felt needed In that situation. And then they gave some requirements. In verse number 3, the last part there, they gave requirements. They need to be honest, report, full of the Holy Ghost, wisdom. And then they need to meet the approval of leadership. And I notice this, and I think sometimes this is overlooked in church business. Notice verse 6. The church chose them out. The church among themselves picked seven men, met these requirements, and then they bring them to the apostles who are functioning as pastors at this point. And notice where it says, they sat before the apostles, and when they had prayed, I'm assuming that's the apostles, they. When they the apostles had prayed, they laid their hands on them. I think the laying on the hands of them, that isn't conveying some supernatural uh energizing them, laying hands on another energizing, and that's not what it is. I think they're simply saying, yes, I give my approval. I give my approval. I give my approval. Now, I could be wrong on this. I don't think I am, but I could Uh the way I see that, I think it gives the pastor the leadership veto power. Church says, oh, we want these people to be uh deacons, and I think come and the pastor says, you know, I know some things Pastor may be privy to information about people that isn't public and should not be public, but he knows maybe it's not best for them to be in that position. And they can they give their approval. So I think the deacons, they're serving the pastor in the church, the pastor ought to be able to give his approval to him. If I understand that correctly. And so they uh, and then uh notice verse 7, the church explodes in growth again. And this distraction, this obstacle they face, this disruption they dealt with, the deacons are appointed and selected and put in place. They deal with the problem, boom, the church goes forward again. So would you agree with me? Deacons are important in the life of a church. Notice number two, real quickly, I want to get these out and because I really want to eat some cookies. Notice the duties of the deacons. Now here's where it's a little interesting. There's no clear instruction given as to deacons, what their duties are I can't find anywhere that says the deacon should do this or do that or don't do this and don't do that. I can't find that. It does for pastors, it says feed the flock of God, provide oversight You can see very clearly listed in Scripture what the pastor's responsibilities are, what his duties are. But the deacon, you kind of got to look at it a little bit and kind of come to a conclusion. And this is the way I see it. I think the duties of the deacons are determined by two things. First of all, the meaning of the term. It means to serve. One of the responsibilities of a deacon would be to serve the church. Meet the needs, keep that thing. Where's the need at? Where's the situation? What needs to be taken care of? That's where the deacons, what's what the word means. Number two is the example given to us here in Acts chapter 6. They meet the material needs. They're serving tables, to use the apostles' term. They got these widows are being neglected. So these seven fellows stepped in, found out what the situation was. What do you guys need? What's Uh, where are you being neglected? Okay. And they go find people in the church and they get that thing organized and they get that uh uh that material need taken care of, and it never comes up again It's never an issue again. The deacons dealt with it and solved the problem. And the apostles, who are functioning as pastors at this point, they're going forward with the teaching and preaching, and the church grows again. So they meet the material needs, but there's also another implication here, and that is this: to maintain the function of the church. What prompted all this was the division within the church, the murmuring. And they say, we need to get, we need these guys, we'll select these seven fellows. They go in and get this murmuring taken care of. Get this division settled. And so one of the important roles for a deacon is to help maintain the unity and the function of the church so we can go forward without division, without distraction. Important roles, important roles. And then last of all, I want to end with this, the requirements for a deacon. Can just anybody be a deacon? Well, we're given some pretty clear, very clear instructions as to what the qualifications or the requirements for a deacon are. It's interesting, they're almost identical to the pastor. If you compare in Timothy and Titus, they're almost identical. Now, how many deacons are required in the church? I don't see any specific number. I think it depends on what the church feels they need. And if they have anybody eligible, let me say this: if you have a small church, and this is just pastoral thinking here a little bit, but if somebody has a small church and they don't have anybody qualified that meets the qualifications for deacon, then you don't put a deacon in You just function until God provides that, until God sends someone. And so it depends on the need, and depends on how many you may have eligible. Sometimes pastors have problems with deacons. And every now and then, um, I remember a number of years ago in particular, it seemed like there was just a rash of pastors and they would say, man, I've got problems with these deacons causing me headaches and giving me a problem. I joke around. Well I thank God for our deacons But man, some of these guys get bad deacons, and uh I get talking to them, and uh, you know what I found out almost without exception, with a few exceptions They put deacons in to begin with that were not qualified. They were spiritually immature. They put them in because they were very popular or they were very successful businessmen. I know one pastor took a church years ago. I know him personally, took a church, and they had deacons in the church that weren't even members of the church. It was a Baptist church. They were members of a church of God How many people agree with me? That might cause some problems. And so there are some requirements, there are some qualifications, and if we I I just think if we do it the Bible way, we'll have Bible blessings. And so what are the qualifications? If you would turn just quickly, and I want to end with this. Come back to Timothy, 1 Timothy chapter 3. And I just want to summarize them. Normally I would be tempted to go down through and look at each one individually. We're not going to do that. I'm just going to summarize what the qualifications are. Notice in 1 Timothy 3 and verse number 8, he says, likewise must the deacons be grave. Now that word likewise refers back to the previous statements which was dealing with the pastor's requirements And let me just throw this out. A bishop, back in verse 2, must then be blameless. Or go back to verse 1. This is a true saying: if a man desire the office of a bishop, He desireth good work. Then in verse number 8, he says, likewise must the deacons. And we'll see here in the qualifications, but a deacon, first of all, needs to be a man. That's the role God has established. Some churches have deaconesses. And, you know, that's their call, but uh I don't see it in Scripture. It doesn't make men more important than women. It doesn't make them more valuable. It's different roles as God has given to us. That's all it is. And the deacon is a role that God has ordained that a man should fill. And so they likewise, and now notice the second word in verse 2: must the deacons be great? These are not optional. That word must means absolute necessity for deacons. Now notice the list of qualifications he gives here down through verse 13. Verse 8, I just summarized them this way. Number one, in verse number eight, they need to be spiritually, they have to have spiritual maturity. Look at verse 8. It says, be grave. It means taking their role seriously, the responsibility seriously. Not double-tongued, not uh you could say this way, not a liar. How many people would like deacons who are honest? Yeah, I would. Not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre, not out for money They're content with such things as they have. There's nothing wrong if the God's blessed them with, well, praise the Lord. But that's not where their heart is. That's not where their love is. That's not what their motive in life is to get money So they're spiritually mature. Look at verse 9. They have genuine purity. Spiritual maturity and genuine purity. Look at verse 9. Holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. In other words, their heart is pure, their mind is pure. They don't carry a sinful, guilty conscience around. You could put it this way, they're right with God. How many people know what it means to have a guilty conscience? How many people agree with me? That's miserable. Man, just have a pure conscience. A heart and mind is pure. My heart and mind is clean and right with God. That's what he says. We need a pastor, deacons who are have genuine purity in their life. Then look at verse number 10, the first part. They have to have a proven testimony Look at verse 10, it says, and let these also first be proved. The word proved there means examined, observed, or recognized that these guys are for real, these guys are genuine. These guys are legit. They've proven that. That's obvious. So they have to have a proven testimony. Then they need to have indisputable integrity. Look at the last of verse 10. He says, Let these be proved, and let them use the office of a deacon being found what? Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say being found sinless. If deacons had to be sinless, if pastors had to be sinless, you would have no deacons or pastors. He doesn't say sinless. He doesn't say they have to be perfect. But he does say they need to have integrity is what he's talking about here. They have integrity People who don't go around, they don't have these these flaws of character that people can say that guy's a liar, that guy's lazy. That guy can't be trusted. No, they're men of integrity that can be trusted. If they say they're going to do something, they do it. They're going to be somewhere there. Not sinless, not perfect, but they have integrity. And then last of all, verse 11 through 12, they have a household that's in harmony. They have a household that's in harmony. Look at verse 11. Even so must their wives be grave, not slanders, sober, faithful in all things. Now here's something I'm going to bring it up, but I don't have time to address it But I think it's interesting. In the list of qualifications for deacon, the wives are mentioned. In the list of qualifications for pastors, the wives are not mentioned. You say, well, what's the answer to that? Well, I think there's there is an answer to it. I think one thing it's simply implied that if this is true for the deacon, it ought to be deacon's wife, it ought to be true for the pastor's wife. Doesn't say that, and others take different take on it. Uh some have suggested that because of the s roles of deacons being involved with the people more on a maybe one-on-one level more direct, the wives would be involved in that. Uh the wives wouldn't be in teaching and preaching the word of God and leading the church, but for the deacons serving, the wives would be right there in the mix with them So that's a possibility why the wives are mentioned here and not with the pastor. But their wives are to be grave. They're supposed to take their responsibility as a deacon's wife seriously, not slanders, running people down Sober, again, taking it seriously, faithful in all things. And then he says, ruling their own their children, their own houses well, and so their household has to be in harmony. And then I notice here verse number 13: they that have used the office of a deacon, well used the office of a deacon well purchased to themselves a good degree. I tell you, God notices when a deacon is fulfilling his duties and doing a good job. It doesn't go unnoticed, and God honors that. And I believe there's great reward in heaven for deacons who never make the headlines and never maybe stand behind a pulpit and never recognize, but they serve God faithfully, and in heaven they have great rewards, I believe. I think that's what he's implying here. God never lets anyone serve him without honoring them at some point in time. And God recognizes and honors deacons. So I finish with this statement: When God's work is done in God's way, it gets God's blessings. Let me modify that. Let me amend that just a bit. When God's church is run God's way, we receive God's blessings on our church. I believe God has blessed our church. I believe God is blessing our church. And I think one of the reasons is because those that serve in deacons have done a good job. And are doing a good job. And I thank God for that. And really, really, if you look at these qualifications, God doesn't have two standards. What he expects of the deacons and what he expects of the pastors, I believe God expects of all church members That we have integrity, that we be spiritually mature, harmony in our homes, because we want God's blessings. Amen or not? We want God's blessings. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to do your work in your way. I ask you'd help us to run your church the way you tell us to. And I pray that be true in our homes, in our personal lives, that we'd follow your instructions. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher. I could use a little more spiritual maturity in my Christian life. I know it applies to deacons, directly to deacons, but it applies to all of us. How many people would say, preacher, I could use a little more spiritual maturity? Sure, my own hand is raised. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, uh I could uh I need a little bit more genuine purity in my heart and my conscience and my mind. So have a pure heart and mind. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, I need that. Sure, we do. Uh how about this proven testimony? I wonder How many would say, you know, I'd like for people to be able to see that my faith in Christ is genuine, not a show, but just actually they see Christ in me. Anybody feel that way? Sure. It's what's required of deacons, but it's expected of all of us. How about indisputable integrity? I'd like to be a man of integrity. I'd like to be a woman of integrity. Anybody like that? I need that. And then how about a home, a household that's in harmony? I need my home to be right I need things in the household to be as God instructs it to be. Any like that, preacher, I need that in my home. How about it? If we care about that, it'll happen. If we don't care, nothing's going to change. Nothing's going to change. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the imitation.