Acts chapter twenty, just one verse here. The context of verse twenty eight in Acts chapter twenty is Paul, the apostle Paul had gathered together, if you would notice there In verse number 17, he gathered together the elders from numerous churches in that area. Some of them had traveled a long way. It was kind of like a pastor's conference type thing. He called in these pastors, these elders, and for the next several verses, he gives to them what I consider to be Paul's philosophy of ministry. And he come down, he goes down through there and he tells them how what he did and and uh verse twenty, I kept back nothing from you. And he goes, he gives his philosophy, his approach To serving God. Then in verse number 28, I want you to notice what he says. He says, Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you what? Overseers. He's talking to pastors. And he says, God hath made you overseers to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. So here we have pastors or elders or overseers. If you would come to 1 Timothy quickly with me, 1 Timothy, and we're going to look at a bunch of verses. So get your Bible fingers out there. First Timothy chapter number three. First Timothy chapter number three. And we're going to go back and forth to some of these passages, so it might be a good idea to Mark them there so you can get back to them. First Timothy chapter three. Notice with me if you would verse number three verse number one. First Timothy three, verse one. This is a true saying If a man desire the office of a what? Bishop, we're going to look at that in a little bit, he desireth a good work. He's talking about the position of a pastor, leadership in the church. He desireth a good work. Now notice what he says. A bishop, then, this leader in the church, must be blameless The husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre, but patient, not a brawler, not covetous One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without lest he fall into reproach in the snare of the devil. Now if you would come over to Titus, just a few pages over. You have 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, get to Titus. Chapter number one, and begin reading in verse number five. Paul is writing to Titus, and he's giving them some instructions here. Verse 5, he says, chapter 1, he says, For this cause left I thee in Crete that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting and ordain elders. That's leadership in the church, elders in every city, as I had appointed thee. If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of riot or unruly For a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God, not self-willed, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre. but a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate, holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convince the gainsayers. One more passage, real quickly, over in Peter, 1 Peter chapter number 5 And we've looked at this some time ago in our study of Peter. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 1. Notice what he says here. The elders, here's the leadership again in the church. The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Now he gives them some instructions here Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not of filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. neither as being lords over God's inheritage, that would be the church, but being ensamples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd shall appear you shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. I want to talk about church leadership. Tonight I want to, in the brief time we have, talk about the pastor, pastoral leadership in the local church. Lord will next week we'll look at the office of deacon. And so let's pray together, ask the Lord to instruct us this evening. Father in heaven, we come to you and end of the Lord's day, and just our hearts are full with such a blessing today, this morning, and even this evening And I pray now that you would uh take these passages and this teaching here on the church leadership and instruct us and help us, Lord. We want to be right. We want to be the church that you would have us to be. So I ask for, Lord, once again, for the filling of your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, I present my body anew All my heart, I pray and ask, Lord, you be the teacher tonight. Holy Spirit, please speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Someone said it is impossible to separate The message and the messenger. You follow what I'm saying? It's impossible to separate the message and the messenger. And by that I mean this. Who is bringing the message is a vital factor in our understanding or our understanding of what the message is. You file how many people have no idea what I'm talking about? Raise your hand. Some of y'all are just looking at how many people know exactly what I'm talking about? How many people aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I say The person bringing the message, what they who and what they are, is vitally important to how people understand the message. Let me illustrate. Go to Acts chapter number 16 with me Acts chapter 16. Paul is in Philippi. He's just showed up. He's preaching. A lot of amazing things happened in the city of Philippi. And Paul is preaching, and uh this gal shows up in Acts chapter 16 and verse 16. This gal shows up. And it says, and it came to pass as we went to prayer, a certain damsel, now look at the description of this gal. Possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by Sue saying. So she's possessed of what? A devil. This is a devil-possessed gal. And she's bringing her master's game. She does this divination. Now notice what she says. Now pay attention. The same followed Paul and us and cried, saying, Now here's the message. These men are the servants of the Most High God. which show unto us the way of salvation. Question, is there anything wrong with that message? Good or good message or bad message? Good. Is it right or wrong? True or false What she's saying is absolutely true, is right on Mark. Paul and his entourage are servants of the Most High God, and they are showing them the way of salvation. Her message was absolutely right. Now look what Paul said. Next verse. And this she did many years, but Paul being what? Grieved. Why would he be grieved? This gal's helping get the message out She's going ahead and telling everybody, why in the world would he be grieved? And she turned he turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ, come out of her. And he came out the same hour. You know what the problem was There was the right message, but it was the wrong messenger. She was not in a position to speak with authority. And it would distort the message. People's understanding of her message would be a it was affected by the messenger. And I'm saying all that to say this The message of our church, and I touched on this this morning, the message of our church must be biblical, right or wrong. We have no other message. The messenger of our church must be biblical. The leadership And from talking about pastor, but we that would apply all the way down through Sunday school and in all areas of influence. So you can't separate the message of Christ You can't separate that from the messenger. The messenger must be just as biblical as the message is, or it distorts the message. How many people now are are catching up to me? Everybody know where I'm at? All right. You guys aren't going to respond no matter what. Now there are two scriptural offices in a church, in a local church. Two offices. I already mentioned them. What are they? Number one, what? Pastor. Number two. Deacon, that's the only two you're gonna find in the Bible. Uh there is no there is no hierarchy over top of the local church It's the pastor and the deacon. Now, we have some offices, quote unquote, that aren't necessarily biblical. For instance, we have trustees We have treasurer, we have a financial secretary, we have a Sunday school superintendent. So we have some of these offices. that are not necessarily biblical in nature. Now the Bible does instruct us to have trustees, but the Bible does not forbid us from having trustees. Some of these offices are put in place, they're man-made, and they're put in place so that we can operate things decently and in order. And so we have certain people that handle the finances, and you know, they're trusted. The church selects them out. Others help handle the facilities and the property here. Trustees, primarily responsible for that. And so the Bible doesn't forbid having some of these others, but the Bible does say the two offices, biblical offices of the church, are pastor and deacon. And those would be consist of the leadership, biblical leadership in the church. Now, the pastor is the primary leader in a Baptist church. And we have scriptural basis for that. That's what I want to try and do in the little bit of time I have tonight. The pastor is the primary leader in the church. We have a scriptural basis for that However, Jesus Christ is the chief shepherd. For in the 1 Peter chapter 5, he's the chief shepherd. Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that Jesus Christ is the head of the church. He's the one that calls the shots. He's the final authority. And the pastor is what we refer to as the under-shepherd. He has the delegated authority by God to oversee that church and keep that thing according to Scripture. And so leadership in the church is important. Now, how does the church select their leader? How does the church select the pastor? This is the way I see it. The church submits themselves to the Lord. They seek the Lord. God's leadership and direction. The church as a body does that And then believing they have the Lord's leadership, they elect or select a pastor to be over them. In this case, it was in night in August of nineteen ninety-three Handful of folks here and they prayed, sought the Lord. They've been bringing people through and um and it just uh they didn't have peace about any and I showed up last one on the list literally And um the peace that God was there. We felt this is the fella. I felt peace on my end that this was God's will. And so what I'm trying to say is this, the Lord directs who He would have that church choose to be their under shepherd, to be their pastor. Everybody with me? Alright? Everybody? And so that's how that process takes place. Now, what I want to do, and this requires a lot more time than I'm giving it tonight, really, to do a thorough study, but at least give a summary of the responsibility and roles of a pastor. in the church. First of all, my first thought is this. I want us to notice there are titles or terms that are we recognize as being applying to the pastor. I just want to give these real quickly. And for most of us this is this is review. There's various terms the Bible uses that we recognize that it's referring to the pastor, the per first one being pastor That's the one we're most familiar with. That's what most people use to refer to the pastor as a pastor. We get that from Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. And that's the most familiar term. What does the term pastor when we give a title to somebody? That's Pastor Leatherman, Pastor Matt, or Pastor Whoever? What does that term mean? The word simply comes from the word pastor simply comes from the same word. We get our word shepherd. To be a shepherd, to be a I like this definition I found came across, a herdsman. So the pastor has to herd this crowd, you know, keep it together and keep it herded up. Brother, that's like herding cats sometimes, I'll tell you right there. And so one of the terms the Bible uses for the leadership in a church is the term pastor. That's the one we're most familiar with. There's a couple others, primarily, and the other one is the term elder. Now 17 times, primarily the book of Acts, but throughout the New Testament, 17 times the term elder. is used to refer to that leadership position that we know mostly as pastor, elder. Now we don't use that term much. Nobody's ever called me Elder Leatherman. You know, they've called me other names, but they haven't called me Elder Leatherman. And so that term elder has a few things it implies. Not necessarily age, although that would perhaps be a part of it, but it has it implies the term elder implies to be spiritually mature. Somebody that has been in the Christian life a little while, somebody that has a little bit of spiritual maturity to them. It has the idea of having some Christian experience behind them. If they're going to provide leadership in the church. How many of you agree with me? It might not be a good idea to have someone that was saved last Sunday become the pastor of a church this Sunday They need a little time to grow, a little time to become an elder, have a little bit of experience to grow a little bit in that And so elders has the idea of spiritual maturity, Christian, having some Christian experience. Somebody that can speak with a little bit of spiritual authority Not that they're better than anybody else or they're more favored of God than anybody else, but they they have a track record. They've been around for a little while. They've been involved. They know a little bit about what's going on Now I'll be very honest with you, when I came in nineteen ninety-three, I was pretty green behind the ears. I had worked behind under a good pastor for four years in Indianapolis. I worked closely with Charles Holmscher great man of God for three years. I had good education uh down at Temple, I had good exposure there. But uh I'll be honest with you, I was still a little green. I remember One of the men, Marvin, we got here. I mean I got in Thursday. We took the U-Haul truck back to Cumberland on Friday. And um Everybody kept saying we're going to go down to Cumberland. I looked at the map. I thought that's north. We're not going down to Cumberland. Then I drove to Cumberland. I realized we're going down to Cumberland And on the way back he made this statement and he was telling me different issues in the church. Some I knew a little bit about, others I had no idea. And uh he goes and he made this statement. He was driving, I was in the past, he made this statement But Brother Leatherman, I know you got a plan and you know exactly what you're doing. And I said, uh yeah, I do. Oh, my plan was I'm going to trust God and win souls. That's pretty much my plan. But the idea of the term elder Has the idea of a little bit of experience, a little bit of maturity, a little bit of spiritual authority. So pastor is one term. We're most familiar with that. That's what we use all the time. Elder, here's another term. Now sometimes you hear this, sometimes it's misapplied, and that is the term bishop. Bishop. Timothy. Paul mentioned that right in Timothy. If any man desire the office of a bishop, the word bishop is used four times, referencing leadership in the local church, the bishop. It's also the same word as the word overseer. In Acts chapter 20, Paul said, whom God has made you overseers. Sometimes people will have some denominations, they have a bishop, and the bishop won't be a pastor of a local church He will be some elected fellow or appointed fellow that is over top of a number churches. They'll have a synod, maybe, or they'll have a district And the bishop is over the pastors and over those churches, a number of them, and they in some cases will dictate to those churches what they can or cannot do. In some cases, the denomination actually owns the property that the church meets in, the building and property. The local church doesn't own it. The denomination does. All I want to say about that tonight is that is unscriptural That is not in the Bible. There is no office of bishop over top of numerous churches. The bishop is another term for the pastor. Or the elder, the overseer of that particular church. And so the term bishop. It's kind of to understand the term bishop, the way I see it is kind of like this. It's kind of like the captain of a ship. The captain of that ship, he oversees the functioning of that ship. And that people are doing this way, the thing's going in the right direction, it stays on course And uh he's overseeing that. I watched a documentary a number of years ago, uh year or two ago, and uh it was about a submarine up under the Arctic ice cap And that submarine would go under that thing. I don't know about you, that's fascinating to me. And they take that submarine down under there, and in this case there was a fellow there, he was allowed by the Navy to come on that submarine And uh he was documenting how they approached coming up through the ice. Now that sounds easy enough. I just figured you'd go in there and say, hit the up button, you go up through it. There's a little bit more involved than that. And I never thought about it, but you have currents going different ways, so they gotta keep that thing level. They've got to keep it in the right direction. They got certain areas in the ice they have to go through and how technical and complicated it was bringing that thing up through the ice. So it was fascinating. And the thing that caught my attention was this. The captain of that submarine was standing there And he was showing the different fellows, this guy's calculating that, and this guy's doing the ballast and this guy's doing thrust and this guy's working that and everybody's intense working as they're approaching. If they did it wrong, it could be deadly, and they're approaching everybody's focus. And the captain's standing there like this. And the fellow doing the documentary came over and he said, And what's your job? What exactly do you do in this whole process? He says, I oversee He says, my responsibility is to make sure everybody's doing their responsibility. He says, I don't run the thrust. I don't work with the ballast. And he named he says, I don't do that. These men are highly trained in their areas. They know exactly what we're doing. My job is to oversee. And uh he's not out there doing every little thing. And that's kind of the way I see the pastor of the church. The pastor doesn't teach every Sunday school class, he doesn't run every bus He doesn't lead the music. He doesn't do all this. Now, early on he might have to. And by the way, a good pastor ought to be willing to do that. If there's a commode clogged, I'll tell you, I I unclog the commode if it needs it. Robin Bonner calls me up. Pastor, there's a commode clogged here. One time she did that And uh so willing to do that. But the past and I think you'll see here if I can get to it as quickly as I can, but the pass the overseer, the bishop, he makes sure that s that ship of Zion stays on the right course. Make sure those lessons being taught are are what they ought to be. Make sure the music is what it ought to be. And he puts people in place. He delegates authority and trusts them and knows that they don't lead that thing right. That's the way I see it. Leadership in the church, it doesn't mean the pastor does everything. It's impossible. But he oversees that. He oversees that. And so the terms pastor, elder, bishop. So Next Sunday, you see me, you come home, say, Hey Bishop Leatherman, uh you could say that. You could say, Hey Bishop Matt be kind of weird, but we could say that. And uh or you could say, hey, Elder Leatherman. I might be offended, but uh But uh it's elder, not old man. All right, just keep that in mind. So the terms. Number two, the responsibilities. I kind of touched on these, the title implies These are all interchangeable. You can use those titles. But what are the responsibilities of the pastor? And I'm having to rush through this more than I want, but uh Number one, the responsibility, the leadership, the pastoral leadership in the church is to teach and preach the Word of God. Number one, primary responsibility. is to teach and preach the word of God. Second Timothy chapter 4, Paul told Timothy, this up-and-coming pastor, this up-and-coming elder. Bishop, whatever term you want to use, he's up and coming. He says, Preach the word, be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, uh with all longsuffering Pastor's primary responsibility is to preach and teach the Word of God. The pastor isn't doing that. He isn't fulfilling his responsibility. And um uh I t I like I said, I got my hands full with our own church. I don't worry about other churches too much, but sometimes I just think these guys, what in the world are they doing? They're not preaching the Bible. I had one of the fellows this morning going out after this morning's message said to me, He said, I've been in other denominations in years gone by. And he says, You'd be amazed how many of these churches do not preach the Bible And that's a failure of leadership in that church. That's our responsibility. Turn with me, if you would, to Ephesians chapter 4, real quickly. Teaching and preaching the Word of God to the people of God, feeding the flock is another term the Bible uses. Paul uses that term in Ephesians 20, or in Acts chapter 20 And he said it tells them to feed the flock over which God has made you an overseer. Look at Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 11. Ephesians 4, verse number eleven. He says this, and he, God, gave some apostles and some prophets. And some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. Now, just a quick word of explanation here. That term apostles, the apostles was a one-time office. That was a temporary office In the beginning of the church, they laid the foundation. They were part of the foundation for the New Testament church. There is no apostolic succession In other words, when those apostles died out, the church was established, the Bible was completed, that office was no longer needed. Then he says, prophets and eva and uh evangelists, and some pastors and teachers Now I think, my opinion is that pastors and teachers, he's talking about one office there. The pastor is a pastor-teacher. But notice what he's supposed to do with that teaching and preaching, the effect it's supposed to have in verse number 12. For the perfecting of the saints. In other words, the development and maturity of the saints. Why? For the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. In other words. One of the responsibilities of the pastor, the bishop, the elder, what term you want to use, is to teach and preach the word of God in such a way so that the the believers will be perfected. Let me make sure I quote this right. Perfecting of the saints. In other words, so that they grow and mature. A person sitting under the preaching and teaching of the Word of God ought to grow spiritually if the Bible is being pro preached and taught And then for the work of the ministry. In other words, part of the responsibility of the pastor is to teach the people how to serve God That's why we have soul-winning training. So people learn how to do that. That's why we have teacher training. And Brother Mark leads out, worker training. That's why we go to these conferences. Part of my responsibilities, as pastor, is to teach people how to serve God, how to win souls, how to uh uh uh serve the Lord That's part of it. It's more just standing up here and running your mouth. There's involved in teaching. And then he goes on and says, for the edifying the body. Part of the responsibility of the pastor is to build up, encourage the church. And help people grow in their faith and get along with each other and love each other. I thank God for this church. And the love and the and the family atmosphere that is here is a wonderful thing. And that's God's doing, and that's part of the pastor's responsibility, is to nurture that And to teach that and develop that along with evangelists and others that have a part. So, number one, preach and teach the word of God. Number two, protect the church from wrong influence Everybody doing all right? Everybody still with me out there? Alright, so a little bit more teaching. Come back to Acts chapter 20 again with me. Acts 20. And uh Paul again he's addressing these pastors, these elders from various churches in that region. And some of them traveled a long way, and he's there sharing his philosophy, teaching them. He's teaching pastors. And notice in verse 28, now part of the responsibility of the pastor, the elder, is to protect the church from wrong influence. Look what he says. Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. To feed the church of God, that's the preaching and teaching of God's word. Look at this, which he has purchased with his own blood. For I know this, that after my departing shall what Grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, and draw away disciples after them. Therefore, watch And remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. Now he's telling them, you need to oversee this church. You need to protect this church Did you know there is false doctrine that would love to get in this church and mess us up? You know there are spiritual wolves that would love to hurt us and divide us Part of the responsibility of the pastor is to keep that influence out and help protect the church. So what a shepherd does with the sheep Protect that church. I had years ago there was a fellow was coming out and a fine fellow, very sincere, and he would get this stuff in the mail from these TV nutcases And he'd bring in and he'd have these little cloth. They'd say, you know, send me 250 bucks, we'll send you this prayer cloth. We prayed over it. And you just lay that on the part of your body where you're sick, you just lay it on, and there'll be miraculous healing. And he says, Pastor, do you think I ought to send my money into that? Anybody want to guess what I advised him? I said, I think that ought to be in file 13. And that ought to be thrown away. Don't you mess with that at all. And that's part of responsi pastor's responsibility is to help protect the church from that kind of nonsense. And any pastor, any elder, any leadership in the church, pastoral leadership that does not warn the church about false doctrine is failing in his responsibility as a pastor. And preaching against sin. Protect from false doctrine coming in. I think another area of responsibility for the pastor in this protecting the church from wrong influence is keeping the world out Not just false doctrine, but the world's influence. And emulating the world and imitating the world and trying to appeal to the world and trying to appease the world. We are not to emulate the world. We are not to appease the world. We're not to imitate the world. We are to be separate from the world as a church, distinct. As a body of believers, distinct from the rest of the world. It's not that we isolate ourselves, we still go into the world and reach them and work with them and try and be a witness, but we do not let the world in here. Amen or not. A lot of churches uh uh failing in that area, and I lay the blame on the leadership of the church for allowing that to happen Allowing that to happen. Can I just tell you my thinking a little bit on that? I think we ought to err on the side of caution. I I think there may be somebody says, well preacher, maybe we could do this. Maybe we could, but let's play it safe. Amen. I'd rather get to heaven and find out there's some stuff I could have done in my church that I didn't than get to heaven and find there's stuff I let in the church I should not have. So we want to play it safe. Play it safe. Sorry, that's my approach. I want to stay far away from that cliff of worldliness as I possibly can. And so that's the responsibility of the pastor. Protect the church from false doctrine and from foolish worldliness, and also, real quickly, from frivolous distractions You know, we could get caught up in silly stuff that has nothing to do with eternity. We could get it's not wrong in and of itself, but we could get caught up on softball games and And fun and games and all that. And I've seen churches just get eat up with the frivolous stuff that has nothing to do with the gospel. And I tell you, that is a failure on the part of the leadership of that church In other words, we got to keep the main thing. What? The main thing. And not get distracted by a lot of silly foolishness. Now we can have fun But uh we don't let it take over it. Then to provide leadership in administration, and I don't have time. Hebrews 13 says, uh remember them that have the rule over you, that has the idea of authority to direct. The pastor shouldn't lord it over the church. He's not just some Lord, this is my domain, this is my kingdom. No, this is Christ's body. But Christ has delegated authority to the pastor to make decisions, administrative decisions, to make a, to give direction to that church, way it should go. And by the way, it all ought to line up with the old word of God, amen or not. But that's the pastor's responsibility to provide leadership there. And also provide leadership as an example. Again, we don't have time. First Peter 5. 3 says, be an example to the flock, not lording it over the flock, but be an example Be what you ought to be, and the church can follow that, not flawless, not sinless. But a pastor, the leadership in the church ought to be an example of what a Christian ought to be. You can't lead people somewhere you're not. Amen or not. And so that's uh that's part of it. Then I gotta just throw this out there, the requirements. We find these in 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1 verse 6 through 9. And he gives a list, a detailed list of requirements, and we could do a month-long series on these. But uh let me say this: God does not have a double standard. The requirements for the pastor are also expected of all believers. How many people believe me uh all believers ought not to be given to wine? How many people believe all believers ought not to be brawlers? Or to be humble, have a good home, all of us, right? And so it's not a double standard, but it comes back to that being an example. And so there are some requirements Let me just give them out to you, number one, it ought to be a man. If any man desire the office of a bishop And uh I wish we had time. We don't, I've got to end. But uh in 1 Timothy 3 there it says, If any man be if any man desire the office of a bishop He, the word term he, uh the pronoun he is used all down through that. It says the husband of one wife. That ought to clarify it right there. Amen or not? Well, in our day and age, you might have to explain that a little The pastor is to be a man. I know that's not popular And you say, oh, you got you your male superiority. It has nothing to do with superiority, has nothing to do with importance, it has to do with the roles God has given the men and women The women are just as important as the church of the men. But God designed us differently. He's given us different roles to fulfill, different roles to carry out. And he's very, very clear. You can't get around it. I don't know how in the world some of these churches get around it. The requirement to be a pastor is you have to first of all be a man. And by the way, you've got to be a saved man. I don't want an unsaved pastor. Have to have morals. Blameless means above reproach. Sober, not a drunk, not drinking A man, morals, he has to be married, husband of one wife. Now folks have different approach on that. I think that a pastor ought to be a married man I know other people look at that and say, well, it's not a requirement, but I don't know how you're a husband and one wife and you're not married. Not my thinking. I don't know. Husband of one wife. Married once. Children in the home, obedient, not sinless kids, but obedient. He has the thing under control. An orderly home. So he's to be a man. He's to be moral. He's to be married. And he should be mature. And there we don't have time, but verse 6 and verse 2 and verse 7 of Timothy, verse Timothy 3, he has to have some experience, not a novice. He needs to exercise his gift, uh apt to teach. He needs to be have a good testimony, uh uh above reproach, a good testimony out in the world. And I don't have time to to dwell in these. But the the leadership in a church. Dr. Lee Robertson said this. He said everything rises and falls on leadership. I believe that's true. Now, let me throw this out very quickly. I believe followship is just as important as leadership. I think followers are just as important. You have the greatest leader in the world. People don't follow them. It's not going to be any good. I think you can have a poor leader. And if the followers are good, they can still do something for God. They can still do something for God. When I came here as pastor, I told the Lord, I said, Lord, I know I know that I'm just a man. And somebody mentioned this earlier today. And I'm just a man. And God, if you'll make up for my areas of weakness, and I know some in administration and some of those areas I'm not very strong in. But Holy Spirit of God, if you'll just take me and fill me, and if you'll make up for those areas where I'm weak, I'll give you all I have. I'll give you everything I have. I'll seek to be the best pastor that I can possibly be. But God, I need you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and do it through me. I'm going to remind you of something. The pastor of a church, the leadership in the church, the pastor, the shepherd, is one of the sheep also. Don't ever forget that. It's not a, I don't like the term clergy. Oh, are you a clergy? No, I'm a sinner saved by grace, and God called me to be a pastor of a church. There's no difference between the clergy and laity. You follow what I'm saying? I'm just w uh uh I'm one of y'all. And uh y'all are w you might not like this, y'all are one of me We're all in this boat together. God gives us different roles to play, different responsibilities. And God calls some to be a pastor, to provide the leadership in the church. Some are called to be deacons. Some are called in other areas, Sunday school teachers, whatever. But God has a role and a place and a responsibility, and for pastoring has requirements. Years ago when I was in temple, there was a fella, one of my Favorite Bible teachers in the world, Lehman Strauss. He's been with the Lord for years. And he would speak down there, tremendous Bible teacher. He would preach in Bible conference, and it would just ate it up And he would tell those young preachers, he would say this young to the young preachers, he would say, he says, you're going to be a preacher number one, you preach. Number two, you pray. And number three, you plug away. Preach, pray, and plug away. You know what he was saying? He's saying you get some fire in your soul. You get some fire in your bones, and you serve God with enthusiasm and Holy Ghost zeal and see what God will do. And that's what I've sought to be, and that's what I'm asking, challenging all our church folk. Let's preach the word of God everywhere we go Let's pray for God's blessing and God's power, and then let's just plug away. Let's just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. Amen or not Now I don't know how to give an invitation on this, but other than this, I wonder if we go into this week if our church would make special effort to pray for your pastors, myself and Pastor Matt, and just pray. That God will lead us and God will direct us and God will empower us and God will bless and power our church that we can be what God wants us to be. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed Is Jane's coming up here to the piano? Maybe you'd want to hit an old alt