Iroquois nation. You weren't talking about a political system, you were talking about a group of people. And so when the Lord said, Go into all the world, uh when he says, uh go ye therefore and teach all nations He's talking about the groups of people with so with uh that have a common language, a common culture, a common heritage, that nation of people The Cherokee Nation, the Iroquois Nation, and within Kazakhstan there are nations. So he's talking about us getting into all the world, every people group, so to speak But he's talking about evangelism. But, alright. Leave it at that. Now, look at the next phrase. Teach all nations what's the very next word? Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Now, if you study your Bible carefully, if you study it honestly, There is only one organism, or organization, you could say maybe that has biblical authority to baptize. And that is who? That's the church An individual, I study my Bible, I uh uh I believe I come to a correct conclusion, just some individual does not have biblical authority to go out there and just baptize people on their own. It is to be done The church, under the authority and the umbrella of the church. Generally, in a Bible preaching church, a Baptist church, a the pastor does the baptizing, but That church can designate that authority to baptize to someone within the church and give that authority to them to do that. For instance, uh Brother Vic Slobo years ago had the ministry up in Thomas and uh I think he was leading young men to the Lord in that um um in the uh what what was it? Juvenile ho home up there the prison up there for young people, uh young boys. And he wanted to get permission to bring him here and let me baptize him. But the problem was they could not cross the state line And so he approached me and said, Preacher, what can we do? I said, Tell you what, we'll give you authority from this church. You can baptize them up there. Under the name of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, under that authority. And so we did that. And it worked beautifully. But the baptism, when the Lord said, go you therefore and teach all nations, reach all people groups, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, now we know he's referring to a local church's ministry. of baptizing. Um we're uh talking about I need to start using other uh illustrations uh other than one particular missionary. I gotta be careful about that. Uh but uh uh we got our brother going to Mongolia. Brother Richie's gonna come in. I'm excited about bringing him on and being part of our missions team Brother Richie's gone to Mongolia and um uh he goes uh he didn't he can't he doesn't just go over there on his own start baptizing people. He goes under the authority of a local church And so this is given to a church. Now, follow my thinking here. Teach all nations, that's soul winning, that's evangelism. We all do that. But then when he says baptizing, we know that this is done under local church authority. And by the way, Baptism is the most important thing a new believer should do. You cannot escape that. In the Bible, they got saved, baptized. That was the first and most important step. Now look what he says. Baptizing them in the name of Father, Son, Holy Ghost. Now look at verse 20. Teaching them to observe what? All things that I have commanded you. So here's the idea. Speaking to the apostles, who were the foundation stones of the church, Christ the chief cornerstone. Go into all the world, make disciples of them, win them to Christ, under the authority of the local church, baptize them, and then teach them to observe everything I've commanded you to do. Hey, to me that sounds like the ministry of a local church. Discipling the believers, teaching them the word of God. That's Sunday school. That's the preaching services. That's Wednesday night Bible study. That's Bible Institute. Teaching what God has told us to do. Hey, that's soul-winning training, Sunday afternoons, 4. 30. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. So I look at this and I break this down and I say it, and it looks like to me This great commission is given to the local church. With them to the Lord, baptize them, church does that Teach and observe all things. That's the church does that. So the whole implication of this great commission is that churches are to reproduce themselves. Abe will we went to be with the Lord what about three weeks ago and I had a privilege of going up there. A couple guys went along, it was part of the funeral, just small, and um uh he came to Oakland, under the authority, if I understand it correctly, under the authority of the church in Cumberland, Crescenttown, the Calvary Baptist Church. They organized, that's it. They brought him in, and he started church under that. The church in Crescenttown reproduced itself in Oakland. He came here. He uh he taught all all the people, people got saved, he baptized them under the authority of church in Crescentown, and he taught them to observe, to do all things what the Lord commanded, and the church began. Now Our responsibility is to do what they did. With people, Lord, baptize them, teach them to do what's we commanded. But it's not limited just what we do here. What was the first words? Go ye therefore and teach what? All nations. Doesn't just say our local area here, Oakland. Our responsibility is to get churches out there in all nations And get them evangelizing and baptizing and teaching to do what the Lord told them to do. And then those churches reproduce themselves and spread themselves out into all nations, baptizing them and uh teaching them to serve what's over the Lord. You follow the point? So this whole the whole implication of this passage is the local church reproducing itself throughout the whole world. We could go to Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. Go eat what well let me tell you what keep your place here flip over there real quick Acts chapter 1 and verse 8 if this verse isn't underlying your Bible be really good to do that I'm not sure if we'll end up back here in Matthew or not, but notice chapter 1 and verse 8 of Acts. Of course, here the Lord is energizing the church. His Holy Spirit's about to come and fill the believers, the church there in Jerusalem. Look what he says. But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. By the way, you don't have to ask for the Holy Ghost. You got him. Now we can seek his power. Seek his filling, but we've got the Holy Spirit. So he's come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Now, you have your pen, how many people have your pen out? Anybody got alright look Ye shall be witnesses unto me. Next word. Booth! I circled that in my Bible Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. This is presenting to us all nations of Matthew 28. We are to go uh into all these places, all over the whole world. Now what's he mean by that word both? And then he says and and and here's what we think this, when we just casually read it, we get this idea Well, we reach Jerusalem, and then when we're done reaching Jerusalem, then we'll reach Judea. And then when we're done reaching Judea, we quit that and we go to Samaria. Then when we finish Reach and Samaria or quit Reach and Samaria, then we go into all the world. But that's not what he says we're supposed to do. He says we're supposed to be doing all four, what? Simultaneously. Mount Lincoln Event Baptist Church is to be reaching our Jerusalem. What would be our Jerusalem? Oakland. Mount McPart, Deerpart, uh Loch Lynn. Although that's more like a heathen country, non-teason. That's where Brother Williams lived for a long time. He could give testimony. But uh that's our this immediate area is our Jerusalem and Judea. What would be our Judea Could be Garrett County, could be maybe Maryland and and this part this region, West Virginia section, uh up to Grantsville, maybe up up to Markleysburg. Uh going up towards Uniontown and over towards Parsons maybe and then over towards Kaiser and down towards Thomas and Davis, uh foreign lands down in there, and uh this general region Could be called our Judea. So have Jerusalem. So while we're knocking on doors in Oakland and Mount Lake Park, we're also To be trying to reach people in these more extended areas that are not in our immediate town. Alright, are you with me? Everybody still with me? So Judea, Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria. Now if you get your Bible map out, see Samaria's a little bit farther up outside of the immediate Judea area, and that would be maybe equivalent to what? Our country, the United States of America, maybe the the eastern part of the United States of America, or maybe you could even include in that the North American continent. So while we're knocking on doors on B Street and um uh Foster Road and on Paisel Crosscut, we're knocking on those doors, sharing the gospel with them. We are also to be both doing out in other regions. Friendsville and Davis and Thomas uh simultaneously, then we're also to be doing what we can to get up into New England, Connecticut and Maine and North Carolina and Ohio and Tennessee and uh North Dakota and Colorado all at the same time. Then what does he say? And Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to what? Uttermost part of the world. I can't think of a more uttermost place than Mongolia. You talk about another planet. That place is something else. I wish I could take you all there. But um that while we're doing this, we're to be reaching those areas. We are to be reaching KZ. Everybody, that's a secret coat. Everybody got that. Um where to be reaching these other countries. And so uh Um we are to be reproducing ourselves simultaneously in all these places. Reproducing churches. Now, if we do this, if I'm correct. And if we start working at reproducing churches, not just getting people saved, not just giving out literature, that's all part of it. I'm not saying we should stop that But if we focus our thinking and change our thinking a little bit into reproducing churches, that will help us reach the whole world. I'm suggesting this. More good fundamental independent Baptist churches in America will enable us to reach the rest of the world much more effectively. It'll multiply our resources. It will multiply our manpower. I want to illustrate this in Scripture. Turn with me if you would to Acts 13. Acts 13. And notice with me verse one. Question, where was the first church? No, the first church. The very first church. Where was the first church? Don't listen to Dr. Williams. What was the first The very first church was First Baptist Church of Jerusalem You say, how do you know it was Baptist? Well they didn't have the name on, but if we're correct, they had the same doctrine we do. Oh wait a minute. If we're correct, we have the same doctrine they did. Let's get this right So, first church in Jerusalem. But look at Acts 13. Where's this church at? Anyone. Oh. Sounds to me like the church in Jerusalem reproduced itself. Hey, the disciples came up to Antioch and got a church started. Right? Are you with me? Now look what happens. Now, there were in the church that was at Antioch. Certain prophets and teachers as Barnabas and Simeon that was called Niger and Lucius of Cyrene and Menae and which had been Brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul, this guy who worked in the household of the king there. And Saul. Now look at verse 2. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them. Look at this. And what? Sent them away. The church in Jerusalem. reproduce themselves with the church in Antioch, which now is reprodu beginning to reproduce itself by sending out church planters in the farther regions. Now come over to chapter 16 of Acts and look with me at verse 1. Paul and Barnabas went on this journey. They got planned a bunch of churches out of the church at Antioch. They weren't out operating on their own. They were out sent out from the church at Antioch to reproduce themselves and uh they get back then you decide in verse thirty six of chapter fifteen they're gonna take go back out and check on these churches that they had started out there. See how they're doing? Uh Paul and Barnabas got a little fuss and uh so the things happened there. But now, look at verse one of sixteen. Then came he, Paul, to Derby and Lystra, and behold, a certain disciple was there named what? Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, later he's called Timothy, which was a Jewess, and believed, but his father was a Greek It was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra, and I quoted him, him would Paul have to go forth with him. I took him and circumcised him because of the Jews which are in these quarters For they knew that his father was Greek. And as they went through the cities, they delivered the decree for which to keep they were doing to the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem Also uh so were the churches established in the faith and increased the number daily. So what's happening? Church at Jerusalem reproduced itself, one of the churches it reproduced itself with was the church at Antioch Church in Antioch, Spirit moves in them, they send out Paul and Baros, they go out and reproduce that church with a number of churches throughout the area. Now, Paul finds Timothy. Paul brings Timothy in under his wing and he disciples him. He uh takes him as an intern, so to speak, trains him as to go, and later on we find that Timothy becomes a what? He becomes a pastor. You got 1 and 2 Timothy, written by Paul while he was pastoring churches in Macedonia and different places. Now Timothy is out there reproducing Sent out from the church. You see the process taking place. And that church is at Jerusalem, reproduces itself, then they've reproduced themselves, and you have this continual expansion. I'm telling you, we have gotten away from that. Now I'm not trying to to be a radical or disrupt anything what we're doing. Thank God for the missionaries I have, we're going to keep doing that. But I'm wondering If it isn't a little more biblical to send people out of local churches, uh rather than just guys coming out and saying, hey, I'm going here, my church is sent up. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not trying to end that. I'm not trying to say that's bad. But I'm saying maybe we should have more of a focus as a local church of us going out and reproducing ourselves specifically. Alright? Follow my thinking. I'll just I want to challenge your thinking tonight a little bit. Um They go on the second journey, find Timothy, in a church planted by the church that was In Antioch, the church in Antioch was planted by the church in Jerusalem. So number one, this is my thought. Planting churches reproducing churches, I believe. The primary emphasis of the Great Commission. Number two, church planting enables church members to be actively and directly involved in the Great Commission. In other words, and I'll use Paul Lint as an example in Pittsburgh. Paul Lynt did not come out of our church. I love Paul, we support him 100%. I'm all behind him. He didn't come out of church. But We had an opportunity because of that church planning effort in the Keysport, we were able to have a part in that Right? And Paul has become very special to us. We've had teams up there repeatedly giving out literature, helping them. Brother Chip was up Vicky, we're up there for a year or so and actively involved in that. And I tell you In some ways, I feel like that's one of our babies. Now, I don't have a legitimate claim to that, but that's why I feel. Now think about it. What if we What if Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would take it upon ourselves that we are going to start a church in Pittsburgh? Somebody one of our own would go up, pastor it, we would go send people up, uh help them, teach, lead, sing, we go up there on a regular basis with the souls, get that thing up and running. Let me ask you a question. Would that or would that not be exciting? I think I'd be thrilled. And eventually they would become self-supporting, and we could back off. They'd be their own church, and we would have reproduced ourselves. And here's the thing. It would be our people actively involved in doing this. Um uh we canvas, we could have special meetings go up and hold it and types like that. Now what about What about in a country like what we've adopted? Kitsmillers. Yeah, we'll call that Kitzmiller. That's a good idea. There's a lot of similarities there. But um Far away, strange people. And um what would we do? Something like that. If we would directly Reproduce ourselves in a foreign country. Now we couldn't go on a weekly basis into that, but wouldn't that be something let's say this way, Holland. By the way, we have practically members in the No. What if we would reproduce ourselves in Holland? We would have to maybe work it out some way. We could travel back and forth, go over there, preach for them, hold meetings, do whatever we could. and uh maybe get someone out of our church, go and live there and move there and try and establish it? Do you follow what I'm saying? Now I'm not presenting these as things we should definitely do, but I'm saying maybe we ought to start thinking along these lines Isn't that what they did in Acts? Church at Antioch sent Paul Mortius out of their church, went to these other places, stayed there a year, six months, years, sometimes three years. They got the work up and going, they get a pastor, set it there, reproduce themselves. Then they go out from that church there. I'm just saying, that would be a way we could be actively involved as members Involved in this. Here's a thought I had. We bring in a Timothy, so to speak. Somebody called to preach, train, bring them in. They work with us for a month or so, or six months, or a year. They're part of us. We put together a team. Ask God to lay an area on our heart. Maybe outside of Pittsburgh, just use that for an example. And uh then we send a team of people up there for one year, go back and forth, and get a work going, help him, plant him there, reproduce ourselves, then come back, get another Timothy. Bring him in here, work with us for six months or so, put a team together, have some area within reach that God lays upon our hearts, work back and forth for a year or so, reproduce ourselves there. Does anybody see what I'm talking about? Can you see that? Uh how would it work in a foreign land? I don't know, but I think you could do it. A little thought, a little effort, put that thing in uh together and somehow either bring a Timothy in, it's called to some country, Kitchmeller somewhere. Works with us for years, somehow we get a TP. I wouldn't be opposed to somebody moving to that country for six months. Live there with them. Work there be a support help get something going. Can you see that Can we have that vision of that taking place, that happening? That's what they did in Acts. People would go. They'd spend a year or two there and help that work get going. We'd be involved in it. Number three. To me, this seems like an effective and efficient way. Plant a church in Holland, in Pittsburgh, and Kittsmiller, and out of that church, plant churches locally. Now, suppose through a process of events and blessings of the Lord, direction of the Lord, we would start a church in Kitts Miller. Know what I'm talking about? Now which would be better? If you have a church established in Kitzmiller Which would be more efficient and effective? To then out of that church start other churches in Kitts Miller? Or have that church there than us back here constantly trying to get another one, trying to get another one. Looks to me like once you got one there, then out of that one they would reproduce themselves within the country, within the culture Right? I think they would be accepted a whole lot more. Be one of their own. They'd be right there. They wouldn't need all the transportation, and out of that they would reproduce themselves. Now, this is all happening simultaneously. while we're doing it here. Alright? Um so it seems to me it would be less cost less money, be more accepted by the nationals It'd be a more effective and more efficient way of doing it. Locally, in a local region, those churches reproduce in themselves. Number la last of all, number four. A new church would be more stable, I think, and have a great source of encouragement if it was being started out of an original church. Here's what we're doing. And again, I'm not opposed to what we're doing. I'm not trying to radicalize anything. I'm not trying to change anything. I'm just trying to expand our thinking a little. What we're doing now is we take a missionary and his wife, we send them to a country. There they are, by themselves. And they're working and trying to do the best they can. They got fifty-five, sixty, seventy churches back in the States. That they gotta write a letter to every month or once a quarter? They may or may not. You'd be amazed. I'm not I'm not trying to brag or anything. I'm just telling you the truth You'd be amazed how many missionaries say to me, Brother Lederman, you are the only one that corresponds with us of all the churches that support us. You would be amazed. I send all our missionaries that I possibly can our bulletin every week. Email. If I miss them, you'd be amazed. All the emails again, hey, where's the bulletin? Where's the bulletin? You're the only one we hear from back in the States. Now wouldn't it be more encouraging if they had a home church that had a direct line of support and encouragement and not just the pastor once a week or once a month, but the whole church corresponding. They know them and they're supporting them and loving them. People are taking trips back and forth. Wouldn't that wouldn't that seem like a great source of encouragement? Rather than seventy-five total strangers supporting me, I've got a strong church back there directly supporting me. Now you'd have to go outside and lays up other support. It looks to me to be uh much more encouraging and uh uh a great source of encouragement and a little bit more stability. I came across some statistics And Dan's putting together a thing for our missions conference before the service and after, he's going to put up on the screen missionary statistics and information about different countries. I'm really excited about that. I think it's going to be fascinating But I came across some statistics. Listen to this. Seventy-five percent of American missionaries return home within the first three years on the field and they never return. 75 out of a hundred that go to the mission field, stay three years, come back, and never go back again. Wouldn't it be don't you think we could bring that statistic down of it if as a local church we were directly supporting them Encouraging them, helping them. They start getting down. Hey, we got some folks who go over for a couple three weeks. Zoom, send them over there, spend some time with them, encourage them, pray with them, help them get through that, stay on the field, and come back. Anybody see what I'm thinking? Um, another statistic, 43% of missionaries never finish deputation. Isn't that sad? Never finish it. Oh one percent of all Bible college students never even consider missions. Oh, no, 1% of all Bible college students uh consider it. 99% never even consider going to the mission field. We're talking about Bible college. We're not talking about just kids going out of the church onto all college. We're talking about those that are going to Bible college. 99% never even considered. Why is that? I would suggest to you a primary reason for these statistics is because of discouragement and defeat. They feel like they're on their own. Talk to Lou Howe when he comes through. He'll talk to you, he'll tell you. Take an hour, sit down with him. But he'll tell you, he says sometimes just feel like he's out there alone. And he's got a good church behind him. But I'm saying if churches were reproducing churches, I believe there'd be more stability there and more encouragement for them. Local churches are to reproduce local churches In our country and around the world. I believe we're at a point in America, I believe we are at a crisis point in America. We may be, now anything's possible with God, we may be past the point of no return in America, spiritually speaking. I believe it's high time. It's past high time. We start reproducing ourselves here in the States. There's no reason in the listen. There is no reason in the world. That huge portions of the city of Pittsburgh have not had any gospel witness for 30 plus years. That is a shame. On churches, Bible preaching, fundamentalists, that a city that size would have huge sections. And Paul then says, where we went a month ago He said, as far as he knew, nobody has knocked, no Bible believer has knocked on those doors in over 30 years. That's a shame. I think it's high time we start focusing ourselves, not just us, all independent fundamental Baptist churches, reproducing ourselves. into these key cities, key areas, and getting more churches started. Because I believe if we lose it, then we're going to lose our influence around the world. Local churches are to reproduce local churches. As we do so, our ability to reproduce in unreached countries will increase if we reproduce ourselves here. And as we do Our involvement in the Great Commission. Alright, if you didn't hear anything I said, please hear this. As we begin to focus ourselves and think about reproducing ourselves. Our involvement in the Great Commission will become more than simply praying for a name on a list. It'll become more than simply taking an envelope and putting our money in. We need to do that. Faith promising, I got mine. It'll become more than just putting it in there, putting an envelope, and that money being sent out wherever. If we work on folk reproducing ourselves, then it will become something that we are all deeply involved in. As we produce this church somewhere else Follow what I'm saying? Churches, reproducing churches. Active involvement. Do we need to pray for names on a list? Absolutely. I try to pray in my own through our missionary list. I have a missionary list. Try to pray for them personally. Every Wednesday night we make Diligent effort to pray for every name of the missionaries we support. But how how about if you're coming down that name and then all of a sudden here, boy, there's a name. That guy's out of our church, starting church, and I've been there And I've helped, I've had a hand on. That is our church. That is a church. Our church is reproducing. Wouldn't that be exciting? Churches reproducing churches. Let's pray about this. Dr. Creed introduced this thought a number of years ago, and it's been stoing the back of my mind, back of my heart, about us reproducing our churches Forty-some years ago, a band of believers, a church in Cressoptown, got a call and got a burden for some believers in Oakland, Maryland. I got a hold of Edwild. He was a church planter. They said, we have a burn. He came in, worked with that Calvary Baptist Church, came up here, began preaching. You know what they told him when he showed up? They'll never build a Baptist church in Oakland. You know what he said? He just ignored him. He just kept on doing it. Um he liked to tell this story. He said after he had been here, I think it was like three thirteen weeks, wasn't long, he was here. The guys that asked him to come, the local folks here at asked him, I have no idea who they were, but they the local folks that asked to come came to him one Sunday night and said, Brother Will, we'll help you pack your bags tomorrow. They were trying to run them off. He says, Oh no, God's called me here, I ain't leaving. Thank God for that. Amen. But how about us doing what they did? I think it's biblical. Will you pray with me about this? I don't know. I believe it's biblical. I can see, I can see the results in my mind's eye. Church has started. And Kittsmiller, Pittsburgh, places like that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we go into our missions conference. I ask, Lord, that you'd lead us. I just, Lord, I just can't help but think you have something more for us than us just Setting up here and doing what we're doing. I believe they have greater things. Lord, you've opened this door for a couple of our men to go to this country. God, you've opened opportunities to us to go and help Paul and others. Lord, show us what you'd have us to do. Show us what the next step is. Show us, Lord. Help us to be sensitive as a church to your leadership. And Lord, maybe someday down the road, maybe before too long, there'd be another church in this country, direct result of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I ask you to direct us and lead us. Our heads bound with our eyes closed. How many God's people would say, Preacher, I'm burdened for this also. I can see this. Say preacher, I'll I'm gonna pray with you. We're gonna I'm gonna pray together with this. Let's ask the Lord to lead and direct us. Is there any like that? Preacher, I can see this. I can see this. Thank you. God bless you. Preacher, I have no idea, and we don't at this point have no idea. But you'd say the idea of maybe going to there and for ex couple months or a happy year in helping someone that kind of appeals to me. We don't know how or what or anything. I'm not saying any type of commitment. Other than you say, preacher, you know, that kind of appeals Appeals to me. Going and helping reproduces or anybody like that, which I don't know how it all works, but that really appeals to me in a sense. God bless you. No rehears, we don't know how the Lord leads. I have no idea, really, even what we're talking about at this point. But God does. He leads us along step by step. Father, bless our invitation. Lord, we're your church. This is your church. Use us for the purpose you created us for. In Jesus' name. Let's stand up.