Name Chris Corrigan. Anybody recognize that name? Yeah, that's our missionary. Yes. Right, he's in Silver Spring, Maryland. And uh he requested back when I first started Spreading the word about it, he requested one of our track month manuals and uh wrote back that they were going to give it a shot. Well, I got this email from them today. Now it's a little wordy here. I'll read through, but I think you'll uh find you'll you'll be able to follow what he's saying. He's this was this afternoon I got it. It says, hi Brother Leatherman. We just finished our first week of a six-week track month competition They're going six weeks. The church is broken into two teams, and this is the first time we've ever done this. After one week, a total of 2,164 tracks have been given out. It's a little church plan just starting We will let you know the final tally, May 20th, is our victory meal. The competition is really ramping up in positive ways. I'm glad he said in positive ways. He said one man got so fired up he wrote his own tract. He said I had to help him a little bit. He had them printed out on 11 by 17 sheets He and his wife cut them and fold them all by hand, and he offers them free to other churches and missionary. He has he plans on having twenty-five thousand of them printed. So this guy got fired up, wrote his own track Here's one story. He said this initially occurred one week before track month. The same guy got up on a Sunday morning at 5 a. m. Took the bus to the Metro and then the Metro into Washington, DC to the Cherry Blossom Festival. Then he got then he got back in time for Sunday school. So we went all the way in and back out I asked him how it went, how many tracks he gave out. He said he got out seven tracks. I said, only seven. Now this is the week before track month. I didn't say anything else. After the first day of the competition, my family did 107 tracks. At first he was discouraged. I gave him a pep talk from the Bible. Now he has a goal. He wants to get out 1,000 tracks by himself a week. Last Saturday we all headed back to church after soul winning. He stayed down on the metro handing out tracks for hours. Glory to God. Thanks for introducing the idea. Isn't that something? And so uh they're fired up. They did two thousand the first week and they're just getting into it. They'll easily get fifteen thousand or more And so uh that's exciting. I wanted to share that with you. I'm getting a number of uh uh emails and things like that. Brother Lou just writes me about four times a day from New Zealand And uh he's uh he's up in the thousands down there. I think he's doing most of them himself. And uh but he's doing great well the girls are helping him, I'm sure. I think he rides the car and sends the girls out and No, he doesn't. First Thessalonians 5. Adam and Eve were having a little fuss. Eve was getting very jealous of Adam. She said, Adam, I think you're seeing another woman He said, You're crazy, woman. You're the only other woman on this whole planet. We're the only two people there are. And it didn't do much to calm her concerns. One might one night he woke up in the middle of the night. She was poking around at him And uh he said, what are you doing? She goes, I want to see if you got any ribs missing. And so, uh I thought it was better than that. First Thessalonians 5 verse 6 Therefore let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober, for they that sleep sleep in the night, and not during church. And they And they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation Look at verse 9. For God hath not appointed us unto wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse number 9 is a very, very significant doctrinal verse, particularly concerning prophetic events. When I first several weeks ago was working ahead and looking where how we're preparing as we're working our way through Thessalonians, verse 9 always catches my attention. Along with uh back in chapter 1, we already touched on this, and um notice verse 10 of chapter 1, 1 Thessalonians. It says, and to wait, verse nine says how we turn how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus Look at this. To deliver us, which uh even Jesus which delivered us from the what? Wrath to come. What wrath to come would he be referencing? Tribulation period, exactly. You could write in the Margin Bible, as I did, I put tribulation. Now we get over here to chapter five. He's winding down his letter to the Thessalonicans and he brings this subject up again. In verse 9, he says, For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Very similar wording. And so that caught my attention. And so for the next couple weeks, as I would come back and look at this, I zeroed in on that verse, zeroed in on this verse. So when it came down to put the message together, I got studying the verses before, and I decided to uh Focus on these first six seven verses six, seven, and eight leading up to verse nine, when I was initially going to preach on verse nine tonight So the title is Church Saints and the Wrath of God, verse 9. We're going to look at some verses leading up to that and spend one night just on that verse because it is very significant. Let's pray. Father I pray, Lord, as we study your word. Uh God, as I just told the folks that uh there's some verses that really stand out in my mind, and uh but Lord I understand that they're all inspired, they're all for us, and so as we look at these Verses leading up to verse nine, that uh you would apply them to our hearts and lives and help us to grow in our understanding, help us to grow in our faith. And I ask with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And you would speak through me, dear God, and I present my body anew to you. Blessed, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Look at the first word of verse 6. What is that word? Therefore, let me give you a little Bible study tip. Anytime the word therefore is there, you want to look and see what it's there for. Right? There's a reason. What does the word therefore mean? It could uh is it do I seem awfully strong on sound? Yeah, it sounds a little bit strong, Dave. Maybe we can back that off a little bit. No, that was me. Therefore, you could say the word therefore would be because of all that was stated previously. Therefore, this. Or you could word it this way: as a result of what I just told you. These following things ought to be true. You follow what I'm saying? So look at the verse again. Therefore, because of what we've just been discussing. Now don't let us not sleep. And then he goes down through here a list of things. Paul has just in the last part of chapter 4, in the first part of chapter 5, he had given some pretty in-depth teaching on the rapture of the church. In particular, he dealt with believers who have died before the rapture takes place and what happens to them. And he went if you remember, we went he went pretty good depth about that. You know, they had gotten mixed up and so he was dealing with that. And then the first part of chapter five. Now you understand when these books of the Bible were initially written, when the Although Penman wrote these things down. There wasn't chapters and verses. Everybody knew that, right? Did you know that? It's true. They were just a letter, like you would write your letter, a letter to your mother You'd write it all out. They weren't. So later on in time, men broke these down to help study it and find verses and whatnot. So chapter 4, the last part of chapter 4 and the first part of chapter 5 really tie right in together. The first part of chapter five, he got into the day of the Lord. And he's speaking there, I believe, in studying, he's referencing not one specific day, but The whole end time events, the rapture through the tribulation, the second advent leading into the millennial reign, that whole time of God's judgment, the day of the Lord is almost always referenced in the Bible as a day of judgment. can be applied in different events in history, but it's almost always referred to as the Day of Judgment. So he's talking about all this The rapture's coming. We don't know when. The dead in Christ is going to rise first. We which are alive remain are going to be caught up together with them. So shall we be with the Lord in the air. The day of the Lord and his whole end time events are going to come like a thief in the night uh unexpected, uh as far as the world's concerned, they don't and that's the last thing in their mind. But those of us that know the Lord, we ought to be awake. And uh this thing ought not to catch us by surprise. We ought to be prepared. Verse number six, first word, therefore. Because all these things are true, then these all these statements we just made, then these things ought to be true. So what are they? Number one, I put this down. Because of the rapture, the day of the Lord is going to come as the thief and all that. Number one, there must be an awareness. There must be an awareness. Look at again verse 6. Therefore, let us not what Sleep. As do others, the others being the unsaved. As far as the coming of the Lord, as far as the day of the Lord is concerned, the world's asleep. Alright? They don't c care less. They're to oblivious to it. Don't be that way. Oh, we don't want to have the mentality of the world concerning the coming of Christ and the rapture of the church. So he says, let us not sleep as do others, but let us What? Watch. Let us watch and be sober. Verse 7. For they that sleep, sleep in the night. They that be drunken be are drunken at night. But let us who are of the day we're aware of what's going on. We're not in darkness concerning this. We're not drunk concerning this. We're aware of it He says there needs to be awareness. Now that word watch is interesting. It's used, I'm told, by the concordants, 61 times in the King James Bible, in the Bible. 61 times. It means this. When he says watch, it doesn't mean anybody here ever sit on your front porch and just watch the cars go by. Anybody here? I like to do it in the summertime. Get an ice taste up there and just watch them go by. And um That reminds me, I hope we beat Lee Lee Bowman. Because I want to sit on a recliner and drink iced tea and watch him preach. But anyway, he's a good preacher, so we make out it anyway, but what was I talking about? Watching. The word here watch doesn't mean sit on your front porch and just you know uninvolved Uh could care less, you know, going by. That's not the idea here. The idea here behind watch means to give very strict attention to. Uh do you ever have the bus you Sunday school workers, do you ever have the bus worker come in and drop the kids off and say, Watch that one? That's the idea behind that word. Keep your eyes on that. Pay close attention. Um it has the idea of be very, very cautious. I put it this this was my take on the definition I was looking them up and looking at different meetings. I put it I I came to this conclusion to be actively aware of something Very I am making sure I know what's going on here. Watch All through the New Testament, we are told in no uncertain terms that we as believers are to be alert and aware concerning the coming of Christ. Jesus, and I say this often, but it's very clear in Scripture, Jesus uh strongly rebuked the Pharisees. Because they were ignorant, they were unaware, they were asleep concerning the first coming of Christ. He said, You should have been aware. You should have known what the Bible teaches about the first advent of Christ. And that same instruction is to us as New Testament believers on this side of the First Advent, says you ought to be aware, you ought to be watching, you ought to be alert. To the fact that the rapture is coming, the day of the Lord is coming. We ought to be aware of the facts of the Lord's return. Now, I'll be the first one to admit We don't know all the details, every little thing. Brian and I talked about that. There's a lot of stuff about this that we speculate But as far as the basics of what the future holds, the rapture, the tribulation, and all that, we know what's coming. We know what to anticipate. God has given that information. If there's anything I get from these first uh eight verses of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 is that we ought not to be surprised when the rapture takes place. It ought not to be a shock to us. We ought to know exactly what it is. And so he says, listen The rapture of the church, it's going to be a moment in a twinkling of an eye. You're not going to have time to get ready. Therefore, be ready. The day of the Lord is going to come like a thief in a night. You don't know when it is. And by the way, neither do radio preachers know what it is, or TV preachers, or Bible, or book writers, or any other preacher, anybody. You don't know when it is? Therefore, you better be aware. You need to be watching. You be need to be alert. Study the scriptures out. Know what the Bible says about that. Live your life in such a way that when it does take place, you're not caught off guard. So the first thing we're told here is to that we are to be aware. Now We ought to be, you agree with me, we we all of us ought to be students of the Word of God. How many people here would really expect your pastor to study the Bible? Yeah, that would be a good thing, wouldn't it? Uh anybody here recognize the name James Baker? Not the Secretary of State. The preacher on TV. And you go uh some of the older folks have been around for a while. The new he's been off the scene for quite a while. He uh was uh w you wouldn't be off you wouldn't be offended if I said he was a rascal. No, I didn't think so. That's being very nice. The guy was a rascal. He went to prison for embezzling and for various other things. And um This is why I'm bringing him up. I was not a follower of his and not a fan of his. In fact, my feeling is him and Tammy Faye did the cause of Christ great damage. by their shenanigans. But he went to prison. In prison he wrote a book, or when he got out. I was down at the library, this was many years ago, I was down at the library just going through and uh looking for something to read and I saw Jane James Baker had his his big mug on the front there. And uh it said this. This was the title, I was wrong. I thought, that's the first thing he said I agree with. So I checked it out. I read that book. You know? He he I think he's still wrong on a lot of stuff, but he made some interesting statements that gave me insight on how a lot of these guys operate. He made this, he said this. He says, you know, I never studied the Bible until I got in prison. He said, all those years in the minute. He said, we never studied it. We never got it out. He said what we would do now this is him. You can get the book and read it. It's in there. He said what we would do is we'd get an idea and then we go and get someone and find someone to help us find somewhere in the Bible where we could use that as a basis for what we were going to teach. He said, I got into prison, I started studying my Bible, and I realized I was wrong. I was saying stuff the Bible doesn't even teach. Now, that ought not to be true for you and I. The preacher, Pastor Leatherman, ought to be a student of this book. But wait a minute. Every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be a student of this book. You ought to never trust solely in your pastor to feed you the Word of God Now that's part of my responsibility, right? Feed the flock, Peter was told said. But wait a minute, if that's all you do, if you just say, Well, Preacher Leatherman, uh no no no, you need to get in that book yourself And you need to study it for yourself and find out what it says. Now, he says, listen, you need to be aware about these coming events. Now, there's more in the Bible that we should study than just the second coming. Don't go to seed on that. Some people have done that, and you'll get out of whack. But a very significant part, portion of our attention and our study of the Word of God ought to be on prophetic events. on the coming of Christ, because it's a very significant portion of Scripture. So he says, therefore, let us not sleep as do others, like the world, and be ignorant, unaware of what this rapture and the second coming and all that. But let us watch, give diligent attention to, pay close attention to, be cautiously aware of This coming Christ. So then he gives, in the last part of verse 6 and the first part of verse 8, he gives something else that ought to be true. Therefore, there must be a right attitude. Now, I'll show you where I get that from. Verse 6. Therefore let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch. And then he adds a little phrase on. He doesn't stop with just watch. Watch and be Come down to verse eight. He uses the same term again. But let us who are of the day be sober. When he uses the term sober. Although he's referencing, he used a little before drunken. We're not drunken, those that are drunken or drunk at night. The subject here is not strong drink. You follow what I'm saying? He's not addressing drinking liquor. That's not the subject. Now, question: Should a Christian drink liquor? No. But that's not what he's told me. He's just alluding to this, he's using this as an illustration of somebody who is drunken, they're not thinking clearly, they're not fully aware of what's going on. That's why drunken driving is illegal They're not aware of going on, can't respond to things properly. And so he's when he uses the term sober, he's not saying don't get drunk. I heard somebody say, oh good. He's not saying it's okay to get drunk, but he's not, in this text, he's not saying, don't get drunk. What he means by that term sober there, he means this. He's talking about our attitude. Be very sober in our attitude. The word so in our attitude towards life, And towards the fact that we are going to be held accountable to the Lord. It says, be sober about that. Now, what does the word sober? It means it has this idea of thinking things through. Some of you were saved out of this lifestyle. Most of us are aware of the effects of liquor on someone, but would you agree with me? Generally, a drunk does not think things through very thoroughly. Right. It can't function. So he says, be sober. He says, really think think your life through. Stop and uh uh think uh it has the idea of thinking very clearly and very carefully. That's the attitude he's saying we should have toward our life and towards our future as we anticipate the day of the Lord, the uh unannounced rapture of the church We should be very sober about this. We should really think this through. Think my life through. How am I living my life? What direction am I going in my life? What uh what what kind of condition am I in spiritually if the rapture would take place? The word sober means to thoroughly consider myself, my actions. It has this idea: take this issue very seriously. And so he uses the word therefore in verse 6. Rapture, moment, twinkling of an eye, day of the Lord, thief in the night. Listen. You need to take this very seriously. Don't be trite about this. This is something that's very sobering That we need to have the right attitude. If you would uh turn with me over to 1 Peter. Now keep your place here because we're still going to look at another verse. But come over to 1 Peter chapter 5. 1 Peter 5, you got 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, James. First Peter Chapter five. Look with me at verse eight Be what? Sober. There's that word. What did we say the word sober means? Okay, think very clearly about this. Take this very seriously. Don't be trite. Be sober. Be vigilant. Why? The word vigilant means to uh um means to uh apply yourself very diligently Be vigilant, very aware of what's going on. So he says, be sober, be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. What is 1 Peter 5:8 telling us our attitude towards the devil should be? Be sober and vigilant. How would you put it in your own words? You on your guard? Would you agree with me? Take him very seriously. Be sober. Be vigilant. This isn't something to horse around about. This matter of the devil seeking to destroy your life isn't a joke. You need to be sober about this. You need to be vigilant about this. He's just like a lion out there. Just like if you were walking home tonight from church and there was man-eating lions loose out there, you would be very sober about it. You wouldn't be joking about it, you'd be very vili uh vigilant You take it very seriously. Then we come back to 1 Thessalonians, and he says that's the same attitude you ought to have concerning the coming of the Lord. Not that we're afraid of the Lord, not that it's something awful, but it is something to be taken very seriously. Be sober, be vigilant. As I was preparing this, and so many situations came to mind over the years in the ministry. Where I would deal with folks, and um they would have no idea How serious the situation they were getting themselves into really was. You follow what I'm saying? They had no idea they'd be toying with sin. I've been around long enough to know that if you continue in this, it's going to destroy you. They weren't thinking it through. They weren't taking it seriously, what they're engaging in. And lo and behold, their lives are destroyed And any, I think any but pastor or somebody that's been in ministry any length of time has those situations. And he says, listen, you've got to have a very when it comes to your spiritual life and the direction of your life, we have got to be very, very serious about that. Doesn't mean we don't enjoy life. Doesn't mean we don't, you know, joke around, have fun, and laugh. Goodness. I'm having the time in my life since I got saved. I'd far rather have the joy of the Lord than the pleasures of the devil. There's joy in serving Jesus. The joy of the Lord is our strength. But What we're dealing with are very sobering things, the eternal destiny of souls, accountability to God, the coming wrath of God, verse 9. And he says, you need to take these things very, very seriously. I was thinking about a preacher and I were talking, this was a number of years ago, about a situation, and he made this statement to me. It's uh about a person that we both knew and was messing up. And he made this statement, and he says, they have no idea what they've done or where they're heading. And I said, you know, you hit the nail on the head. They just were oblivious. He says, don't be that way. You've got to have a very sober attitude about this, very serious about it. Again, we're not walking around long faced, oh, this is serious. We can laugh and joke and have fun and enjoy our lives, but at the same time, our attitude is, you know, I've got to answer the Lord, I've got to take these things seriously. Then thirdly, leading up to verse 9, which we'll look at in another message, not only must we have uh the be not not only must there be awareness, therefore Let us not sleep, but be awake, be aware, let us uh be sober, uh have the right attitude about this, uh seriousness of it. Then in verse 8, the last part, he says our spiritual armor must be in place. The Lord's coming, the day of the wrath is coming. Listen, don't take this lightly. You need to have your spiritual armor on. Now, the spiritual armor is not physical. Right? When he talks about the armor, you go to Ephesians chapter 6. It's not some garments we wear. You know, the Mormons have their holy underwear. for lack of a better term, that they wear. And somehow that makes them spiritual in some way. Um the Catholic Church, you know, they'll wear uh I still cannot figure out uh where they came up with some of that garb. you know, the hats they wear. And um I heard one preacher say, he says he dresses like a mama and they call him papa. And um It's not something physical we wear that makes us spiritual. It's a spiritual armor. Look what he says here in verse 8. He says, but let us look at us, putting on the breastplate of faith and love And for a helmet, the hope of salvation. Now, Ephesians chapter 6, he goes into great detail about the spiritual armor. And we've preached on that before. Many of you have read that. He's not getting into detail here. He's I think he's just referencing that. But he points out two pieces of equipment, pieces of armor that a warrior would wear that he gives spiritual application to. One is the breastplate. And the other is the he is the helmet. The breastplate covers the chest area. The helmet covers the head. The two to the two um would it be right uh would I be correct wording say the two lethal targets For the enemy to shoot at, the chest and the head. Um I enjoy deer hunting as many others do. I've studied it for years. I've watched videos of it. I've watched I've been to seminars. I've gotten all the magazines on there and I've read the articles, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of them, and I'm still just as terrible a hundred today as I was twenty years ago Nevertheless, I studied a lot, and I know what you're supposed to do, but I very seldom do it. But one thing, I've never read an article, saw a seminar, or Saw a video on deer hunting that said you should shoot the deer in the kneecap. They never say that, do they? Now, I have a son, I won't tell you which one, but his birthday's today. But um, we were out deer hunting one time, and he shot a deer in the kneecap. And uh we tracked that thing, and we I this was my thinking, it worked, but I said, if we let that thing go, it's gonna collagulate. Coagulate. The blood will, and we won't have a blood trail, we'll never find that thing. I said, let's just push it, push it, push it, push it, keep that blood flowing and it it'll be running, and maybe we'll find it. So sure enough, and there's little pieces of blood of bone in there and blood and w for th Four hours we followed that thing three miles in circles, and lo and behold, we come up on it and lay it's laying there. It's too tired, it can't run anymore, and we got the thing. So everybody's impressed with my hunting prowess But that's not what they tell you to do. Where are you supposed to shoot the deer? Heart, the lungs, the heart, the vital areas. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying there are some areas of your spiritual life, if they're not right, you're in trouble. Now there's some other area. Question, can you shoot a deer in the kneecap and recover it? Yeah, I just gave you testimony. You can't. It's not the most effective way. And you can uh you know you can lose your hand spiritually speaking and still function. But it hurts. But I tell you, if you've got your chest or your head shot. Then you're in big trouble. And notice what he says, these three areas are, in light of the coming of the Lord, that we must protect. That must be secured. Well, first of all, the first one is I must have faith in God. Look what he says there in verse number eight. Let us be sober, uh let us today be sober. Putting on the breastplate of Faith. He said, listen, you need to keep your faith in God strong. If your faith goes weak, If you fail to trust God, you take things in your own hands, you're in trouble. You will not be prepared for the coming of the Lord. You will not be prepared for the judgment seat of Christ. You must Protect your faith in God. Now, how do I strengthen my faith? How do I feed my faith? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the You know what he's saying? I think he's saying here part of it is, listen, you want to be ready for the Lord to come back, you've got to stay in this book You've got to feed your faith. You've got to strengthen it. But wait a minute. Having faith in God is more than just getting the information in God's Word into my head. It's getting the instructions and the promises and the warnings of God's word into my life and live, act upon it. The greatest song I think that describes the Christian life is just very simple. We sing it often: Trust and Obey. That's what it boils down to. Have faith in God and do what He says. Put that breastplate on. You want to be prepared for the coming of the Lord? You want to be uh ready for the rapture, then you put that breastplate on, because if you don't trust and obey God, you will not be ready. That roaring lion will eat you up. The enemy of our souls will fire fiery darts and take you out. Now, he's not suggesting we lose our salvation, but he is saying we can lose our testimony, lose our influence, and lose our rewards. And so, number one, uh, I need to get this armor in place. That involves having faith in God. I've found, I look back on my Christian life, and you know what I regret the most? You know what the greatest mistake I ever made in my life was? It was not trusting and obeying God. Without a doubt. I look back over my life and I see instances where it was God was clear in His word, and I didn't trust Him, I didn't obey Him, and it hurt me. Can I get a witness? Huh? Breastplate. Trust God. Have faith in God. But then he says the breastplate of faith and love. I put it this way. Number one, have uh maintain have faith in God. Number two, stay in love with the Lord. You know what the root of all of our problem is when we don't obey God, we don't do what he says, don't trust him, we just don't love him. That's what it boils down to. I use this illustration a lot. Somebody says, Well, I just can't stand that person. I would say, Well, your problem isn't that you don't like that person, the problem is you don't love the Lord. Because the Lord says, love your enemies. And then another place he says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. So he commands me to love my enemies, and he says, If you love me, you'll keep my commands. So if I don't love my enemy, it means what? I'll love the Lord. Follow my thinking? So stay in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. That will protect your heart. Just stay in love with them. Beside, I love Jesus more than I love this world. In fact, he tells us, love not the world, neither things of the world. If you love the world, how can the love of the Father be in you? It doesn't mean if you love the world, God doesn't love you. He means if you love the world, you don't have love for the Father. Number one, have faith in God. Number two, stay in love with the Lord. And number three, then he brings in the idea of the helmet. And I put it this way: know that you're saved. Look what he says. And the helmet, uh, and and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. Now, don't get thrown by that word hope. A lot of you have been around long enough, you understand what the Bible means by that. That is not saying, well, I hope you have your attention here on this one, because this is important. You don't want to misunderstand this. This verse is not saying, and others like it, are not saying that we hope we're saved. You with me? That is not what he's saying. Boy, well, yeah, I hope I'm saved. When I hear somebody say, I hope I'm saved, red flags go up everywhere. The word hope there means a confident anticipation. It's a whole idea. The second coming of Christ is called the Blessed Hope. Not that we hope He comes. Boy, I hope the Lord comes back. No, we know He is. We have a confident anticipation of the Lord coming back. And that's what he's saying here. Listen, I have never found somebody that did not have assurance of their salvation that was strong. in their spiritual life. Never have. The person's always doubting their salvation and not sure whether they're saved or not and just questioning whether they've been born again or not, that person will struggle and struggle and struggle and struggle. And when the rapture takes place, the day the Lord comes, they'll be caught off guard. That has to be settled Now, I I'm like Dr. Barron said the other night, I never ever would want to try and get someone to doubt their salvation. That is not scriptural. Some evangelists And we talked about this, him and I, some evangelists come in, they do everything they can to get church folks to doubt their salvation. I don't think that's biblical. My desire is to give people assurance of their salvation. But if there's doubts there, if I don't have that settled, then it needs to be. Because it hurts me. I'm vulnerable. I'm always doubting. We had a fella years ago and um good guy. I think the guy was saved. I have no I I'm confident of it. And he came and uh worked here for a little bit, and uh about every three weeks he would come to me. Past Leatherman? Yeah. And I don't know if I'm saved or not. What? So we go go through the whole thing, whole thing, get it settled. About three weeks later, brother Leatherman, yeah. And he had that look in his face. I'd say, what's up? Oh, man, I just I don't know if I really meant it last time. So we go through it again. Three weeks. It was almost to the day. Three weeks. Three weeks. Three weeks. I don't think I meant it that time. Well I said, hold it. You can't go on this way. You're never going to be strong in the Lord. How can you give someone else assurance of salvation? You don't even know if you got it. So he's saying the helmet of salvation. We gotta take this thing, be aware what's coming, what the Bible teaches about the coming events. Have the right attitude about that, take it very, very seriously, and put this armor on. Make sure I'm trusting, obeying God, stay in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. Make sure of my salvation. Don't get don't entertain doubts. Have that thing settled And then verse number nine, he says, You're not appointed unto wrath. And uh it ties in beautifully, but I want to spend time on verse nine just itself. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that You'd help us, I believe, Lord, for the most part, we as a church understand and uh take very seriously your promise of coming back again. God, it's a daily challenge. So we examine ourselves and trust your leadership and direction in our lives. We're trying to be a witness to this old sinful world. So help us, Lord. Help us to evaluate where we're at, to watch very closely on how we're living our lives and making sure that we're pleasing you and in line with the Word of God Their heads bowed and eyes closed. I have no doubt the Spirit of God has touched some hearts this evening. Says, you know, here's an area that really needs some attention. I've no doubt the Spirit of God has touched some hearts and say, here's something you need to watch a little more carefully. Something here you need to take a little more seriously. Trust and obey. Love the Lord. I mean say, preacher, God's Spirit has dealt with my heart tonight. There are some areas that I really need to give attention to and and that that need me to uh deal with. Any at all uplifted hand, how about it? God bless you. Bunch of hands all around. And let's respond to that. Let's not just say, oh yeah, Lord, touch my heart. No, let's say, okay, God, I agree with you. I I yield that to you. I'll I'll I need to do that. Take care of that Don't wait till you get home, don't wait till next week, but tonight. Let's met let that get get that settled. Is there some say preacher You talk about doubts, just questioning. Now listen, I'm not trying to put any there and folks deal with them sometimes, but you'd say, preacher, my salvation, I'm just not sure. In my heart, I'm not satisfied that I'm confident that Christ has saved me. And you'd say, pray with me. I don't want to tolerate doubts or questions there. I want that settled. Would there be any like that at all? And I'm not trying to put anybody in that situation. But if that's where you're at, you say, Preacher, pray with me. How about it? Father Help us, Lord, to take every day as a gift from you, an opportunity to trust you and follow your leadership. Fill us with your spirit. Challenge us, confront us, and convict us And help us, Lord, to be ready at any moment when the rapture may take place. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together our heads