A handful of yard signs uh to uh promote voting against question number six in Maryland, and um I only got a few of them. I'm trying to get more. We have three left up front here So if somebody is interested and you'd like to put one in your front yard, we have three here. Like I said, I'm working on getting more and uh you're certainly welcome to those. Uh the more high traffic area where you live, the more effective of course they'll be. and uh draw attention. And so um uh like I said we got them up here. You can pick one up if you like. Alright, Second Thessalonians chapter number one, we're beginning um Our study in the book of 2 Thessalonians. We're going got through 1 Thessalonians, a rapture-ready church. Boy, if there's any church in the New Testament that I would like Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be like, it's the church at Thessalonica They certainly were not everything they ought to be. We're going to find that out especially here in 2 Thessalonians. They had some issues to deal with. But uh nevertheless, one of uh if not the best I hate to use the word best, but uh strongest most mature churches in the New Testament. Let's look at the first couple verses here The Bible says Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus under the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace from God our Father in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, at his as it is meet Because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth, so that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God, for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. I'm entitled The Message A Church's Growing Faith. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Thank you, Lord. For the privilege you have to come to the midweek service. Lord, we believe this is very important tonight, and I pray that you would speak to us from your word. Help us to grow, Lord, and learn from this church here, incorporate uh the positive characteristics of that church into our lives here. I pray, Lord, that you would just bless us and fill me, I ask, with all my heart, Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit And uh speak through me to to all of us in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many folks here remember the day you got saved How many folks remember that? Or maybe at least the general time. Uh you say I don't have the exact date now, but I know when it was I got saved. How many folks would testify that since you got saved your life has changed? Anybody give a witness to that? Sure. I think there's two characteristics of a believer's life when God begins saying let me put it this way, two characteristics of a healthy Christian A spiritually healthy Christian. One is, I put this down, a spirit of anticipation. When I got saved, my whole person my whole perspective on the future changed. Before I was saved, I had nothing to look forward to. Before I got saved, my life was just going down. In fact, uh one of the motivations for me getting saved was I didn't want to go the direction I was going. My future was not what I wanted it to be. And uh when I got saved, God gave me a whole new future and a spirit of anticipation took over. And I found that's true uh throughout all these years. If anybody has a uh uh a solid reason for being an optimist, it's a Christian. Right? That's where I would say amen at that point right there. Uh we have we have everything in the world to look forward to. We anticipate Jesus Christ coming back. We anticipate heaven after death. You say, oh, oh, what's the worst thing that happened to me? I can die. Alright, a Christian dies and goes to heaven Right? Uh you remember the story of John R. Rice. I I like this story. He was preached somewhere and some guy got mad at him and met him after church. He was walking some dark alley and a guy stuck a gun in his belly and said, I'm gonna blow your brains out And um John O'Rice said, You can't scare me with heaven and uh boy what a great what a great attitude Uh anticipation. And uh I believe a spiritually healthy Christian, we not only anticipate the Lord's return or going to heaven someday, we anticipate God doing something in our lives here and now Uh that's one thing I like about going out soul winning. I always want to anticipate somebody trusting Christ when you knock on that door. You have a Christian that's going to go witnessing and say, oh, probably won't nobody get saved Uh, guess what's going to happen? Ain't nobody gonna get saved. Well you go out anticipating God to do something. You know when we come to prayer, we ought to anticipate that God is gonna answer that prayer And here's the strange thing, and I'm as guilty of this as anybody. When God answers the prayer, we act like that's unusual. And then when God doesn't answer a prayer, then that's the usual. Right? Something's not right with that. It ought to be we show up in church and say, you won't believe this. God didn't answer my prayer. But we don't do that, do we? How do we approach it? Hey, guess what? God answered my prayer. Whoa! Uh why is that? So anyway, a characteristic of a healthy Christian is a spirit of anticipation, anticipating God doing something, anticipating Jesus coming back and making everything right Not good. I watched that debate last night for about ten minutes. Just turned me off. I changed the station and watched them shoot deer. You know, I said, phooey, getting more out of this And uh our hope is in the coming of the Lord. Uh and the second characteristic of a healthy Christian, I put this down, is they continually they continue to grow spiritually. If a person hits a plateau in their Christian life where they're not going forward, they're not reaching higher ground, then one thing starts to happen. They begin to go backward. There's no neutral ground. Either I'm going forward or I'm going backward. If I'm maintaining, if I get to a certain point and I level out, I'm not growing, I'm not right with the Lord. I'm not a good strong Christian And so we see those characteristics here in the church at Thessalonica. They were full of anticipation. In fact, the theme of the two books is the second coming of Christ. Now they got a little messed up in their understanding of it and affected them a little bit, but still they were looking for the Lord to come back. They were anticipating Jesus coming back. And uh and uh they were growing. We find this here in Paul. In fact, the whole last chapter of the first book was helping them grow. Things they should do, not do, they hadn't arrived yet. And so um uh Paul uh addresses these characteristics in this book. Now I want to look at the first four verses real quick And I have determined, I I hope I'm praying and fasting that God helps me be more concise in my preaching. We have got to get out of here before 10. 30 on a regular basis, okay? We have got to And so, and all God's people said, Yeah, I thought you would. First of all, I notice in verse 1 and 2 Paul's greetings Paul's greedy. Look, let's read that again. Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father. and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace from God our Father in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you'll go to don't bother, you could if you want, but if you go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 1, you would find this statement almost verbatim. I think there's two words changed. in the greeting of 1 Thessalonians and chapter 1 and the greeting of 2 Thessalonians, almost identical. Now, there's two phrases here in this greeting, as I'm calling it. that are repeated. Notice in verse number one, he says unto the Church of Thessalonians, in God our Father. Look at verse 2. Grace unto you and peace from God our Father. There's a statement, he repeats it twice in the greeting. He repeats it in the greeting. But there's another one. Look what it says. Verse 1, God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 2, grace unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. In his greeting to the church at 1 Thessalonians, at Thessalonica, he makes the statement, God our Father, two times in just a very, very small Space. And then he makes the reference to the Lord Jesus. Now, when he refers to God our Father There's a lot in that. I think there's more here than just a generic greeting. I think he is conveying something to him. Obviously, God's inspired this and preserved it for us. So what is it what let me let me get you involved here a little bit. When when you think of a father, I mean uh uh in an ideal situation, what do you think of? Your relate a relationship with a father. You think of a dad, yeah. Or your relationship with your dad, uh what do you think of? I mean as far as uh the relationship itself Alright, somebody you could look up to. Ideally, that would be the case. Aha, now we're getting what I'm looking for. uh protection. Uh you know, uh uh especially for a child looks to protection from the father. Uh for the most part wives look for protection from their husbands in most cases Um Chuck. A provider. Very good. That's what I have. That's somebody who takes care of the needs, somebody that makes sure there's bacon on the table. And um uh okay, something else. What's a father? Diane? All right, somebody has your best interests. They care for you. They're preparing you, anticipating uh great things from you. A father. Um Alright? Somebody that teaches you, instructs you. Discipline. Somebody that corrects you when you're wrong, doesn't let things go on. So what they're say what he's saying here, he's reminding the church at Thessalonica God is not just some faraway God, some cold, lifeless God, but as a believer in Jesus Christ, he is your Father. He's our Father. God cares for us. God protects us. God corrects us. God gives us direction in life He's talking to them as a church. Hey, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, God is our Father. He loves us He takes care of us. He'll give us direction and lead us. He protects us. Boy, the day and age we live in, I'm appreciating that aspect of God more and more all the time. That he protects us. By the way, I'm getting a little ahead, but uh we've been praying for Max over in Kazakhstan and the word is there. They met Monday morning, they had the hearing, and they decided to wait until November 4th to decide what to do. And so they're going to convene back on November fourth. In the meantime, he's being held in prison. So uh but you know what? God's his father. God'll take care of 'em. And so I thought that was I thought that was touching that Paul in his introduct in his greeting to the church, he repeats that twice. He's reminding them, listen, we're not on our own. Our God loves us. He cares for us. He protects us. He's working in our lives. He's our Father. Then he comes down in that other statement, our Lord Jesus Christ. Now when you think of someone as being Lord, In the world, that has kind of a negative connotation. You know, somebody's lording it over them and uh But in the Bible, with Jesus being Lord, it doesn't have a negative connotation at all. It's a very positive thing. Jesus is our Lord. Whether we recognize it or not, He is our Lord. That means all that means simply is that he possesses us. We're his possession. We're not our own. We've been bought with a price. I'm not my own. Jesus is my Lord, not me. That's why we run into so much trouble when we decide to take things into our own hands. We're butting heads with our Lord. And so he's uh he says the Lord Jesus Christ he makes that statement twice to the church. He's reminding them, listen, church. You're not your own, you're bought with a price. And that's a good thing for me as pastor to remind myself, this is not my church. This is Jesus' church. He's the Lord of it. For many years and I still on occasion do it, but for a long time when I first came, Saturday nights, I would kneel right down there and I would say, Jesus, I just want to take my hands off of this thing. This is yours, it's not mine. Just I did that for my own sake. And so he's telling them, listen, you're you're possessed, the Lord possessed you, he owns you. But the idea of Lord also has the idea of authority. Not just ownership, but authority over us. Jesus is our supreme authority And if it boil- you want to boil down what it means to be a good Christian, it simply means this: recognizing Jesus' authority over my life, trusting him and obeying him. That's what Christian living is. Jesus is the authority, not me, and I trust him and I obey him. That's what living the Christian life is. So he greets them. He brings, right at the beginning of this book, he brings these two uh aspects of their relationship with God right to their mind and uh is in reminding them of uh their relationship to God as believers. So the first thing we have here in these first two verses is Paul's greeting That is amazing. I covered two verses in that amount of time. You ought to be praising the Lord, shouting, and hallelujah. And so we are moving right along. Second thing I notice in verse number three is Paul's gratitude. Look what he says in verse 3. We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is me Because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth. Paul's gratitude here to the church at Thessalonica was first of all an obligation. Paul felt obligated to be grateful to God for them. That's where that word bound comes in He says, see what he only says, we are bound to thank God for you. The word bound itself has the idea of being in debt. If you're the uh what's the verse? Uh the servant, uh the borrower is servant to the lender. The borrower is bound. to the lender. That's the idea behind this word here. Paul said, Paul was saying to, in a sense, I feel like I I owe you. My gratitude. He is bound to that. Their faithfulness to the Lord Caused Paul to feel like he owed them his gratitude. And you know, I think that's true for you and I. Now think about that. If I'm a Christian, somebody else is a Christian, and that Christian is doing right and living for God, that's good for me. That helps me be a better Christian. That helps me when I tell someone, yeah, I'm a Christian, they say, well, I knew this other Christian, they were really something else. That's good for me. And so we have a debt to people that are living for God, to churches that are doing right and living for the Lord and are rapture ready like this church was We almost have a debt to them because they're enabling us to be better Christians. You follow what I'm saying? I've made the contention for uh for a long time that it's good for a town to have good, strong, independent Baptist churches. That's good for the town. And you say, Well there's uh we got two churches in this town that are good and strong and soul wedding and standards and all of that. Uh that's not competition, that's good for each other. We ought to be grateful for that. And so he has this obligation. He says, we are bound to thank God always for you. So first of all, he's obligated. He felt obligated. Second of all, it's appropriate. Look what he says here. We are bound to thank God for you, brethren, as it is meat. What in the world does that word, as it is meat, stand for? I just told you. It means it's appropriate. It's a good thing. It's meat. It's appropriate response. And the appropriate response for one Christian having uh appropriate response for me To a Christian who has God's blessing and has victory in their life, the appropriate thing for me is to be grateful. I mean, we're just kind of redundant here a little bit, but he said, first of all, I'm bound to thank God for you, and it's appropriate for me to. It's the right thing to do. Listen, it is the right thing to do to be grateful for other people's service to God. That's the right thing to do. Boy, uh uh boy, thanks for driving that Sunday school bus. That's the appropriate thing to do. Boy, thanks for singing in that choir. Boy, thanks for having such a testimony down at Walmart. That gets the part trials and persecutions here they go through. But um uh you know that's appropriate. Being grateful is appropriate. And that's a good thing to try. Here's a radical thought. Try that at home. Thank you, sweetheart, for uh the uh great meal you made. Try that. You might get more of them. Did I tell the story about the guy working on the deck brought his buddy home? This is a good one. This fella uh was going to build a deck on the back of his house. This is a great illustration. I just thought of it. Wanted to build a deck on the back of his house, so he asked his buddy he worked with to come home with him And help him build the deck on the back. He says, Sure, I'd be glad to. So they finished work and they went over to his buddy's house and uh he opens the door. The guy that lives there opened the door And he goes up to his wife and he hugs her and he kisses her and swings her around. He says, Oh, I missed you so much. I love you so much And uh she kisses him back, thank you. And then they go out and they had the meal, she had supper already, oh this is the greatest meal I've ever eaten. Thank you, sweetheart. He kissed her and he says, You are the love of my life, and uh carries on. The other guy's just like, What in the world And uh so finally they get out and they're working on the deck and he says, um, he goes, What's the deal with all the hugging and kissing and everything? What's all that about? He goes, you know, I try I started that six months ago and it has changed my whole He goes, it is great. It's the best thing I ever decid ever started doing. Hmm He says, I'm gonna try that. So they work till about ten, eleven o'clock at night, they finally quit. The guy comes home and uh he w swings open a door, his wife is there, he grabs her and swings around, he kisses her, he says, Sweetheart, I missed you, I missed you, I missed you, I love you so much. And she starts bawling. I mean crying uncontrollably says, Sweetheart, what's the matter? She goes, Bobby fell this morning on his bike and broke his ankle and been in the emergency room all morning. Then when I got home this afternoon the uh the washer had broken and there was water all over the kitchen floor and now you come home drunk and um So it's a good thing to be grateful. Don't make that a strange thing. And so Paul said it's appropriate. That had nothing to do with my message, but I thought that was a great story. So number one, their obligation. Number two, he felt it was it was appropriate to be thankful. Then my third thought under Paul's gratitude is it was authentic. In other words, his gratitude was justified. Look again at verse number three with me. We're bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly Let me back up here. I got ahead of myself. Bound to thank God for you always, brethren, as it is me. Why? Because your faith groweth exceedingly. And two, the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth. Paul wasn't just being grateful for a baseless gratitude There was a reason he was grateful to them. And he gives two reasons. First of all, because their faith groweth exceedingly. Now that phrase caught my attention. Groweth exceedingly. So I got my concordance out, looked it up. Where else is that used in the Bible? Hell else is that used in the Bible? You know what I found out? It's not used anywhere else in the Bible. This is the only time that phrase is used, groweth exceedingly. He says it about the church at Thessalonica. He doesn't say this about the church at Corinth. He doesn't say this to the church in Philippi. He doesn't say this to the church in Colossae. He says it only to the church in Thessalonica. There was something unique about them And what it was is their faith was growing abundantly, exceedingly. I mean, it was This term isn't fitted correctly, but it was out of control. Their growth. It was unprecedented. How many people here know about kudzu? Anybody here know what kudzu is? Yeah, you have to go down south. It's a plant down south. And they brought that over from China or Japan somewhere. And they were supposed to use it for cover along the roads and just kinda and that greweth exceedingly greweth Good word. Uh I mean that absolutely took over. Before they even knew what was happening, the whole south was covered with kudzu. That is the idea. That to me is the idea of this phrase here. When he says, your faith has absolutely taken over, it is just booming, growing exceedingly. It was uncommon. Their trust and reliance upon the Lord, which is what faith is The trusting God to rely on them was just growing and getting stronger and stronger and stronger. It was in like Kudzu took over the south. Their faith, their reliance, their dependence on God was encompassing every area of their life. You know what they were learning? They were learning they could trust God with their future. They were learning they could trust God with their uh the friends that were forsaken them because of their faith in God. They were learning, boy this one uh rubs people the wrong way, they were learning they could trust God with their finances. Their faith was growing exceedingly. It was taking over every aspect of their life. Um I remember, I knew uh this was many, many years ago, but There was a fellow who's going to church and um his wife was unsaved. He kept praying, his wife would get saved, wife would get saved. Finally, his wife got saved. And she began growing and getting stronger. Lord, suddenly he was making statements like this. You know, she's getting carried away with that. That's uh, you know, he wanted her Satan go to heaven, but she began growing and he wasn't. And uh uh that's the idea here, they are growing. Just taking off. And sometimes people around us, when we start growing in our faith, they don't understand what's happening and start giving us a hard time. That's usually family members where that happens. But sometimes co-workers and whatnot, friends. When I got saved, God started just changed my life so dramatically. I never left any of my friends. I didn't want to lose my friends. But God was just changing my life so drastically it scared them. And they quit coming around. And when I'd go to where they were, I'd end up sitting by myself. Follow what I'm saying? And so that's the idea here. Their faith was just encompassing every area of their life, and they were learning to deal with issues of life. through having faith in God. And so he uh there so the first reason his gratitude was justified was because their faith was growing exceedingly. But he also makes a second statement Their charity toward each other was abounding. Now it uses two different words. Groweth exceedingly is the only time that's used in the Bible. Here the word aboundeth, it means to like uh just bubble over I mean, this their love for each other was just boom over the top. They absolutely loved each other. Now, I want to remind you that word charity there. I want to remind you, love is a decision. This is the biggest, this is where more people mess up. in relationships I think than any other area, they view love as some sort of feeling. Love is a decision. Biblical love is when I decide I'm dying to self and I'm putting that other person ahead of me. I love them. And that charity adds a whole lot. More than you preach a whole series just on the word charity. And the tenderness, the kindness that's associated. It's not just a cold decision, I'm going to do what's best for you. It's a compassionate Gracious. And he said their love, this love, this decision to put the best, the well-being of others ahead of themselves, this was just bubbling over. It's almost like he's saying, I've never seen anything like this before. It's interesting in the church in Thessalonica you find no indication of schisms. You don't have any little groups fussing with each other, taking sides on things. You don't find that in Thessalonica at all. You do find that, however, in Corinth. In fact, that church was eat up with it. And the interesting thing is, Paul had nothing good to say about the church at Corinth. His whole book I mean somewhat he did in there, but primarily he's correcting them, correcting them. He's like, you're like babes in Christ. You know, your divisions and all of that. You don't find any of that in Thessalonica Their love for each other was abounding. And notice how he words this. I thought this was a neat way he words it. Look at verse 3 there. And the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth. I thought, why didn't he just say the charity of every one of you all aboundeth? But he says the charity of every uh if it were in Tennessee, he'd say it this way, all y'all. Oh y'all The charity of every one of you aboundeth one toward another. And when I was studying this, what came to my mind was ping-pong. I love you. No, I love you. Oh, I love you. I love you more. I love you more. I love you. I mean not that way. Don't go around doing that, please. But that's the idea. That was just back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. This whole place is just bubbling over. And by the way, it's not a touchy-feely huggy-wuggy type stuff It's a biblical decision that I value the well-being of others over my own well-being. And so he's praising them. Man. What a great thing to have said about a church. Think about this. One, their faith is growing exceedingly. And two, they love each other dearly. I tell you what, if there was if I would love to have said when I die, he had great faith in God and he had great love for the brethren. Wouldn't that be a compliment? Wouldn't it be great to visit a church or something and you leave there and say, man, their faith in God is just growing and they love each other. What a great testimony of a church. That's what Paul's saying about this church at Thessalonica. I'm telling you, the more I study this church, the more enamored I'm coming by it. They hadn't arrived. Obviously, we're going to find that out a little bit later. But brother, they were storming down the highway. You follow what I'm saying? They were just growing. And on the road, they're just in uh kind and compassionate and loving each other. And then last of all, we get Paul's glory. Look at verse 4. So that, now all this stuff he said about them, this is what causes him, this is what it how it affects him. So that we ourselves glory in uh in you. Glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endured. Now what does it mean that he gloried in them? I think we talked about this last week. He's glorying in them. He's bragging on them. He says, I'm getting around to other churches, and I tell you what I'm saying. I'm saying about what a great church you guys are. I'm getting around. Man, that church in Thessalonica, they are their faith is just blowing up. They are so loving to each other. And the first chapter, man, the word of God is spoken all through that region. They're witnessing to everybody. And Paul's going around to all these churches and he's bragging on Thessalonica in his letters. He's bragging on them. Um, I think it's a good habit, it's good to get in the habit of praising others. I think Christians ought to brag on Christians. Now don't misunderstand, I'm not suggesting compromise in any way. We must not compromise in any way. But you know, it would do us good if we would learn to praise as much as we criticize It would do us good as we brag up the churches that are doing good as much as we tear down the ones that are compromising. You follow what I'm saying? Man, uh, the emails I get and the s and the letters I get and stuff I read, it's just man, they're no good and they're no good and they're no good and they're no good. And I read about them and I agree, yeah, they're no good. But what about the guys that are good? What about the churches and the Christians that are living for God? That's what Paul's doing. He's like, I'm bragging on you guys His ministry wasn't going around exposing compromisers. He dealt with that in his ministry. But man, he's bragging on the ones that are doing right. Find something praiseworthy in another person. That would be a good assignment for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Between now and next Wednesday, find as many people as you can that you can brag on them a little bit about Just find something. Boy, you've your hair's clean. You know, just anything Well, you you you don't have anything in your teeth, praise the Lord, you know. But uh make that a habit. Find something to praise about. Notice what he praises them for. He says, so that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God. We're bragging about you in all the churches we get to for two things. One, your patience and two, your faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. Now we're going to find out, and he hints at it here, Church at Thessalonica was going through it. They were taking They were facing opposition and taking heat for their love for the Lord and their stand on the Word of God. They were taking heat. And he says, in the persecutions and tribulations you're facing, I see two characteristics. One is patience. You're being very patient. Patience, how do you define what patience is? I struggled with that. How do you define that? How do you explain to somebody what it means to be patient? One word that came to my mind was steadfast. Just staying right at it. I like to use the term when I help with other pastors the call-up and I was talking to a missionary just a week or so ago and was struggling. I said this. I said, just stay the course. You know what God's called you to do? You know what the Bible says. You've been around it long enough. Just stay the course. Saying, be patient. Just hold to it. Here's the definition I came up with, and my wife thought it was good, so it must be good. Patience, this is my definition, is acting upon principle, not reacting to situations. Acting upon principle. What I know is true, what I know the Bible teaches, I'm going to act on that, not react to all the circumstances, situations I find myself in. Just plugging along, just staying the course. And that's what the church at Thessalonica did. Persecution came, trials came, they just stayed right at it They were in their place, preaching the word, witnessing, praying, just stand right at it, loving each other, trusting God The hotter the uh the hotter the persecution got, the stronger the trials the the um uh tribulations became They just stayed at it, just stayed at it, just stayed at it. You know what the Christian life is for us as individuals and for a church? It's not a 50-yard dash, it's a marathon Just staying at it year after year after year after year. When I came here, I wanted us to be sensational. My flesh, myself, I just wanted Mountain Lake to be the sensational. But I found out sensation sensational churches don't always have a long-term effect It might be better just, I mean, do everything we can on the um you know, but just stay at it year after year after year after year. Just keep on going back, knocking on those doors. Brother, when we knocked on those doors 25 times, let's make it 26. Just keep going at it. Just keep going at it. And that's what Paul says. I'm bragging on you guys. You guys won't quit. No matter what the world throws at you, no matter what the other religions are throwing at you, you guys just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. Their patience and faith. And their faith is confidence. No matter what situation they found themselves in, their confidence in the Word of God didn't change. Their confidence in God's plan and purpose for their life didn't change. And so he says, your faith and your patience, and then he points out in persecutions and tribulations, intense opposition to their obedience to Christ, brother, we better get used to it. I'm convinced it is go it's going to get worse before it gets better in the United States of America. And we might as well just accept the fact, put a smile on our face and put joy in our heart and say, this old world's not going to be our friend. We're just going to plug right ahead. And they're going to throw stuff at us. They're going to throw lawsuits at us. They're going to do everything they can, try and shut it down. But let's just follow uh Thessalonica, Church of Thessalonica, and just press on Just press on. How does a mature Christian respond to persecution, tribulation, and opposition? It's very simple. Faith and patience Just keep plugging away. We don't have time. But boy, we could go to James chapter 1. And that fits into this statement here so much. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith. Worketh what? Patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. That you can be a rapture-ready Christian. Faith and patience. And uh that's what you get. The first the church at Thessalonica was not focused on their own personal happiness, they weren't consumed with pleasure and prosperity. I study this church and I find they were concerned about doing the will of God, about reaching the lost. With the gospel, about trusting God and doing right. I thought of when I finished this message up, I thought about a jackhammer. Take a jackhammer, you got this big old granite rock, you get that jackhammer, and you hit the button, boom, does it break the rock first hit? Nah. Just ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom. Nothing, just little dust fine, ba boom Oh, all we're doing is we're not accomplishing anything in Oakland. We're not accomplishing anything in Kazakhstan. We're not accomplishing oh just keep ba boom ba boom ba boom ba boom and Finally one time boom and that thing splits That's what he's saying about church of Thessalonica. You but you just press it and preacher, I've been giving out tracts and nobody's come to church from all the tracts I've given out. Well just keep right on giving them out. You never know when that one will come through. Church at Thessalonica, keep on praying. Just keep on praying. Preacher, I've been praying for this person to get saved for ten years. Pray for eleven. Just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. I've been fighting this sin, I can't get victory of the sin, I can't get victory of the sin. Faith and patience. You just keep um uh get up tomorrow morning and fight it again. Give it to the Lord. Let God have his way. Isn't this a neat church? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to just stay at it. Just stay at it. I pray for our soul-winning ministry, our bus ministries, Sunday school, the radio, the missions over there. God, all of these. We just seem like we've been doing it for so long. Lord, help us just stay at it and do right. Lord, there's folks here tonight, no doubt, that are facing some difficulties, trials, maybe because of their faith, trying to do right, and others don't appreciate it. Help us, Lord, to just trust you, to be loving, Lord, to be patient and just press on. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. And how many folks tonight you say, Preacher, God has dealt with my heart about a sp specific area that I really just need to stay at it? It was there you let it drift, you've let it get cold, you've let it die out. So preacher, I don't want to be that way. I wanna be like church at Thessalonica and just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. Maybe it's your prayer life, Bible reading, soul winning, faithfulness to church, whatever it might be, between you and God, you say, preacher, pray with me, that God would help me Just stay at that thing. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit speaking to our heart and helping us and challenging us And let's look at the Lord have his way. I don't know. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this. I may be someone here tonight who's ready to give up. Is ready to quit your ministry or whatever. Just figure, uh. Maybe tonight God said, no, don't give up. It's too soon. It's too soon to give up. Father, bless our invitation, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand