And uh that was done very well. If you would turn your Bibles back to Genesis chapter thirty-two. I preached two weeks ago on prayer. I didn't do this on purpose, but uh I'm returning to that theme again this morning. I'm gonna preach on prayer again. And then again, tonight we're going to look at the subject of prayer. I might be a tad bit strong, Brother Dave. And so if you would turn back to Genesis 32. As I said, we preached a wild game dinner over in Winchester, Maryland last evening, the Emmanuel Baptist Church. Had a great crowd out. And we praise the Lord. There were six fellows that prayed to trust the Lord as their personal Savior. So we're always excited about that. And had Brother Jerry went along with me. Uh uh Curtis and Jacob rode along, and it was the ride of their life coming back, I'll tell you And uh I was just hanging on. They were praying for their dear lives as I was driving, and we had a great time, and we arrived safely. I don't know what time it was about eleven or so, I think eleven thirty till I got here, but um uh we just praise the Lord for that. Uh police detective said to the woman whose house had been broken into He said, didn't you suspect burglars had been in the house when you saw all the drawers pulled out and the contents scattered all over the room? And the woman replied, no, I just thought my husband was looking for a clean shirt again. And so I thought I thought that was funnier than that response. I thought it was Look at verse 9 of Genesis 32. Jacob is praying here. He's praying, of course, to the Lord. And he makes an interesting statement in verse 9, then again in verse 12. He says, Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, the God, now notice the next couple words, which sets unto me. And then he quotes what God had said to him. Come down to verse 12. Again, Jacob speaking to God, and thou saidst I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. Again, Jacob is praying to God. And he's quoting what God had promised him. What he's doing here is he is holding God to his word. He's saying, God, you promised this. You said this to us. And so I want to give a little time, think on this matter of claiming God's promises. Let's pray together. Father, again, we just want to bow before we get into this message here. And I'm asking that you would open our hearts and minds to the truth that's given to us here in this passage and many others throughout Scripture. I ask that you would help me present this truth in a way that we can understand it in a way the Holy Spirit can apply it to our lives. Lord, I yield my body to you. I plead with you that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit speaking through me. And I pray, Lord, that when we leave here, our prayer life would be much more effective. And we would have greater confidence when we come to you and pray that you hear us and that you answer prayer and show us how to claim these promises, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask it. Amen. The big difference between one man and another man is not necessarily the color of his skin. Difference between one man and another. The difference between one man and another is not necessarily I mean the most significant difference between one man and another is not necessarily his level of education. It's not necessarily the size of his bank account, but the significant difference between one person and another person is whether they know the Lord or not. Whether they have Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. That is what distinguishes one man from another. Do they know the Lord Jesus as Savior? Now, if you're familiar with this passage here and the setting of what's going on here, we have two two brothers. You have Isaac, You have Esau and Jacob. And these two brothers are as different as they can possibly be. Esau, if you're familiar with this, you know he's a strong man. He's very independent. He's very confident in a lot of ways, but he does not know the Lord. We are told in other portions of Scripture that Esau, very strong, very independent, he can just handle things, he can do things. But he doesn't know the Lord. As I said, he's referred to in several places in Scripture as being a very profane man. On the other side, you have Jacob. Jacob is very insecure. Jacob is very weak in a lot of ways. He has a lot of imperfections. But Jacob has the Lord. Jacob knows God. You never read anywhere in Scripture, and I got looking for this, I can't find anywhere in Scripture where you read of the mighty God of Esau Never references the God of Esau. You never have God and Esau referenced together. But you do read in many portions of scripture, you read of the mighty God of Jacob. Jacob knew the Lord. There are many very intelligent, strong, gifted folks that, as far as the world is concerned, they're a great success. But they don't have the Lord. They don't have God in their life. They don't know Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. And as a result of that, spiritually, are there many insecurities? Then we spoke at the Wild Game Duners. A fellow before the service came up to me and he said, uh he said, Pastor Leatherman, we're praying for you. He said a few things. He says, I've got some guys coming tonight And he says they're pretty successful. I've worked with them. He says they're good guys. They're outdoorsmen and all of this stuff. And he says, but they're not saved. And he said, they've been coming to me and they've been asking me a lot of questions, and they've been saying stuff like, you know, I just really don't have any purpose in my life, and you know, I'm kind of scared where I go when I die. He said, one of the men said to him How do you go about getting God to change your life? Now, these are men in the world's eyes would say these guys are successful. These guys are very strong. These guys have have their act together. But in their heart and soul, there was an emptiness there. There was a fear. There was a purposelessness. On the other hand, you have some folks with little natural abilities, very few resources, maybe, as the world would measure. And yet they know Jesus Christ as Savior, and as a result of that, their life is characterized by purpose. There's a peace in their heart, there's an absence of guilt there And uh they have a God that cares for them and leads them and directs them. So as I said, the great division between one man and another, one person another, isn't necessarily their skin, isn't their finances, their r uh isn't their education level. It's Do they know the Lord as their Savior or do they not know the Lord as their Savior? So that tells me the greatest question in life is not how much money do you have? We stand before God. Ultimately, we're all going to stand before God at one of two judgments. We stand before God. The judgment isn't going to be how much money did you make? The judgment isn't going to be how educated were you? The judgment isn't going to be well how popular were you? How many people liked you? How many friends did you have on Facebook? Isn't going to be the judgment. The judgment is going to be, do you know the Lord? Do you have Christ in your life as your personal Savior? Now, I got saved. Did I ever tell you about the night I got saved? May 7, 1979. I accepted Christ's Savior. The night I got saved. My motive, as I've said many times, my motive for trusting Christ was not to escape hell and go to heaven. That's what I wasn't thinking about that. I wanted a new life. I had messed things up so bad And I just wanted God to give me a new life. And my thinking at the time was, I'd just like to start over. And when you get saved, when you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, in a sense, you start over. We're born again. We're given a new life. And so I called out, and so I was just ecstatic. God was changing my life just dramatically and so rapidly. And that was what I was asking. That's what I'm wanting in salvation. And as I as time went on, as I learned the scriptures, I got in church and I was understanding more about the Christian life and faith was getting stronger. I started realizing there's a whole lot more to salvation than simply escaping hell and simply even just getting a new life. There's all kinds of added blessings. There's all kinds of added benefits when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And one of those blessings is as a believer in Jesus Christ, I have a place to go to in the time of need. I have someone I can go to when my circumstances get bigger than I am and my problems are more than I can handle. I have someone to go to in a time of trouble Jacob, in our context here, was in a time of trouble. He had swindled his brother. You remember the story, and he gotten the birthright. uh uh his mom kinda coached him through that and he'd swindled from his brother Esau the birthright and he had to flee over to Laban and He was over there for years and he got his wives and had all these kids and and uh God blessed him. He had all this sheep and everything. And he's coming back, and if you'll come back to Genesis 33, you got your Bible there, come back uh or go forward to Genesis 33 and look with me in verse number one. Now Jacob is coming back home. Is this context here? He's coming back home and he knows his brother Esau is back at home. He knows the last time he saw his brother Esau several years before Esau was really, really tit. Now that's into Hebrew. All right. But Esau was furious. At Jacob. He had stolen his birthright. He had stolen the blessings of his father. And he was just fit to be tied. That was why Jacob left in the first place, so his brother wouldn't kill him. Well now he's coming back. As far as he knows, his brother hadn't changed his mind. As far as he knows, Esau is still really ticked and coming out for him. And I think Jacob was correct in his assessment of the situation. And that's where Genesis 33, verse 1 comes in. And Jacob, he's coming back, and it says, and Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold, Esau came, and with him, what was with him? Four hundred men. Now what we know about Esau, and he's got 400 men with him, this is not the welcome wagon he's bringing out for Jacob I'm convinced that he is coming with 400 heavily armed men and he is going to slaughter his brother and he is just going to put an end to this whole thing. He is absolutely furious. I'm convinced of that. Jacob is not a warrior. He is not equipped or prepared to go to war with his brother. He's basically got women and kids and a bunch of sheep. That's not a very impressive army. And so uh Jacob is facing a situation that is absolutely out of his control. He's in over his head and he is scared to death. But because he has the Lord He has a resource that Esau does not have. He has a place to go, someone to go to that can help him in this situation. Humanly speaking, Jacob had no defense against Esau. But because he had the Lord, he did have a defense. Eventually, everyone comes to the point in life Where their situation is greater than their abilities. At some point in life, you're going to find yourself in some circumstances where the need outweighs your resources. Where the situation is far greater than your abilities to deal with it, and you're going to need someone bigger than yourself to step in and help out. And that is where the Lord comes in. And one of the great blessings of knowing Jesus Christ as Savior is that we have the Lord to help us in a time of need. We had the funeral on these uh ferns up here from the funeral for Brother Charles Coddington. Went to be the wool with the Lord last Sunday afternoon. I think most of you are aware of that. And uh last May Charles was down in Baltimore visiting his son. He came up to a traffic um uh uh an intersection and he was sitting there and he got real confused. He didn't know where to turn, didn't know where to go, didn't know what to do. I believe his son was with him. And um uh dad, he said, Daddy, are you okay? He said, I'm not sure. And he said, we better get this check. So he went to a little clinic, lo and behold, you know the story, they found the tumor The doctor said you have cancer in your brain. We're gonna have to deal with it. We're gonna face have to take care of this. And talking to his son, I learned some things I didn't know before the funeral. And when Charles, when the doctor said to Charles, you have brain cancer, he had no idea, never saw this coming. As far as he got up that morning, just another day, just like you and I got up this morning. And when the doctor said to Charles, you have brain cancer, we're going to have to deal with this serious. Preston told me, he said, My daddy says, you know I'm ready to die. I just don't want to do it just yet. And Preston said there was not a hint of fear in my daddy's response. He said there wasn't a hint of of uh panic or or terror or fear in any way. He said it was just a very calm Very deliberate response, all right, I I'm I'm I'm ready for this, I just don't want to die yet. You know what that's a result of? That's the presence of God in the life of a person. That's the uh I did uh when I was youth pastor out in Indianapolis, uh we had a young man uh in our church, uh young rode the buses in in our youth group, William, just a good kid, just kind of quiet, faithful, he was just there all the time He lived with his father. He had a brother and he lived with his father. His father was not a Christian. And he would beg and plead with his daddy to come to church. He would have prayer in the youth group, pray my daddy get saved. Pray my daddy get saved. On New Year's Eve, we had a New Year's Eve service, and William begged his daddy to come to church that night. And his daddy said this. His daddy says, you know. He goes, William, you've been begging me, I'm going to start coming to church this year, but not tonight. And he went out and I don't know what if he was partying or what, I don't know. He didn't come to church, William did. The next day, New Year's Day, William's daddy had a massive heart attack. and went out into eternity as an unsaved man. And I tell you, I was at that funeral and saw family members who did not have the Lord as Savior. And I did, it was one of the first funerals I ever did, that did not have the Lord as Savior. There was absolute terror. There was overwhelming, uncontrollable grief And what a world of difference between one man that dies that knows the Lord and another man that dies that does not know the Lord What I'm saying is when we have Jesus Christ our Savior, when we know the Lord, we have a resource. There's a strength, there's a comfort, there's a resource there that unsaved people do not have. Preston Charles dad made a tremendous statement. I I just this just impacted me so much. Wednesday I was out there and we were going over the service and who would have a part and whatnot. And we're talking and Preston made the statement. I told him, I said, if you don't use that in the service, I'm going to. He said, and he didn't mean it to be used as part of service. He just made this state. We were talking, we had Charles Bible there, we're looking at stuff, and he says, you know, I was with my daddy when he died. And he said, and and Preston knows the Lord. And he says, you know, I saw my daddy die as a Christian. And he said, seeing my daddy die as a believer, I am no longer afraid to die myself. His father had a testimony when he crossed over the river into heaven, had such a testimony of the faith and presence and comfort of God that his son, watching that happen, said, I'm not afraid of that anymore. Not afraid of that anymore. And that's something. Jacob had the Lord, Esau been. Esau had armies, Esau had resources, Saul had strength and human strength and uh human confidence Esau didn't have any armies, he didn't have any weapons, he didn't have any con any self-confidence, but he had the Lord. And what a difference that makes in life. One of the privileges of salvation is this matter of prayer, coming to God. And having God hear our prayers and answer us. And Jacob, with all his faults, he knew the Lord, and he knew how to pray. And he knew that one of the keys in having power in prayer was claiming the promises of God. I pointed out in verse number 9 and verse number 12 how he held God to his word. And he said, God, you said that you would bless me. You said that if I would go back, you would care for me. God, you said that my offspring would be like the sand of the sea. God, you promised that. And Jacob understood a key ingredient in answer prayer. As a man who had the Lord in his life, he understood that I can hold God to his promises. I can claim the promises of God when I come to God in prayer. Now that's what I want to look at real quickly now in the next few moments, three aspects of claiming God's promises with prayer. Here's my first thought. Number one If we're going to claim God's promises in prayer, we must be familiar with God's promises. I can't claim a promise I don't know exists. Can I get an amen? Hello? Anyone out there? I can't claim something I don't know. I can't claim a promise from God if I don't know it exists. I need to be familiar with God's promises. You read these here, Jacob knew exactly what God had promised him. Jacob knew exactly what God had said to him. And he was very familiar with God's promises to him. And God's promises should be familiar to us. They should be more than just familiar to us, they should be very precious to us. To be honest with you, I view it as the most precious thing I have, the most valuable thing I have are the promises of God given to me in God's Word. God's promises. Look at verse number nine. He says, O God of my father Abraham, God of my father Isaac, the Lord which sets unto me. Return unto thy country and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. He knew what God's promise was all involved. Look at that carefully. He knew what God's requirements were for the fulfillment of God's promises. He says, if you return, if thou return unto thy country and to thy kindred, then I will deal well with thee. He knew that God had promised. He didn't just take that promise, I'll deal well with thee. God had promised, I'll deal well with thee, but there was a condition on that. He had to return to his land, to his country. He had to return to his kindred. And if he would do that, God says, I'll do this. And it is important for you and I, how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Now, for those of us that know the Lord is our Savior, it is important for us to be very familiar with God's promises. We need to know what God has promised, but we also need to know what the conditions are on that promise. Many of God's promises do come with conditions. Matthew 6, 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and All these things shall be added unto you. He doesn't say, hey, I'll take care of everything, everything's going to be fine, you just take care of all that. He says that, but he says, but you must first seek the kingdom of God. God's saying is listen, if you'll worship me as I intended, created you to worship me, if you'll honor me as I created you to honor me, if you'll uh trust me as I created you to trust me, then I will take care of you. Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good. Now that verse doesn't end there All things work together good for uh for what? Then that no uh for uh we need to be familiar with these promises. And we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And so Jacob was very familiar with God's promise, not just the promise itself, but the conditions around it. And he was seeking to fulfill that. Look down at verse 12 again. Thou says, I will surely do thee good and make thy seed as the sand of the sea. which cannot be number for multitude. I mean he's not just quoting God in a general sense. He is quoting God verbatim. He is extremely familiar with God's promises. A vital ingredient in spiritual growth is learning God's promises and then claiming them. It's going to be very challenging for me to grow spiritually, for my faith to get stronger and stronger as I go through life if I don't know what God has said to me. If I'm not familiar with God's promises, it's going to be very difficult for my faith to grow. We're told in Romans chapter 10 and verse 17, for faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. So, God's words, God's promises are vital in our spiritual growth, are vital in the development of our faith. We must be familiar with God's word and God's promises. Jacob knew who these promises were made to. Notice he says, where does he say verse 9 in the middle there? The Lord which saith unto me. This was a promise God had given previously directly to Jacob. This was a promise that he knew who it was made to. Now let me throw a caution out there. My dad, years ago, this was a long time ago, he had gone through, he reads his Bible every single day. That's good advice. Reads his Bible every single day. And one year he had told me he was going to do this. Actually, he told me after it was already well into the year. He said, I'm writing down every single promise I find in the Bible as I go through the Bible. And he had a notebook about that thing. And he'd write the reference and he'd write the verse out, the promise. And I mean he had probably hundreds. Not probably. He did hundreds and hundreds of promises as he was reading through the Bible that he copied over into this little notebook. That's a great thing to do. But we need to be very careful that we understand not every promise that God gives in the Bible is necessarily to you or I directly. God has given some promises that are made only to the nation of Israel. You follow what I'm saying? I can't claim that promise. God has promised Israel that one day they would dwell in the land of of Palestine. That would all be theirs. He gave very specific uh borders for it and all that. He has promised them that one day that would be theirs. I can't claim that promise. I can't go over there and say, God promised I would have this land He didn't promise that to me. Promised that to the nation of Israel, and one day he will fulfill that. By the way, the land of Israel is the Israelites, not the Palestinians. And so Jacob was very familiar with God's promises. He knew what God had said. He knew what the conditions were around that promise. And he also knew who the promises were made to. And he was able to come and say, this is the promise made to me. Now listen, you say, well, how do I know what? I'll tell you, there are gazillions of promises in the Bible for you and I Don't worry you're left out of anything. But we do need to be familiar with them and look at that. Here's the problem. We have some preachers, particularly on TV, and I'm not trying to be unkind, but they're claiming promises God never made. And they're claiming stuff that God has never promised. And that simply tells me that they just are not familiar with God's word and God's promises are a preacher back in the s I think it was the eighties was very popular on TV and he got messed up in embezzlement and he got messed up with his secretary is in prison for a long time and he wrote a book in prison and the title of the book was this I was wrong. That takes a man to admit that in my mind. And I think some of the stuff he said, I think he was still wrong. But um he pointed, he made this statement. He said, we get up on that in front of that TV and we'd say these statements, all that. He said, we never looked at what the Bible said about it. And he said, here I am in prison for however many years it is. And he said, I got my Bible out and started studying it, and I realized we were saying stuff that's nowhere in the Bible. And we were promising things God had never promised. And he says, I was wrong. How about that? That's not the case for Jacob. Jacob knew he was very familiar with the promises of God. Unto me. Thou sayest, unto me. I want to throw a little advertisement in here now. I want to challenge you to get involved in our great scripture memory challenge. You have basically a hundred promises there, a hundred verses telling me about God, about the Christian life, about the things of the Lord, that I can memorize, get into my heart and mind And as I'm praying and as I'm going through life and facing different situations, I suddenly have these promises, these truths from God that I'm very familiar with. And I can take them and I can claim them and apply them to the various situations as I go through life. That is part of Christian growth. Being familiar with the Word of God, particularly the promises of God. So, one thing I notice here: we need to be familiar with God's promises if we're going to claim them as someone that knows the Lord. Number two Not only must we be familiar with God's promises, we need to understand God is faithful to His promises Now, this is what I thought was interesting. Jacob understood the power of holding God to his word. And there is a powerful thing If you can hold someone to their word, you have a great, a powerful relationship with that individual, right? If somebody says, I give you my word, I will do this. And then later on I come back, I can hold them to their word. Right? You follow what I'm saying? That's a powerful thing. We like to talk about the old timers like to talk about back in the day when a man's word, he was good for his word, right? His word and his handshake. We have to sign no contract, just his word and his handshake. Well that was true in the day, but ain't true no more. Nowadays the contract don't even hold up And Jacob understood the power of holding someone to their word. In fact, our judicial system understands The power of holding someone to their work. When you go to court, you've uh some of you have been there and know what I'm talking about You go to court. You get up on that witness stand. What's the first thing you do before you step up there? I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. So help me God You know what they're saying? We're going to hold you to your word. And if they don't, it's a very serious crime called perjury. It's a federal offense. I read this yesterday. I thought this was pretty good. If you and I lie to the government, it's perjury. If the government lies to us, it's politics. How does that work? But Jacob understood the power Of getting a promise from God and go holding God to his word. Thou said unto me, God, you told me that you would do this for me. Listen, God can do many marvelous things, but one thing God cannot do, God cannot lie. And if he says something to you and me that he will do it, if he has promised us something, we can mark it down, we can put our life on it, God will do it. When I got saved, did I ever tell you at night I got saved? When I got saved for about the first two months, I mean God was changing my life and so much going on. But you know, I just had this uncertainty in my mind that I I was really accepted by God. And as much as strange as it seems now In that one, two-month period of time, I had a hard time saying to people, I am saved. Because I just struggled with that certainty. And I was reading a sermon in the Sword of the Lord by John R. Rice, and he referenced Romans 10. 13. And I got that Bible out and I read that. And it says this: many of you are familiar with it, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is a promise of God. Would you agree with me? God cannot lie. Agree with me on that? And I got thinking about that, and with my uncertainty in my mind about something, even though all that God was doing, I was witnessing and all this stuff, there was just that unsettled about my salvation there. And I read that and it dawned on me. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, I knew I did that. Absolutely. That night I had bowed beside my bed and I had called out to God to have mercy on me, be my personal Savior. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I thought, I know I called on the Lord, and if I'm not saved, then God lied to me. Because he said, whosoever shall call Plain Lord shall be saved. Not might be, not can be. He says, shall be saved. And I knew I called the Lord. And that night I settled it in my heart and soul. God cannot lie. Even if he could, he wouldn't lie. But he can't. And he promised whoever calls on him shall be saved. From here on out, the basis of my salvation is on the integrity of God's word. I'm not gonna look at how I'm living my life anymore. I'm not gonna look look at the strength of my faith anymore. I'm not gonna trust in anything of me anymore. My eternal salvation is from here on out based on the promise of God. And my salvation is really holding God, my faith is holding God to his word. That he promised that. He promised that. God can do many miraculous things, but he cannot lie. Our God is a God of integrity. We can trust him. We can hold him to his word In a matter of salvation, in a matter of so many areas of the Christian life. Listen to a couple verses I jotted down. In Genesis 26:3, God said this: I will perform the oath which I swear unto you. In Jeremiah 1:12, he says, I will hasten my word and perform it. Jeremiah 33, verse 14, I will perform that good thing which I have promised. Titus 1:2, God which cannot lie, has given to us eternal life. We can hold God to his word because God is faithful to his promises So number one, I need to be familiar with the promises of God. If my prayer life is going to be effective, if I'm going to find God to help me in time of need and give me direction in life and and uh and protect me and help me, I've got to find out what his promises were. Just like Jacob. was in a in a tough situation. He knew exactly what God's promises were. He was very familiar with what the conditions were, what applied to him personally. And then I need to understand that God is faithful to His promises. God will not lie, God will not fail, He will fulfill that which He promised. And last of all, number three, I put this down: I must fix my prayers. Upon the promises of God. In other words, when I come to God in prayer, God, I need wisdom in this situation. God, I I'm not sure what the right answer is. I don't not sure what the right direction is to go with this I need to come and find the promise of God and say, God, I am fixing, I am establishing, I'm basing this request on your promise. Now, let's, for instance, I'm praying for wisdom Let's imagine I'm in a situation, I've got to make a decision, it's pretty significant. There's no clear right and wrong answer. There's no clear right and wrong direction. I I need to know Alright, I can come to God. And God has promised in James chapter 1 and verse 5, if any of you lack wisdom, let him Ask of God. And it should be given him. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. So, in other words, all right, God, I need wisdom. You have promised me in James chapter 1 and verse 5 that if I ask you for wisdom, you would give it to me. I'm going to trust that. I'm going to claim that wisdom. And I'm trusting you to help me make the right decisions. And sometimes in decision making, when there's no clear right or wrong, I pray, I seek the Lord, I evaluate it, and I make the best decision I can, and I just trust God that He's leading and directing me. Amen. You follow what I'm saying? And so what am I doing? I'm fixing my prayers upon the promises of God. Notice verse number 10 here in Genesis 32. I thought this was interesting, what Jacob throws in here. He says, this is verse 9, chapter 32. He says, God my father Abraham, God of my father Isaac, God which sent unto me return unto thy country. And look at verse 10. I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all the truth which thou hast showed unto thy servant. What's he saying? He's saying, God, I'm not coming to you and depending on you to answer my prayer based on any goodness I have. God, it's not like I have I have somehow earned the right for you to answer this prayer or meet this need. God, I it's not like I'm coming saying, God, you owe this to me for because of how good I've been. Doesn't work that way. Because the fact of the matter is, none of us are worthy of the least of his mercies. That's what mercy is, getting God being merciful to me, God withholding something that I really deserve, some negative area or grace, God giving me something I don't deserve And so Jacob fully understood that the grounds of his claiming God's promises was not his own righteousness, it was God being merciful. And so he was fixing his prayers upon the promises of God, not his own goodness. Listen, we're not good enough to get to heaven. We're not good enough to get our to deserve having our prayers answered. The assurance of heaven is based upon the promise of God. The assurance of God's answering my prayers are based upon the promise of God. God, you promised. It's not our own worthiness that obligates God to answer our prayers, but it's God's integrity. It's God's promises. Every aspect of prayer hinges upon the promises of God. When you and I pray, what we need to do is take the anchor of our faith and drop it deep in the promises of God's word and hold tight till God comes through. Do I want victory over sin? And I come to God and I pray. I say, God, you has promised me that greater is He that's in me, that's He than the world. God, you promise me that the presence of your Holy Spirit would empower me and give me victory in life. Lord, you promise that the faith is the victory over this world. God, you promise victory. And you come and you anchor that prayer in the promises of God and you keep praying and you keep praying and you keep praying till God gives victory. Listen, there's not a sin the devil can come up with that the promises and power of God cannot give us victory over. So anchor it down in the promises of God. If I have some needs to be met. But you just keep praying, you find a promise. Matthew 6. 33. Philippians 4. 19, find some promises in the Bible, and you just anchor at that there and you hold on and say, God, you promised. Needs met. Forgiveness of sin. I got down to Bible college and uh boy I just uh had Did a little something stupid and I felt bad. I was confessing. I was just walking all over campus. Lord, I sinned, I did wrong, God, please for me. And I mean we went on for hours. God, I just need you for hearing me. And finally it's like the Holy Spirit slapped me upside the head. I mean not literally. I think it was a low branch I walked under, but um it was like listen, I promised if you confess your sins, you're faithful and just to forgive your sin and cleanse you of all unrighteousness. What are you doing? Why are you walking around like this? I promised you it would be And I meet people and I will deal with people all the time. They're carrying around guilt from years gone by, and they're saving people. And it's like, listen, God has promised there. You don't need to carry that around. Claim God's promise. Confess that thing, you forsake it, you get up and you go on. Direction in life. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Or no. Philippians Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not to thine understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy paths. That's a promise of God God will lead us, God will direct us, power to win souls, thousands of other promises. A Christian that incorporates promise claiming prayer into their daily life Has a source of great power and great blessing. A Christian family Mom and dad and the kids that band together and say we're going to be a family of prayer. And when we pray, we're going to claim God's promises. And we're going to become very familiar with them, and our prayers are going to be anchored in the promises of God's Word. And I believe that family will see God do great things for them. Great and mighty things. That they never even dream possible. There is power, power, in promise-claiming prayer. When I do as Jacob did, and Jacob, you know, he had a ton of issues, but he had the Lord. And he knew what God had promised, and God gave him great victory. And he shows up with his brother, and his brother is like flabbergasted, his brother doesn't even know what to do. And he says, what are all these sheep and all these folks you send on? What's going on? And it's like God just dissolved the heart of Esau and completely eliminated the whole threat to Jacob's well-being. And I believe it was in direct answer to Jacob's promise claiming prayers. I believe a church. A church that will learn to pray. A church that will learn God's word. Get it hidden deep into our heart and mind as we're seeking to do this year in Scripture memory And getting those promises and those principles of Scripture deep into our heart and mind. And as a church, we come to God and we pray for our missionaries and we pray for nations like Kazakhstan. And we pray for our bus routes and the little kids and folks that ride our Sunday school buses, and we pray for families that come in here, and we pray for the ministries of our church And we claim the promises of God. I believe with all my heart we can see God do things in the lives of people and even in the nations of the world if we will come in faith claiming the promises of God. Does that make sense? Jacob said, Lord, you promised that if I come back to my family, to my country, and to my kindred, That you would care for me, that you would keep me, you would provide for me. God, you promised me that. I don't deserve it. I don't deserve the least of your mercies. But Lord, you gave your word. I'm going to hold you to that, God. I'm going to trust your word. And God always comes through. Jesus never fails. May take a little time. He may not work all that out the way I anticipated it, but he never, ever, ever fails. Now let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that when you died, your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven, not to hell? You can know that God has promised. That if I'll accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I can know, I can be assured, I can be confident that whenever that day comes, when I die, I have eternal life, I'll go to be with the Lord, spend eternity with the Lord. It's a promise of God. So if you don't have that settled, if you don't have that assurance in your heart and soul, you can claim that promise. Accept Christ as Savior. Whosoever believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already. If I believe in the Lord, I trust him, invite him in my heart and life, be my Savior, I'm not condemned. I'm saved. That's a pro God you promised. Now, those of us that have trusted Christ, are we even familiar with God has promised us? Do we even know? I don't even know what God has promised me as a Christian. Good night, the book's full of them. Open up almost any page, particularly the New Testament, almost any page. There's promises all over the place there. I want to challenge you this year. Get in that book. Find out what God has said. Get that list of memory verses. Work on them at home during the week at work driving down the road, except in white out snowstorms, don't memorize them. And then when you pray, say, here it is, God. You promised me that. I'm gonna trust you. I'm gonna trust you. You know what that's called? Faith. Believing that God will do what He said He would do. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you, Lord, to help us have faith in you. Lord, help us to be men and women of prayer, families that pray. Moms and dads and kids, husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, praying. I pray we would be a church of prayer. Or we come together on a regular basis, Wednesday night, Saturday men's prayer meeting, ladies' prayer lunch, and Sunday afternoon men's prayer meeting and praying together, maybe just spontaneous, getting together one with another, and praying, Lord, help us, stir us to believe in this matter. Our heads abowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. But I do have some situations I'm facing, I have some decisions that need to be made, I have some needs that need to be met I had some battles that need to be fought. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me have faith to claim his promises. Pray with me, preacher, that God will help me get familiar with God, what God has said, so that I can claim them. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me in these areas. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Hands all around Hands all around. Overwhelming majority said, Yep, that's true, Preacher, pray with me. Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? I'd like to think so. I hope I am, but I sure want to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me that I can have that settled in my heart and mind, that I can know that for sure. And there won't be that doubt there. Pray that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell, and I'm concerned about that. And I want that matter to be settled settled. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. A lot of hands raised. God, I saw the hands, you know our hearts. Help us to bring these situations, these issues to you. Help us to learn your word that we can claim these promises. And help us to have faith just to hold on to what you've said in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads of