It's the first Wednesday of the month, and so that means we're going to give out some tips for personal soul winning. And I actually have two things That I want to try and cover. They're related, of course. They both have to do with sharing the gospel with other people and sharing our faith and being a witness. But uh they're a little bit two different categories, so I'll see if I can get them both put in there. If you want to turn to Matthew chapter number 28, be a good place to start maybe Get hooked up here. Alright, we are hot on the mic. Um while you're getting set up there, and you I think I'm a little bit too loud there, Dave. Uh I want to encourage you to get a paper, and I think I'm still a little bit much. It sounds really loud to me. Um I said no, it don't sound loud to you? Well, okay I wear ear musks. Ah, okay. If you have a paper, I want to encourage you to jot a few things down. It's the beginning of the year. And that means, uh I don't know how you do, but uh this year especially I've been doing a lot of self-examination. Sunday, remember uh Sunday night I did that little thing to ask ourselves Well, I want to give a few questions about our personal soul winning, our personal witnessing. And so if you have some paper and a pencil there, I want to give you a few thoughts to jot these down just for your own help. And then I want to go to a few other things. While you're getting that, I have a couple other stuff I want to share with you. We got our report from our website, the sermons that are on our website. There is 1,107 sermons from our pulpit that are on our website. There was 582 downloaded in a month of December. That's down significantly. If you remember the last month we had about 1,200 And so I'm not sure what the story is. The number one sermon downloaded 35 times was the message the other Sunday morning on patiently waiting. And uh that was 35 times. Anyone want to guess the number one uh country? Germany. 25 sermons downloaded into Germany. How about that? And then United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand had a slew of them this month, Saudi Arabia, Fiji. Iceland. Man, there's three sermons downloaded into Iceland. I think there's only three people live in Iceland. Vietnam had a bunch. How about that? Kenya, South Africa, China. And then the number one state was Pennsylvania. How about that? And then California was number two, 50 sermons into California. West Virginia, they need it. Maryland and um Oh slew going on there. One other thing I wanted to share with you real quick. I got this email. I got this from brother um uh Chris Phillips in Kazakhstan. I'm telling you, this uh the Lord is doing stuff. We've been praying a long time for this country, and I think God's starting to work over there. Listen to this. And uh I want I just want and we're probably gonna read again, Charlie, we'll read this again Sunday morning But I wanted to read it tonight because I was so excited. It says, two weeks ago, a man named, I'm not sure how to say this name, I'll just say owl. It's Orton B. I. But this fellow came to our Monday night prayer meeting. He was neither nice nor friendly. While one of the other men was speaking, he interrupted and blurted out, Jesus is not God. What happened next was funny. Everyone stopped what they were doing, looked at him, and in unison said, no, Jesus Christ is God. It was funny because it was spontaneous and unrehearsed, and you also had to see the look on all the men's faces and hear the long drawn-out yet. That's Russian for no. Yet, this fellow was actually stunned for a moment. He went on to reveal that he was a Muslim. He believed Jesus was only a prophet and not God's son. None of our men were ugly towards him. They each in turn patiently explained that Jesus Christ is not only God's Son, but he is actually God in the flesh. We each testified this is what the Bible plainly teaches. He then attacked the veracity of scriptures. Again, everyone kindly disagreed with him and reaffirmed that God's word is true. I told him that people who have read, believed, and acted upon God's word have changed history. For instance, Columbus discovering America because of what he read in Scripture Then he went on and gave some other illustrations. He said he did not. We then took our normal prayer request and closed our meeting in prayer. He did not get saved that night, but he left the meeting a different person. Everyone kindly said goodnight to him and invited him to come again. Lo and behold, the following Monday night he returned to the prayer meeting. We made plain the scriptures to him, and around 8. 30 p. m. , 9. 30 a. m. Eastern Time, he bowed his head and received Christ as his Savior. Isn't that an amazing thing? Uh it was a wonderful meeting. And uh and so they're following up on him and working on him. Isn't that exciting? This guy came of his own will and showed up and uh then came back He said on a little side note, smoking is a large part of the culture here. Many of the men smoked. That same night of their own volition, the men made a pact to stop smoking So it was truly an incredible meeting. Isn't that something? And so I couldn't wait till Sunday to share that. So Charlie will read all that again Sunday morning. And then I'll probably read it Sunday night again. And uh well we want to talk about soul winning. God is how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen Amen. If that's true, if we know for sure our sins are forgiven, that we trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and that when we die we go to heaven, not to hell, if we have that settled based on the Bible, the promises of God's Word, then God has given us the responsibility to take that message, the gospel message that saved our soul and changed our lives and gave us eternal life, were to take that same message and share it with other people. You say, of course we're do that. We send missionaries all around the world. Chris is over there and Caught in the Middle East or in Central Asia and we got missionaries all around the rings down in New Zealand, down in uh Brazil and the the howls down in New Zealand. We got missionaries everywhere, preacher. Yes, that's true. And that is a huge, huge part of our responsibility. But What we expect those missionaries to be doing in these foreign fields, you and I as Christians are to be doing here. And it's all the same thing. Everybody doing the same thing, just different places. And so our responsibility is to share the gospel with other people. A person does not have to have great training to be able to witness to other people and tell them how to be saved. The woman at the well got saved. Right there, Jesus led her Lord. She trusted Christ. I mean, within moments, she went into the town, won a whole slew of people to Christ, told them what Christ had done for her And those people believed and got saved. So we don't need a whole lot of training. However, it does help us if we know a little bit things to say and things to avoid, right? Certainly, we have an idea of how to approach somebody, how to take a conversation and transition it over to talk about the things of the Lord. Uh generally people don't respond real well when you open up and say you're going to hell unless you get saved. That usually doesn't go over real well So we want to be a little tactful, we want to have a method. And so that's what we're giving these tips for. Now here's what I want to ask you. We've been doing this about a year or so now, once a month, giving these little tips out. I want to challenge each of us, and I went through this with myself. on how effective am I in my personal gospel witness? And just a few questions to ask ourselves. How effective am I in my personal gospel witness? Now before we do this, I want to give a word of caution. Results are not an indicator of success. In other words, just because I don't, maybe I didn't win 15 people to trust Christ as Savior, that doesn't mean I'm a failure. So results do not determine whether we're successful or not. We have missionaries on the field that have been there many years. They're faithfully witnessing, they're faithfully sharing the gospel. They are very successful. successfully sharing the gospel, but there may not be a whole lot of people get saved. We tell our missionaries when we take them on, always on our missions conference, we always have a meal together, we have a meeting, I go over a policy with them And one of the things I emphasize to them, your support as a missionary is not dependent on a certain number of professions of faith. That is not a factor. However, it is good to stop and evaluate: am I effective in my witness? Am I communicating the gospel? Is my life Being having an impact on other people as far as getting saved. So these are some of the questions. So regardless of the visible results, we're to be faithful, personal, soul winning. Let me back up here a little bit. Paul even had seasons where he didn't see hardly anybody saved. He would go into some towns and uh he'd get run out. They'd stone him, he'd very few would get saved And he'd go to somewhere else at another time, and scores and scores would respond to his witness and trust Christ. Even the Lord Jesus Christ. With certain areas he would go to, the people wouldn't respond. They he couldn't do many miracles there, it says in one place, because of their hard hearts and they wouldn't believe. And so we can't judge our success in our personal witness simply on numbers and people who make professions of faith. But nevertheless, it is important to evaluate and ask myself this question. This isn't one of the questions, but uh just evaluate this. Am I actively engaging people with the gospel? I look at my life, my schedule, the last several months, am I actively engaging anybody with the gospel of Jesus Christ for them to be saved? So that's what we're trying to do. And here's some questions for you. Write this one down. I encourage you to jot this one down. When was the last time I shared the gospel personally with someone? Now stop and think about it. When's the last time that I shared with somebody in a somewhat thorough way How they can be saved, how what the Bible says that a person needs to escape hell and go to heaven by trusting Christ. I asked myself that. When's the last time I shared the gospel personally with someone? Now, sitting in church and an unsaved person there and the preacher preaching, that is not personally sharing the gospel. Now, if you invite him to church, that's an aspect of it, but is there any time in the last several weeks? Where you, as an individual Christian, shared with somebody how they could be saved. If several weeks have gone by, or maybe some cases several months God forbid it would be for any Christian several years since I shared the message of salvation, the gospel with anybody, if that's the case. Maybe I need to schedule it into my weekly schedule. Maybe I need to work it in somewhere that, you know, I'm I'm not I'm not sharing the gospel with people personally on a regular basis. It's been a long time since I told somebody how to be saved. Maybe what I need to do is stop and say, you know, I need to start deliberately working this into my schedule so that I'm fulfilling the commission God has given me. I'm fulfilling the command God has given me to share it with others. That's one of the reasons, I say this often, that's one of the reasons we as a church have a scheduled time of personal soul winning I think it helps us. Ed and I joke a lot about it. We have it Thursday evenings at 6. 30. We meet and go out and visit. And Ed and I joke about it a lot that all day Thursday we're thinking of all kinds of reasons why we can't make it that evening. Well, I got this, that, and the other, and everything else going on, but found out, got it scheduled, I need to do it, so we just go and do it whether we feel like it or not And it's one of those things where you go and do it, then you're glad once you've done it. And so we have it scheduled. So if it's an extended period of time that I've not shared the gospel with anybody Maybe a suggestion would be try and work it in your schedule, whether it's with the regular church time or maybe you have a Saturday afternoon. I know we got some folks in the church Sunday afternoons, they would get together, have lunch, and then they would go out and visit with people and others have different times. Uh that's fine, but if it's not happening on a regular basis, I think that needs to be addressed and I need to maybe schedule that. Another idea, if it's not happening, is and I look back and say, man, it's been a long time since I've shared the gospel with anybody. Maybe a solution to that would be find a partner. And somebody that could go with you and say, hey, listen, uh, I'm not getting to witness in, I need to, and the Lord's told us maybe if you and I could partner together, there's a little bit of accountability there And um uh we'll go out together and we'll go out and find some folks and try and share the gospel with people or make specific appointments. So First question is this. When was the last time I shared the gospel personally with somebody? It's been a long time, and I need to address that. I really do. Number two, here's the second question How and these overlap a little bit. Here number two. How many attempts have I made recently To engage an unsaved person with the gospel. Now the first question was this: how many times have I actually shared the gospel with someone? This one backs up a little bit and says, How many times have I made an attempt? to share the gospel with somebody. Maybe you are going out regularly and you have a time to say, preacher, you know, I'm trying my best. I'm going out, engaging people, doing the best I can Try and share the gospel with people, but I'm not having an opportunity to actually open the Bible and tell them how to be saved. Well, maybe I need to reevaluate my approach a little bit If everyone I talk to and I try and turn the conversation to spiritual things is shutting me down and I'm never getting to actually share the gospel with them, maybe I need to stop and evaluate my approach there a little bit. Maybe I'm uh coming about it the wrong way or whatever. And um uh so I need to get out there and I need to uh be able to try and share the gospel with people. This is where Matthew chapter 28 comes in. If you would there, let me get turned there. I'm talking away here and not opening my Bible. Matthew 28, we're all familiar with this, but look at verse number 19. What's the very first word? Go. Does anybody know what Mark 16, 15 says? And he saith unto them, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. The overwhelming emphasis of the Great Commission is going. Getting out there and finding somebody and engaging them and trying to share the gospel with them. So one When's the last time I've done it? Two, am I uh am I uh when's the last time how many attempts am I making to actually try and talk to somebody about the gospel You know what? There's a real danger in American Christianity. It's probably true in other countries also, but there's a real danger in American Christianity. I see it, I see it creep into my own thinking so often we have to fight it constantly, and that's this. Convenience Christianity. Our Christianity falls down. If it's inconvenient, then it tends to get pushed aside. Am I right or wrong? I'll answer myself. I'm right. I know him. We have a convenience Christianity. Well, it's not convenient for me to get out and talk to somebody. Maybe we need to re-evaluate our thinking about whether we're going to do something only if it's convenient or not. Maybe it requires a little bit of courage. I just need to exercise some faith. I'm reading a book right now, it's tremendous, and he referenced the Hebrews chapter 11. What does anybody here know about Hebrews chapter 11? It is the hall of faith. And he goes down, he lists about twenty or so men and women from the Old Testament that God honors in a tremendous way. If you'll look at that list very carefully, not one of them were honored because they only did what was convenient Every single thing they did required action, required stepping out, required faith. And God recognized that and God honors that. I'm telling you, if we're going to make a difference in somebody's life We have got to exercise a little bit of courage, a little bit of faith, and step out and invest in them. So my question is this. Number one When's the last time I shared the gospel personally with someone? Number two, how many attempts have I made recently to engage an unsaved person with the gospel? Number three Are there any unsaved people that I'm building a relationship with? Now, my I live in a bubble. I live in a spiritual bubble. Everything is church related. Everybody in this community knows me primarily as Pastor Dennis Leatherman I was in Lowe's the other day and a total stranger. I have no idea who he is. He came up. Hey Pastor Leatherman, can I help you? He worked there. And uh that's my bubble. uh the people I interact with or through the church, one way or another. And so for me to establish a relationship and be involved in an unsaved person's life to some extent I've got to step outside my bubble and get involved in some way. And we try to do that. Kathy does a little more working out a little bit. She's got unsafe friend she's working on and witnessing with. By the way, she is very good at that. Kathy is very good at getting a relationship, becoming a friend with somebody, and then introducing Christ to them. For me, it's a whole lot easier to get a total stranger. I knock on our door and share the gospel with them. But am I making an effort? Now some of you all, you are able to witness the people that would never give me the time of day. You have an open door into some people's lives that if the preacher showed up, they would shut me down. I'd never get past the front door. But because you work with them, your neighbors, you know them, or whatever thing, you have an opportunity. So here's a great idea. Let's establish relationships with people that are unsaved with the sole purpose Of introducing them to Jesus Christ so they can be saved. A lot of times you have to win a person to yourself before you're ever going to win them to Jesus Christ. And so ask yourself, is there anybody that's unsaid that either I have a relationship with them of sorts that I can introduce Christ to them or somebody, you know, I'm going to get to know them. Maybe I'll take them out to dinner. We'll spend a little time together, go fishing or whatever. uh or you know whatever you do and uh we're gonna spend a little time with them and try and be a witness and win them to Christ. So is there anybody like that? Now I do want to put a uh a note of caution on that Uh evangelistic dating is not a good idea. You know, uh for the younger people. I I would uh do not go and say, well, there's a Uh there's an unsaved girl. She is so beautiful. I'm gonna date her and win her to Christ. Probably usually that doesn't work. You follow what I'm saying? Or that guy is so dreamy. Oh, I'll date him and then maybe you'll get saved. And uh usually doesn't work that way. And uh don't marry the unsaved guy. So oh he'll get saved someday. But what a relations I'm talking about is In getting involved in their life, becoming friends, and uh trying to win them to Christ. As I said, Kathy is very good at that. Number four. How many people Are saved because of my witness. Think back over this past year. Is there anybody on their way to heaven because of my witness? Now again, I want to be very, very cautious here because it's we don't save people, right? God does all of it. He gets all the glory. But what I'm doing is I'm evaluating my witness. Am I engaging people? When's the last time I shared the gospel with somebody? Is there anybody on their way to heaven now not going to hell because of my witness? Now, the answer would vary for a lot of people. Again, God gets the glory. Sometimes God uses one person in a greater way than another. But if there isn't anybody up and been saved for 10, 15, 20 years And there's not one person that now knows Christ because of me, I might want to stop and reevaluate. My witness and whether how active I am and how effective I am and how um uh enthusiastic I am about sharing the gospel with other people. Is there anybody in my school that is saved on their way to heaven, not going to hell because of my witness? Is there anybody in our town? Is there anybody anywhere That's on their way to heaven because of my witness. And just trying to evaluate ourselves. Maybe you want to set a goal for 2017. Now we have to be careful, again, I understand what I'm saying. We have to be careful a little bit because God determines, you know, God saves people. And so I said, I'm going to get 25 people saved. You have to be careful about that. But I tell you what we can do. I can set a goal for the number of people I want to share the gospel with. And I've done that for years. I set a goal of the number of gospel tracts I want to give out a day. Sometimes I reach it, sometimes I don't. But I found out if you shoot for the stars, sometimes you only land on the moon, but landing on the moon is pretty good. And so maybe set a goal for this coming year. I want to try and witness to one person every single day. I want to try and witness to one person every week, be able to share the gospel with that person. Or whatever figure you come up with. D. L. Moody said a number of times in his sermons back many, many years ago, he would say this. He set a goal that he would witness to one person every single day. Tell one person every single day how to be saved. The story goes that one night in in uh Chicago there, he was in his office. It was 10, 11 o'clock at night, he was packing up, ready to go home for the evening, and it dawned on him that he had never he had not witnessed to anybody that day, and his goal was to share the gospel. And as he was leaving, he was trying to think, how am I going to do this? And there's a guy standing leaning on a light post, 11 o'clock at night, downtown Chicago, 18, whatever year it was. And he went up to him and he said, sir, and something to this effect, it's not the exact words, he said, sir, are you a Christian? And the fellow says, that's none of your business. And uh Moody said something to this effect. He says, It is my business. I'm a child of God, and God has commanded me to tell people, everyone I can, how to be saved. I asked you again, do you know the Lord is your Savior? And the man said, no, I don't. And he was able to lead the fellow to the Lord. And so he set a goal. So maybe we need to set a goal in 2017 and try and do and uh try and uh uh win some folks to Christ. Number five, am I, this is a challenging one for me. Am I reproducing myself as a soul winner? In other words, am I investing myself to maybe help another Christian be able to share the gospel with people so that I can reproduce myself as a soul winner Now here's where I want to show you a couple verses. Matthew 28. Are you still there? Look down. Verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost. Now look at verse 20. Teaching them to what? Observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Now, what did he command you? What's the commanding you? Go back up to verse number 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. That's his command. And so the idea is this, I go, I get Christ saves me from sin and hell. I go, I tell others about Christ, they get saved, then I teach them to do what Christ has commanded me to do, to go out and teach others. Turn with me, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 2. We use this in our formal training. uh for witnessing when we do it. Second Timothy chapter two And look at verse number two. 2 Timothy 2. 2. Are you there? Look what it says. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, look at this, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also Now this is where the challenge comes in for me. I always tried to be a witness when I got saved. Got something in my heart and life. I wanted to share the gospel with others. When I was back home with my dad in Philly, I'd give out tracts of witness, but I didn't really know what I was doing. I didn't know how. Never just go up and talk to somebody about Christ. I got down to Tennessee Temple in Chattanooga the first Saturday, Randy Miller says, Hey, uh we'll go out visiting with me. I went out, worked the bus route We're walking down the road, this guy's sitting on a five-gallon bucket upside down, this old guy on the side right downtown. Randy walks up to him and says, Hey man, I'm Brandy. This is Dennis. Uh let me ask you a question. You know for sure if you die now you're going to heaven? I about fell over. I said, what do you do? He just walked and asked that guy that question. He goes, yeah, why not? And he's able to share the gospel with him. And Randy taught me that, hey, you know what? You can just go out and talk to people and then share the gospel with them. And so Randy taught me what he was taught. Now here's the question: Am I passing that on to anybody else? Is there anybody else that I'm influencing to be a witness? And I guess this is the challenging question. Is my witnessing encouraging and helping and nurturing others to be a witness, or is my witness absent? And it's maybe having a negative effect on other Christians. And they say, Well, he's not doing it, she's not doing it, why should I? And uh but God stirred us and God's challenged us. So I came across those questions. I tweaked them a little bit for myself, and uh I thought this is a good thing, beginning of the year, stop and evaluate where is my witness Now, I got a few minutes. Let me transition here a little bit to some things that help us witness. If we remember, we said whenever we approach someone with the gospel, we should always tell them three things. Anybody remember what we should always say? Say who we are, where we're from, and what we want. Whether it's a truck stop or knocking on doors, going through a neighborhood and visiting in somewhere. I'm Pastor Dennis Leatherman This here's Brandon, he's with me tonight. And uh we're uh from the Mountain Lake Baptist Church and we want to leave an invitation with you to come visit our church sometime. We say who we are, where we're from, and what we want We went through a couple preliminary things that we can say and do and what not to say and do. Now we're at the point, how do I share the gospel with somebody? Now let me say this: we cannot be sloppy. When we're sharing the gospel. I heard Dr. Sheldon Smith say that one of the last times he was here. He says, we do not want to be sloppy. in sharing the gospels. And what he meant by that was we don't want to just be incomplete. We don't want to just buzz through it and not tell people clearly and very carefully how to be saved. This is so incredibly important. That people understand exactly how they can have their sins forgiven and know they're going to heaven. Now, one of the best ways that I've ever come across, and it was taught me And I believe it's one of the best ways to share the gospel very clearly and very thoroughly with an unsaved person is by using what's known as the Romans road. How many people know what I'm talking about? The Romans Road. The book of Romans. The theme of the book of Romans, if you want to say, is our salvation. and how to be saved. And so what you want to do is you want to get a good soul-winning Bible. And I mentioned this before. You want a Bible that you just use for witnessing. By the way, we have got uh ten brand new of these little soul-winning Bibles. We've got these in. The best view I could find on them is $20 Now, for this coming year, I would highly recommend that every person get you a little soul-winning Bible. Now these are excellent. They're leather. They stand up. I carry them in my back pocket every single day, very seldom. Do I go out without having my little soul-winning Bible in my back pocket? In fact, I even carry it when we're fishing. Jerry and I were fishing down in Jennings Randolph one time. We're in the canoe, and there's a Bible floating by in the river And we thought, what in the world? There's a Bible floating in the river. Look at that. I reached out and grabbed it, opened it up, and had my name in it. That was my Bible. Fell out of my pocket into the river. And so I had to get a new one. But my point is this is carrying that Bible everywhere we go. And then being familiar with the book of Romans. So I have a a stack of these soul-winning New Testaments if you're interested And uh they actually cost the church more than 20, like $21. But if you'll give us $20, uh you get an excellent little soul-winning Bible And I can talk about that. There's a place to put people's names in the back that trust the Lord. There's little helpful soul winning tips and whatnot in there. But here's what I want to try and do, and I've uh I'm trying to squeeze too much into a short period of time But let me give you the verses of the Romans road, and then we're going to talk about the next couple months maybe what to say for those verses. The very first thing a person needs to understand if they're going to be saved is they must understand that they are a sinner. If I don't understand I'm a sinner, I cannot be saved. Jesus did not come to call the righteous to repentance. but sinners. And so a person has to understand. Let me give you the verses. Romans 3, 9 and 10. Wait a minute. Romans chapter 3, verse 9 and 10. Verse 10 particular, it says, Romans 3:10, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. Then that whole little sectionary goes on in great detail that their throat's an open sepulchre Poison of asph is in their lips. The poison of asthma is under their lips. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitter. It goes down through, but then you get verse 23, and that's the verse I use primarily And it says this, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now before we go on to the next verse, you have got to be able, if you're going to effectively share the gospel with someone I believe you have got to be able to explain to them exactly what sin is. What is sin This world doesn't know what sin is. Hardly anybody talks about sin anymore. Even preachers in churches don't hardly preach about sin anymore. And so we live in a world of unsaved people don't know what sin is. They know it's, for the most part, they know it's not good. I don't know exactly what it is. How would you define, now let's get a little group involvement here, how would you define what sin is? What is sin? Anything that breaks God's law, the transgression of the law. Anybody else, what would be sin? How would you define sin? Cindy Okay. Excellent. But else. Anything that's not true would be sin. Absolutely. And so when I sit down with someone, I've already gone through the process. Would you mind if I show you from the Bible how to be saved? Sure, come on in. We sit down, we're at their kitchen table. Uh three weeks ago, I sat down with uh Jimmy and his uh wife and They said, yeah, you can show me. We sat down. I took my open Bible. I read to them. They followed along. I read to them. First thing you need to understand, Jimmy, I said, is that we've all sinned. We've sinned against God For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of these definitions are right. And the more familiar you get with this, the more you can put it in your own words and explain it your own way. But sin is not doing what I should do and doing things I ought not to do Now the best way that I've found to communicate to somebody that they're a sinner is to use the Ten Commandments That is the law. And the breaking of the law is sin, violating a law, transgression of the law. So we have Ten Commandments. In fact Galatians tells us that one of the reasons God gave us the law is to point us to Christ. The law is my schoolmaster to point me to Christ. And so let's use it. And so what are some of the commandments? The one I use, and you've heard me do it here hundreds of times, the one I use is thou shalt not bear false witness. Thou shalt not lie. It's one that you can use and it and it applies to everybody. It's not that uncomfortable. And I just asked him, and I did the other week, I said, this says, for all have sinned. I said, and I'll say this to him, do you understand what sin is? And regardless of what they say, and they'll say, well, yeah, it's doing something bad. Somebody might say, well, it's killing somebody. And their mind send is something really, really bad. And sometimes people say, I don't know, I don't know what sin is. And so what I'll do is I'll say sin is breaking God's law. God is holy, and He created us and He's given us a law. For us to live by to, that we need to live up to to be accepted by him. And when we break that law, we're sinning. And one of the laws is thou shalt not bear false witness. Thou shalt not lie. And then you just ask them, have you ever told a lie? And the va the I've had a minuscule number of people over the thousands I've asked that to said, no, I've never told a lie. Of course, the response to that is, you're lying right now. And they'll laugh, you know, say, oh, that's a lie. And they'll laugh a little bit and say, of course we've all told lies. And then ask him this, have you ever, how many lies do you think you've told? Have you told five lies or more? Oh yeah, I've told five lies in my life. Um more than that, do you think you've told 25 lies? Well, yeah, my whole life I've probably told twenty five eyes, and you just go up, up, up, up the number. Then you can ask them something like this. Uh uh the another commandment, thou shalt honor thy father and mother. When you were a kid, did you ever say or do something that wasn't honoring to your parents? Well, yeah, do you obey everything they said? No, I disobey. So you didn't o honor your parents? How many times do you think in your whole life you said or did something wasn't honoring to your parents? Oh, I don't know. Five times? Well, probably ten? Yeah, maybe And you go down through the list. And by the time you're done, you say, listen, you've just admitted that you've broken God's law hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times. You know what you are? You're a sinner. You've broken God's law. And I think it helps them see, oh yeah, I understand. I've broken that law. And then I go on it says for the for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And I found that People, generally people have this idea, all right, I'm a sinner, I'm I did wrong, but I'm not as bad as the guy that lives across the road. Right? I had a guy in in Indianapolis in the jail there in Indianapolis and he had actually killed a guy. And uh we were going through this, the pastor I was working under was going through this and the guy said, well, you know, I've killed a guy, but the guy in two cells down, he killed three people. Well, you know, that's really bad. And um so what I do is I like to use the next part for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And I'll just touch on that. Listen, you know, sometimes people think, all right, I've I I didn't live up to I'm not perfect, but I'm not as bad as that guy. And I said, humanly speaking, you might not be as bad as the guy across the road or the guy you work with I said, but that's not the standard. The standard is God's glory. And not one of us can live up to God's glory. We all fall short of that Some may, humanly speaking, do better than others, but none of us make it. An old illustration we used to use years ago, and it may be helpful. is um suppose uh s a bunch of people were going to swim from California to Hawaii. Some could make it farther than others Some could maybe swim 5, 10, maybe 20, 25, 50 miles. But there's not a person on the planet that could swim from California to Hawaii. And as far as being sinners or not, some are worse than others, but every one of us falls short of God's glory. And what I want that person to do is to acknowledge the fact, yes, I have sinned. I have broken God's law. I am guilty. A good question to ask is this, and I don't always do this, but a good question to ask, if you were to stand before God and God put up the Ten Commandments, And said, before you can ever get into heaven, did you keep these commandments? Are you guilty or did you keep these commandments? What would you say? They'd say, well, I'm guilty. I didn't keep the commandments. It's because we're a sinner. And the Bible says we've all sinned. And I always try and point out that includes me and whoever's with me. That includes so-and-so. We've all sinned. And so it is very, very important that when I'm leading someone to Christ, I'm sharing the gospel with them, that they understand that they're a sinner. If I bypass The fact that they're a sinner, I just play that down and just brush that aside. And then I invite them to trust Christ. What are they trusting Christ to save them from? Nothing. It's our sin. It's the judgment of our sin that sends us to hell. And so it's very, very important there. One question I like to ask. Whenever I'm done this and they acknowledge, yes, I'm a sinner, do you understand that? I'd like to ask this question. Does that concern you? That you've broken God's law, does that concern you? And if they say, well, I don't know, not too much, you know what that tells me? They really don't grasp the gravity of the situation I really don't realize the fact that I'm a sinner. And I very seldom do that. But if you take the time and explain that thoroughly, usually they'll say, yeah, you know, that does bother me. That does bother me. Then the lead-in to the next verse, which is Romans 6. 23, is this. You listen, we're sinners, we've broken God's law, and there's a consequence to that. There's a result of that. Then you go to Romans 6. 23, and we'll have to take time next time, and we'll go through Romans 6. 23. So the thing I want to emphasize this evening and in our tips on soul winning is I've got to be able to show other people and uh from the Bible and help them understand that they are a sinner. Now something else has to be going on that I cannot do myself. What's that? When I'm talking to them about sin. And pointing that there that they're a sinner. Something has to be going on that I cannot do. What's that? Conviction of the Holy Spirit And that's where we back up. And remember I was saying our spiritual aspect of this is more important probably than the script that we're going through. And that's where prayer and asking God to fill me with his Holy Spirit and God to speak through me is so important because I want him to be convicted. I believe if there's no conviction, there's No conversion. They've got to be convicted of their sin to be saved. Alright? So that's one tip. I tried to cram too much into one thing there, but I hope that's helpful. I really recommend you to get these little Bibles, and I mentioned before about putting in the margin the verses so you know which one to go to. I'd be glad to help you with that if you're interested in that. Alright? So let's set a goal in our hearts and minds. Let's evaluate. Where am I at? Have I witnessed anybody? Am I actively involved in trying to share the gospel with other people? And if not, then last ask the Lord to help us. This coming year, I'm going to make that a priority. I'm going to schedule that in. I'm going to do what I can, as much as I can, to try and share the gospel with others. Let's pray.