Before it says, The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world and all and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods. Then he says this Who shall ascend unto the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? And I think what he's saying there, and we'll see this in James, he's saying, who will draw nigh to God? Who will stand and He says there, he says, uh um, who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? The holy place was God's dwelling there in the temple, the holy of holies. And he's asking, who will draw nigh to me? Who will get close to God? Who will draw up close to the Lord? And then he gives the answer. He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob, Selah. He says, who will draw close to God? Who will draw up near to the presence of God? Who will live their life in the presence of God? He says, those that have clean hands And a pure heart. And he goes on, he says, they'll receive the blessings. They're going to have the blessings of the Lord. They're going to have God's leadership in their life and God's special presence. Now, that's Psalm 24. Now look at James Chapter four and verse number eight. Let's read it together. Um draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. I'm entitled the message, Clean Hands. and pure hearts. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity to assemble together in your name as a body of believers And we're grateful for your blessings on us and the opportunities you give us and how you provide for us. And I ask now, Lord, that you would meet with us in this hour. God, I pray that your presence in this body, here in this room Would be very evident that we would sense your presence as the Word of God is preached and taught. I pray you'd stir our hearts. Give us open hearts and open minds. And Lord, whatever adjustments maybe need to be made in our lives, maybe adjustments in our thinking, God, I pray your will be done. You would have your way. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to offer that is of any spiritual or eternal value. I know that. And so, God, I yield my will to you, and I present my body for this hour That you would fill me. And God, I pray your Holy Spirit would speak your word through me to each of our hearts and minds. So have your way, Lord. Help us to pay attention, and Lord, help us to be open to what you have. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Our theme this year is revive us again. Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee. Our concern is revival. And so we memorize James 4, 8. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. That sounds like revival to me. The book of James was penned, of course, by this man, James. James was the half-brother of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And I would point this out, and we're studying the book of Jude in Sunday school, and I pointed out that Jude also was a half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jude and James were full brothers. They had the same mother, Mary, but they had uh Jesus and James had two different fathers, of course And so James is the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Just a few things about this man before we look at this verse. James was a man of tremendous commitment to the Lord. Now he was saved later on. I believe after the Lord Jesus Christ rose from the dead, his brothers finally believed on him as the Messiah. And so he was saved a little later on. But James became a tremendous leader in the New Testament church. He pastored the First Baptist Church of Jerusalem. Now I don't know that it was called First Baptist Church, but he pastored the first church established there in Jerusalem. And I considered the church in Jerusalem to be somewhat of a mother church. And as the people of God were per came under persecution, they l spread out all through that part of the country there, and they would go starting churches out of the church at Jerusalem. And James was the pastor of that church. James had tremendous influence in that early church. If we studied, if we had time, we'd go to the book of Acts, and serious questions rose up about the law. about circumcision and some of these things and and salvation and there was debate and and a little bit of um uh uh contention in the early church there about whether a person needed to keep the law to be saved or not. And if some of it or all of it. And James provided leadership. He was able to navigate those New Testament believers through some of that false teaching and kept that church in Jerusalem grounded on the truth that we are saved by grace Plus nothing, minus nothing. So he's tremendous. Uh he was tremendous in his commitment uh to the Lord Jesus Christ, gave his life And God used them in a tremendous way. James was a man of great compassion for the needy. Again, we don't have time to look at all this, but you I could show you from the Bible where over and over James expressed concern. for folks who were needy, the poor. I think it's in Galatians where uh uh Paul and Peter and they're discussing their areas, their fields of ministry, and Peter was going to work with the circumcision with the Jews, and Paul was going to go to the Gentiles. And James speaks up and he says, make sure you take care of the poor. I think if they had it back then, James would have had a bus ministry in his church. I think if they i I think if they would have had it then James would have led the church to have a uh um uh uh a a gospel mission. How many people know what gospel mission is? They're usually in the cities, provide we call them soup kitchens sometimes. I think James would have been concerned. I think he would have had some sort of food pantry or clothing pantry just to make sure that needy people were taken care of and their needs were met. I have utmost respect for James. I look forward to getting to heaven and meeting James. He was a man of tremendous commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a man of tremendous compassion. for the needy. He was a man of great courage for righteousness. He was unwavering in his uh uh stand on biblical truth. He stood for what was right, whether it was popular or not. And I tell you, we need some folks, some men and women of God, who have a little bit of courage when it comes to righteousness. To what is true and what is not true, what is right and what is not right, what is biblical and what is not biblical I think too much, particularly here in recent years, and we've been talking about this among ourselves a little bit, but too much here in recent years We've capitulated to the liberals and this this nonsense, woke nonsense out there, and we cowered in fear before them. I think it's time for God's people to stand up and say, no, what is true is true, and what is false is false. And that's the kind of man James was. He stood for righteousness. You can't study the book of James and not see this man stood for righteousness, holiness, and godliness. He was a man of great commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. James was a man of great compassion for the needy. He was a grand man of great courage for righteousness. And I put this down. He was a man of great conviction in the face of persecution. The heat got turned up as the church grew. The gospel was being preached and souls are being saved and lives are being changed. Churches are being established. And the Pharisees and the enemies of God started turning on that church. Did you know the New Testament church was born in persecution? You say, ah, people are giving the church a hard time today. Hey, that's been the experience of the church all through its history. We've had some peace and we've had a lot of liberty here in the United States of America, a lot of freedom to worship God as we believe the Bible teaches us to. But I'm telling you that is an aborition, that is not normal in church history. Throughout church history, it has faced persecution. And James stood up with great conviction and would not give in even in the face of persecution. He gave his life for the gospel. He was martyred because of his commitment to the Word of God and his commitment to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. My hat's off to James. The author of the book of James. He reminded me, I've been reading here the last couple weeks about C. T. Studd. Does anybody recognize that name? C. T. Studd. Great missionary, years gone by. He was a cricket player. And God saved his soul when he gave his life to missions. He was a missionary in India and China, I believe, and Africa. And he made this statement. As I was studying about James and thinking about James, I thought of this statement that C. T. Studd made. He said this: if Jesus Christ be God, And he died for me, then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make for him. Do you get that? If Jesus Christ is God, by the way, and he is, and if he gave his life as the Son of God, gave his life and suffer God's judgment for my sin if he was willing to do that for me to keep me out of hell to give me a new life here on this earth And to give me internal life in heaven someday, if he did that for me, then no sacrifice on my part is too great for him Sometimes people say, and I know sometimes folks and maybe family members stuff will say, you're a little overboard on that Jesus stuff, aren't you? Ah, you're getting a little radical on that Jesus stuff. I tell you, he was a little radical for us. And so, James, tremendous man of conviction. Tremendous man of compassion, courage, commitment. In our the book of James He's concerned about the spiritual condition, I would imagine, of his church and to the church at large. In fact, if you look there at verse number one, he says, a servant of God a servant of God and Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greedy. So he's writing to these believers who have been per uh pushed out of Jerusalem and are scattered b abroad because of the persecution that came upon them. And he's concerned for their spiritual well-being. Some time had gone by since the Lord ascended to heaven. Several years, number of years have gone by since the Holy Spirit came at Pentecost and filled and empowered those New Testament believers, and the church was beginning to drift. And there was a coldness and a worldliness and a sinfulness was creeping into the church. And as I was reading the book of James again here in the last week or two, reading through it, reading through it, and I noticed something. The book of James is a book about revival. He's confronting them in numerous areas where they needed to make things right. Now, let me just give you some examples. Look at chapter 1, come back there to chapter 1. Look with me at verse number 13. Chapter 1 and verse number 13. He says there, he says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Apparently, there was an element in that church that was blaming God For their being tempted to do wrong. He says, Don't you listen, don't you blame God for your temptation? It is not God tempting you to do wrong. And we have to be very, very careful about justifying, excusing, or uh blaming someone else For our failures and our sin. And that thinking crept into the church. And he confronts them. He says, Don't send that. Let no man say when he is tempted, I'm tempted of God. For God tempteth no man, he says, For God cannot be tempted, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust And enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. You know where temptation comes? From our own stinking, rotten, sinful hearts. Not from God. And so he's confronting that. Then come down if you would look at verse number twenty of chapter one Verse 19 of chapter 1 and 20. He says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Sounds like me, there was people getting mad. Sounds like me, there was people struggling with wrath and anger and running their mouth and not listening. And he has to confront that. He writes to him. He says, listen, you be swift to hear and slow to speak. Would you agree with me? We could avoid a lot of trouble if we just shut this and open these. Be quiet and listen. Be swift to hear, slow to speak, and then he says, slow to wrap. Look at the next verse. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Brother, we live in an angry world, do we, or do we not? Everybody's mad at everything. You're afraid to drive down the road. Somebody's going to go off on you. And I tell you, apparently, and in this day and age, and I'm telling you, in our day and age, that same attitude is creeping in the church. Angry. Angry, wrath, one another, getting mad at this person, that I tell you, wrath, anger and wrath is not a fruit of the spirit, it is a work of the old sinful, nasty flesh. And it was creeping the church, and Paul and James is saying, you need to face this, you need to address this. I mean through the whole book. He just goes, after, after, after. Let me just, uh, one or two more. Verse 22, chapter 1. We're not even out of the first chapter and he's dealing with these things. He says, but be ye what? Doers of the word and not what? Hearers only, deceiving your own self. Apparently, in those believers, in those body of believers They got where uh uh they were they were hearing the word. Oh, they'd go to church and preacher'd preach, James would preach hard, he'd preach his heart out, hellfire and brimstone he'd preach the word of God, the love of God And they'd sit there and listen and get up and walk out no different than the way they walked in. No decision made, no application And just walk out and not be phased by, I don't know about you. I want church to uh to deal with me where I'm at, and I want to be a better person because of what takes place in the church service. I want my faith to be stronger. I want my heart and life to be pure. I want to be more like Christ. I want to be more in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. And apparently none of that was happening. He says, listen, you need to look in the perfect law of liberty The mirror of God's Word, and look and see what's out of line and what's out of place. And deal with it. Correct it. Don't just look at it and walk away I look in the mirror in the mornings I get up, I look in the mirror, and it scares me to death. My hair's all out of place. He says, Don't go to church and the Holy Spirit and the Word of God deals with your heart about something. Don't just walk away from it, deal with it, address it. This church needed revival. These people needed, had areas of their life that needed to be addressed, that needed to be adjusted. Let me give you one more, verse 26, chapter 1. He says He says, if any man among you seem to be religious, boy, he's putting on the show. He's got his big King James Bible under his arm. Man, he's got his fundamental haircut and he's got his suit on. He's walking in singing those old hymns and he seems to be, man, he seems to be religious Look what it says. And bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart. This man's religion is vain. Would you agree? That sounds like somebody that needs revival That sounds like somebody that's just putting on a show. That sounds like somebody whose Christianity is skin deep. It's just a facade. It's a show I'm putting on. He goes on, he says, pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their afflection. in their affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Man, this sounds like he's writing the folks that need revival Later on, he talks about the tongue. We could take a series. We could do 108 sermons, brother Mock, on this. And a series on how he's confronting them. He talks about the tongue is set on fire from hell. So, James, I've changed my understanding of the book of James. I view it as a book on revival. Getting right with God. Addressing various areas of my life and saying, hey, this needs adjustment, this needs correction, this needs to get out. I need to bring that tongue under control. I need to fall in love with the Lord. I need to quit blaming others. I need to get right with God. It's a book on revival. All through James, he's pointing out that they had gotten far from God. They had gotten far from, oh, they look good. Oh, they're going through the show. But in reality, they were far from God. And he says there in verse number 8 of chapter 4, he says, draw nigh to God, and he'll draw nigh to you. I want revival in our church, don't you? I'm not praying for revival for America. I'm not praying for revival for America. I'm praying for revival for the churches in America. America needs restoration. Churches need revival. We're the salt of the earth. And I'm telling you what's happening. What happened in America? How comes how did we end up this way? Such perversion and chaos and confusion and wickedness. How do we end up this way? I'll tell you how we ended up this way. The salt lost its savor. The churches have lost their influence on our communities. And I'm not talking about just feeding the poor and doing all that. I'm talking about hellfire and brimstone, Holy Ghost-filled preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He says there's nothing wrong with America he said this back in the forties. He said there's nothing wrong with America that six months of hellfire preaching wouldn't solve. Our churches need revival. I want revival in our homes. Our homes need revival. I don't think there's going to be much revival in the church until there's revival in the homes. Things said, he talks about the tongue, about just the Bible not having an effect. We don't respond to what God tells us. A lot like Israel. Our homes need revival. I want revival in my heart. About a month ago or so, Pastor Matt and I, and I think Dale was in on several of us pray on Saturday nights. We were praying and the guys were praying. I was waiting my turn. I was just praying in my heart, Lord, send revival, revive our church. And the Spirit of God pricked my heart. And I thought, you know, maybe the reason I'm talking so much about revival, maybe the reason I'm so concerned about revival, maybe it's because I need it. Maybe it's the Spirit of God dealing with my heart. And when we think that way, we think, Lord, I need revival. Then the book of James becomes very, very significant because he's telling us what we need to do to draw nigh to God. How many folks are with me? You with me? I'm just kind of sharing my heart this morning a little bit. This has been the burden all year. Revive thy people. Revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee. And then I see this phrase here in James. He says, draw nigh to God. That's revival. Get close to the Lord. Get right with God. He says, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. I think James is saying, it's time to take my relationship with the Lord seriously. Time to get serious about my walk with God. I wonder if I'm talking, I wonder if I'm not preaching to somebody this morning, here or online, or somewhere. I wonder if I'm not preaching to somebody. That you look good, you got your Bible, but in your heart you know you're far from God. You know things aren't right David put it this way in Psalm 68. He says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. My heart, my heart. We can put on a good show and yet be very, very far from God. I thank God for these young people. Thank God for what he's doing in their heart. You know a young person can put on a pretty good show. And be pretty wicked in their heart. You say, why are you picking on young people? I ain't done yet. You know folks in their twenties and thirties and forties can put on a good show, be pretty wicked in their heart Fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety, hundred. Put a put a good show on. Be far from God in our heart. You understand what I'm trying to say? And so, Lord, I need revival. I need to draw nigh to you. Take seriously our relationship with God. Take seriously our walk with God. Take seriously our spiritual well-being. A friend of mine, uh dear good friend of mine's brother, uh dear good friend of mine, Dan Bennett, we roomed together in Bible college, he's a missionary to the deaf in Brazil And just, good man, dear friend, his father-in-law just got messaged this morning. His father-in-law about my age. Or no, his father-in-law will be about my dad's age, much older. Dan's my age. Went to bed last Friday night. They came to wake them up Saturday morning. It's out in eternity. It's out in eternity. Marge a week ago, Friday, took a nap Took one breath here on earth, next breath in heaven. What I'm trying to say is this: death is certain. Death is certain. We better take seriously our spiritual well-being because before we know it, we're going to be before the Lord. You with me? I know he's saying I know this is an amen. Yes, great preacher. I'm telling you, this is just getting real We've got to be right with God. We've got to take it seriously. James says, draw nigh to God, and he will dry nigh to you. If you would, keep your place. I'd like to go one other passage here real quickly. Come over to chapter 16 of Luke. Luke chapter sixteen. Now keep your place there in James because we're going to come back. But in Luke chapter sixteen, the Lord told uh uh parable of this uh fellow, a certain man, verse 11, Luke 16, verse 11, certain man had two sons. I'm sorry, chapter 15. Luke chapter 15, verse 6, verse 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Give me the portion of goods that falleth to me, and he divided unto them as living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey to a where Far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in one And he went and joined himself to a city of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat. Now look at this last statement And no man gave unto him. Here's a young man, gets what he wants. He gets what he wants, but he lost what he had. He goes to this far country. And nobody gonna tell me what to do. And I'm gonna make my own decisions and I'm gonna live my own lifestyle and I'm gonna do what I want to do the way I want to do it When I want to do it, where I want to do it. I was youth pastor in Indianapolis for a number of years, and you're going to think I'm making this up. I'm not. This is the truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out to you. Had a young fellow there um started dating, he was outside the church, started dating one of the girls in the teen group, one of the high school girls in the teen group, and he started showing up a little bit and We talked to him in different things, and he was just cocky, had an attitude, uh, he knew everything. Eighteen years old, he had the tiger, he had the world by the tail And he was there and uh we were having service and he was talking during the service the whole time, just horsing around. And so afterward, I you know I was on the platform, I said afterward I meet a beeline over to him, I said, what do you and he was about Pastor Matt's type, just about his size. And so I looked him in the kneecap and um I looked up at him I said, who do you think you are? I mean I started laying into him And who do you think I wasn't always as nice as I am now? And I go, what are you and he's and he's looking at me and finally I said, what are you going to do with your life? You're going to think I'm lying. This is I'm I'm quoting him verbatim. He says, I'm so tired of people like you tell me what to do. I'm joining the Marines. God bless you, buddy. This fella runs off to the l to the far country and everything falls apart. And he's nothing. He has nothing. He has nobody. By the way, that's what the world will do to you every single time. The world will eat you alive and leave you for dead. And there's an interesting thing. He was far from his father. He was far from his father. But look with me if you would at verse number 17. There's a tremendous statement here. And when he came to himself, He stopped and he thought, What in the world am I doing? What have I done to myself? I can relate to that. 1979, leading up to my salvation. I would look in the mirror I say, I don't want to be this man I am. I don't want to live this way. I don't want to be this kind of person. He said, he came to himself and he said, how many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare? And I perish with hunger. Look at this. And I will arise. And what? Go to my father. You know what he's doing? He's drawing nigh to his father. He's coming back. He says, I want to be right. I want my daddy's blessings. I want my daddy's love again. I want my daddy's presence in my life again. He says, I'm going to go back and draw nigh to my daddy. Now here's where it gets interesting. Come down if you would at verse number 20. He says, and he arose and came to his father. He's drawing nigh to his father. But look at this next statement. But when he, the boy, was yet a great way off His father saw him and had compassion. Look at this. And ran to him and fell on his neck and kissed him. You know what happened? When that boy came to himself and he realized how far from God, uh far from his daddy he was, he realized how how uh he had blown his daddy's blessings and his daddy's presence, his daddy's provision, he had wasted all of that. And he looked at daddy. He says, I'm going to go back to daddy. I'm going to go back to where daddy is. I want to go back and be nigh to daddy. And when daddy saw him coming, daddy drew nigh to him. You with me? Daddy said, there's my boy coming. He didn't wait for him to show up. He went running after him. Here's what I'm trying to say. If I'm talking to a Christian this morning, you're saved, you know you're saved But you're out backslidden, you're away from God, you're out of the will of God. I'm here to tell you, you look to your father and say, I need to get back right with God I need to get back and get things. I want God's blessings on my life again. I want God's presence in my life again. I want God to take care of me again. I tell you, you go run into him. I'm telling you, God will come running to you That's what James is saying. You draw nigh to God, God will draw nigh. I'm glad when I mess up, I can confess my sin and get up. And God's right there again with me. His presence, his fellowship is there. A just man falleth seven times and rises up again. That's drawing nigh to God, and God comes. Draw nigh to God is a conscious decision. The word phrase, come back if you would to James there. That word draw nigh has this idea to draw, bring close together, to pull from two directions, bring it together, to join one with the other. We talk about waiting on God. Anybody ever hear preacher or preach on waiting on God? Learn to wait on God. I've said many times it's I've never regretted waiting on God. Just trusting him, waiting on him. But I'm here to tell you, I think there's some folks this morning, God's waiting on you. God's waiting on you to say, hey, I want to deal with this. I want to make this right. God's waiting maybe on some young people. You've gotten away from God. This world has caught your attention and the things of this world have drawn you away and you know you're not right with God. I'm here to tell you this morning God's waiting on you to say, hey, I want to come back, be right with God. What if I'm not talking to some husbands this morning? You've gotten away from God in your heart and mind. You know you're not what you ought to be. You know you're not where you used to be spiritually Maybe God's been dealing with your heart. I'm here to tell you, you take a step towards God, and he'll still come running towards you. Wife, mother, father, grandmother, grandfather. Draw nigh to God. James is saying, listen, we better take seriously our spiritual condition. We better take seriously where we're at spiritually. Because this is not a game. And the devil's not a myth. And sin is not innocent. It's deadly And we need to draw nigh to God. It's a conscious decision I have to make. God is waiting on us. God is waiting on you and me to decide to get right, to decide to get serious with God. Now I'm going to give you two thoughts and I'm going to be done. Come back to James here with me if you would, chapter 8. He says, draw nigh to God. And he will draw nigh to you. Now the question comes up in my mind is how do I draw nigh to God? What does that involve? What do I do? Well, James tells us. In fact, he gives a list, a series of things that we ought to do to draw near nigh to God. He says, verse 8, in the middle of verse 8, cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Verse 9 he goes on. Be afflicted, mourn, weep. He's talking about take seriously where we've failed the Lord, where we've come up short. Don't joke about it. Serious. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. He's telling us how to get close to God. Now I just want to look at two that we've been memorizing. Number one, cleanse our hands. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Cleansing our hands, he's talking about our outward actions, our outward behavior, our visible life Do you know our God is a clean God? I don't think there's any dirt in heaven, do you? I know there's no sin. Our Gods are clean gods. You know in the Old Testament when the tabernacle was established and later the temple When the priest would come in to offer sacrifices, did you know they had to go through a cleansing before they could enter the Holy of Holies, their clothes, their body? Needed to be clean. They had a very elaborate, very detailed process of cleansing before they could enter the presence of God. The temple and the altar and the furniture of the temple was to be cleansed on a regular basis. Of course, they're offering sacrifice. It's a bloody mess. And God was not okay with just piles of dead bodies, uh uh uh sacrifices laying around and blood stains all over. He wasn't satisfied. God wasn't okay with that. That had to be clean. Our God is a clean God Now the problem was those Old Testament cleansings became nothing more than ceremonial rituals. And the Jews began to give them spiritual significance. Now they're pictures and types, but simply going through the motions didn't make them spiritually clean. And what he's talking about here is spiritual cleansing of our hands. Now we ought to have clean hands, right? Um, this may help some of you. You ought to take a bath every now and then, right? Amen. We ought to have a revival of baths. But he's talking about our life, how we live our lives. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. The word sinners there is obvious, obviously, people who've sinned. If I'm living in sin, clean it up. If I have something in my life that is not right, if it's sinful, it's dirty He says, you draw nigh to me, clean it up. Clean it up. Clean it up. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. He's calling on his people to live clean lives physically and morally. New Testament cleansing talks all through the New Testament. It's talking about being pure and obedient to God, living a pure, clean life. Cleansing my hands is acknowledging my sin. It's facing my sin. It's confessing my sin. 1 John he puts it this way. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It's forsaking it. Proverbs 2813. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. Covers it up. Doesn't cleanse it, he just covers it up. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. Say, preacher, I need to get I want to get right with God. I want to get back close to God. We're going to live a life close to the Lord, we've got to get sin out of our life. Amen or not? I tell you what, as long as I've got any common sense, as long as I'm in my right mind, I'm going to preach against sin until the day God calls me home. And every church in America ought to preach against sin. Yes or no? Not gloss it over and and uh justify it, excuse it, ignore it. But deal with it. Head on. If we're going to have revival, we've got to deal with sin in our lives. We need to cleanse our hands. Then he says this. He says in Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts. I put it this way, consecrate my heart. That's an inward attitude. That's my inward condition. Purify means to remove the impurities. I think it has this idea of being single-hearted. All for Christ. All for Christ. My heart is the Lord. In Proverbs, God says to us, Give me thine heart, my son, give me thine heart. God wants our love. He wants our commitment. He wants our dedication. Uh if you have pure gold, and suppose I ha you have a nugget, it's pure gold What does that mean? It's only made up of one element, which is what? Gold. No other, nothing else in it. It's just gold. God says, purify your hearts. You double-minded. You know what double-minded is? I got one hand in the world and another hand trying to hold on to the Lord. And he says, that doesn't work. We got too many Christians trying to live in the world and yet still be close to God, and that does not work. Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. I think we were talking before, Brother Mock and I were talking earlier. I think churches are making a big mistake by inviting the thinking and the entertainment of the world into the churches. They're making a big mistake. Copying the world's appearance and the world's entertainment and the world's thinking. They're making a big mistake. We need God's power. We need revival. We need to consecrate our hearts. Purify means to remove the impurities. Double-minded means divided loyalties, wavering commitment. I think James is saying, listen, get in or get out. Get on or get off. Hot or cold. Remember what Jesus said to the church in Revelation? You're neither hot nor cold. But you're what? Lukewarm, I'll spew thee out of my mouth. You know he's saying, he says, purify your heart. Get on fire for God. Give God your heart The heart. God's concern with our heart. God's concern with our heart, what we are. If you would turn to Matthew chapter 23. Matthew chapter 23, would you turn? Is everybody with me this morning? I don't want to just be ranting. I don't want to just be running my mouth this morning. I'm asking God, send revival. And there's something on our hands, so to speak, that is unclean. Let's make that right. Amen? Let's get it out. You say, well, it's just a little. No, no, no. Get it out. If our hearts are double-minded and this world has captured us, there's something we know that it's not pleasing to God, but it's got our heart. Let's purify that. Let the Lord have our hearts. Look what Jesus said to the Pharisees in Matthew chapter 23, verse number 25 He says, woe unto you scribes and Pharisees. What's the next word? Hypocrites, strong word. Man, I I don't know. God would call Jesus would call me a hypocrite Ye hypocrites. Look at this. For ye make clean the outside of the cup and the of the platter. But what? Within pool of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and the platter That the outside of them may be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you're like unto whited sepulchres. That's a grave tombstone type thing. Grave Which indeed appear beautiful outward, but within are full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. Even so, ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within you're full of hypocrisy and iniquity. You know what he's saying? We need to be clean in our outward actions, and we need to be clean in our inward attitudes. Our affections, our hearts. What are we committed to? I was reading about a fella, his name, and I have a hard time pronouncing his name, Dr. Philip Semmelwise. I think I'm pronouncing it. Do you know who I'm talking about, Helen? You probably will here in a minute. Dr. Phillips Hemelwise, in 1846, The hospital he worked in, the Vienna General Hospital, had a death rate of babies. Babies that were born and then would die. They're born healthy, born fine, and then they died. Their death rate was five times higher than those that had their babies at home. So the people that came to the hospital had the baby, there are five times higher death rate than those that babies were born at home. And Dr. Samuel, uh Dr. Philip Semmelwise, I think I'm pronouncing He was an assistant obstetrician. And so what they did was what the hospital, they said, well, it's baby fever. It's some sort of fever. These babies are born in the hospital and they died. And this Philip, Dr. Philip guy, he went looking into it a little closer. And the hospital kept blaming different things. And he noticed something. He noticed that the doctors that were delivering the babies Everyone where the baby died, that doctor had previously been working on cadavers, doing autopsies. And they would do the autopsy and they would go right from there over and deliver the baby. And Dr. Sammelwise. Said this, suggested this. What if they would wash their hands After they're done with the autopsy, wash their hands and then deliver the baby. The hospital mocked him. They said it was ridiculous. And so he talked some of them into trying it. And the death rate dropped dramatically. The hospital, rather than acknowledging that they were wrong, fired Dr. Philip Sammelise. And if I remember, I think I had read before, I remember, they turned on him so hard he ended up in an Hussain asylum. I think I'm correct on that. Just wash your hands. Just wash your hands. You know what I think James is telling the church, let's wash our hands. Let's get things right in the home. On that television. Computers, books, places we go, how we talk. Let's purify our hearts and let's draw nigh to God. This world needs to see what biblical Christianity is. And biblical Christianity is not dirty. And it's not double-minded. It's clean and pure and dedicated to Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts here. I hope I It's able to communicate. Holy Spirit, I pray you'd stir us. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, and I know this is maybe between you and the Lord. But maybe some would say, preacher, you know, there's some areas of my life I need to clean up. There's some areas, some habits, some things I'm involved in. And they might not be big to a lot of people, but I really need to clean them up. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There's some areas I really need to clean up. God bless you. Honesty is the first step to drawing nigh to God. And say, yes, Lord, I need to clean this up. This needs to be faced. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, my heart isn't where it ought to be. You may have a reputation of a great Christian. If our heart's not right, that attitude, our love for the Lord, has grown cold and different Hard feelings, bitterness has crept in. We can't draw nigh to God. If we're going to have revival, we got to get our hearts right. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I know There's areas my heart need to be addressed. Any like that uplifted, God bless you, hands all around. Probably, if we were honest, about all of us would probably say, yep, I've got areas need addressed. Now this morning, an old-fashioned altar, how about we just kneel there and say, Here I am, Lord. I want your blood to cleanse me from all unrighteousness. I want my heart to be dedicated to the Lord Jesus. I think God will help us. Father, bless the invitation I ask now in Jesus' name