Matthew in chapter eleven. Matthew chapter eleven I sort of like this picture because I I like the mountains first of all. I like mountains. And uh there's just something about an uh an old country road, you know, that you walk on. There's just something about that that's just sort of Sort of homey and tells a story in itself. And I hope that we can tie this all together and that the picture will be a blessing to you when we show it here in a few moments. Uh we're in uh Matthew chapter eleven. We're going to be looking at the last uh four verses, starting in verse uh twenty-seven. You got your place? Matthew 11, 27, the Word of God says, All things are delivered into my uh in delivered unto me of my Father. And no man knoweth the Son but the Father, and neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son. And he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Let's pray. Heavenly Father We read these verses and we cannot just step back and just marvel at your grace and your love for your creation. Lord uh uh it humbles us to to think of of how much effort you put in uh and and what you sacrificed and what you did in order to uh uh have a people uh that are going to one day spend an eternity with you. So Lord, I pray that uh the message tonight would speak to hearts. And perhaps there's some here that uh need this this rest that uh that the Lord speaks of here in these verses. And if that be so, I pray that tonight they might yoke up with that one who can give them the rest that they need in their soul. Bless the chalk drawing, Lord. We show it in a little bit, and I trust that everything done here in this service will honor you. Thank you, Lord, for the good music and uh the special tonight. And all the effort that's been put out for this service. And may you uh get the honor and glory for everything that's done. And especially, Lord, we pray that uh that one who's here tonight Perhaps they were invited by some uh friend of theirs and and or perhaps not. But they're here and they're unsaved, never trusted you as their personal savior. I pray that you'd show them the need and that they might reach out by faith and yoke up with the Lord Jesus Christ and might be saved. So bless our time around your word one more time. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. There's something about these verses that that just uh speaks to your heart. You just can't you can't get away from it. There's just something when when he says, uh, come unto me all you that labor and are heavy laden and I'll give you rest that That speaks to my heart. I think maybe it's because uh really you know uh how many of us really have the rest of God in our heart? Many of us really enjoy the rest that He gives. Because, you know, it's not just, you know, where you you lay back and And uh snooze a little bit and get a little bit of rest. That's not that's not the kind of rest he's talking about. It's much deeper than that, and and and it meets so many more needs. Did you notice that the very first verse? It seems almost disconnected from what we read, but it's significant in the very first few words. Look at verse verse uh twenty-seven one more time. He said, All things are delivered unto me of my Father. In other words, the Father has delivered unto Jesus Christ everything, everything that we need. Because he goes right in the next verse and he says, you know, come take my yoke upon you. So the Father has delivered to Jesus everything that uh that you need here tonight. He's delivered everything that that you need and that you need and that you need and that I need. It's all in Jesus' hands and and it only requires one thing And that's our willingness to yoke up with him. I I can't help but think of of uh another place where he says to to take something. And that's in just a few chapters later in chapter 16 of the book of Matthew, he says then he's challenging his disciples. to take up the cross. Here he's saying, take my yoke. And I think there's probably a connection there, and I've never studied it out. It's just a that uh I preach a message on taking up the cross and it just came to my mind, you know, as I was thinking about this. And this is another place. He he challenges his disciples to take something that he has That will make their life better. You see, that's the whole thing about the Christian life. Whatever Jesus has for you is going to make your life better. Huh? You're here tonight and you're not saved. You've never trusted Christ. And and you you're in you're listening you're in a world of hurt and don't even know it. Listen to this verse back in the in the book of Isaiah. But the wicked are like the troubled sea. when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. That's the condition of the lost man. That's the condition of his heart. He's he's uh uh he's he's a sinner by choice and by nature, and inside of him is just a boiling cauldron. Of all the the negative characteristics you can think of, and hate and greed and and all the bad things, and there's a little smidgen of good things in there so that he he thinks that he's Not too bad a shape, but uh but he's still just a sinner that needs to be saved. If you're one of those that that uh fit into that category, tonight I have a I have you can join this fella here on the road. That's what you can do. You can join him I want us to look at this at the uh uh at these verses, and uh I trust that the Lord will just give us something out of them that uh that will help each one of us because Uh Lord knows we all need that. There's times when all of us need rest. The first thing that I would say is that uh We all we this is an invitation to rest. Now I've said I've said just a few moments ago, there's there it probably in all of our hearts and and in in our lives There is probably some unrest for some reason or other. I don't know what it might be. Uh you know, I uh I have uh four children. And uh, you know, my ear is attentive and my wife's ear is attentive to all the needs they have and and I see the unrest In their lives, and and they're all, you know, Christians and going to fundamental, independent, Bible believing churches, and they're involved in the ministry. And yet there's little things that are that are twinging their life, and I can see it Perhaps you're the same way. Perhaps there's there's some turmoil that's boiling up into your heart and that uh causes you some consternation every once in a while. Something uh and it it doesn't necessarily have to be sin. It doesn't have to be sin, although sin will trouble a Christian. I mean God will not leave him alone. The conviction to the Holy Spirit will will cause uh his heart to just turn up flip-flops until he gets things right with God. But it doesn't necessarily have to be sin. It can just be something some Uh maybe it's maybe it's that boss at work. He just he just gives you fits all the time. You just can't seem to do anything right. Maybe it's a co-worker, you know, that's not saved, and he keeps punching your button every chance he gets makes fun of you as a Christian You know, it can be any one of a thousand different things, but but in the midst of all the turmoil and all of this this uh unrest in your heart You can hear the voice of the Savior saying, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavily laden, I'll give you rest. That's that's the that's the rest of the soul. That's something that that uh uh Satan can't give that. He tries to do that, you know, through drugs and through and and and and the unsaved. Uh hey, I remember when I was before I trusted Christ, you know, uh I thought Maybe alcohol is an answer, you know. Kind of get a little spooky, you know, up here and and you kind of forget problems that you have and all that kind of stuff. It never didn't really solve the problem, but I mean it just took you away from it a little while and when he came back he just slammed you in the face and and uh then you was all tore up even worse. And here he's inviting you. This is an opportunity for a sin-burdened heart to finally have rest. We can all remember that day before we, you know, when we came to that point where the Spirit of God was dealing with us and the unrest within our heart When we knew that there was something missing and something and it kept us uh tormented even back in our mind it was uh even when we was doing other things that we enjoyed doing There was still this thought behind, you know, that uh that uh kept stirring us up and taking away our rest and taking away our peace There's fear of death causes a lot of unrest in people's hearts. Well, I'll tell you that was the one right there that that really helped me when I got saved. It took away the fear of death. I didn't have to worry about dying and going to hell anymore. Didn't have to worry about the house burning down, you know, and be being caught up in it died in the flames and then find myself in the flames of hell. I I didn't have to worry about that anymore when I trusted Christ. And that that in itself was worth getting saved for. The dread of judgments, another thing that people are tore up about They may not say a whole lot about it and they they keep it hidden, keep it on the back shelf so that so that it doesn't come out, you know. But but I believe in the in the heart of everyone. There's uh uh number one a belief in God. May be a weak one, but if they believe in God, if they believe in God, they have to believe that there's a judgment that's going to follow. Because it has to be a righteous judge, and he's going to judge sin. He does not give this peace or this rest as a prescription It's not like something that, okay, you know, here's this is something that is real that he passes to that individual who'll be willing to Come to him and yoke up with him. I've seen the the heart of an individual that has suffered a tremendous loss. And when the peace of God comes into their heart and that rest comes into the heart, how the face relaxes and And they just simply begin to trust God. Know that God is a good God and He doeth all things well. There's just something about, you know, when you put yourself in the hands of God When you put yourself in the yoke with Christ, He gives you that rest. You hear him say, Come unto me. Everything that is a burden to us should bring us to Christ. For rest and relief. That's probably one of the things we're weak on, isn't it? We don't take everything of the Lord. Bring it to the Lord and You know, leaving us the altar and all but but we don't we th we we can handle it, can't we? We just sort of take care of all the little problems ourselves and we don't don't want to bother the Lord. He's probably got big things to do. He's gonna move a planet over here Maybe a nebula out there and maybe he's busy making a star or something like that. We don't want to bother God with the little things. Do you know he wants us to bring even the little things to him? Well, he also it's not only just an invitation to rest, and I believe that that rest is speaking of a a rejuvenation. And we couldn't even take it a step farther and and and and use the word revival in there. But I I believe that's what he wants to do in the heart of an individual. And certainly if he quiets the the turmoil in your heart. certainly it's going to be going to lead to a spiritual revival. So perhaps there's even that element of truth in that verse. All we need to do is take advantage of this loving offer that he's made. Number two, he uh we're invited to serve. Take my yoke upon you. There's there's different yokes, you know. Yeah, there's an egg yoke. I don't think that's what he's talking about. But there's yokes that we put on ourselves. Satan has a yoke. Of course, it's a burdensome and brutal yoke. And then there's Christ's yoke, and it's the yoke that he himself willingly took upon himself, and that yoke is the Father's will. I delight to do thy will, O Lord, my God. Psalm 40 verse 8. To take on this yoke means It's it's a life of entire uh consecration, submission. Submission to the work of God and submission to the will of God. That's what it is This thing of of taking on the yoke, I've tried to you know I tried to envision this whole thing in my mind. I I guess that's the artist in me. I w whenever I hear even I hear uh a portion of scripture I try to visualize it somehow and put it in my mind in a way that I can actually see it. And and and I see this I see the Lord Jesus Christ in this in this yoke And uh and he's inviting me to come over and and take his yoke upon me. And uh I walk over to him, and you know, here's the thing that gets me. This is why would he want Don Williams to get in his yoke? Who am I? Who are you? I mean, we're just a piece of clay that God has has embodied with his spirit But but who are we anyhow that we could be yoked up with God? Think about that. And yet he calls to us in a very loving way and and he and he invites us to come and take my yoke upon you. Wow, that gives me chills just to think that the Lord wants me. In yoke with him. And that implies that he wants me to labor alongside of him as I go through life. Doing the things that he's doing with him. I get to do them with him. Whenever you whenever you uh hand a track to someone You're in the yoke of Christ. Whenever you uh uh uh take a stand for righteousness and somebody's cussing or something like that, and you take a stand and say, you know You you're using my Lord's name in vain. When you take a stand, I believe you're you're in his yoke. Everything that we do that that glorifies God, I believe, places us in the yoke with Jesus Christ. Uh is I guess the yoke when you get right down to it is in one way it's it's it's uh It's the way of Christ. The way of Christ. I am the way and the truth and the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. Take my yoke upon you. Well, the Apostle Paul, when he pinned this in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 20, it says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though, listen to the words now, as though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be you reconciled to God. He's telling these people, he said, listen, uh uh we're in Christ's stead telling you that you need to get saved, not just putting it down flat on the road there. That's basically that's what he's saying. And so he is he has stepped into the yoke with Christ in Christ's stead, he says So he's right there with the Lord. Of course, we know the Lord has promised never to leave us nor forsake us. He makes us co-workers with him And this work that is that spread across the the the the the world Take my yoke upon me. Let me ask you a question. Are you are you in his yoke right now? Is I mean, is is is your desire, is your will In the place where God wants it? I mean, are you in the center of God's will? I mean, that's what we're really talking about here, isn't it? Because if you're in the center of God's will, you're going to be in his yoke. And you're going to be in a yoke with him doing his work, doing the things that he wants done, that needs to be done. We're going to be in that yoke with him, serving, serving. So it's an invitation to rest, but it's also an invitation to serve. And then We're invited to Laravan. Wow. I don't know about you, but I don't feel too smart most the time. I don't. I feel kind of dumb a lot of times Sometimes when I stand up behind this pulpit and I look down at uh the message I'm gonna preach and I feel awful stupid. I just don't feel like like I'm you know gonna get to the cross There's times when when my grandkids come up and they're doing this and they're they're saying, You know how to do this, Rampole? and I feel kind of stupid about that time. There's a lot of times in my life, I guess, I've felt that way. But we're invited to learn, to learn of him. But if you're going to learn of him, you're going to have to get in his yoke beside of him. The closer you are to him, the more you'll learn of him. I I often think about the two on the road to Emmaus who's walking along talking about the Lord and there were some things that they were missing. And God just Jesus just showed up as they was walking along and asked him a couple of questions and then expounded to them for about something it was about seven miles they walked together and and they learned because they were yoked up with him. You see, that's what God wants to do. He wants to walk with us through life. And as we walk along this road of life with him, yoked up with him, He imparts his wisdom and his knowledge to us. And that's that that's what we need. If we're going to be discerning Christians, if we're going to have the ability to know the difference between right and wrong. Then we need to be yoked up with Him where He imparts His His learning to us. So he says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly. I guess really right here is where I was thinking primarily about how insignificant I felt. Goked up with the Lord. But but he eases my concern when he says, hey, I'm just beeking lowly. I'm just like you. You know, he in the Philippines it talks about how he humbled himself and took on a uh the the the body of a man in order that he might taste death for everyone. He's just meek and lowly. That doesn't mean he's less than God and doesn't mean that we can s uh call him uh the the man upstairs and and that kind of stuff. That's not it be disrespectful. No, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that God is putting us at ease. He said, I'm I'm just I'm meek and lowly and This is the this is the the uh the pattern that I want you to take. If you're going to get in the yoke with me and I'm meek and lonely, then you need to be meek and lonely Meekness. Not weakness, but meekness. You know, there's a difference, and I'm sure you understand the difference there. In the school of suffering and testimony for Christ, the deeper things of God are found in this learning process when you're yoked up with Him You won't find them any place else. I find that most people that are Christians I don't know why, but some some Christians are ashamed, you know, to name the name of Christ. They're ashamed to be in the yoke, to be in the way, to live their life glorifying God. I'm not really sure why that is or or how it can be. Because I can't imagine a Christian who really, really has trusted Christ their Savior and understands what the cost was for their salvation. I don't understand how they could possibly not be wanting to shout it from the rooftops. Hey, Jesus saves. Jesus saves. But there's those who do and they don't have much of a testimony. And oftentimes I've even questioned whether they're really saved or not, but I I'm not a judge. I Just, you know, as someone has said, uh maybe a fruit inspector, you know. You know 'em by the fruits they bear. But if you're not a witnessing Christian, if you're not if you're not serving God in a in a positive way, in an active way, Then you need to, you know, you need to you need to determine something. If I'm really saved Then I need to be yoked up with Christ. If I'm really saved, my life will account for Christ. If I'm really saved. My family depends upon my salvation. They're the ones that's going to either benefit or it's going to be detrimental to them. If if my if my testimony does not ring clear. Well Christ's yoke is a way of life. No question about it. Our learning begins when we enter the yoke of Christ. If you're here tonight and and uh you've not t uh taken on that yoke, then this is the time when you need to do it. There's many many branches of learning here. with him. We learn to be patient in suffering, to walk humbly, to trust implicitly, to love intensely, and to rejoice exceedingly When these things take place in your life, there's a lot of things of this old world and the the the trash the this whole world puts out that starts begins to just fall away. It's a natural, natural thing When you climb into the oak with Christ, those things become so unimportant when you the learning process process begins and and you begin to see yourself uh growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord. I wrote some special things down and I can't read them from here, so. It's one of those things. My glasses are are set to focus right about there. You know. It's not not easy. Hmm. All right. Let's see. Hebrews chapter ten and verse twenty two says, Let us draw near with a true heart. Talking about drawing closer to him in this yoke. James James 4. 8. I think you've studied that in in your Sunday school class here. Draw nigh unto God and He'll draw nigh unto you. He's a reciprocal God. You do this and He'll do that. You do this, He'll do that. That's the way He works. And today, he's inviting you to take his yoke upon you. If you're here tonight and you need rest for your soul. If your heart's in turmoil for one reason or another. You know the one thing that I I I I I look over a crowd like this and and uh you know you you I Y you don't have time to study faces. But sometimes you can look into the face of an individual and you can almost see the turmoil that's going on inside their heart. Sometimes the face is is you know they're not even really there. They're looking at you, but they're not hearing you. And you know that there's something going on inside, turmoil. That's what Jesus wants to give you rest from. He wants to give you rest, rejuvenate you, and put you back in the yoke with him. Because you're precious and you're special. He's meek and lowly so that he can accommodate you. We can have these lights out. I want to show this chalk drawing.