Elizabeth is getting hitched on Saturday. How about that? I guess you still are, is that right? Yeah. Amen. Well we're excited for that and uh praise the Lord for God's blessing on her life. Uh Luke chapter fifteen, and by the way, the fellow she's getting married, he's alright. He's alright. So, but we're happy for them. I don't know how many folks are over fifty, but I'm looking out at the crowd, and uh I fit that category and came up with some hymns. For people that are over 50. Hymns that are for people that are over 50. Here's the first one. Give me the old timers religion. You know, instead of the old Precious Lord, take my hand and help me get up. Just a slower walk with thee. I like this one. Go tell it on the mountain, but please speak up. Uh nobody knows the trouble I am seeing. Uh guide me, oh thou great Lord God, I've forgotten where I parked the car. Count your many birthdays. Name them one by one. Here's a good one. Blessed insurance. And the last one, it is well with my soul, but my knees hurt. So how was that, Mary? No. Man, she's tall Luke chapter fifteen. I get turned on here. I think everything's working. By the way, we were scheduled to get our whole new sound system. And we're tearing everything out, putting all brand new back in, scheduled for this Thursday. I was so excited and got a call, and the fellow that's putting it in is very, very sick and won't be able to do it this Thursday. So You pray for us. Notice, if you would, chapter 15 of Luke and verse number 17. There's a little phrase here that caught my attention a couple weeks ago. And I want us to notice this. Luke 15, verse 17. Notice what the Bible says. And when he came to himself He said, How many hired servants my father's bread enough spare, and I perish with hunger? When he came to himself, my message, I've entitled it this morning, Come to Yourself. I could put it this way, come back to yourself. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. Lord, the singing has been a blessing to my heart music, the specials, or the fellowship has been sweet. And we're very grateful for how you've blessed our church to be a part of Mountain Lake. And what a joy it is and has been for many, many years. We ask, Father, that you would bless again this hour. Or as we look into this portion of Scripture, I pray that you would teach us all something about yourself and something about ourselves. I don't know the condition of everyone here, Lord, but you do. And I pray, as I trust you've directed me in this message, that you would apply the truths here, the principles, the warnings, and the promises. You would apply them to each of our hearts as you know we have need. I present my body anew this hour, as best I know how and able, I yield my will to yours And I ask you with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There have been literally tens of thousands of sermons preached on this passage. By the way, I want to stop. I failed to recognize Chip and Vicky. in town for a little bit. Always good to see them back up from down south. They survived Hurricane uh Matthew. We praise the Lord for that. All went well. And it's good to see uh Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Lake From Romney, they are abandoning their daddy's church and came up here. Uh he told me before, he says, I need to hear some decent preaching for a change And so he came up here. Don't tell your dad I said that, Stephen. And Caitlin's back there too, so good to see them. I wanted to recognize them. Literally tens of thousands of sermons Have been preached on this portion of scripture here. We know it as the prodigal son. And for 2,000 years people have been preaching on this. I would venture to say that every one of us here at least is vaguely, at very minimum, is vaguely familiar with this event Probably most of us, if not all of us, are very, very familiar with the prodigal son and his experience. It's basically a young man who has it pretty good. By all accounts, as far as we can tell, his uh his father has been successful in the farming business He appears to be a very successful man. It appears to be a very good home, good solid family, good strong marriage. Looks like everything's good there. He's got a family and a father that obviously loves him very much. There's a farm. There's work for him to do. There's an occupation that he's been trained in, apparently. He has a future that's secure. We notice that he comes to his father and asks for his uh uh he asks for his um the portion of goods that falls to him. So apparently the parents have invested and have put things in place and Perhaps he's been involved in that a little bit and and his future is very, very secure. Um But This young man is incredibly ungrateful for all that God has provided him. And all that God had done for him, the position God placed him in, that was not good enough. He had to have something else. He was what we would say dissatisfied with his lot in life. And I want to suggest to you, you know, a lot of our problems come from discontentment. Just not being satisfied with what God has done for us. Just not being grateful for how good God has been to us. How many people here like me you're guilty of griping about stuff that really I ought to be praising God for good things He's done for me, huh? How many of us see the one thing we don't like and fail to see all the good things That we should be grateful for. That's this boy. And he's ungrateful, he's dissatisfied, and he becomes what we refer to as the prodigal son. That word prodigal simply means, refers to one who is given to extravagant wastefulness. A prodigal is someone who is extremely reckless with their resources and their opportunities. They are the one definition I came across, and I thought this was kind of oratorical. I thought it was neat the way uh it was interesting, I should say, the way it's worded, but they said one who is lavishly careless Lavishly careless. The prodigal son. He had a good home. He had good occupation. Respectable. He had a great future, but he was prodigal. He was careless with it, reckless, wasteful. I want us to notice a few things here about this boy and Again, we're very, very familiar with this, and I want to try and work down to that statement that I opened the message with there in verse number 17. But to get to that, let's first consider this young man's rebellion Look with me again, if you would, at verse number 12. The younger of them, this is the certain man, had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me And he divided unto them his living. I circled those two words. He says, Father, give me. I underlined them and I circled those words There is an indication of his rebellion. Now, here's my question. What is rebellion? We talk about a rebellious teenager, or a rebellious this, or a rebellious that. What are we What do we mean when we refer to someone being rebellious? Well, the definition of rebellion is simply this: open and deliberate revolt against the legitimate authority. Here is an authority put over me. Here is a responsibility given to me. And rather than submitting to that authority and living under that authority or Accepting that responsibility, I revolt against it. I say, I will not live under this authority. I will not submit to this authority. I will not accept this responsibility. The fact of the matter is, every one of us are rebels. Every one of us are rebelling against something. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. I trust that's true. Every one of us, we are either rebelling right now as we sit here on Autumn Glory Weekend in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church at eleven twenty in the morning Every one of us are living in rebellion. Either we are rebelling against God. Now, I would hope that's not the case for any of us, surely not all of us. Or we are living in rebellion against Satan. Do you ever think about that? I am either doing what Satan would have me to do in my life, or I am doing what God would have me to do in my life. And when I submit to God and I trust Him and I let Him lead me and direct me and I follow His instructions and I obey my Lord and my Savior, I obey Him. I am really, in effect, rebelling against Satan. No, Satan, I will not do what you want me to do. I will not submit to your temptations and your influence. Or If I say, I don't want to do what God wants me to do, I'm not going to follow God's instructions. I'm not going to obey his word. I'm not going to trust him. I'm not gonna lean on my own understanding and not trust the Lord. I am, in effect, rebelling against God. Say, no, God, I'll not have you rule over me. And we see that all through Scripture. People who take things into their own hands, they lean on their own understanding. You say, oh, preacher, I'm not doing everything God says, but I'm not rebelling against him. If I'm not submitting to him, I am, in effect living in rebellion against him. And so it's very, very important we see here in this young man, this young man, in his rebellion against his father and against the responsibilities that have been given to him. And I almost entitled the message and went a little different direction with it as I was praying with uh over this, but uh I I thought about here's a classic example of how to ruin your life A classic example, how to just mess things up. And this boy shows us how to do it Rebellion against God or any other authority always begins with an exaltation of self. Again, verse number 12, he says this: Father, give me Father, give me. That little statement tells us a lot about his frame of mind. He was thinking first and foremost about who? Himself. He wasn't concerned for the well-being of the farm. He wasn't concerned for the joy and fulfillment of happiness of his parents. He wasn't even thinking about his future All he had on his mind, the only focus, the consuming focus of his mind, is me getting what I want now. Does that not sound like America? Does not that sound like humanity as a whole? We want what we want when we want it, how we want it now. Now. And so that little phrase, Father, give me. Tells us a whole lot about how this boy was thinking. Tells us a whole lot of the condition of his heart Now, we're not given a lot of details here, so you know I'm speculating here a little bit on some of this, but I don't see at this point in the event taking place and this how it plays out. I don't see a whole lot of outward indication of any problems. Apparently he's working hard. Apparently he's working in the family. He's living in his father's house. Can I suggest to you this young man had his father's trust? I over the years I'd read this and I thought, why in the world did the father give to this boy His living. Why did he give him? Apparently it's a fairly large sump of l uh sump of lum, a lump sum. I've been traveling a lot this week, so you all pray with me. But uh apparently this is a pretty large lump sum of money. Why in the world? Would the father give that to him? And I got studying this. I came to this conclusion. His daddy trusted him. Outwardly, there was no indication that this boy was thinking this way. Outwardly, there was no indication of his heart's condition. As far as the father knew, he spun some his son was fine, he could trust him with this, and no doubt he had noble uh goals in mind, and perhaps his father thought And again, I'm speculating. Perhaps his father thought, well, he's got something in mind. He's going to invest it. He's got something he's going to do with it. Outwardly there was no indication of his inward condition. He was in fellowship with his father and family, but his heart wasn't right. And that is where rebellion always begins. In the heart. When self sits on the throne of my heart. Rebellion is taking place. Rebellion is taking place. So this boy makes this statement, give me The portion that followeth to me. I want to suggest to you that this young man, at this point in time, perhaps, had no intention of squandering it I want to suggest to you at this point he had no intention of ruining his life. No doubt he had dreams and ideas that I'm going to be this and I'm going to be that and All he could see was success and victory and getting his way. He had it all planned out. I'm sure he had no intention of ending up in a pig pen. Eating the hus that the pigs ate. You know, the road to ruin very seldom happens suddenly. I'd mentioned this in a message some time ago, but uh you know there's two ways to get down a ladder. You're up on a roof, working, cleaning the gutters or whatever. Got a ladder up against it, and maybe it's a very high roof. There's two ways to get down that ladder. One way is to jump down. I found that's generally not a good idea Just jump down and just destroy. Or there's another way to get down the ladder, and that is just rung by rung by run. And generally, the road to ruin does not happen overnight. It's a little selfishness here A little selfishness there. A little lack of faith here. Lack of submission there. Before he knew it, he was in a place he did not want to be. And he was in a condition he did not want to be in. So the road to ruin, his rebellion began. with his selfishness. He didn't want he didn't he didn't intend to ruin his life. He just wanted to be in charge of his life. He didn't want to destroy everything. He just wanted to control his life. Self-will. If you would, keep your place here and turn with me to the Old Testament book of Isaiah. Isaiah. Now, it paints a pretty dark picture here of this young man at this point, but Isaiah chapter number 14 is a fascinating portion of scripture. Isaiah chapter 14, and God gives us a little window, so to speak, into an event that took place many, many years ago. It is the fall of Satan. Now, the exact timing of that, I can't say for certain. I have my ideas. But it's interesting in Isaiah chapter 14, in verse number 12, notice what the Bible says. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations? Now look Here is Satan's fall. And I want you to notice very, very carefully one particular statement that Satan made, Lucifer, at this time, in his rebellion against God. He says, thou hast said in thine heart, now there's a couple things here I want to highlight. Notice the next two words. I will I will ascend unto heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will, verse 14, ascend above the heights of the clouds. Now look at this next statement. I will be like the Most High. God makes a statement in verse 15: yet thou shalt be brought down to hell. To the sides of the pit. Just a little aside here, hell was not created for man. Hell was created by God for Satan. And his rebellion, then when man allied himself with Satan through rebellion, hell became the abode of the unsaved. But notice five times he uses two words. I circled them in my Bible. Five times Satan says this. I will, I will, I will, I will, I will You know what that is? That's self-will. You know what that is? That's rebellion. Rebellion. Satan raised his fist and said, This is how I want it to be. This is the way I'm going to make it happen. But notice there in verse 14, and this is what caught my attention. First part he says, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. Then he says this. Notice carefully, notice a little bit what he does not say. He says, I will be like the Most High. He doesn't say I'm going to eliminate the Most High. He doesn't say I'm going to dominate the Most High God. He just says, I want to be what? Like him. Basically, I believe he's saying this. I want to have the same authority over my life that God does. I want to have the authority to make the decisions for my life just like God. I want to be equal with God. He didn't want to eliminate God. He just wanted to be equal with God. He just wanted to be author his own authority. I want to suggest to you that's exactly what Satan presented to Eve in Genesis chapter 3 And he confronts her about this fruit that God had said they could not eat. God was pretty good to Adam and Eve. They had thousands and thousands, no doubt, perhaps tens of hundreds of thousands of various trees and fruit and vegetables they could freely eat from. His restrictions were very minimal. One tree. Out of that whole place, you can have anything you want, but one tree you cannot have. One tree you cannot eat from. The day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. Isn't it in our nature? Our parents tell us, oh yeah, you can have anything in the refrigerator. Just don't eat that cake. What's the first thing we want to eat? That one thing. And Satan approaches her and says, Yea, hath God said. He's questioning God's word. Thou shalt not eat of any of this. You can't eat any of this. And he says, he says, no, no, no. Just the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, that's the only one. And he says, God knows, Satan's telling her, God knows that the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt be as God. What's he saying? He's saying, Eve, you can have the same authority over your life that God does. You can be just like God. You can have the same authority over your life as God does. And that's exactly, I think, what this boy was saying. Dad? You're gonna tell me what to do. I want to decide my life. I want to live my life. I give me And so the root, the foundation of rebellion is always self Self-will. I want what I want. Come back there with me if you would quickly. And something else I'd like for Sinotas about his rebellion in particular It says in verse number 13, verse 12, he says, Give me the portion of goods that falleth to me, and the Father trusted them. In fact, notice it says he divided unto them his living. He gave both the boys. Well, I'll tell you what, since we're giving this out early, uh before I pass away or give it out, I'll give you both yours That indicates to me the father had trust. The father didn't anticipate anything going down like this. He trusted them and says, okay. He gave them both their goods, their living. And notice verse 13, and not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey where? To a far country. I got looking at that. Why in the world did he go to a far country? Why didn't he just stay in town? Why didn't he just stay right there where he was familiar with? He knew the hangouts. His friends were there. His people were there. Why didn't he just stay in town? Why did he have to go to a far country. I want to suggest to you that conviction is already in place. I want to suggest to you, he knew that he could not live the way he wanted to live if he was in his father's presence. He could not spend that money the way he wanted to spend it when people around him knew him and would hold him accountable. He needed to get away. And I'm suggesting you the reason for that was in his heart he knew from the get-go he was wrong. He knew that this was not what it ought to be. I've found that we tend to be better people when people are around. We tend to be more respectful and better Christians when people we know are watching us. Right or wrong. I learned this early on as pastor. People act differently when the pastor is there than when he isn't. I come and visit, knock on someone's door, and it's loud and carried off. Yeah, what do you Oh, hi, Pastor? Praise the Lord. I've been places where there are people and I I run onto somebody and they the preacher's there and the girls start pulling their skirts down lower, you know. It's like the preacher's there And a guy I say I've told this many times, there was a guy knocking on his door and uh he comes to the door with a cigarette in his mouth and as soon as he saw me, Hey preacher! Amen. He's hiding it back there, smoke coming up behind his head. Hey, uh uh William, what's up? I just came by to see you. I thought I'm gonna talk to him as long as I can. We tend to be a little better people when people are around, right or wrong? I want to suggest to you this boy knew he couldn't live the way he wanted to live under his daddy's eye I think there was conviction already there. Just a reminder, we are always under God's eye. Our God is omnipresent. Everything is open and naked with him to whom we have to do, Hebrews tells us. We cannot hide from God. It would help us as Christians, those of us that know the Lord Jesus, our personal Savior, it would help us a whole lot if we would just remember I am always in the presence of God. How more careful we would be. How much more we might give consideration to what I'm doing and how I'm involving myself. And so this boy's rebellion is begins with selfishness. Give me I believe there's some conviction taking place there, and he needs to get away from his father's presence. He needs to get away from the observation of people who knew him. He needs to get away from accountability. And so selfishness is rebellion against God. Then I notice next his ruin. Look with me again, if you would, at verse number 14. And when he had, what's the next two words? Spent all. There arose a mighty famine in that land. What a coincidence, quote unquote. As soon as he runs out of money, a famine hits. You know what that tells me? God's working in his life. That wasn't a coincidence. God knew exactly what needed, get this. God knew exactly what needed to happen for this boy to come to himself. When he had spent all. When he had spent all, there was a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in one. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country. And he sent him into the fields to feed swine. It's interesting to me. No one in that far country trusted him enough with a better job. Nobody trusted this boy. He had a reputation as a prodigal. Recklessly wasteful. Lavishly negligent. The only job he could find, the only job that anybody would trust him with was feeding pigs. I'm telling you, sin ruins a life. And he began to be in one. He went and joined himself, and he sent to his fields the peach swine. Look at this. How sad is this? And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. The sweet pleasures of his self-indulgence soon turned into bitterness of consequence. He could choose to rebel, he could choose to be selfish, he has that freedom, but he could not choose the consequences of his rebellion. And the consequences of his selfishness. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Galatians chapter number 6. It's a powerful statement, powerful verse. Galatians chapter number six. And notice with me, if you would, verse number seven. Galatians verse 6 and chapter 6 and verse number 7. This ought to be underscored in our Bibles. Be not deceived. In other words, don't fool yourself. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap For he that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. And he goes on and says, let us not be weary in well-doing, for we for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. This boy is experiencing it. He showed to his flesh. He sowed to himself. He sowed to pleasure and temporal, carnal pleasure. And it ran out. And he's reaping. Take your Bible again, if you would, turn to Hebrews chapter 11, a fascinating account of Moses. Moses is to me one of my one of my favorite characters in the Bible. I consider Moses to be, apart from the Lord Jesus, perhaps the greatest leader In all of history. Hebrews chapter 11. And notice with me, of course Hebrews 11 is the great hall of faith. These great men and women who trusted God and great things God did for them. Notice in verse twenty five. Verse twenty four says By faith Moses When he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. I mean, he could have had the best this world had to offer. But look at verse 25. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the war reward. In other words, he knew what the consequences would be. Moses has stopped and thought this thing through. And if I make this decision and I go down this road, that's where it's going to lead to, and if I make this decision and go down that road, that's where it's going to lead to. And Moses, in his faith and wisdom, very carefully considered the direction he was going to go with his life. And he chose to trust God. And he makes a statement there, makes a statement in verse 25: choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin. Question, is there pleasure in sin? Sure. Big time All those years before I was saved, you know, man out Saturday night we'd have a time. Friday night we'd have a time. Sunday night we'd have a time Rocking and rolling and carrying on and drinking and everything that goes along with that, debauchery. There's pleasure in sin. For a season. For a season. Moses thought this thing through. He says, you know, I could grow up the son of Pharaoh's daughter. I would have every pleasure known to man available to me. And I could drink it up and there would be, it would be good time, rock and roll, good times. For a while. For a while. He says, no, I'm not going to do that. And he chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God. He chose rather, he esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. Why? He understood that sin has terrible consequences. All there's intense pleasures, no doubt about it. It's awfully sweet when you take it in your mouth. But afterward, becomes awfully bitter. Becomes awfully bitter. Moses thought that thing through. Was Moses mistreated? Sure. Was Moses reproached? Yes. Was he rejected? Absolutely. But he said, you know, the peace and the joy and the blessing that comes with a pure heart. The fulfillment and satisfaction and peace of mind that comes with living a righteous life so far outweighs That temporary, intense pleasures of sin. And when it's all said and done Sin is just for a season. The pleasures of sin are very temporal. At some point, at some point, the pleasure of sin runs dry Moses understood clearly, selfishness and sin are temporal with terrible consequences. Again, we're concerned about our country now, election year, we're talking about this, it's everywhere around us. I have a sneaking suspicion the pleasures of America's set are running out. Are running out. The consequences of that sin are taking place, are taking place. The young boy's rebellion led to his ruin. Now I want us to notice quickly, verse number, come back here to Luke, if you would. And notice in verse 17, and this is the phrase that prompted this whole thing. When I was reading this some time ago, and when he came to himself. I put in the margin of my Bible repentance. Repentance. This is the boy's repentance. What is repentance? Oh, there's all kinds of theological debates and preachers' arguments, and what is repentance? It's this, that, and the other The phrase repentance itself in its most basic meaning simply means this, to have a change of mind. To see things differently than the way I saw them before, to change my perspective about something. The Bible says this young man came to himself. He started thinking about things differently. He started seeing what he had done and the situation is from a whole different perspective. He came to himself. I thought this was interesting. I did a little study on that phrase, came to himself, and uh I never saw this before. I thought this was fascinating. It has this idea, his mind had gone away. And now it was coming back home. His thinking and his reasoning was so completely removed from the reality of his situation. You know what happens when we get involved in sin? You know what happens when we start taking control of our life and say, no, not me, not God, it's going to be me who are driving this thing now. I'm behind the wheel here. You know what happens? We start thinking unrealistically And we somehow get the idea that I can live my life independent of God, we somehow get the idea that I can live my life And disregard the teachings and promises and directions and warnings in God's word, and I can just do my own thing, and somehow it's all going to work out just fine But I can somehow violate the eternal principles of God and His Word, and it's all going to be just fine. That is your mind. That is you are out of your mind. And we need to come to ourselves. And what happened was this boy thought I can do all these things and somehow it's just going to be fine. And now he comes to himself and he looks around and says, you know, it's not fine. It's not fine. I've seen this so many times and particularly And I'm not trying to pick on young people, but this is a young man. And uh so many times young people say, Well this is gonna I don't care about that and I'm gonna do this and I'm just gonna do that and to listen to the world And they'll adopt the world's thinking and they'll adopt the world's. And I think somehow it's just going to be all fine. I've dealt with people. I've been doing this for 30 plus years now. I've dealt with people that somehow convinced themselves that they could live in sin. That they could cheat and lie and disregard God and disregard the truth of God's word, and somehow everything's going to be just fine. And you know what? For a little while everything is just fine. For a little while. And then things fall apart. What happens is we need to come to ourselves and say, wait a minute, I need to look at this, I need to reason from uh from a perspective of reality We mentioned Eve a little bit ago. Eve was not thinking within the realm of reality. When Satan confronted her and convinced her to disobey God, she saw the fruit, that it was good to taste, and it was pleasant to the eyes, and it was good to make one wise. She wasn't thinking rationally. She wasn't thinking in the realm of reality. God had very clearly said what's going to happen if you do this. And when she ate it, and Adam partook, they came to themselves. The very first thing they did was try to hide themselves. We're familiar with the story of David and Bathsheba The interesting David's up on top of the house, and those of you familiar with the story, he should have been out fighting wars when the kings go forth to war, but he stayed back in Jerusalem. He sent others in his place And he's up on top of the roof at night and he glances over or he looks over and he sees a woman bathing herself. And the idea there wasn't he just glanced and saw her and said, Oh good heavens. Wasn't that at all The idea was he was focused in. This caught his fancy. And it's interesting if you study it very carefully, David starts thinking differently. Here's a man of God, a man of great faith. But he lost his mind, so to speak. And he starts thinking, I can do this. I can indulge this sin. And I can get away with it. And there won't be any consequences. And we know the story he did indulge. And he did get away with it. Killed Uriah, her husband, a couple others inadvertently got killed along with it, but you know, it happens. And he got away with it for about a year. But God saw everything. And God sent that old prophet Nathan, and old preachers used to say, like to say, Nathan pointed his finger in David's face, thou art the man. And everything came crashing down. And David in Psalm 51 came to himself. And suddenly he sees what it is for what it really is. And he says, God have mercy on me. me for I have sinned against heaven and thee. And Psalm 51 is a phenomenal, phenomenal prayer of repentance. A phenomenal prayer of a man who came to himself and saw what it really is. And he humbled himself before God and found great, great mercy. He came to himself. Uh being out of our mind is uh affliction uh uh among sinful men. It's a common affliction. Take If you would come back to Luke chapter 12. Here's a man that's out of his mind. He's not thinking rationally, he's not thinking clearly. Luke chapter 12, and Jesus is Giving this illustration here is a parable, verse 16 tells us of Luke chapter 12. And he, Jesus, spake a parable unto them, the Pharisees there, saying The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he what? Thought within himself. Oh, bad, bad thing He's leaning on his own understanding. He's looking at things from his perspective. We're preaching on Sunday nights from Ecclesiastes. I'll be honest with you, it's very challenging for me as I'm studying this, but the phrase throughout Ecclesiastes we've been mentioning over and over, the little phrase is under the sun. And the whole book of Ecclesiastes is Solomon's downfall, a record of his downfall, and how he saw things from earthly perspective, not from God's perspective, and the terrible consequences. And that's what this guy is doing. He thought within himself. He doesn't have eternity in mind. He's simply thinking here and now, what does this benefit me? So he thought within himself, saying, verse 17, what shall I do? Because I have no room wherewith to be sow my fruits, and he said, This will I do, I will pull down my barns, and will build greater, and there Will I build uh will I stow all my fruits and all my goods, and I will say to my soul, so thou hast much goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry He's got it all figured out. He's got it all planned out. God is excluded. The truth of eternity is excluded. I don't need that. Look what the Lord says in verse number 20. But God said unto him, Thou what, fool, this night thy soul shall be inquired of thee. Whose then shall these things be which thou hast provided? This man was not thinking rationally. He was lost his mind He came to himself far too late. Chung boy came to himself. He suddenly sees things clearly. Back in chapter 15, he suddenly his reasoning comes down to reality. He says, look at this. My dad's servants are better off than I am. True. I'm going to go back, and he humbles himself and says, I'm going to go back and I'm going to uh uh uh submit myself to the Father. I acknowledge I messed up, and maybe my daddy will let me be a servant. He's repenting. He's changing the way he thinks about his self-will and his life and and uh what he's gonna do. I started out this point by saying this. Repentance is in its simplest, most basic form, a change of mind. But I want to add to that. Repentance is not just changing my mind about something But it is a change of mind that produces a change of behavior And we find this boy, he's not sitting in the hog pen saying, boy, my dad's great servants are better off, man. I'm messed up, and just sitting there. But he gets up and goes He acts on he came to himself and then he acted on that. I've used this illustration a number of times over the years when I was In 1979, a month before I got saved, my buddy and I, uh, uh Danny Swart and I, we were going to go to Florida for spring break. It was April. I had an old um uh uh um Vega Remember the old Chevy Vegas aluminum engine? It was wonderful. I'd pull in the gas station, I'd say, check the gas, fill the oil. And um literally And so Friday night at midnight, we piled in my Vega. We're going to make a 22-hour drive from Philly down to uh Daytona Beach. And we're going to spring break, it's going to be awesome. It was terrible. I was under such conviction. Four weeks later, after I got back, I finally trusted Christ. God saved me. But driving down there, it's the middle of the night, and I don't know where we're at. We're going down uh I don't remember. This was back right when they invented cars, so you know, it was a long time ago And somehow there was a detour. I don't remember to be honest for various reasons exactly how it came up, but we found ourselves Going down through a field on a two-lane road, smaller than 219, just a little two-lane road, and out in the middle of these fields, it's dark, but we can see is just fields. There's no intersection. There's a traffic light. No intersection, just a road. There's a traffic light there. So I'm driving and then he's sound asleep. I pull up and I look to my left and it's all field. Look to my right, it's all field. There's no roads I thought this is the stupidest thing I've ever seen in my life. A traffic light in the middle of a field, no intersection. So I sat there for a little bit and I looked over him and he's I said, well, philly on this. I'm going on. We got a places to be, things to do. So I drove through the red light. Just a little ways it cut hard to the right and we went across a one-lane bridge that went across a very, very long, wide river. One lane. I'm thinking, huh. Wonder why that light was red. I got in the middle of that bridge and lo and behold, there's big lights coming straight at me. Now I realize why that light was red. You know what I did? I repented I changed my mind about how stupid that red light was. Wasn't stupid at all. It's a pretty good idea And not only did I change my mind, when I changed my mind, you know that wasn't stupid, having a red light, there's a pretty good idea. I'm going the wrong way. That's a big truck coming right at me. I didn't just keep driving I changed my mind, but I also changed my behavior. I hit the brakes, flew it in reverse, boom, backing up as fast as I could. To me, that's a good example of what repentance is. The boy saw that he had made some stupid decisions. He saw that he was in a mess. He came to himself and says, I realize what is going on here. I am better back there with my daddy. It's better back there in that situation. And he changed his behavior and got up and went. And so there we have his repentance. What brought about this change? What prompted this boy to come to himself? What prompted him to change his thinking? Speculation, but I want to suggest to you what I think. I think back home there was a daddy who knew exactly what this boy was going through, and he was praying and praying and praying. You say, how did Daddy know what was going on? Well, if you look at verse 30, we won't take time. But his younger brother knew what happened. His younger brother knew what was happening. So there's no doubt in my mind Daddy knew. And daddy is standing before God on behalf of his son. He's saying, God, help my son. And God brings conviction. I've found that I, as a pastor and a preacher, cannot, I cannot change the heart of a person. I can use the best illustrations and tell the funniest stories and preach my heart out. I cannot change the way a person thinks, but God's Holy Spirit can. And we can nag, and we can preach, and there's a place not for nagging, but for preaching. There's a place for all that, but I'm telling you, it is God that changes lives. It is God that changes the way we think. It is God that grants to us repentance. And I believe back home there's a father who humbled himself before God on his behalf, and God touched his heart and touched his mind. The boy became aware of his condition. He acknowledged his sin. He accepted the consequences, and then he acted on that decision, humbling himself before that. And then I see verse 22, and I'm out of time. I see verse 22 and 23, his restoration. And this really is the point of the whole event that the Lord records here. He comes home, his daddy, before he even has a chance to finish his statement, his daddy takes him and he starts rejoicing and he says, bring a robe. Now, thinking about that, why would he have put a robe on him? How do you think that boy was dressed? He just came out of the hog pen. I want to suggest to you he looked terrible. The evidence of his debauchery was all over him, but the father forgave him. The father accepted him. And he said, I do not want this boy to appear what sin has done to him. I want people to see him the way I've accepted him. And I'm here to tell you this morning, when we come to Jesus Christ in humility and faith and we confess our sin, God forgives us. And he gives us a new robe, and he no longer sees us as the filthy one in the hog pen. He now sees us as somebody robed in righteousness and glory. I bowed by my bed on May 7, 1979, at 10. 30 at night, accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I had the stench of sin all over me. But God in his grace and mercy forgave me and he gave me a robe of righteousness. And it doesn't always play out this way, but the next day I get to work. You know what they're saying at work? Leatherman, something's happened to you. You're different. What's going on? You know what that was? It was a robe of righteousness. God had put a new robe on me. He cleansed away the stench of sin. This daddy takes them back and gives them a new robe, a new chance in life, a new opportunity, a new appearance, a new acceptance. And by the way, he puts a ring. Not only does he get a robe, he gets a ring. I want to suggest to you that ring is a seal of acceptance. That daddy saw him as if he'd never done wrong. Saw him as if he'd been faithful the whole time. The Bible says when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, we are justified. Declared just as if I'd never sinned. Now I look in the mirror and I see the effects of sin on my body. I live my life, and every day I live with the consequences of decisions I made in the past. But as far as God is concerned, the way God sees me, He sees me in Christ. He sees me as righteous and pure and godly as Jesus Christ himself. And God accepts me, not for my own goodness, but God accepts me because of who Jesus is and I am in Christ. Does that make sense? The ring of acceptance. The robe removes the shame. And then I wish I had more time. Then the rejoicing. Verse 23 and 24. It says, they began to make merry. Not just the daddy, not just the family there, but the boy himself. This is incredible My God loves me and He saves me and He forgives me and He accepts me. And there is a joy enters the heart and life of that young man. that none of that righteous, righteous living could ever do for him. I want to testify to you today, five minutes with God is far more joyous and merry and blessing than five years with the devil. Five minutes of experiencing God's forgiveness is far greater than 50 years of sin and debauchery. Our God's a good God, and He loves us. And it doesn't matter how bad we mess things up, and it doesn't matter How low we may go. There's a God in heaven that loves us very, very dearly. And when we turn to Him and humble ourselves before Him, He freely forgives us. And gives us a new robe and a ring. What a story. What an event. You're here this morning. You don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. You're here this morning and say, preacher, I would like to know what it's like to know that my sins are forgiven, to have eternal life To be accepted by God. I'm here to tell you, it's a simple decision of faith to trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Turning to Him, coming to yourself, and realizing I need Christ. And God will forgive and save and give eternal life. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, maybe some of us have strayed. You know, there's a whole nother application of this event here. Where it's a saved person that got away from God, and how we can come back, not lose our salvation and get saved again, but come back and find restored fellowship with God. What an amazing story. Maybe there's some here today you've got someone that's dear to you, someone that you care very much about, and they're away from God. And they're in a far country, and we don't want to be judgmental, but it's obvious they're they're not living for God. It's obvious that it's not good. I want to challenge you to do as that father did. Humbly stand before God and go to work on their behalf in prayer. God please save my loved one. God, please help my friend. Bring them back. Bring them to salvation. Prayer is a powerful, powerful thing in reaching others with for Christ. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, Lord, I I pray you'd use these thoughts this morning to help us. I pray you'd challenge us to live a life of faith and trusting you and letting you lead us and direct us and submitting ourselves to you. Lord, maybe there's some today. Crowd this size. That are saved, but they're out of fellowship. And things are not right spiritually. And God, I trust you've been dealing with their heart and you've been working in their life as you did this young man. I pray that today, as a child of God, they would come back in fellowship with you, that you would stir us Or maybe there's some that are unsaved, as we mentioned. I pray you'd open their hearts and minds that they would come to themselves and see how clearly and desperately they need the Lord Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say this morning, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I know I trust in Christ's Savior. It's not a question. Say, preacher, I'm not living for God like I should. I'm I'm in a far country from as far as fellowship with God is concerned. And the joy of the Lord in his presence in my life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me as a saved person I really need to get back in fellowship with the Lord. I need some areas in my life need to be addressed. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit of God speaks to our hearts That's the Holy Spirit of God drawing us to repent. See it as it really is, and then come back into fellowship with the Lord. So some here this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I'm trying to live for God. It's not perfect, but as far as I know, I'm in fellowship with the Lord. But there's someone that I'm very concerned about. Maybe it's a friend, a co-worker, a family member. You say, preacher, I'm concerned. Like that father was for his son. I'm concerned for this one. You'd say, preacher, pray that with me that God would help me be that prayer warrior. And to get a hold of God and not let go until God brings that one back. Is there any like that, preacher, someone I'm very concerned for? God bless you. Maybe it's a parent, a young person with a parent that meets Christ, or a friend, a brother or sister away from the Lord. God bless you, many hands all around. One last question. There's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Listen, you don't want to go to hell. Prepared for the devil. You say, Preacher, I'd like to know that my sins are forgiven, that God accepts me, and I go to heaven someday. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm very concerned about my spiritual condition. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Any like that? Any at all? How about it? Young or old? Any at all? Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised for various things. I pray you'd help us to respond to that. Not just acknowledge it, but to act upon what you spoke to our hearts about in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's