Um anybody how many folks were able to listen to the uh charathon this week on 887? I love that. Man, I listened in and they they knocked it out Friday night. That's the earliest I remember them ever reaching their goal But the one morning I woke up and I was a little groggy and one of the guys said uh I heard him just when I was on I heard him say follow your dreams So I went back to bed and um follow my dreams All right, enough of that. If you would take your by the way, it's good to see the Gulf spack. God bless you. They were on vacation. They were down in New Mexico, Arizona, down there in the desert. They were wandering the desert for 40 days and 40 nights And now they're back, so it's good to see you guys. We're glad you're back. Look with me if you would at verse number sixteen. I want to read verse uh 15. and then when we get to verse 16, the last verse in the chapter, I'd like for us to read it all together in unison. So you follow along as I read verse 15 Verse 16 is our text, and that's what the verse I'd like for us to read together. Verse 15 says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet what? Without sin. That's a good statement. Now let's read together verse 16. Ready? Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I want to speak this morning. The Lord will help me. Messes, come boldly to God's throne I'm going to pray and ask God's blessing as I always do before we preach. But if you would, while I'm praying, would you pray in your heart that God will help my voice uh that we'll get through this thing. I almost didn't make it through Sunday school. And so um I know some are gonna pray, Lord, blow it out, Lord, uh Get out of here. So that's not exactly the prayer I was thinking of, but um I I do want to get the thought uh of this verse uh across to us this morning. So whatever happens with the voice Uh I hope we'll at least get that out of it. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I'm so grateful for uh the Word of God and your goodness to us and the great truths you give us, these promises like here, and uh how they help us so much in life. and what we learn and what we're able to do as your children. Now I pray as we consider verse 16 here that you would speak to our hearts. And Lord, I know there's many people here, all different situations going on, Lord, all different circumstances being dealt with. And uh you know each and every one. So I pray and I ask, Lord And you would take this feeble body of mine and this voice box that is so weak this morning. I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak through me, and it would be you teaching us and speaking to us and directing us. And I'll just offer myself, Lord, as an instrument in your hand. So I yield my will and my body anew. Fill me with your spirit. Strengthen my voice, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I like the book of Hebrews. Hebrews is a fascinating book. I don't know if you've ever taken the time to read through the book of Hebrews. You really should. It's tied in with the Old Testament, particularly the book of Leviticus. There's a lot of connection there between the content of Leviticus and the book of Hebrews, particularly with the Old Testament sacrifices. And the Old Testament priesthood is brought out in the book of Hebrews. And so it's a fascinating book. It's a challenging book. It has some uh pretty um Lack of a better word, uh pretty complex theological teaching in the book of Hebrews. You can uh uh you can really delve into that thing. Considering the book itself, uh we're not told who the penman is of the book of Hebrews. There's no name attributed. To who wrote this, we know God is the author. We always emphasize that. This is God's word. God authored this book, and he moved upon somebody We're not told who to record down these very words here in the book of Hebrews. Now there's a lot of speculation as to who the penman might be. How important that is, I don't know. Um my own personal opinion is from studying it over the years, I believe uh I strongly suspect that the Apostle Paul was the one that God used to pen this down. Others have been suggested and uh there's reasons for each of the uh person that is suggested. So I don't know who the pen was, but this I do know and this is important It is God's word. God is the author of this. And that means there's something for me. There's something for me. Now, another thing about the book of Hebrews, we're not told who the original audience was, who it was originally directed to. There's no city named, you know, in other some of other Paul's writings, he will write the Church of God at Corinth. The church that is in Ephesus, you know, and there'll be a very specific area mentioned. We don't have that in the book of Hebrews at all. Any particular area or city. There's no particular church mentioned No individual church mentioned in the book. So you know we can't uh we don't have that information there. Um there's no individual mention like he's writing to a individual. In some of the other books of the Bible you have that. You have Titus. Paul wrote to Timothy. But we don't have that in the book of Hebrews. So we look at the content of the book and we try to maybe come to a conclusion, who are these people? And I think that's important to know a little bit who's being addressed so that we can understand what's being said, maybe why it's being said, and then how it may apply to my life. So You look at the book of Hebrews, and a couple things that we can determine here who this was written to. One, I believe it was primarily Jewish uh believers. If you look back at verse number one, he makes a statement that indicates that in verse number one of chapter one. He says, God who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past uh unto the fathers by the prophets. That reference to the fathers there. He's referencing the forefathers of the Jews. So that statement there seems to indicate that uh it was perhaps the primary folks were Jewish. I think saved Jews that had trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. There's throughout the book, and I'm just trying to give you a little background here, just some some facts about the book maybe be helpful. There is seems to indicate through the some of these. I think primarily it's writing to save Jewish people. But I think he's also including some Jews who had come, now here's this is interesting, had come to the point of salvation They had heard of the Lord Jesus Christ. They understood uh his claims to be the Messiah. They understood the Old Testament references pointing to Jesus Christ as the Messiah. They had everything all laid out. In fact, he seemed that the Holy Spirit of God had been dealing with their hearts. In other words, they knew they were sinners. They knew they needed to be saved They understood the consequences of not trusting Jesus Christ as Savior would be separation for all eternity in a place called hell. They understood the judgment of God Upon their sins. They understood that Jesus Christ was the only way to be saved. That He is the only Savior. They understood all of that, but they came up short From actually making the decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Now I'll tell you, that's a dangerous place to be. That's a dangerous place to be. To be at the point where I know what my condition is, I know what the solution to my condition is. But hesitating or refusing to accept that solution, accept Jesus Christ as Savior That's a very dangerous place to f that would have to be another message sometime. But he addresses them very, very strongly And he warns them, and he says in so many words, he says, Listen, you trample underfoot the blood of Christ. You come to that point Where you know that Jesus shed his blood for you, so you can be forgiven and saved and be accepted by God, and you neglect that and you walk away from that, he says there's no other sacrifice. There's no other place to go And so, strong book, and he's addressing uh these Jews, many of them have already been saved, and much of the content is to saved Jewish folk, but there's this element in there that bothers me, that no, and yet Do not accept Christ as Savior. You say, what's that have to do with us? I'm telling you, we've got people all around us that know their sinners. They know Jesus is the only way to be forgiven and saved. They know they need to accept them by faith, but they will not do it. Now why is that? Why is that? How dangerous a place. I'm telling you, and this is not my message, but I'm telling you, there'll be a lot of people, and I don't say this happily, this bothers me But I'm afraid there'll be a lot of people in hell that knew that Jesus was the Savior and knew they needed to be saved and never made the decision to trust them as Savior. And so Paul addresses that. The book of Hebrews is a fascinating book. It's an important book. He's writing to primarily Jews, as I said, he's talking to the saved Jews. But he does address this other crowd that I just mentioned. The other thing we pick up from the uh folks that are being addressed in this book is they are very immature in their fa He makes several statements through here. If you would, look at chapter 5 and verse 12. You're right there. He says, chapter five, verse twelve, he says, for when for the time You ought to be what? Teachers. Do you catch what he's saying? He says, listen, by this point in your Christian life You ought to be able to be teaching others. You ought to be able to tell others what this book says. Look what he says. For when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need that what One teach you again. Uh w uh teach you again, which um you have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. Now look at this. And are become such that have need of milk. and not of strong meat. For everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. For he is a what? Babe. He's immature. He's immature. And so the people he's writing to, Paul is saying this, say, listen, uh, you could put it this way. You could say this. You ought to you know better. You ought to be farther along than this. You ought to be stronger in your faith. You ought to be stronger in your understanding of the Word of God God expects his children to study and understand his word. God expects that from us. It's the word of God. And he's rebuking them here. And he says, your babes. You should be able to, you should be able to share the gospel with other people. How many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen Amen. I trust that's true. And if that is true, then God wants to work in your life. He's working in my life So that we can grow in our faith and grow in our understanding, so that we can teach others, so that we can be an influence on this whole world. How many people agree with me? This world needs Jesus Christ This place is a mess. This place, this world is absolutely fallen and in darkness of sin. And God says to his people, you need to grow in your faith and your understanding so you can teach that and get the Word of God out and be an influence. More people can be saved. More people will know the Lord. And so it's an immature crowd that he's writing to, even though he talks about some pretty complex stuff there, some hard-to-understand stuff. Nevertheless, he's addressing their immature. Another thing I pick up in looking at the book of Hebrews. . is um these people that are being addressed are apparently being persecuted. Uh they are facing some pretty intense opposition In fact, just about any book of the New Testament, any of the epistles particularly, just about any book of the New Testament, whoever's being addressed is probably dealing with persecution. Just about any Christian in the uh from the book of Acts on uh that's being addressed in the Bible, they're facing opposition, they're facing persecution. The Church of Jesus Christ was born in opposition and persecution. I mean right from the first day You and I are experiencing, in America, we have up to this point experiencing a bit of an anomaly, a bit of a an exception to the rule throughout church history in that we haven't faced real severe, intense persecution in our society. How many people are aware of that? You aware of that? Oh, you may have. You may have had somebody cuss at you at work. Say ah, you say, Oh, can I give you a little gospel track for our church Oh you blankety blank Christians and anybody ever get got talked down too because you tried to witness anybody here and know what I'm talking about? Anybody do? Oh we may get that. Uh we may uh have somebody call us a name. When I got saved I worked at the meat pack in And um there was two others that got about the same time I did, just independently of each other. We had come to Christ. And uh we come in there and we're growing And of course we kind of gravitated to each other. We talk about the Lord and things we're learning and different stuff. And um They came up with a name for us. Anybody remember that old TV show back years ago, Mod Squad? Anyone remember that? And I tell you when I got saved, I looked like that one guy in there, you know Well, they called us the the God Squad. We were the God Squad. Names and say bad words to us and stuff. But I'm telling you, you and I are not facing anything like these dear believers in the New Testament faced They're being thrown in prison, they're being tortured, they're being killed, they're being run out of town. Uh it was intense. And so the book of Hebrews Is addressing these Jewish believers primarily. They're not all they ought to be. They're facing pretty intense persecution. And they were in spiritual danger. False teaching was coming in. False teaching was making in these folks, and they were teaching things contrary to the Word of God. They were teaching things that were just not true. And so Paul is writing to them, and he's trying to address some of these issues. And this false teaching that was creeping in the church was actually driving away some of these Jews that may be a factor on why they were not trusting Christ, because these false teachers were putting so many questions in their heads. I made this statement, I forget when, might have been last week, but recently in a message, but our church and any Bible-believing church, any Bible preaching church must be constantly vigilant against keeping false teaching out of the church. It is a continual threat to the church. It is a continual issue that the church has to deal with where folks come in and try and teach teaching that is contrary to the Word of God. So the book of Hebrews is addressing these folks and dealing with these things. Now, what is the purpose of the book? If you'll excuse me, I'm going to drink a little water here. I always hate when the preacher drinks water because when I'm in the audience, I'm thirsty and he's up there drinking in front of me. That makes me thirstier. So if you'll excuse me, what's the purpose of the book of Hebrews? Well, uh one thing he's doing here is he's promoting he's uh he's uh teaching the superiority of Jesus Christ. First several chapters, you find this statement. Jesus is better. He's better. He's better. I want to suggest to you, Jesus is better than everybody and everything. He is better. And he comes down and he's exalting the Lord Jesus Christ. He says that Jesus is better than angels. than angels. There was an element of angel worship back in that day. And they would exalt angels, oh, angels this. We still have a little bit of it today. People talking about angels and angels this and angels that. Listen, thank God for angels. They're very real beings. They're ministers of the saints. of God. They help us. I believe with all my heart. I believe with all my heart that as you're sitting there and I'm up here trying to speak, there are angels in this building right now, here and now, right here, observing what's taking place I believe we give an invitation and there's unsaved people in the audience. The angels are watching and wondering and uh and are are captivated by somebody who was offered such a tremendous opportunity to be saved by forgiveness of sins and their wonder at their response So he's saying, listen, angels, they have a role. They're very real. They're important beings. But Jesus is better than angels. Jesus Christ will do for you and I something no angel could ever possibly do. Jesus Christ can do you for I Do for you and I things that angels could never do. There's not an angel in existence that can save a soul from hell. There's not an angel in existence that can give me access to God the Father in prayer And so he says Jesus is better than angels. And he says Jesus is better than religion. He's better than religion. In the Old Testament, God had established a very uh a very uh detailed ceremonies for the Jewish people to worship God and to approach God. Um Leviticus, again, read through there. And in fact it's so specific and so many times it's almost I get confused and and you know they lose me sometimes in all this intricate detail of the ceremony, the rituals and the offerings and the sacrifices That were to take place for man to find forgiveness of sins. Now, what was the purpose of all of that? Why do you have all this? It was all pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. Every one of those rituals, every one of those ceremonies, every one of those sacrifices was an object lesson, if you will saying someday there's a Messiah coming. Someday the Son of God's coming. And he's going to be, he's going to fulfill all these ceremonies, all these sacrifices. Jesus Christ, this is what I'm what I'm getting at. Jesus Christ is better than any religion that has ever been on planet Earth. The blood of those bulls and goats never saved the soul. Those sacrifices, those ceremonies, those washings, that never saved the soul from sin and hell. All that was was an object lesson pointing to the one who can and does save souls from sin in hell. The washing of blood, the shedding of the bulls and oxen doesn't cleanse away our sin. It's the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses away our sin. And religion will never save a soul. I'm telling you, there are folks in churches right now, as you and I are sitting here, all in our community, sitting in churches, and they got this idea, oh, I'm okay with God because I'm going to church. I'm okay with God because I took the sacraments. I'm okay with God. I got baptized. Listen, that baptistry water will never bring forgiveness of sins You can put a million dollars in this offering plate, and I wouldn't argue with it about it one bit. I can tell you this, it'll never save your soul. Never save your soul. Jesus Christ will do for us what religion never has been able to and never will be able to. In fact, Christianity technically is not a religion, it's a relationship with Jesus Christ the Savior And so Hebrews is all that. And he says Jesus is better than angels. Jesus is better than all these ceremonies and Had a place, they had a purpose, but he's what they all pointed to. And he says, Jesus Christ is better than the priests And the prophets, all through all, Jesus Christ is better at. Listen, Jesus Christ was able to do for these dear folks what those Old Testament priests could never do. He's able to find offer them forgiveness and give them salvation from sin in hell. Let me say this. Jesus Christ will do for you what this preacher here would never be able to do for you. I cannot be to you what Jesus Christ is. And no other preacher can be that way. Let me say this: those Old Testament prophets. Now, a prophet I'm getting somewhere. A prophet in the Old Testament, this was his role. This was the role of a prophet. He was to stand before the people on behalf of God. He would stand before the people on behalf of God, and he would say, Thus saith the Lord. This is God's word. This is what God has to say for you. That was the prophet's role. That was his his responsibility to stand before the people on behalf of God. I hesitate to use this word, but I guess in some sense it's it's correct. He was God's spokesman, so to speak. He would represent God to the people. He'd stand before the people on behalf of God. What was the priest's responsibility? The priest's responsibility of the Old Testament was to stand before God on behalf of the people. He would come to God on the Day of Atonement once a year. They would offer these very elaborate sacrifices. He would take the blood. He would go through a very in uh elaborate ceremony Would enter into the Holy of Holies. Who one else could enter except the High Priest once a day one day out of the year Dimly lit, no doubt very smoky in there. Not very He would approach that Ark of the Covenant. On top was the mercy seat. He would anoint the mercy seat with the blood of the sacrifices And he would come out making atonement for the sins of the people. He came before God on behalf of the people. Let's suppose Tom's not here. I like to pick on Tom. Rats. I'll pick on Tom I'll pick on this Tom. Let's suppose Tom is pulling docks up out of the lake, getting ready for winter. He's got eight more to do before time's up. And then he's pulling up and he smashes his finger. Now this would never happen. I'm telling you, this would never happen. But he pinches his finger and he says a bad word. I can't imagine that would ever happen. I don't think Tom would ever do that. But he says a bad word and he gets convicted about it. What's he going to- Now we're in Old Testament. This is the priest. He took God's name in vain. Now Tom would never do that. I know that. He would take my name in vain, but he'd never take the Lord's name in vain And he comes to the priest and he says, Man, I was pulling those docks out and I sinned. And I broke God's law. I took God's name in vain. That's one of the Ten Commandments And I'm uh uh that punishes by death. I need to be forgiven for that. So the priest would say, now I'm being facetious here a little bit, but the priest would say something like this, Tom, I got you. I got this. He would go, he'd do the sacrifice, Tom bring the sacrifice, he'd take care of it, he'd bring it into the into the uh uh the tabernacle there, he'd offer that sacrifice, and he'd stand before God on behalf of Tom There's blood being shed. Can't take Tom's sins away, but it covers them for the time being until comes, the Messiah comes, and then he'll cleanse Tom's sins away. And I'm doing this on Tom's behalf. Am I making sense? Everybody follow what I'm saying? So the prophet would come out before the people and say, all right, here's God's word for all y'all. And he'd tell them what God says. The priest would come before God and say, God, I'm coming to you on behalf of these people and offering the sacrifice. Now, Hebrews tells us this. Jesus was better than all of the Old Testament prophets and all the Old Testament priests. If you'll read your Old Testament carefully, you know what you're going to find out? A bunch of those prophets messed up Anybody anybody recognize the name Jonah? Jonah was a prophet. Jonah was a knucklehead. That's Hebrew for dumb. God told him to go to Nineveh. What did Jonah do? He went the opposite direction. You say, wait a minute, he's a prophet of God. He would never sin. He would never disobey God. Hey, you read your Old Testament carefully, you'll find prophet after prophet after prophet fell short and sinned against God. You know why? Because they were sinful beings They were simply somebody in place pointing to a coming prophet who would be perfectly sinless and absolutely perfectly represent God and God's word to mankind. And so the Jesus is better than those Old Testament prophets. Jesus is better than a preacher. Jesus is better for you than your preacher is. Anybody else? He's better. Listen, let me give a word of caution. God forbid this would ever happen. But if your preacher would mess up and he would sin and fail God, you know what that tells you He wasn't as good as Jesus. He's just a man and he failed. And don't ever let, don't ever let a man's failure interfere with your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Well I run into it not not as much as I used to, but I uh sometimes I run into this. Folks would say, oh yeah Uh uh I go I go to church. You know, I ain't going to no church because I saw how Christians are. I knew this preacher and he did that, or I knew this Christian, they didn't do that And they're the- and they're and they're they're uh uh rejecting Jesus Christ because of what a person did. I can tell you this, Jesus Christ never failed you. I can tell you this, Jesus Christ never came up short. I can tell you this, Jesus Christ never fails. Never fails. And And so is right Jesus is superior to all these Old Testament prophets. He's superior to all these Old Testament priests. These priests would come before God on behalf of people and offer the sacrifice. If you read your Bible carefully, you read that Old Testament carefully, you know where you're going to find out? A bunch of those priests messed up and messed up bad. I mean, really bad. I mean, really, really, really bad. You read old, um, you read old Eli uh um it was the guy that Hannah brought Samuel. Um it was Eli. Uh you read about his boys. Good heavens. People would bring people would bring their sacrifice. They want they want to c they want to be right with God. They want their sins covered. They want to do what God says. I want my life to please God. And they would come to Eli's boys who were serving as priests. And uh they'd say, Here's our sacrifice. You know what they do? They wouldn't offer it up, they'd go eat it. Uh some young lady would come up there with offer sacrifice, sincere, wants to please God, and they'd say, Listen And I hate to say this, but they they they do something like this. Hey, listen, you come sleep with me before I make that sacrifice. I'm telling you, I'm talking about wickedness, ungodliness, on the part of priests. I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ better than any Old Testament priest that ever lived. The whole idea of the book of Hebrews is Jesus Christ. is superior in every aspect to anything that religion or angels or man or ceremonies can do for you and I He's superior. He's superior. Now, said all that to get to our text. If you would look here, he makes an interesting statement in verse number 15. Everybody hear me okay? Is it holding up all right? I hear me. I don't know if you can hear me. I I don't want to wake a couple folks up, so I'll try and Be careful there. Look at verse 15. Now, with all that I said in mind, notice verse 15. For we have not a high priest. Alright? Which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points what? Tempted, like we are, yet without sin. He's comparing Jesus Christ to these Old Testament priests, and this is what's getting us to our thought for this morning. And listen, Jesus Christ's superior, all these Old Testament priests, but don't get the idea. That he doesn't understand how you and I our lives are. Don't get that idea. How many people agree with me? There's old test preachers who probably understood what it meant to fail God. Sure they understood that. They did it terribly. They knew what it was to sin. They knew what it was to be tempted, those Old Testament priests. But they gave in to that temptation. And he's saying, Jesus Christ is the greatest high priest And don't think that because he did not sin that he doesn't understand what it's like to be tempted to sin He says he was tempted at all points like we are. When Jesus Christ stands before, when God the Son stands before God the Father as our high priest, he understands exactly what it's like to be tempted to do wrong. He understands exactly what it's like to be tempted to disobey God. You read Matthew chapter 4, we're on time, first four, five, first ten verses, Matthew chapter 4, Satan tempts, Satan himself. Is tempting Jesus Christ in the wilderness, and yet Jesus never sinned one time. He never gave in one time Somebody said, well, if he can't sin, Jesus can't sin. That means that temptation wasn't legit. I want to suggest to you the fact that he did not give in to the temptation tells me he endured stronger temptations than you and I ever did. I'll try and try and say what I'm what I'm I'll try and express what I'm what I'm thinking on this You and I are tempted. How many folks here have ever been tempted to sin? Raise your hand. Some of you all sinned right there. You didn't raise your hand. I I don't last 15 minutes. I mean at some point in your life you've been tempted. Of course we are. There's no temptation taking you, but it's common to man. So we all face temptation. Here's our problem is we get tempted a little bit and we kind of buck up and we say, I ain't doing that. And what happens to that temptation when we first refuse to give in to it? What happens? Gets stronger. And I say, no, I ain't doing it. And then get the attack, and then Satan starts pouring it on more. He's got little devils. They're pouring it on more. No, I'm not giving in. I'm not. And before we know it, what? We give in. We give in. Now think about Jesus Christ. He was tempted, all points like we are, yet without sin. Temptation comes, he doesn't give in, gets stronger. Get stronger, get stronger, get stronger. Just in you, say Jesus Christ experienced the full intensity Of Satan's temptations in ways you and I never will. We would give in long before we ever got to that level of intensity of temptation. Follow what I'm saying? So does Jesus understand my temptations? Does he understand what it's like to be tried in all points of life? Yeah, probably more so than what you and I do. And yet without sin. And yet without sin. And this is the man. This is the one that stands before God on my behalf. I had to stand before God on my behalf. If I was going to represent myself before God, I would be doomed. I would be doomed. You know what Satan's ministry is? Satan's ministry, according to Revelation, Satan's ministry is the accuser of the brethren. He just goes around accusing, oh Dennis, you did this, you said that, you didn't do this, you didn't say that, you did that, and great list. I know what some of you are thinking, you're thinking I'm That Satan's accusing him about. It's none of your business. And um, but Satan accused, accused, accused, accused, accused. If I stood before Jesus, before God the Father, the judge of all the earth On my own behalf, representing myself, I would be doomed because Satan could bring up so many accusations against me. But I'm not standing before God on my behalf. That's where I would shout, Amen, praise the Lord. I've got the perfect, superior, high priest. Who stands before a thrice holy God that cannot look on wickedness? And Jesus Christ stands on my behalf before God. And he says, I am representing Dennis Leatherman. And you know how many accusations Satan can throw against Jesus? None. None. There's no accusations there. And so you and I have a high priest that understands how our temptations, he understands our trials, he understands our struggles, he understands our failures, he understands all that. Yet he did it without Ends before God on our for various reasons, but the one in our text is this So that I can come boldly to God's throne and find grace to help in the time of need. Now let me give you my little outline and we're going to be done because my voice is just about at the end. Here's my first thought. I want us to notice in verse number 16 our exhortation to prayer. Look what he says there, first part of verse 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That little phrase, let us therefore come, because of this high priest we have that represents us, let us come to this throne of grace. Now, what does it mean? I use the word exhortation. What does the word exhortation mean? Everybody okay with me? Everybody with me, alright? What does the word exhortation mean? If you're exhorting somebody, what are you trying to do? All right, trying to lift them up, trying to encourage them. There's another idea along there also to exhort somebody Alright, you're pleading with them. Come up here, Evan. Would you set you set your Bible down there? And uh Evan's over here. You're just standing there daydreaming. He's very good at that. And uh wow, he really is. And uh over here, Pastor Matt, you know, Pastor Matt's got he's got teen soul winning, and so I want to exhort, okay, sh there he is. And um I want to exhort Evan to get involved in soul winning. Now he already is, so this is just illustration. But I want to exhort Evan Get involved in our teen soul and I'll say. Uh Evan, come on. It's uh don't do it yet. Uh Evan, come on. Uh we're going soul winning. Come on I'm encouraging him. I'm urging him. I'm trying to persuade him to come on over. Get him out and see. Come on, Evan. And uh he's a little hesitant. Let's we need to come soul winning. Let's go. And I'm trying to persuade him and encourage him. I'm supporting him To get involved in team soul winning. All right? You got that picture? Thank you. You got that picture in your mind? It's trying to get them go. That's what God is doing in verse 16 here He's saying, let us come on, come on. Hey, believers, let's go. The throne of grace. You can come on up here. It's amazing to Christians need to be exhorted to pray. What's wrong with us? Because of Jesus Christ, we have access to God's throne Free, open access. I can come to God's throne. And God has to support us. God has to push us. God, come on, come on. That's the idea. Let us come. Hey, come up here. God saying, come to me in prayer. Pray. Bring it to me in prayer. So the first thing I notice here, exhortation to prayer, where God is pressing us all through the Bible. All through the Bible, God helps people. The whole record of the Bible is God helping people. God saying, hey, I'll help you, I'll help you. I mean right from the get-go, Adam and Eve When they disobeyed God, Eve ate of that forbidden fruit, which by the way was not an apple. Eve ate of that forbidden fruit. Adam joined in with her. And they did exactly what God told them not to do. What was the very first thing God did? What was God's first reaction? He came down to him looking for him. And the very first, this this stirs my heart. The very first thing when Adam and Eve failed completely. The very first thing God did was come down and says, hey, and I'm putting in my own words, of course, I'm oversimplifying, but God says, hey, let me help you make this right. Let's get this right. Let's get this right. Come on. We need to fix this. Come on! And all through the Bible, all through the Bible, you find God's people mess up, or they're in some sort of need or in some overwhelming circumstance. And over and over and over, you find God comes and says, come on, let's go. Come on, let's get this taken care of. Remember Elijah, we preached on it not long ago, that's still small boys. This is great victory, and then he doubts and he gets scared. He wants to end his life. And God shows up in a still small voice. And God in so many words saying Come on, Elijah. Let's go eat something. Get your strength back. Let's get up. Let's get this thing going. Our God is a helping God. He helps us. And he says, come on, I'm exhorting you. You come to my through the Bible. To somebody this morning, I'm talking to somebody this morning, you've got some problems, you've got some issues, and you're struggling with it, and maybe you don't know what the answer is. I'm telling you, the Word of God is saying to you, you can come to God. God will help you. Come on. Come on. Come to this throne of grace. Bring that to God. That's what He does best. God helps people. Psalms 34, 18. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite heart. Isaiah 118, we memorized it a month or two ago. Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. What's he saying? Saying, Come on, you fell That's sin in your life. You're struggling with liquor. You're struggling with cussing. You're struggling with dishonesty. You're struggling with disobedience. You' some sin going on in your life, come to me. Come on, come on I'll help you all. We'll get this worked out. We'll fix this thing. Now I know I'm being oversimplistic in my language, but that's what God's saying to us. Matthew 11, 28, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. God's cry to mankind is you come on, you come on. James back there, we were talking before church. He showed me a little quote about uh hell, people die and go to hell. Uh tremendous quote, and we made this statement We were talking, we both agreed. God doesn't send anybody to hell. God doesn't send anybody to hell. God does everything he possibly can to keep people out of hell. He gave his own son for crying out loud to die, suffer hell for us. Don't tell me God's sending people to hell. What more does he have to do to convince us that he loves us? He wants us to have eternal life. He doesn't want us to die and go to hell. He says, You come to me. I can solve that problem. I can help you through that. So we have this exhortation to prayer. Come to me. Come now, this throne of grace. Second of all, I notice this: our audacity in prayer. I use the word audacity. I get it from this verse. Let us therefore come what? Boldly. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace. That word boldly is used 31 times in various forms throughout the New Testament. Now, I don't know about you. But I'm thinking, Almighty God, perfect in holiness, the judge of all the earth. The ultimate authority. Nobody has more authority or more power than God. He is holy. And the last word that comes to my mind when I think about approaching God. The last word that would come to my mind would be boldness. You know what comes to my mind? Fear, trepidation, humility. Man, coming uh anybody maybe you're not like me, but you ever get uh it's not so much now as he used to be, but still a little bit, but you get around somebody that has great authority, great power, or something to get around them and maybe just a little bit intimidated. Anybody know what I'm talking about? No. Two. Uh two people. But sometimes you get uh I I guarantee you you get around, I don't care what your pol political is, but somebody if he's the president of the United States, you get in their presence It's a little bit of an intimidation factor there. You say, not me. Yeah, right, whatever. We're coming to the throne of God. And the word he uses is boldly wow That's incredible. I didn't that word bold, as I said, it's used 31 times. It has this idea. It has the idea to come without reservation Unhesitated. It has the idea of coming without fear. It has the idea of coming with total freedom and courage. Fearlessly confident. Here's the picture I get. Now I'm going to qualify it here in a minute, but here's the picture I got, the throne of Almighty God. God says, listen, Jesus Christ, the perfect sacrifice, he's tempted all points like you are. He understands where you're at. And he's here representing you. And because of him, I'm exhorting you, I'm saying, come on, come on, you come with boldness. And this is the picture I have in my mind of that word. Walking right up. Anybody anybody see it? Anybody you follow what I'm trying to say? Just walking right in there. No fear. Total confidence. As if, get this, as if I have every right in the world to stand before that throne and make my petition. The only reason I can do that is because of Jesus Christ. Not me. You see, there's a world of difference between boldness and arrogance. Sometimes people confuse the two. I've known some preachers that considered themselves to be bold when they were really just arrogant. Just arrogant. I've known some Christians consider themselves to be very bold. They weren't bold at all. They're very arrogant. There's a world of difference. What's the differen Coming to God's throne with boldness or coming to God's throne with arrogance. If I come to God's throne with arrogance, it's all about me. I deserve this. I deserve this. I earn this. I earn the ability to come into your presence. I deserve to come into your presence. I have every You owe this to me, God. There's some yardbirds on TV, and I want to tell you, be very, very careful about these crackpots preaching on so-called Christian channels on television. And there's a certain movement among some of them, and they teach this, they teach this: that you and I have the right to command God to do things. That is blasphemy. I have no right to command God. I have no right of my own merit. I have no authority of my own before before God. I have nothing but condemnation in and of myself before God. So I can't come before God. See? I deserve this. God owes it to me. I put a lot of money in that offering plate. God owes it to me to answer this prayer. That's arrogance. Here's boldness. Boldness says, I sure don't deserve this. This is the last place that I deserve to be. But Jesus Thing for me. And God accepts me. And I can come uh uh my my acceptance before the throne is rooted in what Jesus Christ has done for me You follow what I'm saying? It's nothing about me at all. I don't deserve to be here. I have no right. I have no claim. I have no merit. But Jesus Christ has on my behalf Made this possible. And I don't have to be afraid. I don't have to be afraid. Am I making sense? You following? We can come boldly to God's throne. My high priest, Jesus Christ, stands before God. In my place, and he is my perfect sinless representative. And That I can come without fear, total confidence, to the throne of God. You say, but preacher, I've sinned. But preacher, I've messed up, I've done things. Yeah. And Jesus Christ paid for that. Here's the mind-boggling thing, and I've been touching on this recently. This is just in my heart and mind. Here's the mind-boggling thing. When God sees the believer, when God sees me as a believer in Jesus Christ, He sees the righteousness, the purity, the holiness of Jesus Christ. I am in Christ. And so I can come before God, according to this verse. I can stand before God as if I'm as pure and holy and righteous as Jesus Christ. Now I know I'm not in and of myself, but Jesus Christ righteousness has been put to my account and has opened this door. What amazing thing. What amazing thing. I was reading this week about Alexander the Great. At one time, the most powerful being on the planet, Alexander the Great, his exploits are legendary. He conquered the known world as uh the most powerful man. And I was reading an incident where he had been at war and they had had this phenomenal battle. They had just completely destroyed the enemy and he was marching back to his home city. And of course and there was great fanfare. Signed up, he was in his chariot and surrounded by his military flags and banners and just all the pomp and circumstance. And he's his soldiers and his guards were ruthless. They had, according to this, they had no qualms with just killing somebody, just like that. And as he marched into the city and the crowds were there, and these brutal soldiers all around him, the young man weaved his way through the crowd and pushed out from the crowd. And he went running down between the soldiers towards Alexander the Great. And just as he just about got to the carriage, one of those big old soldiers with his His armor grabbed that boy by the knap of the neck, whipped him around, and he said, son, what do you think you're doing? He says, I have every inclination to lop your head off right here and now. That is the emperor. You don't approach him. The boy, without hesitation, without fear, with no timidness at all, looked at Soldier Neon. He says, he may be your emperor, but he's my dad. The soldier put him down and said, go ahead, son. Hop up on the chariot with him. He had full, bold access to the most powerful man on planet Earth because of his relationship to that man. And what I'm saying to you and I, what I'm saying this morning is, you and I have full, bold access to the most powerful being in existence, God Almighty. And we can come to His throne. Boldly. Why? Because of a relationship with Jesus Christ. Because of what Jesus Christ has done for us I don't have time. My last thought was what we can expect, our expectation in prayer. We can find mercy and grace to what? What's it say? We find mercy and we find grace to what? Help in a time of need. I don't know about you, but I sure need God's help. I don't believe these folks, I talked to them. Ah, you Christian just using God as a crutch. When I worked at the meat packing plant. Guy said to me, he said, Leatherman, after I got saved, he said, Leatherman, you're just using this God stuff as a crutch. I thought for a minute and I said, no, it's not a crutch. It's a stretcher, it's the cart, it's the gurney, it's the whole thing. I'm not just leaning on him. He's carrying me. I need him I don't believe these folks say I don't need no God in my life. You know what they are? They're just spiritually blind. They're crazy. And I say this with I mean, but you're nuts. You're nuts if you think you can live your life independent of God. So we're trying to teach the young people. Ah! No. We need God. We need His help. Nobody's going to get to heaven without God doing it for them. Not Jesus Christ doing for them. Nobody's going to live the Christian life. Nobody's going to know the joy of the Lord. Without the Lord. We need his grace to help. I wish I had more time to talk about that, but I don't Dennis the Menace. I've been called that since I was a kid. What was his friend's name? Joey. Dennis and Joey, I think. They're walking out of Mrs. They're in to visit Mrs. Wilson. Remember Mrs. Wilson? Remember the little cartoons? He and Joey are from Mrs. Wilson's. They got this big they got this big tray of cookies. And Dennis the Menace said to Joe, he said, Joey, you know what? He said what? He says, Mrs. Wilson doesn't give us these cookies because we're great. She gives us these cookies because she's great. But she's great. I saw that and I thought about our Lord. I uh He doesn't help me and He doesn't let me come to his throne. He doesn't do all these things I'm something great, I'm not. He does all this great. His initiative to come down and suffer hell for us and rise again. It was his initiative for all of this. And he says, you come on, whatever you're struggling with, whatever you're overwhelmed with, whatever that sin is that's eaten you alive Come boldly. Come on, don't hesitate. No fear. You come. I'll give you grace and mercy to help. I'll help you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord, you'd help us. Take you at your word. Help us to learn to pray. Help us to come to you and not try to always solve everything ourselves and fix everything ourselves I pray you'd help us come boldly. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning say, preacher, I've got some things in my life. I really need God to help me. I think if the truth were known, every one of us would raise our hand. The more I do, they're heavy on my heart. I've got some things that are going on. Any like that by the uplifted hand, I've got some things. God bless you. You know what God's exhortation is You come on. Bring that to me. I'll lead you. I'll direct you. I'll show you. We'll work this out. We'll get this settled. Because that's what God does. He helps us. He helps us, His grace and mercy. You're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you need to come to Him and trust Him as your Savior. He's saying, Come unto me, come on. Whosoever call me, I'm not going to be able to do that. You come on, whosoever believeth on him shall not have every last life. Come on. Is there any here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure my sins are forgiven That when I die, I go to heaven. You say, I don't want to die and go to heaven. I don't want to die and go to hell. I'd like to know I'm going to heaven. So he liked that for the uplifting hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to settle Now, Father in heaven, I know there's a lot of burdens in the church. I know for firsthand. I pray you'd help us this morning. Just make a conscious decision. I'm going to bring this thing to you, Lord. I pray you'd stir hearts in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Now you raise your hand a bit ago. Why don't you come on as Jennifer plays? Why don't you bring that whatever it is and just bring an old