Verse thirteen tonight, we're actually just going to look primarily at one w word from verse thirteen tonight. We are getting to the portion of this book that was my motivation in beginning the study of this book in the first place. This is what I've been wanting to get to uh the whole time. That's why we've been rushing through it so quickly to get to this passage right here While you're finding that, First Thessalonians chapter 4, just a reminder, tonight, tomorrow night, and Friday night, I believe I had the dates correct, uh Brother Byron Fox has his God Bless America crusade, and it's live online. You can tune in and listen. So obviously you can't tonight. Uh if we get out of here in time, you maybe catch the end of it. But tomorrow night and Friday night Uh they will be um uh they're broadcasting their program. I guess they're already into it. I think it started at seven. And uh Brother Chips down there, he called today and uh he was on his way down. He's taking five hundred uh military new testaments they're giving to all the veterans and people serving. They're giving out this evening and then 3,000 of the Roman booklets that were designed especially for this meeting, they're giving them out tonight to everybody in attendance. So um just a real, real exciting uh thing going on down there. So keep that in prayer and if you get a chance, tune in and listen to it. First Thessalonians chapter 4 verse number 13 The Bible says this, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that you sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. Now I put the title in the b uh in the bulletin about comforting those who are dead or something along those lines. Sometimes I put the title in before I've fully develop the message and as you study the message, if any of you have prepared a message before, sometimes the message goes a different direction as you're studying it than what you originally thought when you started out. So uh I'm going to look at uh this verse. Let's pray. And uh I'll tell you what we're gonna look at. Father, bless now our study tonight, and uh I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and and teach us and challenge us. Speak through me, Lord. And I pray we'd be uh uh a people of the book, Lord, that we would uh uh not be ignorant concerning the teachings of this book, but be well grounded. So help me, Lord, challenge us and speak to us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of First Thessalonians was written to the church, obviously, in Thessalonica As we noted and we worked the last many months, the first couple chapters Paul is expressing over and over and over again. His affection for those believers there, how highly he thought of that church. He takes some time through these chapters and explains some of his actions, what he did and why he did the things he did when he was there. He brags on it. He said everybody knows about their faith, been very effective in their evangelistic outreach, and uh he compliments them that. Then he gets to chapter three, uh the first part of chapter four I should say First twelve verses, and he kind of just touches on some issues. He's already dealt with them. We mentioned this numerous times. He's already dealt with them before, but he feels like for whatever reason Obviously the Holy Spirit prompting them to touch on these issues uh once again. Now I believe we are at the point in the book Now this is my impression, okay? I I wouldn't argue with it, I can't fully defend it, but this is my feeling in studying this, that we're now at the point in the book that this is what Paul was initially writing about This is what he wanted to address as he wrote this letter. Now he deals with other stuff, he covers other things, but I put it this way, we're at the meat of this book We're at the meat of this letter. This is what he was wanting to address them. Look at verse 13 again with me. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep That you sorrow not even as others which have no hope. He's not building on something he's taught them before. There is a situation that has come up in the church That I believe has prompted him writing this, again, all underneath the sovereignty of God, of course, but prompted him in writing this and addressing this issue Now, as I studied this verse and hashed it over and worked it and did uh prepare for this, I came to three topics in this verse. that are touched on here, introduced here, and then he develops them through the remaining of this uh part of this chapter. Those three topics are this. I put them in three words. First of all, ignorance He says, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. Ignorance. Second topic is sleeping, but not sleeping in the sense that some of you all are doing right now But uh no I'm kidding. Uh sleeping in the sense of death, being dead. And so I have ignorance is a issue that uh he deals with here. Death, and then another one that is sorrow. Look at the verse again with me, with these three topics in mind. I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. We're going to stop right there, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. Concerning them which are asleep, folks that have died. We're going to talk about that, Lord will, in next Wednesday. That ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. And that's the sorrow part of life, dealing with the sorrow of death. And then he goes on in the following verses and he explains us why. We should not sorrow over them that sleep. And he he erases, I guess you could say, their ignorance of God's plan. And uh so did I already pray? I already did. Very good. So let's look at this matter of ignorance. I think We're at a point now it's uh oh I forgot to recognize Ed and Carolyn Davis are back from their adventure Isn't that something? Praise the Lord. And uh I think probably next week I kinda like down here, but we're filling up. We might move back up on the pulpit next week. How many people like that? Raise your hand. How many people don't like that? Raise your hand. How many people could care less? How many people how many people aren't gonna raise your hand no matter what I ask you? Yeah. Look what he says here, verse 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brother. That word ignorant caught my attention. We use that term in a derogatory fashion. You agree with me? How can he be so ignorant? You know, uh they're so ignorant. We use it in a derogatory fashion. Paul isn't necessarily being derogatory in using this term here, he's just stating a fact The word ignorant means simply means this, and the word here simply means to be without knowledge, to lack knowledge. It doesn't imply stupidity We use it in a term today where it implies a person is just stupid. And that's not what he's saying. They're simply lacking information. That they really need to have. That's what the word means. Ignorant means to be without knowledge, to be without information. It also has a little twist to its definition: to be without understanding. It is possible to have some information and not really understand how it applies, how it benefits me Um uh my son and Dave and Jamie and some of the others will tell me stuff about the computers here. They'll give me all this information. I have no idea what they're talking about Uh and I'm not stupid, but uh I'm i I don't understand how it applies to my situation. We have a fella that does helps us with the network here and everything's from the outside. He comes in and He's one of those technicians that explain you ask him, uh uh I don't know why this is doing that, he'll give you a one and a half hour definition and explanation of it And uh then you wish you hadn't asked the question. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I have no idea. He's giving me information, but I don't understand That's the idea of this word here. Now, with that in mind, look what he says. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. I don't want you to be without some information that's very important to have. And even if you have the information, it's important you understand it. I don't want you to be without understanding. God does not want his people to be ignorant. God doesn't want us to be without information. I can only find one place in the Bible Where being ignorant, God commends it. What's the old saying? Ignorance is, you won't find that in the Bible Nowhere at all. In fact, I want to suggest to you ignorance is generally miserable. Causes damage, hurts, and confusion. I found one verse in the Bible where on the surface it looks like ignorance is being commended by God But if you study it out, it's not necessarily the case. And that is, take your Bible. And this is all we're going to look at tonight, is this idea of ignorance. Turn to Romans chapter 16 with me, if you would Romans chapter 16. We're gonna go to a lot of verses tonight, so keep your Bibles handy. How many folks brought your Bible with you? Say amen. How many people brought it to you with the intention of using it? Very good. Very good. That's the whole idea. Romans 16, last chapter of the book of Romans. And verse number 19. Of course, Paul, again, under the inspiration of God, is writing to the church at Rome. And he says in verse 19, For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. So the church had a pretty good testimony. I am glad therefore on your behalf. Now he Like Paul often does, so praise them and say something positive. Then he'll throw something in that needs to be addressed. Look what he says. I'm glad therefore on your behalf, but Yet I would have you to be wise unto that which is good and simple concerning what? Evil. On the surface, what is he, it looks like he's saying it's good to be ignorant about bad stuff Right? Would you agree with me? Word simple there has the idea of being uneducated or uh not having the knowledge of And so God is saying here, as you look at it, it looks like he's saying, Yeah, I want you to be ignorant, uneducated, unaware of that which is evil, that which is wrong. Now, that is part of what he's saying, but you have to study this out a little bit and you get an idea of what he's saying. The word wise Simply here, it simply means to be skilled or highly trained or highly educated. It is a technical term Having to do with technology. So look at it that way. He said, but I would have you to be wise concerning which is good, very skillful in the things that are good, doing things that are good that the Bible calls of us Very experienced in that and trained in that. For instance, we could say in, would you agree with me, soul winning is good? Sure, the Bible commands us. And this would be one of the things that would fall into this category. Listen, I want you to be very skillful. I want you to be very trained. I want you to know how to do that. To be wise in that area. But then he says, and be simple. Concerning evil. Now the word simple doesn't necessarily mean uneducated in this case. It has the idea of being very pure or very innocent. In other words, the things that God condemns, the things that God says are wrong or evil, I'm very innocent about that. I'm not involved in it. I'm free from it. Um uh inexperienced would be a good thing. Very innocent, very pure from that, inexperienced in that It does not mean I should not be aware of it. Does not mean I should not have some knowledge of what it is If I don't know that something's bad, and I go marching into it, I could be in bad shape, right? And so I want to be aware of that which is evil, but I want to be inexperienced. in that realm. Anybody follow what I'm saying? So I got looking through the Bible. Is there anywhere that God commends being ignorant? Is there anywhere you could find uh scriptural support for the statement, ignorance is bliss. And I can't find it anywhere. Um uh here, this is the one verse that I came across, and as I looked at it and did a little research on it I don't think he's saying being ignorant necessarily as much as being innocent. So ignorance is not bliss. It's not praiseworthy It's not something to brag about, how ignorant I am. The word ignorant is used sixteen times in the Bible. The words ignorant. Not one time of those sixteen is it used in a positive light Most of the time it is, I would not that ye be ignorant. Now, here's where we're going to get our Bibles out. We're doing an ignorant Bible study tonight. Romans chapter 10. You're not far away. Come back to Romans chapter 10. We're going to go through and look at these. Romans chapter 10. And uh verse number three, the word comes up. Now, if you're familiar, if you remember in our Sunday school class when we studied the chapter 10 Uh when we studied Romans chapter ten about six years ago, um might not have been that long ago, but uh in Sunday school. But notice he's addressing the let's read verse one. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire in prayer to God for Israel that they might be saved. Who's he talking about? Israel The Jews. For I bear them record that they have a zeal for God, here we go, but not according to knowledge For they being, here it is, ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. What is he saying was wrong with the Jews here? Were they stupid? No. They weren't stupid. But they were ignorant of what? What's it say? Yeah, they were ignorant of uh of God's righteousness. They were ignorant of how do I get the righteousness that God gives. They thought they didn't have that information for whatever reason, or I should say Most likely they had the information, they didn't understand it. And so therefore they went about trying to establish their own righteousness. They didn't understand the Old Testament teaching that God would impart righteousness by faith. And so their ignorance, would you say here ignorance hurt them or helped them? It hurt them badly. They didn't understand how to be saved, is basically what he was saying. They're trying to save themselves. They had the information, but they didn't have the understanding. Go to chapter 11 of Romans. And verse number 25. Romans 11, 25. Here we go again. For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery. Uh lest ye were lest ye should be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles uh become in uh So the fullness of the Gentiles become in. Um I mean, good night. We could take hours and expound on this. What he's simply saying here is there the church is a mystery Israel rejected the Messiah. He came into his own. His own received him not. So God opened the doors to the Gentiles. And he illustrates it by saying: the natural olive tree. The branches were broken off because of unbelief, and the wild olive tree, which is the Gentiles, was grafted in And he's saying the Jews were ignorant of this concept, this mystery, that Gentiles could be saved. They could be a part of the family of God. And they were ignorant of this. They didn't have this information. So again, ignorance in this case, good or bad. Bad. It was hurting Israel. Come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Now, it's going to get a little practical here, so bear with me. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Ready, go. Bible drill. Verse 1. Ready? Look what it says. Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be what? Ignorant. Now that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and were all baptized into Moses in the cloud in the sea, and did all eat the same spirit. Now it comes down to verse six. Now these things were our example. He's saying, Listen. You should be ignorant about the significance of these events that took place in the Old Testament and how they apply to us. We should not be here. So if it's bad to be ignorant about the events in the Old Testament, what does that tell me I should do? I should study, but a little more specific. We should read the Old Testament Right? I don't like the Old Testament. Uh look at verse 6. Now these things were what? For our examples. God says, I recorded these down to help you be a better Christian. They're all there for lessons. Listen, we ought to read the Old Testament just as much as we read the New Testament. My feeling is the New Testament explains the Old Testament Um, I think we ought to be preaching from the Old Testament as much as the New Testament. Because it's examples. So we don't want to be ignorant of what's going on. Oh, I don't even know what's in the Old Testament. I just read the New Testament. Well, then you're ignorant. You gotta read it. Alright, let's look at another one. How many people are happy? Raise your hand. Amen. Look at uh chapter 12, 1 Corinthians, and verse number 1. Oh boy. This one will get you in trouble. Chapter 12, verse 1. Now concerning spiritual gifts, what comes to mind immediately? Tongues. The first thing comes to mind. Spiritual gifts. Did you know there are more spiritual gifts than just speaking in tongues? Do you know Romans chapter 12 gives us a list of spiritual gifts like the gift of help, the gift of administration, the gift of serving? How comes nobody in our charis I'm being a little I'm not trying to be critical here, but I probably am a little. How comes nobody in our charismatic friends' churches go to the altar and ask for the gift of help They always want the gift of tongues. How come they never ask for the gift of ministry? You know what? That cost you something. That means giving up my stuff and helping other people. It's a gift that God gives to us. And he explains why they don't ask for those gifts. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you what? Anyway, he said, listen, I don't want you to be without knowledge what the purpose of gifts are, how they're to be exercised, and the significance they have in God giving them to the church. Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I think you all understand what I'm saying here. There is a lot of ignorance that goes on in the modern church concerning gifts of the Spirit. It's not Bible teaching. You get to the end of chapter 14. He gives very specific formula that's to be followed if a church is going to speak in tongues. Very specific. I know of zero charismatic churches that actually follow that. Did you know the Bible expressly says a woman is not to speak in tongues in a church? Very it says that very quickly. Do you know the Bible expressly says that if someone's gonna speak in tongues, it's to be scheduled into the service, a part of the schedule? It says by course, that means scheduled, appointed. There's not to be more than three people in any service to speak in tongues. How many people here have ever been in a service where the people spoke in tongues? Anybody ever been in one service? How many people have ever been in a service where they followed those guidelines? I've never met anybody that did. It's just whatever. Now, are those people stupid? No. Okay. I think there's there's people I highly respect that are involved in the charismatic movement. Uh are they unsaved? I think a lot of them genuinely saved. Nope. court. But they are ignorant. They've not been taught. They don't have this information. If they have it, they don't understand it. I had a fellow uh sit in my office and actually um Denver Hey your husband brought him to me. Oh brother. Uh this was years ago. He called me up one Sunday and said, I've got a guy here and he's got some questions about Tongues and all that. He says, Can you come over and talk to him? I said, Sure. I said, bring him over. So we sat down. I went about three verses into what the Bible teaches about tongues and all that. And this is his words. He said, Stop right there. You've already cleared it up for me. He said, I've never heard these verses before. He said, I've never been taught any of this. I mean, I didn't even hardly get into any of it. And he said, I've never heard this before. It all makes sense. Because now I understand. Good man, I think he was sincere, but he was never taught that. And so I'm trying to emphasize something here. Do you see how important it is that we not be what? Ignorant. Now we have to get this information. We have to understand what it means. We're on a roll here. Let's go to 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Uh-huh. Here's one that uh we've got it that strikes home a little bit. Second Corinthians chapter two. Look at verse eleven. Lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. The word devices there has the idea of schemes, his strategies, how he goes about accomplishing what he wants to accomplish. And the Bible says, listen, if we are ignorant of how the devil operates, if we're ignorant of his strategies, his devices, he has an advantage over us. When two armies go to war, there is uh and I'm not a military strategist in any way, but as I understand it, when when two armies are going to war, there is something taking place intently before they ever go to battle. That is intelligence gathering. Know what it is? It's finding out now some of you military folks correct me if I'm wrong, but it's finding out where my enemies' strengths are, what their weaknesses are, what their weapons they're m piling up, uh and all that. When w uh how many people remember back uh in nineteen when was it we invaded Iraq? Ninety ninety one? January of nineteen ninety one. Um there was a fell in the church we were in Indianapolis. There was a fellow in the church in Indianapolis Later on, I found this out. One of his brothers or somebody, it was Gary Brown, one of his kids, was in the military, and for six months before we invaded Iraq, they were dropping guys behind enemy lines sneaking over, running over there, finding out all this stuff that was going on. You know why? Because we didn't want to go into battle and be ignorant of the Republicans army's devices We wouldn't know what they were up to. We wouldn't know what their strengths were, their capabilities. Our our country spends billions and and is an intricate system of intelligence, satellites and planes and all that. Why? Because we don't want to be ignorant of Now what's true in in physical warfare is true in spiritual warfare. We have got to know how the devil operates. Now how do we find out how the devil operates? What's our primary source of information? On the devil's devices. The Bible. We look to the Word of God and we study. We have Bible Institute class on the spirit world. And we study in depth what the Bible teaches about the devil. We bring it out in messages and in lessons. So would you agree with me? In this case here, it would be bad to be ignorant. Right? I think there's a lot of good Christians. And I got uh got in the middle of an issue this week. Uh, and uh I think there's a lot of good Christians who, for whatever reason, are ignorant of the devil devil's devices and they're being eat up alive. There's a lot of good churches are ignorant of the devil's devices and they're bringing things into the church that is part of the devil's schemes and is absolutely destroying the church. You must not be ignorant of the devil's devices. This will never do. Well, I like it. Just because we like something does not mean it's safe. Right? Just because something appeals to me does not necessarily, I've got to come to the Word of God and say, well, all right, what does the Bible say? Where are the principles from Scripture here? Uh so we cannot be ignorant in this matter. I've got one more we'll look at real quick. Come over to 2 Peter chapter 3 Second Peter chapter three and verse five and then verse eight Now here this brings a little twist into the subject of ignorance. 2 Peter 5 and verse 8. What? 2 Peter 3 and verse 8. Verse 5. Betty prepared this message for me. No. 2 Peter 3, 5. For this, look at this. Here's a little different twist on it. They willingly are ignorant of Now, these are scoffers, people who reject creation, people who reject the validity of Scripture. What does it say? What does this verse tell us about their ignorance? It's willing ignorance. It is deliberate not exposed, deliberately not exposing myself to that information. Deliberately not understanding that information. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people in the world that they don't want to know what the Bible says deliberately, they do not want to be influenced by it. And you don't believe that's true, uh try soul winning for a little while. Now people call us up and say, Don't send me that anymore. Don't let that come to my house. It doesn't cost them a thing, it's nothing. But brother, they don't even want it in their house. My thinking is anytime somebody is so adamant about not being exposed to the gospel, there must be something about the gospel that bothers them Right? Uh there to me uh remember when uh Paul got saved? Now I mean obviously you weren't there, but remember the story of when Paul got saved? That was before your time, right? Justin. Yeah. Uh Andrea is listen. Everybody say hi Andrew. Hi Andre, hi everybody. What was I talking about? Paul. Remember when Paul on the w road to Damascus and um are you texting Doran of Uh on the road to Damascus. Oh. On the road to Damascus, and uh the Lord appears to everybody remember that story? Some of you. Um and the and the Lord said this to Paul, it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. What was he saying? Paul was under conviction for a long time. He was kicking against the truth. What happens when you kick a prop a briar bush? Paul. It hurts. That's what Paul was doing. He had been getting information and he was willingly trying to be ignorant of it. He was willingly trying to push away. And the more he tried, the more convicted he got Now let me give you how many folks here you have somebody you're trying to be a witness to to get them saved? You're thinking of someone right now, somebody trying to how many folks that person is resisting? Anyone here They maybe get a little mad. How many folks here you got someone who gets a little mad? I would take that as an encouragement that they're probably under conviction. They're fighting it. If they really didn't believe it, if it was just nonsense as they say it is, then why would they care? Why would it bother him so much? But there's something about it that pricks the heart. You follow what I'm saying? And so these people here are willingly ignorant of, I don't want it. I don't want to be exposed to it. I want it, because there must be something about it. Look at verse number 8 with me. But beloved. You're not ignorant of this one thing that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years and a thousand years is one day. Now, we're not going to explain it, take the time, explain all this out. He's not saying that God measures days and thousands of years He's simply saying this, listen, don't be ignorant of God's plan. Don't be ignorant of the fact that God doesn't operate on your timetable or my timetable. He's got his own timetable He's never late, he's never early, and the subject here coming down is the second coming, and the Lord's coming back when he decides to come back. Not when a radio preacher says he's going to He says, listen, don't be ignorant. God's timing, God's plan, all that. Don't be ignorant. Don't uh lack that information So we come back and we finish up with 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and he says, I would not have you two be ignorant, brethren. Now the interesting thing is he goes on and he discusses the rapture. That's what this next whole passage is about. The second coming of Christ, the rapture of the church. He says, do not be ignorant. Now, if I haven't convinced you yet, That God does not want us ignorant. I want to challenge you. Today's the first of February. I'm going to challenge you in the next 29 days. Leapier. Next twenty-nine days, each day of the calendar, read a chapter from the book of Proverbs. If you haven't read Proverbs chapter 1 today yet, before you go to bed tonight, read Proverbs chapter 1. Tomorrow, preferably as early on the day as possible, read Proverbs chapter 2. Uh if uh it's not part of your daily reading schedule, tack it on if you can. You know what you're gonna find when you read through the book of Proverbs? You know what you're gonna find? You're gonna find this. The word knowledge. Get knowledge. Get understanding. Seek it. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Forty-one times In 31 chapters, the word knowledge is used in a positive way. God telling us that we are to learn, we are to gain information, we are to understand. Nowhere in the scriptures does God praise ignorance. Nowhere We are to know this book. We are to study this book. Now, I've got to say this before we end. 1 Corinthians 8 and verse 1. We won't take time to turn there. There is a strong caution About knowledge. It says this knowledge puffeth up. Now, that's where our sinful nature comes in We get all this information and suddenly, ooh, I know more about the Bible than you do And that knowledge, if we're not careful, if we don't mortify the deeds of the flesh, if we don't crucify self, we can get all proud, and all of a sudden, hey, I know more about spiritual gifts than you do. I'm better than you. That is the farthest thing from the truth. The purpose for The purpose for me having knowledge that God instructs me to have is so that I can help others. So that I can live a kind of Christian life that enables others to know the Lord. Does that make sense? I put this down. There are a lot of people in hell because they were ignorant of the gospel. They died without the information how to be saved. You agree with me on that? Paul? Really, I think that's a good idea. Really? Twelve years ago. I was ignorant of that. I didn't know it. Well this is a brand new one, I guess. But I put this down. Many people in hell are ignorant of the gospel. I put this down. A lot of many Christians are not growing because they're ignorant of the Principles of Scripture. Did I say that back then? No, good. I put this down. Many people are sorrowing because they're ignorant of God's plan and God's power. We're going to get down in another week or so at the last part of this verse that we sorrow not even as others. You know what? One crit one person doesn't sorrow at the funeral of a of a person that dies and doesn't sorrow as much, another one sorrows a lot. One understands what God says about it. Follow what I'm saying? Um some Christians uh Sorrow unnecessarily. In Matthew chapter 22 and verse 29, the Lord rebuked the disciple Pharisees strongly. He says, ye do err not knowing the scriptures or the power of God. You know why they messed up? They were ignorant. Now, what's my conclusion? My conclusion is this: we have got to study this book. We have got to know it. There's no excuse. If all you're doing is depending on the study of Brother Leatherman. Then you're not getting all you need. You've got to get in this book yourself. You've got to study. There's no excuse for a Christian not to understand the Bible teaching of salvation. No excuse. We should not be ignorant of that. We should understand that. We should now it takes time, it takes effort, takes study. We ought to know that well enough to defend it. You know why Mormons are sucking so many people out of the Baptist churches into Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness? Because we're ignorant. We don't know the we don't know how to answer them. You know why Christians are getting sucked into the contemporary Christian movement, getting sucked into the charismatic movement? We're ignorant. We don't know the principles of Scripture. When these issues come up, we don't have an answer for it. How do I study? He said, Preacher, how do I study it? Let me give you three tips. I've got to quit. One is look up the definition of words. I have heard preachers preach on words That they didn't even know what that word was talking about. They were giving meanings that were absolutely off the wall. I think you ought to have a good dictionary and look up the definition of words. The second thing, and equally as important, you need to study the context. Look what's being said before and after. The Mormons came to a house one time. It was here since we've been here. And they were going on and on about the Book of Mormon. Book of Mormon. They said, we want you to read this book and then pray and ask God whether it's of God or not. I said, I don't have to do that. I said, I'm not going to do that. They said, what? You're not going to pray whether this is of God or not? I said, no, I don't have to. They said, what do you mean you don't have to? How are you going to know whether it's of God or not? I said, it doesn't match this book I don't have to pray about it. If it doesn't match up with this book, I know it's not of God. They went to Ezekiel, and they found this, I think it was Ezekiel, where one branch God said he took one branch and he had another branch and he tied the two together until they were together as one branch. And they said, This branch is the Book of Mormon. They pointed to the verse there, and they said, That branch there is the King James Bible. God has put the two together. You can't separate them. I said, I never heard that before. I said, well, let's read down through this chapter and see if that's what it's saying. You know what the one branch was? One branch was Judah. Says it right there. The other branch was Israel, and God was going to reunite the kingdom. So I read it right with them there. I said, well let's read the context. I said, that's not talking about the Book of Mormon at all. You're just making that up. They didn't know what to say. They were dumbfounded If you just go to the context, this matter of tongues. Somebody says, yeah, you got to speak in tongues. Go to 1 Corinthians 14 and just read the whole chapter. Clears it all up. So the definition, the uh look at the uh uh uh context, and then one more I'll give you, this will help you, and then look at cross-references Find how it's used in other places in the Bible. What the Bible teaches on that subject that's in there. Look how it's used in other places. If you do those three things, you will you'll be set on solid ground every time. Every time. And so I want to challenge you this year. Let's study. Let's learn this book. Let's be Bible scholars. Bible students. You don't have to I think I think Bible college is good. I recommend it, but you don't have to be a Bible college student to be a student of this book. You don't have to have a diploma on the wall to be a Bible scholar. I met some old uh hillbillies in the hills of West Virginia that knew this book better than any Bibles a teacher I had, every s professor I ever had in Bible college, they knew it. And we can be that way too. Amen? So that's the challenge. Father, help us not to be ignorant, help us to study. Put the time and effort into this that we uh can live successful, strong, effective Christian lives, and um and uh we can uh uh be confident in what you're doing and what you want to do through us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many people say, Preacher, I gotta be a better student of the book. There's so much in that thing that I really should know better than I do. And uh by God's grace, in 2012, I'm gonna apply myself And really get to know this book. Study it out. Read it. Memorize it and give myself to learning this book. How many would say, preacher, pray with me? That's my plan That's my goal. God bless you, hands all around. Now, if we ask the Lord to help us, He will. We put the time and effort in and then ask God to help us, He will do it. Father, please, Lord, we don't want to lose anybody to the world, to false doctrine. Lord, we want to be strong, church. We don't want to be ignorant of your plan, your principles. Help us I pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads about