Your Bibles this morning. I'll talk more about it tonight. The Lord's doing some amazing things with FBN. So please come back tonight and be a part of that Luke chapter number 15, I'll read in just a moment. But you know, we're living in a day where we're encouraged not to think for ourselves. Uh we're encouraged not to have to uh drive our intellect or anything or to come up. You know, I I've I think I've mentioned this here before in years past and they all run together sometimes, but Uh talking about uh when you read letters from like the 1800s or the early 1900s, it was like reading poetry We've lost our conversation. We've lost the vocabulary. We've got something called uh, well when I'm texting, they'll want to throw in something uh that I didn't say sometimes. A word, they'll put a different word in there. Uh it's called artificial intelligence and things like that. I mean there's preachers now they've got an app you can put in your sermon topic if the Lord gives you a topic it'll write out a whole message And I'm not going by that. Amen. I want the Holy Spirit to speak to my heart and and give me what He wants me to give you, uh, and other places that we're at But uh we're we're losing uh our grasp on our vocabulary. We have to be careful what we say anymore. There's not much toleration for uh for people having free speech. anymore. It it's it's a sad day that we're living in. We gotta watch every word we say or we can be soothed. I mean, used to we if If somebody had a problem with somebody, you went out on the playground, took care of it, and went back in with a bloody nose or whatever, but it was over. It was all said and done, and then you become friends and Uh but today, wow, you can lose everything you got just from a word that you say. Uh but there's a couple of words that we hear mostly in church that I I understand them in a in a way in my finite mind, but I have trouble wrapping my brain around them sometimes. One of those words is grace We hear about gra we are saved by grace through faith and and I understand salvation. I understand that Jesus died on the cross and and shed his precious blood so that I could be saved, wash my sins away, and and then he died as a uh part as a part of the gospel, and it none of it would have been any good if he hadn't rose from the dead That's the gospel, his death, burial, and resurrection, so that I could be saved, so that the burdens of my sins would be rolled off of me and washed away in his blood so that I could have eternal life. He didn't just take me away whenever he saved me. He wants me to do something for him while we're here. And he wants each and every one He's got a will, a perfect will for each and every person in here tonight, uh this morning. And uh uh just don't waste it. Now, whatever God wants you to do, do it because it's that Bible tract back there. We are running out of time. Running out of time very quickly. But those two word the the first word grace, I I've had a tough time wrapping uh my mind around it. I know it's unmerited favor with God Unmerited favor. I didn't do anything to deserve it, but he gave it to me uh freely. Uh God's riches at Christ at Christ's expense. That's the acrostic For for grace. I I know it's something we don't deserve, but God gives it to us anyway, uh, through his precious son. I don't completely understand it uh uh the way my mind works. The second word is revival I I would love uh I hear about the Great Awakenings. Me and Pastor were talking about yesterday, this country needs a revival. This church needs revival. I need revival. Amen. I'll be honest with you. I need revival Uh I read about revivals. Uh I see them in the past. I want to see one in the present. I I want to see God work so mightily. We have whenever we have Sherathon, I wish you could be there I mean we all sell tickets to that thing sometimes. No, it's like revival. It's like a family reunion with all these preachers coming in. Brother Trees I Oh, he just adds so much to it. We want to get you pastor down there at least for one night sometime or one day or something. Get him down there too. But it's like a revival. We see souls saved But we get a opportunity to give the gospel for that whole time during Sharathon and people call in. People respond to God's word. But the word revival, what does revival mean? I'm not sure I completely understand it or have a definition of it. It's a refreshing It's when God comes down in a mighty way. His power comes down and just it's just like these rains that we've had come through here. It doesn't matter how much smoke we get from Canada Uh I mean we've had it all the way down in Denton. We could smell the smoke. Uh uh but when that rain came it just washed it all clean and and made it as a refreshing. That's like revival to the s to the Christian Whenever he comes in and moves in a mighty way. It's a desperation for God Uh can you think of a time you've been desperate for God to move in a mighty way? We shouldn't go in prayer and and uh Just ask the Lord to move. We ought to pray and then believe and expect Him to move in our services. Expect Him to do something in our lives. Uh don't say something by tradition and just say, well, this was this is what's Sort of in my mind, it needs to be from your heart. Amen. Uh and expect God to do something uh in your life I do believe I uh I've got a good description of what revival is. It's coming home to the Father. Coming home to the Father, revival means to live again. You got saved, you got born again And then some things just sort of wax melancholy. You just sort of get in a rud, and before you know it You don't have the joy anymore. David spoke about losing the joy, said, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation Uh so uh we need revival. Uh Christians are the only ones that can be revived. Uh the the folks that's never received Christ as their Savior are dead already You can't revive something that's dead in that sense, but we were once alive. We got saved, and then we need to be revived, live again Uh to get excited about the things of God again. Coming home to the Father. Folks, when you go home to the Heavenly Father, you're going to have revival Whenever you uh experience God's word and it gets a hold of your life and it gets a hold of your heart, you can't help but have revival. Coming home to the Father. So if that's a good description of revival, coming home to the Father, then Luke 15 is where we've got to go to see that. You're thinking, oh, the chapter of Lost and Found Uh yeah, the chapter of Lost and Found. Uh the Prodigal Son. Um you say, well, I'm going to turn you off right now because I've heard that I've heard messages about that. I I've heard message after message Hey, today is June the twenty-fifth, twenty twenty-three. The Bible is just, if you've heard this word before, relevant, is just as relevant today as it was on June twenty-fifth, the year six ten A. D. It's just as relevant today uh as it was uh on June the twenty-fifth, fourteen fifty-two Uh it's just as relevant today as it was on June the twenty-fifth, seventeen thirty-one, or eighteen eighty-eight, or seven uh nineteen seventy-three It's relevant today. The Bible is more up to date. I think I might have mentioned it this morning. It's more up to date than tomorrow's newspaper Things that's not even taking place yet. It's more relevant and up to date, and we need it today. I'm like to say the pr uh the prodigal son is what we need today Uh if that was preached in those days, it's what we need today. This morning. Say, Brother Miller, I know the story, but you need to hear it again. You need to hear it today. And today, God needs to speak to our hearts as well. Luke chapter number 15, verse number 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father. Give me that portion of goods that falleth to me, and and be and he divided unto them his living. And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with righteous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the hus that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. Look back at verse 13, that word wasted. That's where we get the word prodigal from. The word prodigal means wasted. Then we see in verse 14 that he spent all And then in verse 16 it says, and he would fain. He had become a slave to a person, joined himself of that person in the far country And he had would feign, you know, the world will take everything from you and spit you out. Fame means to set your heart, to have a strong desire. He had a strong desire. He He set his heart upon it to have filled his belly with the hush that the swine did eat, and no man gave to him. And when he had came to himself, this is the key to the whole Message right here. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers ha have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger. I will arise and go to my Father, and I will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father, but he when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. Father, we come to you this morning in need. Father, folks here at this church, they're faithful. They come when the doors are open. The ones that aren't here, they're doing your work this morning, Lord, and I pray that you'll bless it. Father, I pray that you'll give them many souls for their labor. Father, as we come up to your table this morning, I pray that you'll give us something to eat. I pray, Father, this is your day. This is not my day. This is your message. This is not mine. And Father, these are your people. Lord, we come hungry. Lord, we come to worship you and to give you praise. Lord, help us this morning. There might be somebody here this morning, Lord. They're sitting on the church pew, but they're in a far country. Spiritually, they're in a far country. Lord, there could be somebody here this morning in that far country. Lord, I pray, if this is the case, that they'll be revived and come back to you today Please speak to hearts this morning. Lord, if there's somebody here that's not part of the family of God, that's never received Jesus Christ our Savior, may today be that day Father, I pray that you'll be honored and glorified in everything. Well, thank you for what you do in Jesus' name. Amen. This is the chapter of lost and found. Of lost and found. Number one, there's a sheep that got lost. Uh if you look back and read the whole thing, you see the parable of the lost sheep. Now it got lost. It went far. It went away from the shepherd. He uh I want to tell you something about how he got lost. He got lost naturally. He got lost naturally. It was in his character to get lost. Amen. God put a GPS in all kinds of animals. Uh uh he put a GPS in the salmon and they they go and where they were born at, where they hatched out of eggs, they'll go out in the ocean and then they'll come and find that river and that tributary and they'll go all the way back if the bears don't eat them, and they'll go all the way back and they'll lay eggs at that exact place where they were born God put a GPS in them. He does that for Canadian geese. We sweep geese around the house and around the ponds and they'll lay eggs there and ha raise little ones and then they'll go on south or they'll go north for the summer But then they always come back to that same place to lay eggs. They got a GPS in 'em. Uh uh there's all kinds of things, butterflies Monarch butterflies. We got to see some hatch out one time of their Chrysalis and uh turn and they puffed up and their wings got big and they flew away They don't live but four weeks, but they make a journey if they don't get hit by a truck, Amen. They make a journey all the way to Brazil And fill the trees with monarch butterflies down there just living three or four weeks. Um they got a GPS. They know where they're going and they go there because of the divine creator. Amen. Cats, even cats have a cheap he is. I'm sorry to say that. Amen. Somebody took a cat 500 miles from home Several months later the cat came back. I know of a true story, this isn't I read about, but I know of a true story as a lady down in Moorhead City said that um Uh, her her cat, they they took it to some house. It was like they went over, oh, it was about forty miles away and put it out at that house and they took it in and everything, but the cat left just soon after they let it out. Well, a few weeks later The cat shows up, she opens the door, notices her cat, it comes in and bites her, it had rabies. But it failed, I mean, even in the craziness of having rabies, it knew where its home was and it came. One fella, one of my buddies down there, he said, you know what you do with a cat? He says you take it over three bridges and it can't find its way back. I said, well why not just drop it off as the first one? No, I'm gonna get some get PETA against me here this morning. No, I'm just kidding about that. But uh, you know, God put in the design of the brains of these animals and insects How to get back where they started from. There's one that he didn't. It's called a sheep. A shepherd can lead a sheep out. And walk away from it and it don't have any idea where to go. It'll get into trouble. It'll become cast. It'll fall off a cliff. I don't know why they don't stop at the edge, but they'll go on over the edge and get in trouble. Uh they don't have that GPS. Isn't that interesting how how God designed it that way That's what God calls us. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, Isaiah 53, 6. You leave any one of us to ourselves, we're going away. If we don't Don't listen to good preaching from your pastor Sunday morning, Sunday night, and we say, hey, we listen to you. It's our Sunday school sometime. When we're on the road traveling, we listen to you, you. That's our Sunday school lesson. It's so good Keeping that FBN and coming to church and special meetings, that's what we need. Because if we get away from that, you know, it's not long we're we're strayed off in the wrong direction We're like sheep, God said. We constantly have to have a shepherd, and if we don't have a shepherd, we're going to get lost. The sheep got lost naturally. Uh then the second part of that parable says the second Item that got lost was a coin. Now the coin got lost carelessly. Um I don't know, I'm sure she was a good lady. She she probably took care of things in her house, kept a clean house. I'm sure she was a good lady, but she lost one of her silver coins Uh now that was a a big deal for her. She she's got those coins and she says, I'm missing one. I I counted. I I had I had them all here in this bag and everything I've count. One of them's missing. I I don't know where it's at. I I don't remember Putting it in my pocket, I don't have it in my apron. Uh I don't see it on the floor right away. I I don't I don't see it. I just don't know where it's at, but I've got to have it. I need that I don't know where the coin is. She lost it carelessly. I remember when I'd lose something growing up. Us parents can have some wonderful words of wisdom sometimes. Well it didn't just sprite legs and walk away. I've heard that before. I've used that before. Time or two probably. Here's the best one. Where was the last place you had it? Where was the last place you had if I knew I'd go right back there and I'd pick it up Wherever it's at. I'm sure her neighbors wanted to give her some some help in it, but she was alone. I want to tell you this It was lost. We can get away from God carelessly. We're careless creatures. We think we're okay because of where we are. Where we go to church, the family we're in, uh the protection that we feel like we're under. Uh children, under under your parents' protection. We we feel okay, we feel secure, we feel like that we're okay. But you know what? We've got to constantly be on guard. We've got to constantly watch and be vigilant in our life. If we're not watchful, we're going to be careless, and we're going to get away from God. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring line, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. You get out from under protection of the shepherd. You get out from protection, take yourself out from the protection of God and walk out on your own way, you're going to be devoured Hey, we'll we'll get away from God. We're going to get lost and we're going to get found in a place we shouldn't be Then number three, there's the sun. The sheep was lost naturally, the coin was lost carelessly, but the sun got lost willfully. The son made choices. He made a willful choice to walk away from the protection of his dad. Some of you are making choices in your life right now that are not wise. You're listening to people, listening to things, and you're making willful decisions, and I want to tell you what, you're going to end up in a pig pen. Going to end up in a pig pen where you may be there already. Not naturally, not carelessly, but because of your own choices. You've made decisions and now you're in a place that you ought not to be. But I want to tell you about all three of these. There is good news. Number one, uh they were all lost. Yeah, we we get that. We understand that. Number two They all had value. Every one of them had value. The lost sheep, the lost coin, and that lost son, that prodigal. They all had value. The shepherd said, you know what? I'm gonna take the ninety and nine, I'm gonna get 'em in the sheet coat. I'm gonna get them in the fold right here, I'm gonna close the door on 'em and I'm going to uh uh put a a bar across the door and and they're going to be okay, but I'm going to go look after that one. I'm going to go find it and I'm going to search and I'm not going to come back until I find it I know the last place, the last area we were at, I've got to go and find that lost sheep. Why? Why would he put all that time uh corralling those other ninety-nine sheep together and getting them in. It took some time and get them all in the fold and go after that n that one that was gone. Why? Because it had value to him It had value. He says, I'm doing it because that sheep has value to me. That sheep means something to me. And I want to tell you something. You mean something to God. We can't even fathom the love God has for us That woman stopped everything and cleaned out her whole house. I gotta find it, I gotta find it. It it's here somewhere. I I just know I I I didn't take it outside or anything, so it has to be within the the walls of my house What's the big deal all about? That coin has value. That was her savings, part of her savings. Maybe to help her buy groceries that week or to provide for her family. And and I'll tell you, every day the father went out to on his porch and he looked and he waited. Why? Because his son had value to him He didn't quit looking for him. He didn't go out after him and and try to pull him back against his will. He he kept he stayed faithful to God. He kept praying for his son until he came back, until he saw him again. And I want every one of you to to understand this. I don't care where you are right now. I don't care what spiritual condition you're in right now. You have value to God this morning. There's so much that he wants to do with you, thoughts of peace There's a value and a price, and God brought you to church this morning, and God's trying to reach out to you. Every one of us have value. Let me tell you another thing, and I love this. Number three, they not only were lost and all of them had value, they were all found. Every one of them got found. Amen You can be found today too. Here's another thing I really like. Number four, they all had a party when they were found. Amen They had a celebration when they brought them all together, whenever each one of these was found. And every one of Scripture, when that sheep came back Hey, he gat he called his friends, the shepherds, got together and they had a celebration. They rejoiced with him. Uh when that woman found that coin, she got all of her friends, all of her neighbors together, and they had a big party. And and whoa, did dad put it on when the son came home? Hey, don't believe this lie, Will. Well, you know, if if I really come back and I really got right, how would Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church treat me? How would they feel about it if I if I how would they handle me? With rejoicing. Amen. With rejoicing That's a good place for a rooster to crow right there. Amen. With God's blessing upon you. You know, we'll get caught up in the little things that ain't going to mean nothing in eternity Put some things behind you and move forward and and go ahead and love one another. Anytime we hear somebody getting right and coming back to God and saying I'm ready. I I want to get back with uh uh where I need to be with the Lord. Uh uh I want to get right with my brothers and sisters, have fellowship together again. We need we need to rejoice with them. Amen Not say, well, I wonder how long that's going to last. I wonder, you know, they've tried this before. Hey, believe them every time. Say, well, they've they've got a track record. We look down our Phariseeal noses at them. We we judge them No, there's rejoicing when they are found. Love them. Rejoice with them. So let's look very quickly. I believe there's two questions that are absolutely key to this recorded event in the Word of God. Number one, why did the son go home? He left. He had money. He went out. Why did he come back home? Why did he think he could come back home? The key's in verse 16 and 17. And when he came to himself, I've got that underlined in my Bible. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and despair, and I perish with hunger Because he got into a place he said, and he would fain have filled his belly with the hus that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. Then he said, and when he came to himself And when he came to himself, that's one of the greatest statements in dealing with any person. No one will ever experience revival and nobody will ever get right with God until they learn how to come to themselves. Now you gotta admit that's a that's a weird statement. How do you come to yourself? I had a I know you ain't gonna believe this somebody coming from North Carolina, but I had a cousin that sort of went off the deep end, if you know what I'm talking about. And he told my One of my other cousins, he said, I just gotta go find myself. My cousin, being compassionate and loving and everything, took a mirror and held it up in front of me. He said There you are. Get with it. There's some other things going on with him and everything, but how do you come to yourself Hey, Joe, how are you doing today? Oh, I'm fine. How you doing, Joel? That's weird. That's stupid. That's not how you come to yourself. I think Jacob came to himself one night when he wrestled with the angel of the Lord, when he wrestled with the Lord. I think he came to himself that night. Realize hey there's more to my life and lying and cheating people and tricking people. There's more I believe he came to himself that night. I think Nebuchadnezzar came to himself in a cow pasture Amen. When he finally lifted up his voice, and you know when I I think you come to yourself when you first of all you come to God When you come back to Him, when you come back to the Father, because you'll never have the right view of you until you get right a right view of God and who He is. Nebuchadnezzar had a a proud view of himself. And then God sent him out the cow pasture, sent him out to pasture for a while, and then he realized there's only one God, and he's in heaven. He rules and reigns. That's the only God. And when Nebuchadnezzar got the right view of God, he came to himself in a cow pasture after seven years living in a complete mental terrible state And Jacob finally came to himself after years when he wrestled with the angel of the Lord. And you'll come to yourself when you first get your theology above your psychology. Theology is what's going to get you there. The study of God, knowing who He is. He's holy. He's righteous. He's perfect. He's pure. He's wonderful. He's our counselor. He's the great physician. He's our savior. Getting that right, it doesn't much matter what goes on with us. When you get the right view of God, you'll understand the right view of yourself. But what does it mean he came to himself? Three things quickly there. Number one, you come to yourself when you get hungry for God. Having a desperation for God. The end of verse 17 says, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger I perished with hunger. He came to himself when he got hungry. And he said, hey, my dad's got plenty. I perish with hunger. You come to yourself when you get hungry. When you get hungry for God, you'll experience coming home to the Father. There's a hunger for God in Haiti There's hundreds of people that'll walk all night on a Saturday, walk all day and all night just to be in church on uh a Sunday morning and hear preaching all day long, not just for an hour They've got a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. Hey, there's a hunger in the Philippines. They don't have anything. They're clinging to the word of God. Hey, there's a hunger for God in China. They're willing to risk their very lives or to be put into prison or or become a martyr just to hear the word of God preached on Sunday morning. Hey, we're comfortable in here this morning. I thank the Lord that we can sit in freedom And hear the word of God proclaimed. But there's people that rest their very lives each and every time they go to where they call church, in an underground church, in somebody's home, in somebody's basement. That's a hunger for God. They're willing to die just to hear. There are people in this world who have a stronger appetite for God than we do here in the United States. Are we guilty of filling our lives full of spiritual junk food this morning? The pleasures of this world. It's been the The ruin of many a Christian, many a preacher, junk food. We got an appetite for stuff that won't last. Nobody's coming back to God until they have a hunger for God. Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Jeremiah 29, 13 says, And ye shall seek me and find me when ye shall search for me with all your heart. Whenever you've gotten away from God, you're not going to walk through the crowd and and then all of a sudden just bump into him. You've got to look for him on purpose. You've got to search for him with all your heart. Jeremiah 24, 7 says, And I will give them a heart to know me that I am the Lord. And th they shall be my people and I'll be their God, for they shall return unto me with their whole heart. Do you hunger for God this morning? Could you not wait to get to the house of God this morning to sit on a pew? Or was it just the last idea and say, let's just go to church this morning? We ain't got anything else to do. No We've got to have a hunger for God. We need revival in our land. How long has it been since you said, dear God, I I need you, I want you, I'm desperate for you There's probably angels in heaven right now just scratching their head and saying, I can't believe that that brings them pleasure. Going to The cares of this world, the entertainments of this world. No person takes the first sip of alcohol and says, this is delicious. It don't happen. Bible says don't even look on it. Let's less drink it. No Christian can pull up to the table of this world's garbage. You have to develop an appetite or a thirst for alcohol to say, I've got to have it. And for the Christian, you have to be eating at the world's table a lot for you to say, hey, I I'm enjoying the world, for you to not want the things of God. Do you have more of an appetite for the things of this world than you do for a relationship with God or fellowship with Him? Number two, you come to yourself when you get honest with yourself. Verse number 18 says, I will arise and go to my Father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. Sounds like he got honest with himself right there. He said, I know what the problem is. It's me. I have sinned against God. I've sinned against my father, and I've sinned against God. I've sinned against heaven. And and he h he he got honest with himself We have to agree with God about our sin. A lost person has to agree with God about their sin. Two reasons that people lie. Number one is to get out of trouble. I can ema I can think of things at times when I was little. I'd I would uh he did it, not me. Try to get my brother in trouble. My brother got me in trouble more than I got him in trouble I was perfect. No. The one reason that we lie about stuff is is To get out of trouble, the second reason a person wouldn't be honest is to gain acceptance, to get gain or to get acceptance. I'm not going to turn there for sake of time this morning, but in 1 Samuel it talks about the war uh the Saul King Saul's been struck by the archers. He's dying, uh, but he's not dead yet. And he he goes to his armor bearer and he says, Kill me Please just put me out of my misery. I can't live like this, but the armor bearer wouldn't because he knew that he was God's anointed And he wouldn't do it. So f Saul fell on his own sword and fell to the ground dead. The Bible says he was dead. And his armor bearer fell on his sword a and died right there. Well the next chapter, the ne in 2 Samuel chapter number one, this Amalekite comes with the with a crown and uh his bracelet and give it to David. David said, Tell me about it. How how did you come upon this? He said, Well, I came upon Saul, they were chasing him, the Philistines were chasing me. Saul turned around and saw me and said, uh asked me to kill him and everything. He thought it was going to bring him into good graces with David. He lied and said, I killed Saul. Saul was already dead. There's been discussion on that with commentaries, different commentaries and everything. But when you look at commentaries, they're written by commentators. Amen. The Bible said he was dead, but in the second one it says this Amalekite did it. He thought it would gain him favor with David, saying, I killed Saul. What happened? Sin found him out. David had him killed. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. So you go to the Father when you get hungry, you go to the Father when you get honest, and then number three, you come to yourself, you come to the Father when you get humble. I like this. Humility month There's nothing prideful about it. We're a sinner saved by God's grace. It's all Him. It's nothing we did It's all what Jesus did for us. You come to yourself when you get humble. Nobody will ever go back to the Father until they get hungry. Until they get honest, until they get humble. Verse number 19 says, And I am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. He humbled himself before his father He had to get humble. We'll never have victory in our lives until we humble ourselves and take total responsibility for what we've done. And then totally rely on God. Lord, I take responsibility, but I can't do anything. He said, I'm in the hog pen What can I do? I can't ri I don't have any money. I I have to walk home. I I I I I I'm at my wit's end. I have nothing left. I've wasted it all the r this righteous living Uh, I'm just gonna rise. All I can do is walk and just hopefully Dad will have mercy on me. Said, I can't do anything. That's why he went back to his father. He humbled himself and said, I've sinned against dad in heaven, and I'm going back to my father because there's food back there. If he wants to make me a servant, I don't care. I'm going back humbly. Now hear this. When does a person come to themselves? When they get hungry, when they get honest, and when they get humble. Number one, why did they why did he go home? Those are the reasons right there. Then question number two, how did the father receive him? And I'll be done. The father received him as a son, not a servant. When the father looked up and saw his boy coming down the road. He said, That's my son. That's my son. He went out and looked for him every day, I can imagine. But when he saw him coming down that doorway, he said, That's my son. Can you imagine the servants and everything? He don't look like he did when he left His clothes were tattered, he's filthy, he stinks, his hair's messed up, he probably uh hadn't got to do what he needed to do to take care of himself, he's been in the hogpin of life And here he comes back and and uh he says, That's my son, the servant said, No, that's not your son. I think you've been out in the sun too long I I I think you're a little pinched uh there, Father. I I I I I I don't see that as being your son. Look at his clothes. Dad says that's him. I know how the way he walks And tell by the way, Walsh, that's my son. He's coming home. I don't care what his guide owned, I I I know who that is. And as soon as he saw him, he ran to his son You know, there's people that's never received Jesus Christ or Savior sitting in services hearing the gospel this morning, and Jesus is running to them. He's running to them And he's drawing them by the power of the Holy Spirit of God, saying, Come on, come on, I'll receive you in, I'll receive you as my child. The father didn't go to him to run to him and say, Listen, buddy, I gave you everything and you think you Can just come back. You're going to slop the hogs for me. You're coming back as a servant. I'm putting you on probation just to see if you've changed or not Who do you think you are? Is that what the Father did? No. When he saw him, he said, That's my boy. My boy's come back. And he received him not as a servant. He didn't put him on probation. He received him as a son. How do you know that Brother Miller, how do you know that he received him as a son? How do you know it? Because he said, Go get the best robe. Go get the best robe. A robe was a place of position. The robe was a a a sign of authority. He said, This is my son. He gets the best robe. Put it on him. Hey, hey, get the ring. Get the ring. Put the ring on his finger. The ring was a sign of affection That's why when we get married we exchange rings as a sign of our love and our affection for somebody else. He said, go get the ring and put it on his finger. Hey, get the shoes Slaves in Bible days didn't have shoes. That way they couldn't run away. Or they could be caught very easily. They didn't wear shoes. He said, hey, go get the shoes. Well, he might run away again. He served us my atonement. He might run away again. Nah, he's not going to run away anymore. Just like the woman caught in adultery. Jesus said, Go and sin no more Here's your shoes. You got perfect liberty. You're not going anywhere again. You've got total freedom now. I know you're going to stay. You're my son, and you've come back. Now there's one major doctrinal point in this message, and you've got to hear this. He was the father's son when he was in the pig pen. Now we've heard it preached several different ways. I've preached it different ways. what it was, but he was still the father's son when he was in the pig pen because once you're you're in the family, you're always his child No matter what you where you end up at, you're still his child. John 1 12 said, But as many as received him, talking about Jesus, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Now hear this, once you're in the family, you can never lose that position no matter where you go. However, God is the creator of mankind. He's not everybody's father. He's only the father to those who receive his son. You get into the family by receiving Jesus Christ as your Savior. You receive Jesus, you're in the family, and always will be. You're not born a child of God I I remember in the Sheffi movie, his aunt that raised him and and everything, she said, You were born a Christian and reared a Christian. He had never been saved. He had never trusted Christ at that point You're born a creation of God. You're born in the image of God, but if you've never received Christ, God is not your Father. Don't you want to be a part of the family this morning if you're here and never trusted Christ, your Savior? You need to get into the family. You need to ask Jesus Christ to be your Savior, and at that moment you'll be in the family, and He'll be your Father. Some of you might be here and say, I'm in the family, but I'm in the pig pen. Well, you're still his son. I want to encourage you, it's time to come back to the Fa home to the Father. It's time for revival to take place in your heart Get out of that pig pen of this life and of this world and come back home to the Father and say, well, where will I find him at? He's back home. He's right where you left him at. Some of you might be saying, Lord, I I've I've not been hungry. You need to come to the altar and get a different appetite. Say, well, I've been listening to some things that I shouldn't have been listening to. I've been I've seen some things I shouldn't have looked at. Come down the altar and get a different appetite. You can change right now with God's help, with the Lord's help. I'm so satisfied of eating the trash of this world. Come to God and say, Lord, give me a hunger for you Then come on, let's get honest. Let's get honest. Realize it's our sin. We need to get right with you. Let's take off the mask and then humble yourself and say, Dear Lord, I'm coming back home. I'm coming back home. You know what he'll do? He'll receive you. He'll rejoice. There'll be joy in the presence of the angels. Over one sinner that repenteth. It'll be joy in this church. If you come home to the Father, where if you're Christian and just been away from God and need to get right with God, the altar's open this morning All heads bowed and all eyes closed this morning. Uh we'll stand to our feet so make it easier for someone to get by and come to the altar if need be. But if you're here this morning and never received Christ as your Lord and Savior, today is the day. As the Bible track says in the back time is running