He's gonna break tonight's message. Well let me ask you to turn to Luke chapter nineteen again tonight. Luke chapter nineteen Let me uh remind you of the uh magazines that are in the back and encourage you to pick them up if you have not gotten them, get a copy of each and every one of them. And uh they're free. I forgot to give out the feet Okay, do we have do we have s someone one of you fellows can grab or a couple of you grab the faith promise commitment cards? and uh get them to the folks that may not have a received a copy yet. If you do not have a copy, well if you haven't received a copy Of the Faith Promise Commitment Card, if you'll raise your hand, we'll get one to you. And of course, we'll begin receiving the commitments on Sunday morning. after the message. And so if you be praying for that, continuing to pray. Anyone you do not have one? Everybody got it? Okay. So if you need any of the magazines, pick them up. Now noticed in one of the magazines this uh recent issue of The Islander. In uh the back, uh there's a picture of Brother Leatherman. And so what I would like to suggest is that you get Brother Leatherman to sign that. That'll make it more valuable. Then when you're finished with it, you can sell it over eBay and pick up a few bucks. With his signature. So I just wanted to suggest that. Make sure you might want to get numerous copies and have them signed. Amen? Luke chapter 19. Thank you for being here tonight. We of course looked at uh portion of scripture in Luke nineteen last night. in the first uh looked at the first ten verses. And what I want to do tonight is pick up at verse eleven and go through uh the next section of scripture there. Now the setting here is this. Christ is on his way to Jerusalem. He's on his way to Calvary. These are the last days. And uh He is, of course, he has been discipling these twelve men. This has been his primary ministry For uh the past three, three and a half years, he's been involved in the lives of these men, getting them ready for the time that he would go to Calvary uh die, uh, resurrect, and ascend back to heaven. At which time he would leave uh the responsibility of getting the gospel to the world to these men and those that they taught and led in that direction. And there's an interesting portion here. Let me ask you to back up and look at chapter 18 for a moment. Look in verse 31. Of chapter 18. Says, Then he took unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated and spitted on. And they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. Now look at this, verse 34. And they understood none of these things. That's an amazing thing. He has spent three, three and a half. They have been taught by the Lord Jesus Christ. They have been taught and reminded of what the uh the Old Testament prophets. said about what was going to take place. And it comes to the time that he's ready to go to Calvary, ready to go through all that's involved in his death and burial and resurrection. And the statement is made that they understood none of these things. That should remind us of the danger. of hearing but not hearing. This is not just uh an educational class when we open the Bible and listen to the preaching of his word. or read in our own personal time. This is a meeting time with the Holy Spirit of God. In a time that he, at his desire, knowing our need, opens the scripture to us. So we can understand it. We are not going to understand the Bible without A personal relationship with the Holy Spirit of God. And I'm convinced this is why we have so many people. That are offended at the least little thing and ready just to walk away from God. Walk away from church. So many people that that claim to be Christians but have little desire to serve God. And now that's what he's dealing with here. That's what he's dealing here with here at this time. He's dealing with his apostles. He's ready to go to Calvary, and they really do not have a grasp of all that's taking place. Now think about this. These are his key men. These are the men that he's getting ready to turn over the responsibility of taking the gospel to the world. And yet they do not have a grasp of what's going on, and they have been taught by God Himself. So we we come to verse eleven. They've gone through Jericho. We looked at that last night. And they've come to verse eleven And notice what it says. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable. Now he's getting ready to tell them a story. They don't understand what's going on. They don't realize all that's happening here with Jesus. And so what he's going to do, he's going to tell them an earthly story. That brings out a heavenly truth. He's going to give them a story that will illustrate to them What's happening? What he's doing is trying to bring them to an understanding. And he gives a couple of reasons he's doing this. Look at it again. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable. Number one, because he was nigh to Jerusalem. First of all, he says that he was giving this parable because he's ready to go to Calvary. I mean, it's time for him to prepare to ascend back to heaven. They needed to grasp what's going on. But the second reason is this And because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. Now, how many times are you and I guilty of not doing what we're supposed to do, not being where we're supposed to be, not hearing what we're supposed to hear because We thought. We thought it was supposed to be this way. Huh We we it's so easy for us in our own minds to become an expert, and know it all. You know, it's all going to work out because I think this is going to happen. It's all going to be what it's supposed to be because I think. And these fellas that he spent this time preparing for this moment when he's going to ascend back to heaven and leave to them this great responsibility. These men, they thought he should set up his kingdom right now I mean all he's taught them. They they have no uh no thought at all that he should die. There's no reason for him to die. They haven't they can't even grasp that. As far as they're concerned, he should be king right now. He should set up his millennial reign right now. And they missed all that goes on between that time. And so because of what they thought compared to the truth. Then he's then he's giving them a story to help them get a hold. To help them to to help them Know what they need to know in order to be what they need to be. So verse 12, he said, therefore, a certain nobleman Went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. Now far uh the far country there, I think uh simply indicates uh that it's going to be for some time. It's not going to be a quick trip. And Jesus is talking about him going away. And it's going to be a while. But the thrilling thing that he informs them about is that he is going to return. He is coming again. I am leaving. I'm going to be gone a while. I'm going into a far country. Receive a kingdom, and then I will return. The kingdom can't be set up now. I have to receive the kingdom. And I have to I have to go away to do that. And then he makes this statement to it, verse 13, and he called his ten servants. And delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. Now the word occupy does not mean just sit and wait for me. The word occupy is a term that has the thought of busyness. Of doing something. It actually, the word occupy here actually has it has the thought of investing, of trading. And so he he gives them, uh he selects these ten and he gives each of them a pound. He says, now listen, I want you to invest this, I want you to use this. I want you to be busy taking this and investing it for eternity's sake. So he's telling them, uh he's he's telling them what they need to be doing. Now once he gives them orders Once he puts into these ten servants the pounds, then he makes this statement. This is interesting. Look at this, verse 14. But his citizens hated him. Now, to this point in the story, he's been talking to those that are his. The family group. But now those that are outside the family, those that are not a part of his, they chime in. And notice what they say. But his citizens hated him and sent a message unto him. Saying, We will not have this man to reign over us Now there he's just showing us the how the world thinks of his word. Now you and I are experiencing that attitude today. By those that hate the Bible, those that do not want the Bible interfering with their way of life. And that's the way they think. We should not be surprised. We should realize it's what the Bible tells us happens. By those that do not want anything to do with Jesus Christ, then they do not uh they don't want the Bible being preached, they don't want the truth being put out there because that interferes with their way of living It interferes with a lost person's life. And so they say in their message, they say in their attitudes, we don't want him telling us what to do. We don't want him being our king. We don't want him being our Lord. We do not want him interfering with our life. And so we should we should not let it upset us. We should feel sorry for those. We should be uh uh more grateful when we run into that type of attitude to realize what it means to have the Holy Spirit of God. And to desire to know Christ more. Amen. Now, once he sets this platform Once he sets the scene and the story to them, then he begins to give what I think is a good test for us just to understand. He lays it out by showing us their attitudes with the pound that he has given them. How they use it. Knowing what he's told them, having Christ Himself tell them what they ought to do. Take what I've given you and occupy till I come Use it. Invest it. Invest it in a way that it will count for eternity's sake. In verse 15, and it came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom Then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given notice this the money That he might know how much every man had gained by trading. Listen, he has put into your life and my life. That which he wants us to invest for his sake He has put in our possession. He has given us what hey, he has given us everything that's needed For us to carry out his plan for our lives. No one can sit in church and say, well, if I had what they had, then I would do what Whatever. We can't talk like that. What we've got to do is look at our lives and realize, hey, he has a plan for me and he has given me everything that's needed to carry out that plan. Everything has available been made available to me to be what God wants me to be He doesn't expect me to be what you are. He doesn't expect me to do what you do. But he does have a plan for me. And he has put in my life everything that's needed to be what he wants me to be. So we have no excuse So he comes back after giving all of these fellows what's needed to do what he wanted them to do. And he has given them the instructions of what they ought to do. And now he comes back, he returns, and he calls them all together. And then he just points out what each one of them have done uh has done and and uh how we're to look at them. And in this I think it's a good test for us to look at our own lives And say, what am I? What am I doing? What's my commitment? How am I acting with what he's put in my hand? Am I being faithful with what he's given me? And let's look at him one by one. First of all, we see the totally committed person. The totally committed person. And look what he look at what he says here in verses 16 and 17. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. And he said unto him, Well. Thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities Here we see the totally committed person. The person, this person recognized As God as king, the one in authority and desires to please him and to honor him With his life and the way he has used what God gave him indicates he he knows that Jesus is Lord. He knows that he is the authority for our life and living. He has the right to tell us what to do because of what he's given us. Everything that we have, He has given us, and He has the right to tell us what to do with it And here he uh with this first servant indicates that he has someone who is willing to say, as Paul did, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And he's willing to do what God wants with what he had. And so he invested He trades it. He uses it. He does what? He uses it to increase it. He is faithful with what God has given him. And so you and I, uh as we look at this, we have to consider what what do I have? Instead of looking around at what we don't have and what others have that we don't have and how much more others have than we have. We need to look at what we have and say, what what can I do with what I have? I want to be the committed, the faithful individual to do the right thing with what God has given me. I want to God, I want to stand before God and hear what this servant said, well, to this servant, well. With that word, he's just saying, that's great. You have been faithful. And that's what we want to hear. We want to be looked at as somebody totally committed, somebody that he's pleased with And so we have a responsibility to look at this and question our own lives and to be honest. With ourselves and with the Word of God, what am I doing with what I have? What am I doing with the life that He's given me? What am I doing with the time he's given me? What am I doing with the material possessions he's given me? What am I doing with the Bible that he's given me? And we could just go on and on and ask ourselves, am I faithful to use what He's given me the way it that He desires me to use it? Or do I think is it my thought This is the way it ought to be. This is what I ought to do. I have a right to do this, that, or the other. God is looking for some totally committed. Individuals. Secondly, we see the partially committed person. The partially committed person. Now, this is interesting. Notice verses 18 and 19. And the second came saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. And he said likewise to him, be thou also over five cities Now here he commends this servant also, and and I'll tell you why I say partially committed here. What I see in this individual is someone that has the same heart as the first individual. The first one gained ten pounds, this one gained five pounds. But I see the same attitude, just not the same results. The same desire. The same desire to be what God wants them to be and invest what God gives them the way He wants it invested, with a heart to really please God, but Not the same results. Why? I'll tell you what I think. I think he's talking about an individual here that has the same heart, but something creeps in. And draws away what needs to be done to have the same results. And that's the battle you and I face, and that's where a lot of us are. Boy, we want to please God, that's why you're here on a Friday night. You want to hear from God. That's why you're part of this crowd because you want to be what God wants you to be. But the battle you and I face uh those things that creep in and rob us of being everything we need to be And it's a battle, amen? Huh? I mean you think you think uh you you want to be what God wants you to be, you want to Live for him, you want to use everything you have for him, and then all of a sudden you wake up one day and there's a part there that you've just uh gotten off track with And you know it's not where or you you you want to be uh looking at what he wants you to look at and being involved with and then you wake up and you find out, man, that's gone. And so you and I battle so many things going through our life that just want to pull us away from the totally committed. Now that doesn't totally committed doesn't mean we need to be reading our Bible twenty-four hours a day and and in church uh twenty-four hours a day and praying twenty-four hours a day, you know, uh when I'm at the Bible school. I can remember uh chapel speakers. They would have these chapel speakers in, you know, and you're a Bible school student there and you're just trying to Find out what God wants you to do and which direction uh God wants you to go, and so you're trying to gain from every person that comes, and you look up to them and they're doing the job, and you have this fella come in and And he would say, Blessed God, I get up at uh uh four o'clock every morning and I pray for two hours and read my Bible for two hours Then the next day you'd have this guy come in. Bless God I stay up till three o'clock in the morning and read my Bible for four hours and and then by the uh you know after a while you're wondering, you know Uh when am I supposed to sleep if I stay up till three and get up at four and you know hey it's not uh it's not just a commitment to every moment of every day reading the Bible in church praying, but it's Doing with what God has given us, what He wants done with it, every moment of every day. It's having the right attitude. And things creep in, boy, just uh wrong attitudes. Jealousy will creep in. Man, it's so easy to get jealous, get envious, isn't it? Now shake your head, don't sit there like I'm the only one and You don't know what I'm talking about. You know, it's so easy for that jealousy to creep in and the first thing you know your your attitude's rotten and you've you and and you're just you've just been pulled away by some attitude Or it's so easy to to get wrapped up and you know you look back and and God has taken care of you all these years, but you still today you're worrying about is he going to take care of me tomorrow? Guilty? Huh? I wonder if everything's gonna be okay tomorrow. Oh bless God. I wonder if Social Security is going to run out. I wonder if the Huh? A lot of the stock market's going to crash. What's going to happen? And God has taken care of me for 75 years, and I'm worried about tomorrow. And we find and and that that attitude just pulls us away from what? From being totally committed Just it we get uh so filled with anxiety, we don't have the liberty to really be what God wants us to be. And that's what I see in this person. Boy, he wanted to serve God, he wanted to live for God, but he missed it along the way. He just got away here and wrong attitude here and so he increased, but he was not totally committed And I think it'd be wise for you and me to begin looking at our life this way and and constantly examining, saying to ourselves, now am I totally committed What am I battling today? What decision needs to be made today? Because, hey, every day we battle our flesh. Every day we battle the world. And we need to admit it and be sensitive about it. And realize if I get into that, if I if I bec start worrying about something that I can't I can do nothing about uh then I'm I'm not going to be committed the way I need to be committed. If I'm going to be jealous about what their God's doing in their life and not doing it in mine, then I'm going to lose And I need to just check myself. And I need to make sure that I'm not pulled away. Okay, let's quickly go to number three here. We see uh thirdly No commitment. No commitment. Now this is interesting, and I think this is a real danger for us That we need to we need to see ourselves here. Look, first of all, in verse 20 It says, and another came saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin. For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man, thou takest up that thou layest not down, and reapest that thou didst not sow. The third one says, okay, Lord, here's your pound. Now that's not what he told him to do with it. He didn't tell him to take it and hold it and bury it and save it and guard it. He said, you invest it. You use it, you trade it, you gain with it. Those were the instructions. So he says, Here's your pound. I kept it. I guarded it. I hit it. I'm giving it back to you I didn't do anything with it because I know you are an austere man. You are a tough man to deal with. You uh reap where you don't sow, you get where you didn't give. You He's saying, uh, listen, I kept it because uh I know you're tough to deal with Hey listen, God has a right to tell us what to do with what we have. Because it's his. Huh? And if we get the wrong attitude about that, uh we're not going to be worth shooting. Right? We're not going to be the servant we need to be if we do not enjoy what God has given us the way God wants us to enjoy it. Knowing it belongs to him, knowing he has a right. He has a right to tell me to do what he wants me to do with what I have. He has a right to tell me. He has a right to tell me what to give. He has a right to tell me how to use what he gives me. He has a right to tell me you have no business getting that thing. He has a right to tell me you have no right storing things up the way you do. You have no right. You have no right. Hey, he has a right to tell me when to give to others. I said, he has a right. And this fella is questioning that right. Notice what he says. Look at the spot spots here. Look at verse 22. And he said unto him. Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. They called him a wicked servant. Now he still got his pound. He didn't get rid of his pound. He didn't misuse his pound. He didn't take his pound and buy a lottery ticket with him. He didn't take his pound and go down the bar with it. I mean, he kept it and gave it back to him. You know what he said to him? Simply because he kept it and gave back the pound that he gave him, he said, you're wicked. Huh? That's pretty harsh, isn't it? You're wicked. Because you just kept it. You did not occupy Thou knew that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow. Wherefore? Then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required Mine own with usury. You knew who I was, you knew what I said, and you did not invest it like I told you, so there was no return when I came. There was no increase. In other words, your life counted for nothing. You did not, you were not a benefit to anybody. Your life was not invested to help anybody. All you did was take what I gave you and enjoyed it and kept it and saved it. You did nothing with it. He didn't say he did anything wrong as far as deep set, but he said you're a wicked servant. And then notice what he says about it. Verse 24. And he said unto them that stood by. Now here's the scene. Here's the people standing here. He's dealing with the servants. He's dealt with the committed servant. He's dealt with the partially committed servant. They're all standing around. And he's talking to this one. And he says unto the crowd that's standing around, take from him the pound and give it to him that hath ten pounds. And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. For I say unto you that unto every one which hath shall be given. And from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him. Now here's what he's saying. Get a hold of it. Here's the totally committed, here's the partially committed. He's talking to this fellow, the wicked one. And he says to the others, take his pound and give it to this fellow that has ten pounds. They said, but Lord, he has ten pounds. He said, listen The person that has something and does nothing with it, I'm going to take it and give it to the one that'll do something with it. That's what he's saying. I'll tell you something, that ought to cause you and I to think. I wonder how many times God has reached down into your life and mine when we would not do what He wanted with what He gave us. And he said, hey, no sense leaving it with you. It's a waste. You're not going to serve me. You're not going to commit to me. You're going to do what you think ought to be done with it. And so he just reached down and took from us something that he wanted to use in our life and gave it to somebody. That would use it. Huh? I wonder how much more useful. I wonder how much more effective I wonder how much more godly you and I would be if we were faithful with all He had given us. Huh? Now this is not a politically correct statement he's making here. What's politically correct is this fellow that has ten, take about half of his and give it to this guy. He doesn't have much at all God said, no, that's not the way it is. You take to this unfaithful guy, this guy that doesn't want to do anything, you take what he's got, and you give it to this guy that wants to use it to do something. That's the way God works. Huh? And then he comes to the last group. Notice what he says. Verse 27. But those mine enemies, now he's talking about that crowd that came and said, I don't want anything to do with him. I don't want him to ruin my life. He said, But those mine enemies which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither and slay them before me. Isn't that something? That word slay there has the thought of to slaughter. When I saw that, saw the meaning of that, it h it made me think of a hog's hog slaughtering. Anybody seen a hog slaughtering? I remember as a kid see them slaughter hogs. It's not a pretty sight. They'd take that hog and take a twenty-two and put it right up the head and boom. And then take a knife to slip the throat, hang up, let it bleed out. Messy looking. And they would dip that hog in scald and hot water and skin him. We say, boy, that's a that's not a very pretty picture. Hey, that's a beautiful picture compared What it's going to look like for those that do not know Christ. Huh? We should feel sorry for the person that says, Hey, I don't want him in my life, because this is their life. Well you and I have an eternity to spend with him. But this portion of scripture ought to make us make us decide I want to be faithful. I want I want to become more sensitive. To what it means to be committed with what he's given me. I don't want to lose what he's given me. I may not be much, may not be able to do much, but I want to do everything he wants me to do. I want to be as close to totally committed as I can possibly be. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight would say, preacher, if I know my heart, that's what I want? Would you pray with me or pray for me that God would help me to see that? And to be seriously considering that in my personal life, day by day, would you flip your hand up all over the building Watch a step I replaced tonight and get along with God and say, God, help me, help that portion of Scripture to lodge in my thinking. And to affect my heart. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless the invitation. Bless these that have raised their hands, others that desire to do so, need to do so. We pray in Christ's name. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, unless you're moving forward. Why don't you come now as God has spoken to your heart? You do business with Him as He's spoken to you. Is it possible as you stand here tonight there's something that has crept into your life and you know It is robbing you of being totally committed. And you need to get along with God tonight and deal with that thing. You come. As God spoken to your heart Sobering and humbling challenge tonight. It's a message that makes us stop and look at ourselves in the mirror and say, where am I on this? What am I?