Thank you so much. And you may be seated. Well, communication's a big deal. You know, you gotta make sure that that you can hear. I I remember this one uh situation where the husband and wife where it seemed like they was always arguing because they didn't hear what the other one said or something was going on there and one day the wife said, You're just going deaf. That's what the problem is. You are lo you have lost your hearing. You can't hear a thing. You're stone deaf. He said, I am not. She said, You are too. She took it, she got a chair out, set it over, facing the wall, put him in it. She said, You sit there. I'm gonna show you. And she went over to the other side of the room. And she said, Can you hear me now? Nothing. Walked over here. Can you hear me now? Nothing. She got right up behind him. He said, she said, can you hear me now? He stood up, turned around, and said, for the third time, yes, I can hear you So, you know, there's a misunderstanding when communications aren't what they ought to be. I remember one fellow he said His son, uh he he was a farmer, just a hard working man, and uh uh that's all he knew, just a simple life, just lived a simple life, didn't have an education or whatever But he was a hard worker and had had a farm and he his son coming up, he said he's gonna have him better. He paid for his son. He paid his son's way through college. His son became very successful in in the endeavors that he was doing. As a matter of fact, he traveled internationally and he'd been sent by his company down to South America where he was working. He'd been there for a couple of years And uh and uh Christmas was getting close and so he decided he'd send his dad something and uh he his dad got this package. Inside that package, there was this unbelievable, beautiful, exotic bird just full of color and so forth and and his his dad looked at birds that's the most beautiful bird I have ever seen. Well th on Christmas Eve the son called his dad. He said, Dad Did you get the did you did you get the Christmas gift? He said, son, that's the most beautiful bird I've ever seen. He said I'd never seen a bird that pretty. He said, Well, how did you like it? He said, It was delicious. It tasted just like chicken. He said, Dad, you didn't eat that bird? He said, Well sure I did, son. He said, Dad, that bird cost thousands of dollars. That bird is an exotic, rare bird That bird can speak five languages. Dad said, well he should have said something. Well there you go. You know, communications. Are you tuned in? Are you paying attention? Are you listening? And all that kind of thing. Our world's nearly at war again. Our homes are dissolving before our eyes. Our churches are divided. The gender gap, the generation gap uh the lost are are getting further from the truth. We we have the tools. We have more technology. Hey, we we call this Uh all this social networking stuff that that we are the that we have have more communication available to us now than any other generation that's ever been on the planet. And yet we're out of touch. on an individual basis with people that are the closest to us. Isn't that an amazing thing? And we we we we have all this stuff. And yet our communications are failing. I believe all these communications, I don't think it's an accident that God allowed us to invent these things I think that God wants us to reach the world. Now, you know, when Jesus told them to go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature and and uh baptize them and and to and to uh teach them all things whatsoever he commanded us. I I when when Jesus gave that commission The world wasn't you know, there wasn't the billions of people that there are today and and those uh few handful of disciples without any modern technology, the print no printing presses uh none of the things that we have today, none of the radio communications or television or shortwave or internet or all the things that we have. They were managed to literally turn the world upside down. And now we we are struggling. Seven billion people on the planet And somehow we don't have the skills and the desire with all the tools that are available to us. To get the gospel to them individually so they can know how to go to heaven. Isn't that amazing? Well, one of the problems, you see, the a church is no longer a church is no stronger than the families that make up that church Do you understand that? Do you realize that? Families are the core. Family was an institution that God made before He made government and before He made church. God's three institutions, the church, the family, and government, and family was the very first one God intends for the family to be the backbone, the strength of a government and the strength of a church. We need our families. We need strong families. When your family goes downhill, when your family goes into sin, when your family divides. When there's all that kind of thing, it it hurts the work of Jesus Christ. And so it's very important. There's some areas, by the way, when I talk about communication here this morning. I'm not just talking about verbal communication. That's a big part of it. That's a very big part of it. Something that we need to work on. But I'm also talking about body language. I'm also talking about the language, what we say by what we do. Saw a sign one time it said on the church uh marquee. It said, we can preach a better sermon with our life than with our lips. People don't care too much what you say. They want to see what you're going to do, how you're going to live. Are you real? Are you genuine? And so I want you to think with me about these areas of communication. First of all, this is the priority, this is the most important, and that's our communication with God. How do you do you communicate with God? Do you know we we sang that song and He walks with me And he talks with me. Yeah, but while you're walking with him, are you talking to him? Is there a communication going on? Is your prayer life maybe just one of those things where you go up and give God uh his list of a his to do list for today? Or is there a time where you just wait before God and with an open heart and allow him to speak to you with an open heart and an open Bible where you read the Word of God and say, God, speak to me through your word? That's communication. Communication isn't us just tossing God some orders. Hey, I've got God in the trunk. If I ever have a problem, I'll get him out and he'll take care of me. No, put God behind the steering wheel. Let him be in charge of your life. Communicate with him and let him do the work that only he can do. Communication with God, Luke chapter 11, verse 19. Jesus said, I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. Jeremiah 33, 3. God said, Call unto me. And I will listen, I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. James said, We have not because we ask not. Then we ask and receive not because we ask amiss, so that we can consume it upon our own lust. Jesus said pray without ceasing said men ought always to pray. And then in Thessalonians, Paul wrote, pray without ceasing. So prayer is a big deal to God. I mean, uh we could preach two or three we could preach a series of sermons. Matter of fact, I have uh a series of sermons on prayer It's so important that we pray and we need to understand what God's purpose in prayer is and our communication with God. As we pray, as we talk with him, and as he talks with us through his word, as we walk with him, how important it is. And I trust that you have that kind of commitment to Christ today. If you don't, you ought to jot that down. My prayer life needs to get jacked up. I've got to do something about my prayer life I've got to be, I've got to get serious with God in this matter of prayer. Number two. Number one is. Communication with God. Number two, talking about the family now. Communication with your spouse. Boy, how important it is. to communicate with our spouse. And we've all heard that old story about the guy who went to the counselor and he said, we're having all kinds of problems. He said, well, do you tell your wife that you love her? Did you tell her you love her this morning before you left the house? No, I didn't Well, did you tell her last night when you got in from work? No, I didn't. Well, why don't you tell your wife you love her? I told her when I asked her to marry me that I loved her, and if I ever change my mind, I'll let her know. I mean, come on. Communication. Communication. Keep that thing fresh in your life. Ephesians 5. 33. The Bible says this, nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself and the wife see that she reverence her husband. Well there's you know what one one of our problems is? We we communicate sometimes by becoming an expert on what the role of the wife the the man becomes an expert on what the role of the wife is and always checking up on her instead of becoming an expert on what he's supposed to be And the wife becomes an expert on what the husband's supposed to do. She heard, and and had he's not, I heard the preacher say this is well a man's role in marriage, and my man's just not doing those things. We become an expert For the other person. How about if we came an expert for ourselves? Let's communicate with God a little bit to say, Lord, as a husband, what am I supposed to be? Or as a wife, what am I supposed to be And I read there in Ephesians 5, where it talks about submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. By the way, that's followed that in verse 18 of that same chapter, the Bible's talking about being filled with the Spirit of God. He said, Be not drunk with wine weariness excess, but be filled with the Spirit. And then based upon that filling of the Spirit, he talks, he gets down there a little further, talks about some things, but in that same context He talks about the submitting ourselves to one another. So marriage is a two-way street. We're both to submit. We're both to consider the other person's opinions and feelings and ideas, and you can't do that if you're not talking. Nancy and I, we uh had the opportunity uh between meetings, we had a few days off, and we uh instead of driving all the way back to Louisville, it was going to be like a seven or eight-hour drive And uh it was just a couple hour drive here, uh and it was about an hour and a half uh uh from the place where we were, and right in between here and there. Uh we found a place to stay. We had a place we could stay and and uh they had a nice restaurant there. And so one evening we was up there, and I hadn't really paid that much attention, but Nancy and I we were sitting there, we're talking, looking out the wind, talking about the birds, talking about the horses, talking about everything in the world talking about what are we going to do when we get home, what's our schedule, when's our vacation with the kids, what do we do? We talk about stuff. You say, what in the world do you all talk about? You're in this car, you're going to be in the car tomorrow for eight hours Unless we get that other couple of inches of snow, you might be in the car for eleven or twelve hours. Who knows? What are you gonna ha how how do you stand it? I don't know, it's pretty easy. I kinda like her. We get along and and uh and we we communicate and sometimes we even communicate our disagreements But we do it in a friendly, loving manner. We try to keep our our volume down and our emotions in check. And most all the time I do it, and ever occasionally she does it. No, I'm just just kidding. But uh But but the but the truth is we were sitting there in this restaurant and I said, Nancy Look at those people over there. They came in, they'd been there for about 20 minutes, I'd been watching them. They hadn't said one word to each other He's looking around this way and that way. Never had never had eye contact. Didn't talk. They ordered their food. What do you want? Okay. That was it about it. And there they're just eating. And you know what I've noticed? There's a lot of people that that's the norm. That's the norm. They're just unhappy people. They're not communicating, they're enduring. They're just they're just getting by. They're just getting along. They don't really have that enjoyment of the sharing of ideas and thoughts. Maybe it's because the other person didn't really know how to accept an idea or a thought. She said, she said, you know what I'd like to do sometime I'd like to do, you know, you fill in the blank. And he said, Well that's stupid. We're not ever going to do that. You know, and he began to shut her down and shut her down and shut her down. And now she says, What's the use in talking? And by the way, she can do the same thing to him. Well, communication is such a big deal. How about instead think thinking, well that sounds stupid to me, but she's my wife and Why do you think we ought to do that? Explain that to me. Maybe you ought to listen a little bit. Maybe you could even say, you know what, that sounds pretty good, but what if we also did this? or took part of that and did this instead, and you sort of come to a common ground on something. Makes all the difference in the world. Well, communications. Communication is so important in the family. By the way, learning your role in marriage, if you want to just use that Ephesians 5 chapter, and there's others in Peter and other places, but uh but if you just want to use that one passage, it's a pretty good one I I read that before, and then I got really you when you start down through there's three verses where God gives instruction to the women, and then there's seven verses where he gives instruction to the men Sure, the wife is supposed to be the supporter and and supposed to be the help meet and the submissive partner that that works to help uh to help and encourage the husband because men need a lot of encouragement. It's that ego thing I talked about last night, fellas, those of you who are at the thing. And uh but but on the other hand, the husband Is supposed to treat the wife like Jesus treats the church. You know, I noticed how Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. I also noticed how Christ never browbeated the church. And even when he was giving instructions to the church. The church always had the option not to obey those instructions. Now they had to deal with the consequences of that. But it was self-destruction. It wasn't Christ destruction. hitting them or destroying them. And if you guys go home and hit your wife, you are a coward. You need to r get in the Word of God and let God change your heart. So that you can learn to communicate and talk about. Look, if you're all stressed out, maybe you last night I was to be hard on the ladies. Mr. Maybe you need to be on some pills or something, you know, whatever. I don't know But but uh you know and by the way don't overlook the don't overlook the possibility of there being some chronological problems. You know, we are human beings and we do have uh difficulties. People people uh excuse uh very quickly. If somebody's diabetic they say, oh they sympathize, oh boy, that's rough. Boy, you you must have a rough life Boy, I hate that. Well, you have to give yourself a shot several times a day, or you have to take those pills, or you can't eat certain things. Man, that that's rough. And we sympathize with that because something went wrong in their pancreas or whatever But you let them get a little chemical inbound in her head, and then they're afraid to let anybody know about it. They try to cover it up. Well, my friend, we're human beings. We are a deteriorating species. We're not evolving to a higher Uh uh now originally when God created Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, they were perfect, no genetic problems, no mishaps, but as a result of sin. Man has all kinds of problems. Has all kinds of difficulties. And uh and anyway, I don't want to get off on that too far, but I'm saying you need to communicate with your spouse. One thing you ought to decide today, one thing you ought to talk about when you get in your car on the way home, is not whose fault it was, whatever it was you was arguing about on the way here. But what you ought to talk about when you get in the car is how can we communicate better? How can we have a time every every week at least, but maybe every day just five minutes to sit down and say, hey, how was your day What c is there anything I could do to make it better or and and just communicate. Hey, we've got this situation with the kids. Let's let's talk about this a few minutes so we'll be on the same page and dealing with it. You know, whatever it is. Communicate. Number one, communicate with God. Number two, communicate with your spouse. Number three, communicate with your parents. This is for you young people here today. Communicate with your parents. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter six verses one through three, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise That it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. Did you know in the in the Ten Commandments, the first commandment with promise? Was the commandment for children to obey their parents? That doesn't mean just obey them as far as they can see you and then go do what you want to do. It means obey your parents. That means you don't kick the door, you don't slam the door, you don't roll the eyes, you don't give that whatever. You know what, you know what that means? You know what, well it if you know what that means? That means, yeah, I know I'm wrong, but I don't want to admit it's that's what it means. And I don't have an argument. I I don't have a I don't have a oh I've got some lame excuse Learn to communicate with your parents, kids. One of the thrills, one of the joys of our marriage has been our kids have given us just like probably everybody's kids have, there have been times our kids have d d have have disappointed us, have made, I think, bad choices, have done things that I thought that's the stupidest thing. There there have been times like that That's life, that's reality. But I tell you, one of the things that I have rejoiced in our kids, I can never remember a time when our kids were growing up where they ever rebelled against us Where they ever yelled us, where they were uh were where we weren't always in open communication. They c they would talk to us about everything. And I think that's good. I think part of it was because of what I was talking to the men about in the earlier meeting. We talked about uh we talked about Uh family commotions. Not devotions. We had family commotions. You might have family devotions, but we had a time where I where we just talked about everything. We we gossiped about everybody. We did everything I wanted to know what was on their heart. I wanted them to know they could talk to us about anything. Or anybody if they needed to. And we wanted to keep those lines of communication open. Too many secrets in in families. We need to talk. With God, with your pa with your spouse, with your parents, with your children. This is what the Bible says in Ephesians 6, verse number 4, it goes on to say After he talks about children obeying the parents, it says, And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord You know, so many times uh we provoke our children to wrap, and there's a couple of ways we can do it. One is by not understanding our biblical responsibility Not taking care of the family like we should, not being there for them, not giving them much security. But another side of that might be the inconsistencies in our own life. Hey, don't do what I do, do what I say That's more that is a stupid remark. You know, as let's let's get this thing right. If you look become Be the role model for your children. Don't provoke them to wrath. Let them see you being consistent in what you believe And when they grow up and they have to make their own decisions and they're out on their own, they may take a different path, they may go a different direction, they'll have to answer to God. You say, Preacher, how can that happen? I don't know how it can happen. Adam and Eve had two sons. The first son, Eve, thought was the answer to that promise that God had made that he was going to send a redeemer. And here was Cain and Abel. And one of them pleased God, Abel pleased God And the other one became the world's first murderer. And they grew up in the exact same household, the exact same rules, with the exact same set of parents. They had the same peer group, each other And and they and and and and yet one of them pleased God and the other one was a out and out rebel I can't explain that. Only thing I can say is it comes down to individual responsibility and choice. If you're here today, And you're not living for God like you know you ought to, quit trying to blame it on somebody else. It's your responsibility. I've known families And I've known kids that came out of homes and I told I used I told our bus workers this. Excuse my uh I said, look We we we're sometimes you expect too much out of these kids. We go by, we pick them up, we have them for t a couple of hours on Sunday morning And they get saved and say, you think they really got saved because of the, you know, what uh look what they're still doing? Whatever. And you know what? And then we deliver them back in that same hellhole we got them out of. Where there's prostitution and and alcoholism and and profanity and pornography and immorality and and they live there and they have 168 hours in a week and 165 hours of the week. They're in a a school situation that's totally secular and anti-God And uh where it's even perhaps mocked and scoffed at in many cases, all their peer pressure from their friends coming out of the same kind of environment We need we need to learn to to love people. We need yeah, I said what the hope for these kids is That they're going to see something in us that they're going to realize there's more to life than what I'm seeing those hundred and sixty-five hours I have to live in that other place. We need to get plant get some seeds in their heart and in their life. Where they're when they come to a certain point in their life and there's a road that's divided like this. That they're going to look and they're going to say, This is what I've had all my life. But I've had a glimpse of this. And I made a commitment to Christ one day. And I think I'm going to choose to go God's way. And I'm telling you, there's enough, yeah, sometimes it's discouraging, but I tell you, there's enough victories. There's enough, there's enough that make it. There's enough that go on for God. That it makes it all worthwhile. But I'm telling you, when we come to our children, when it comes to our children, let's ask God to help us to be rational and reasonable. I'm for I'm for dealing with children with with proper discipline. I believe in corporal punishment One day we were interviewing teachers for and they filled out this application. We asked this one on here, you know. how do you d what do you believe about discipline of children? And she wrote in there, I believe in capital punishment. She meant corporal punishment, but she wrote the wrong thing. And uh corporal punishment, that's a paddling when they need it. Someone said someone said uh every kid needs uh needs to have a pat on the back. Uh if if uh they're early enough and and often enough and low enough. It's a little pat on the back and and help them. I believe in in corporal punishment done properly. I do not believe in child abuse. That is wicked and uh and uh and it ought to be punished, it ought to be dealt with I said we have to have proper communication with God, with our spouses, with our parents, with our children, depending on which side of that you're on. Hey, how about with our pastors You know, a lot of families could be salvaged if they would just learn to swallow their pride and get the proper counseling when they need it to get God's direction and help in their life. And ask God to help you get the right get the Go in the right direction. The Bible says in Proverbs 14, 11, verse 14, where no counsel is, the people fall. But in a multitude of counselors there is safety. Counselors. Now get the right counselors. The Bible says very clearly, walk not in the counsel of the ungodly. But it also says in a multitude of counselors there's safety. And many other verses that refer to that very same thing. Talking to a man, a member of our church that came to see me one day. And he said, Brother Lani, he said, I just wanted to let you know that me and my wife are getting a divorce, and I wanted to get your counsel. I said, wait a minute, you've already made the decision, you're getting the divorce? He said, Yes, sir. He said, Yeah, it's already done. We've already filed the papers, everything's we paid the lawyer and it that it's done. It'll be it'll be official in just a few days. I said, so like what do you want me to say? What kind of counsel you want from me? I I I said I'm a little bit I said, I'm a little bit hurt He said, W why? Why are you hurt? I said, Well you didn't come to me for counsel. I'm your pastor. You didn't counsel with me before you made the ultimate decision to do this thing. I said, I I don't understand that. He said, Oh, I got counsel. I said, Oh you talk to somebody else? You talked to another pastor or whatever, because maybe you were embarrassed, you didn't want me to know, you thought maybe you could work it out. He said, No, no, no, I it wasn't another pastor. I said, well, who'd you talk to? He said, well, there's this lady down the street, and she just went through a divorce, so I was talking to her. Wow. That's not godly counsel, friend. It's not sharing your dirt with other people who are living in dirt. It's get godly counsel in your life. Life. Communicate with your pastor. Communicate. If we were talking about church building and that kind of thing and reaching a community, I would say communicate with your pastor on a lot of levels. But in this matter of the family, be sure that you communicate with your pastor when problems come. I've got just a couple more thoughts and I'll have to give them to you very quickly. Number six is communication with peers. Boy, this is very important. You know, someone said the only changes that will be in your life ten years from now are the books you read and the company you keep. That's what's going to affect you. That's going to affect your attitude. That's going to affect your actions. It's going to make a difference in your life. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 33 says, Be not deceived. Evil communications corrupt good mor good manners. Evil communications corrupt good manners. And don't be deceived. Don't think you can hang around with the wrong crowd and turn out right. Don't think you can in the locker room with the guys uh on Sunday be in the Sunday school class saying, Oh how I love Jesus, and then on Monday be in the locker room with the guys and listening to the dirty jokes and laughing at them And somehow you're going to come out squeaky clean. It's not going to work. That peer pressure, who you run with, who you hang with, who you allow to influence your life. And then communication, last of all, the last point I want to make is communication with the lost. Galatians chapter 6, verse 6 says, Let him that is taught in the Word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Hey, communicating with the lost. Let him that is taught in the Word communicate with him that teacheth in all good things. Hey, there are people out here in their areas of expertise. Expertise is in a expertise is in a lot of different areas. And you have expertise in some areas that you can use out here in the world too, and your job and whatever else. But you have something that most of the people in this world don't have. You have a knowledge of God and you have the Word of God and you have the Spirit of God indwelling you and you have a commission from God to tell them how they can go to heaven. You have that opportunity. You have that privilege. What are you going to do with it? God said, I want you to use it. I want you to use it. I want you to win others to Christ. I want your church as a corporate body to be a lighthouse to this whole community, to this whole county, even to the surrounding counties. I hear about this uh this this track business that you're doing here and how you even go into other cities and other uh areas and other townships and and uh try to saturate them with the word of God. God use you in those things. Don't be shy, don't be embarrassed. Have the power of God on your life. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer, how's your communication? How's your communication with your with your God? With your spouse, with your family, and with others around you. Are you making a difference? Are you being helpful? Maybe there's someone here today, you say, Preacher, I don't even know if I have any real communication with God at all. I don't even know for sure I'm saved. I'm not sure if I die today I'd go to heaven. I can't think of anybody who wouldn't want to go to heaven if they knew that hell was real and that heaven was real and that God loves them. that Jesus died for them and wants to save them. I can't imagine anybody saying, no, I don't want that. I'd rather go to hell, spend eternity separated from God in a place of outer darkness, weeping and wailing and gnashing. I can't imagine it. I think almost everybody, I think about a hundred percent of the people, if somehow we could help them to understand the truth of the Word of God and the price that Jesus paid When he died on the cross to pay the penalty for their sin, he was buried and God raised him from the dead. When they realize what Jesus did and he did it for them, for their sins, and offers them the free gift of eternal life by his grace. By the grace of God, if they're willing to exercise faith in what God says and take him at his word and believe him and receive him, he would save them. And that's a wonderful thought. I can't imagine anybody not wanting what Jesus has to offer there. If you're here today without Christ, I'm just convinced. That if somehow you would let us show show you from the Bible how you can be sure of heaven, that in a heartbeat you'd say, That's what I want. I want us to just bow our heads for a moment, please, with our heads bowed, with our eyes closed. Wonder who's here today. You say, Brother Lonnie. I am sure of heaven. If I die today, I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that heaven is my home. I'm as sure of that as if I were already there. I know I'm saved. Would you slip your hand up a moment? Preacher, I know that I'm saved. And I'm sure. Sure of it. God bless you. I see many hands. Thank you so much. I wonder if there's somebody here today and you'd and you just be honest with me. I'm not going to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm not really sure of heaven, but I would like to be. Please. Remember me in your closing prayers. Anybody like that? Just slip your hand up a moment where I can see it and just take it right back down. Anybody at all? Quickly. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure of heaven, but I sure would like to be I'll wait just a few seconds longer. Anyone at all? Wonder how many folks are here today. And you say, preacher, there's some communication problems in my life with my children or with my parents. Maybe a teenager here today and you say, Preacher, I I'm really not right with my parents. I I lie to them, I I cheat, I sneak around. They don't know what I'm doing. If they knew they would they would hate me. No, look may I just say this They wouldn't hate you. They might be disappointed, but they wouldn't hate you. And what you need to do is open those lines of communication. I wonder how many are here today and you say, preacher, in this thing, maybe it maybe it's between a husband and wife, a spouse, the communication. It's just not what it ought to be. I wonder who'd say, preacher, my communication with God, or with my family, or with my loved ones, or with the world around me that needs Christ Is not what it ought to be. I'm not satisfied. I don't believe God's pleased. I'd sure like to work on it. I'd like to fix it. I want to improve it. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up? Just slip it up there. Yeah Oh my goodness, all over the room. Yeah. Praise the Lord. Are there others? Anyone else? Preacher, that me too? Yeah, God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. You may take you down. Let me ask you this one last question. And uh then we'll have an invitation time. And at the invitation time, it's my prayer that if you're here today without Christ And you need to be saved, that you'll come and tell the preacher. He'll be right here at the front. I'll be right here close by, and others will be willing to pray with you and help you. And before you leave this place today, you could settle that matter forever. I promise you. That's God made it simple. God made it so simple that sometimes people miss it. But He made it simple so even the most simple people could get it. We give that invitation. Maybe there are some that that uh need to respond, maybe couples that Communication But there's one other area. Let me ask you this. I wonder who's here today, and you'd say, preacher, there's there's someone that's unsaved that I care about and I'm praying for, and I need to communicate the gospel with you. With them. Pray with me for my lost friend or loved one, whoever it might be. How many of you have somebody like that? Would you slip your hand up all over the room? Would you come this morning and just claim them for Jesus Christ? Christ also. Come as families, come as individuals. It matters not. Just come and let Christ have his way. Heavenly Father, you've seen the hands, you know the hearts Lord, a lot of folks said they knew they were saved. There were a few that couldn't raise their hand and say they knew that. I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. Maybe there are folks that need a church home and you're leaving them to come part of this church. Help them to come today and talk with the pastor or or whoever he designates to help them and uh we'll start the ball rolling on helping them become members of this church Father, maybe there are those who've been saved but never been scripturally baptized since they've been saved. I pray you'd give them the courage to come also. And then Father, there were dozens of hands of people who said, there's some areas in my life where my communication isn't what it really all is. I pray you give them the courage today to just humble themselves before you. Lord, if they're not willing to talk to you about it, if they're if they're ashamed of you, then certainly they'll never get it resolved in their life. And then, Father Many others also said, and many of the same ones, also said that they're praying, that there's somebody they're praying for. God help us to claim them. And uh Lord, we just thank you for the opportunity and privilege. And we pray in Jesus' name. Will you look right here at me, please? We're gonna stand together in just a moment the music