Samuel chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse number 8. I'm going to read all the way down through verse 17. Now we've already a couple weeks ago looked at the first part of this passage, but I want to read it all together just to keep our context and keep the uh keep it all the thought together. Beginning in verse number eight. Now let me give the background here what's going on just to refresh everybody's mind. King Saul has been killed. Remember at the end of chapter uh at the end of 1 Samuel, King Saul's been killed. David has gotten word of that. Of course, it spread throughout the kingdom. The tribe of Judah has taken David and publicly anointed him Now that's kind of a political move. God had already anointed David back as a boy to be king, so that was established But they are simply recognizing and acknowledging the fact that God had anointed him to be king. So one of the twelve tribes is on board with God on this thing. They recognize that this is God's man. The other not so. And so they David has been um anointed king for Judah. His family's all here. He's in place. Now we pick up in verse 8. But Abner Seems like every time God's doing something, somebody steps in. You know, God always or Satan always has somebody that's going to step in and fight it. But Abner, the son of Nur, captain of Saul's host took Ish Basheth, the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahal Mahanium And made him king over Gilead and over Asherites and over Jezreel and over Ephraim and over Benjamin and over all Israel. So Abner goes gets this son of Saul that we've not met before, this Ishath, and sets him up as king. Ishbazakh, verse 10, Saul's son was 40 years old when he began to reign over Israel and reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David. And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. And Abner, the son of Nur, and the servants of Ishbaseth, the son of Saul, Went out from Mahanaim to Gibeah. And Joab, now pay attention here, and Joab, the son of your Zariah, And the servants of David went out and met together by the pool of Gibeon. And they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool. So you got so you've got Abner, who was Saul's chief of staff, I guess, captain of his host, Abner. And he's got Ishbazeth now in the king, uh king over uh Israel, those tribes He comes out with a bunch of men, yet David is king of Judah, and uh Joab, his uh captain of his host. And he's got a bunch of men, and they come down, they come to this pool of Gibeah, and they're sitting on the other sides of the pool. How many people think that might have been a little tense meeting there? Yeah. Let's read on And Abner, verse 14, and Abner said to Joab, let the young men, now that's the servants of these guys they brought along. We'll talk about that. Let the young men now arise and play before us. Interesting wording. And Joab said, Let them arise. Then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin, which pertaineth to Ishbazeth, the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David. Now look at this. And they caught everyone, his fellow, by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow's side, so they fell down together. Therefore, the place is called, all right, here we go, Helkath Hazoyum, Hazurum, which is in Gibeah. And there was a very sore battle that day, and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel before the servants of David. I've titled this before. We called it Competition for the Throne of Israel. We started this, and we'll try and finish it tonight. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, Uh Lord, we thank you for recording these um uh these events that in some ways are a little bizarre, but nevertheless, um reality uh of uh these events, uh Lord, you've kept for us so that we can learn from them and we can grow and be strong in our faith and be mature in our in our actions and our lives. So we ask, Lord, that you would help us tonight. Father, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew With all my heart, I ask that you be our teacher to us here in the service and folks at home listening in, I just pray that you would challenge us and help us to learn from Abner's actions here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, I kind of gave the background already. David is uh king, and uh uh Abner is uh rising up a uh kind of a coup d'etat sort of against uh David He's got these other kingdoms going. The first thing we noticed was the opposition to God's anointing. And I'll just restate this, what we said before. Abner is not misunderstanding who's supposed to be king here. This is not some confusion or a mistake being made on Abner's part. He knows exactly that God has anointed David to be king. That has been made clear uh these many years when Saul was chasing David around. Saul acknowledged it on uh repeated occasions that God had anointed David to be king. So when Abner is rising uh up and getting Ishposeth, uh Saul's another one of Saul's sons, says, alright, he's the king Abner is doing nothing but rebellion. I think there's a little bit of revenge in here because David had pointed out Abner's failure as uh as captain of the host when he failed to protect Saul. David went down and got the sword, broke it. And so I think there's a little personal attitude here on the part of Abner, but it is absolutely rebellion against God. Now I want to pick up uh the first point here in the first several verses was the opposition to God's anointing, verse 8 down through verse 11. Now I want us to notice verse 12 through 14. I've I've uh this is the point I gave to that was I want us to notice the opponents. In this confrontation, you've got David, king of Judah, and Joab, his captain of his host. and his army. You've got Ishbazath, uh king, uh man appointed king of Israel, the other eleven tribes uh Joab, his captain of his host, and you have these two guys coming together. Now, we're not told how this meeting took place. If you would, look there at verse 12. It says um uh verse 12 and verse 13 says they met together by the pool of Gibeon. We don't know how this meeting came about. Um I got looking at it. I wonder, was it just coincidental they both happened to show up at this place at one time? Um could be Uh was this deliberate? Did they plan communicate ahead of time with each other and say, hey, let's uh get let's get together, let's sit down, talk this through, and see if we can't come to some sort of agreement Was it co coincidental or deliberate? I don't know. I think, this is my opinion, I think this is a scheme of Abner. I'm not convinced Joab knew about this taking place. I don't know, and again, this is all speculation on my part But I'm not convinced that Joab knew about this meeting. He may have been out on maneuvers or whatever. I could be completely wrong. But what I'm studying about Abner, Abner's a schemer And uh I can see Abner seeing what's going on. He says, all right, we're gonna go down and we're gonna be there. We're gonna meet him at this place. Um So whether it was a scheme of Abner, whether they agreed upon this, both of them agreed we're gonna meet, whether it just happened. I looked that word met up when it says that they met together by the pool of Gibeon. The word met simply means this to encounter one another. So that kind of gives me the impression that maybe it was unplanned. That this was just they happened to show up at this place together. I don't know. I don't know the answer to that. But I do know this. This is what we are told. We are told the two characters involved in this. First is Abner and the servants of Ishbasheth. Now, Abner, um, uh well, who were these servants Of Ishbazath and the servants of David. Are they just household servants? No, I don't think so. If we look at it and we see down later, these are probably military men. These are guys that are out on some sort of military maneuver. These aren't just people that are waiting on tables and cleaning carpets, running vacuum cleaners, and chauffeuring the kings around These are no doubt military men. And then we have Joab and the servants of David. Now, whether this was deliberate or whether it was coincidental, Abner used this to provoke David's men to conflict. There is no indication whatsoever that David was out after Abner. There's no indication that David was out to get Ishbasseth and take him down because I'm the rightful king. There's no indication of that at all. In fact If you remember, back at the beginning of chapter number two, we pointed out that David waited very patiently before he came in. He sought the Lord. He didn't come barging in and say, hey, I'm the anointed king. He waited on God's timing. He waited on the people till they recognized him in Judah. And so there's no indication that David is trying to uh go to war with Ispazeth. Abner is the one provoking this. Now if you would, take your Bibles and go with me to Proverbs chapter 25. Proverbs chapter 25, and I'd like for us to notice verse number 8. Proverbs 25 and verse number 8. I thought of this when I was studying Abner's actions here. And in Proverbs 25, verse 8, notice what the Bible says. Go not forth hastily to what? Strive. Uh what's what's he saying there? What's he say? Don't go not forth hastily to strive. What's he saying? How would you put that in your words? Somebody help me Don't be looking for fights. Don't be going out there looking for something. There's another passage in Proverbs that talks about he that taketh a dog by the ears. You know, just looking for trouble, just trying to stir up, provoke stuff. When I read when I was studying Abner, I thought about this verse. Be not hasty to go forth to strike. Now look at the verse. Notice what happens to those that are hasty uh to go forth to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end, when thy neighbour hath put thee to what? But to put thee to shame. You know what? You go out picking on fights. You might pick one with a dog bigger than you. And that's exactly what Abner does. And we read down through here, you study the rest of this chapter Amner's here poking uh David's military with a stick, and he's provoking them to fight, and he pays a heavy price When this is all said and done. I don't believe that Abner was a very competent military man The more I studied him, he failed to protect Saul from King David when David came down and took the sword. And David publicly rebuked him. I think that's stung. Or uh Abner. I think that got under his crawl, but he was publicly shown to have failed. And then, as I pointed out before, somehow Abner survives a battle that kills King Saul, kills Jonathan, Saul's son, and defeats the army, but the captain of the host is never mentioned in the battle, and somehow he survives that. Now I don't know. This is skeptical me, but I've got a sneaking suspicion that Abner failed in his duties, in fact, maybe completely backed out of that thing. and uh wasn't even involved in the battle at all. If anybody would have given their if anybody should have given their life for the king, it would have been the captain of the host He'd be the one the responsible of protecting the king. Yet somehow he comes out unscathed. Somehow he comes out not even mentioned. uh in the battle. Um and so I don't believe and the rest of the chapter and the rest of Abner's life really bears out the fact And I don't believe he's a very competent military man. You say, how in the world did he get to be captain of the hosts of Israel? powerful nation at that time, at least in that part of the world. How in the world did he get to that position? Anybody here ever watch the news or read articles and you wonder how in the world do these people get into these positions? Anyone know? How in the world do, excuse me, these morons get into these positions? I'm telling you, uh I think Abner was very slick talker I think he was a schemer. He was uh, I believe, a classic politician. He could work his way up that ladder and get into these key positions and yet be totally incompetent At what he was responsible for doing. I put this down. I put Abner was a slick talker, he was a shrewd man, and he was self-centered. And we'll see that. You know what I found out about self-centered people? They almost always overestimate their abilities. Self-centered people have a distorted view of their own greatness. And I think Abner goes into this provoking this battle with David and Joab and the armies of David. He's provoking this battle convinced. That he can defeat them, convinced that he can conquer them, and yet he has no reason to base that. He has no military conquest behind him And so self-centered people tend to almost always overestimate their abilities. So number one, I notice the characters involved in this conflict here We got Abner and you've got Joab. Very little said about Joab up to this point. Then I notice the challenge that is given here. Look with me at verse number 14. Let me get back here. Verse number 14, 2 Samuel. And Abner said to Joab, who's the one, who's the aggressor here? Talk to me. Abner. Abner's the one instigating what's about to take place. He's the one, he's the aggressor here. And Abner said to Joab, let the young man now arise And play before us. And Joab said, let them arise. Now this is the way I picture it in my mind. Uh you got the pool of Gilead here, or the pool of uh what was the name of it? Uh Gibeon, the pool of Gibeon here. One side you got Joab his men, the other side you got Abner and his men And I just picture Joab sitting over there just quiet. He's just watching what's happening. He's going to see what this guy's up to. And so finally Abner speaks up and he says, uh, hey, let's just get a few fellas And let them play before us. This was how I put this, the challenge that they agreed upon. The challenge that they agreed upon. First of all, it's Abner's a proposal. He suggests this. Now, what he's saying, let me tell you what he's saying here. He's saying, listen up, Joab, let's do it this way. I mean, you could feel the tension, you could cut it with a knife They were the these two men these two servants of David and Ishbazeth, they are on edge. I see them stand did you ever see the old westerns when it starts getting tense? The guy's hand goes down to the gun. Anybody know? Anybody over there? I love it. And uh he's down there, and you could just there's they're all going like this. You know, they're they're ready. They're just ready to go. And all of a sudden Abner speaks up and says, Hey Joab, I got a great idea Alright, let's let just a few, not everybody fight. Let's just get a couple guys from your side, a couple guys from my side. Later on we find out there's 12 each, and let them go out there and let them play And let them decide who the victor is. Rather than everybody getting all bloody and people getting killed and all that, we'll just put a few out there and let them play. How many people say that's a that's a interesting way to solve a conflict, two whole wars. You imagine us in Iran, and we say, all right, we'll just get our SEAL team six and You send some of your guys out, we'll let it fight out. Whoever wins settles it. I'd vote for that. But um uh so they're settling that. That's really not an unusual method back in this day That was fairly common for them to have two armies on hand, ready to go at it, but rather than breaking out in full b full bloody uh violent death war, they would say, let's just let a few go out and let them settle it. Can you think of any other place in the Bible where they did that exact same thing? And you think, David and Goliath is exactly what happened just several years earlier. Goliath went out and said, Send me one of your champions. If you if he beats me, then we'll be your servants. If I beat him, then you'll be our servants The problem with that is nobody was ever satisfied with whatever happened there. It always ended up in a war anyway. And so Adner suggests this. He initiates it. He's the aggressor here And he says, let's settle this thing, but let a few guys go out and play. Now, he uses that word play. How many people think that's kind of an unusual term for people going out and kill each other? The play I think that tells us a little bit about Abner's mindset. I think that tells us a little bit about Abner's values. He viewed apparently, and I looked the word play up, and it simply means to entertain, to produce laughter, to produce entertainment. He viewed the taking of lives As something that was just enjoyable to watch. Hey, let's let a couple guys get out there and play, and we'll just enjoy this, and when it's done, that'll settle our conflict and uh we'll be able to go on. I don't know about you, but that's an awfully morbid version of playing to me. There's a verse in Psalms, and I wish I had the reference. I didn't write it down. There's a verse in Psalms that says this. God hates violence. God hates violence. Anybody here ever notice what most movies are coming out of Hollywood today? The theme saturated. And the gorier it is, and the more graphic the violence, ah, the better, the more wonderful it is. I believe that is of the devil We're creating the image of God. Every life in the eyes of God is precious and valuable. Now, is there ever a place to take life? Yes, absolutely. God told us We we can defend ourselves. If we need to, we do go to war. He that sheddeth a man's blood, his blood shall be shed. And so there is a place for that. God does allow for that. But to view that as entertainment is not of God. You think back to the Roman Colosseums. where people would gather by the tens of thousands to see somebody murdered and dismembered, horribly killed, violently killed. And that was the mindset, I think, if I study this correctly, that's the mindset of Abner. And I don't know about you, but I see it in our world today. Just the fascination, obsession with blood and gore and violence. And so we see Abner's brutality here. This is a blood sport that he is viewing as play. Abner was willing to sacrifice lives for his own agenda. He wants to get revenge on David. He wants to be uh the the the the captain of the guard of the king of Israel. He wants a big name position and he's willing to sacrifice lives for it. Does that sound like anything that takes place in our world today where people are willing to sacrifice a life for their own well-being, so their own advancement in the world, so they can keep their jobs, so they can live their lifestyle. What do we call it? Abortion Abortion, that's exactly what uh uh the same concept, different application, but the same concept as Abner here And so his brutality. Self, pride and self will lead to violence. Pride and self lead to a low value of life. I like our memory verse. Look not on the own things, but also on the things of others. We live in a world, a sinful world. Where it's me, mine is number one highest priority. And whatever it costs you, it doesn't matter as long as I have fulfilled my agenda and I reach my goals. Dog eat What? Dog. That's Abner. That's Abner. Uh we see it in our streets. We see it in the abortion clinics. And so number one, we have the characters involved here, Abner and Joab. We're going to read and start learn more about them as David's life progresses. We have the challenge that they agree on. Send a couple guys out here and let them fight it out. And then we have the outbreak of violence. And from verse 15 down through verse 17, these guys get a hold of each other. The 12 on Abner's side, the 12 on Joab's side, and it looks to me like all 12 of them kill each other. They get a hold of each other, and they both stab each other, and next thing you know, you got 24 dead men laying out there Nothing has been accomplished. And so now they just go to full-blown war, that it just outbreaks, the tension finally runs over, the dam breaks. and these guys go at each other. And look with me if you would at the end of verse 17. And it says, Uh any battle's bad, but this one was apparently especially violent. It was a very sore battle that day, and Abner was what? beaten And the men of Israel before the servants of David. I put this down. Abner's rebellion leads to Abner's ruin. Now, Abner survives this again. Somehow he always comes out of these battles alive. He survives this again, but only for a little while, and this is the beginning of the end of Abner. And we'll see that in the coming studies. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Galatians chapter 6, and I'll end with this. Galatians chapter 6. And verse number 7. And here is one of those verses that I think is good to underscore in your Bible and it's good to memorize. Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 7. Are you there? You got it? Look what it says. Be not deceived. God is not what? Now listen to this last statement. This is a sobering statement. For whatsoever a man showeth, that shall he also what? Reap. And there's showing violence. He is sowing deception. He is sowing self-will, and he reaps what that brings. There is an unfailing wall of God, and that is this: whatsoever man soweth That shall we also reap. I hope you agree with me. That's kind of sobering. It's a sobering thought. What am I sowing? What what what's what's top priority in my life? My own agenda? Getting my way? Regardless of what it costs others? Or am I willing to die to self and look not on my own things, the things of others, die to self, put myself aside. What's the best of others? If Abner would have simply recognized God's will And submitted to that, how different the outcome would have been. But he hardened his neck, stiffened his neck and hardened his heart. He rebelled against God and it cost him. It ultimately cost him his life. Let's pray together.