2 Samuel chapter number 2 and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 8. I'm going to read down through verse number 11. Now actually it's this section would go from verse 8 down through verse 17, but um we're not going to do look at all that. I just want to look at one section here. Verse number eight I'll read down through verse 11. The Bible says this, but Abner, the son of Nur, captain of Saul's host, took Ish Bosheth. the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim, and made him king over Gilead. And over the Asherites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. Ishbosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel and reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David. And in that time, in the time that David was king in Hebron, and the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years. and six months. I want to speak. Title of the Message tonight is kind of ironic. Jamie and I were talking what's going on in our country right now, but uh I want to speak on competition for the throne of Israel There's competition. David's been anointed by the tribe of Judah to be king. Of course, God anointed him ten years earlier, but now the tribe of Judah has recognized David as king, God's choice They anoint him publicly. But Abner, he competes for this throne. He contests it and he challenges it And so uh we're going to get started in looking at this event here in the life of David. Let's pray together and uh ask the Lord to bless our study night. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that we can come to you and pray wherever we are, whatever our circumstance is. that uh we can come boldly to the throne of grace because of what Christ did on the cross for us. And I ask now, Lord, that you would bless our study of your word. I thank you for folks that uh have made an effort to be a part of the service tonight and in uh unusual times something it's a little difficult but I pray you'd help us put the distractions aside. Help us to focus on your word and your will for our lives And I pray with all my heart, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew and pray that you speak through me and that our hearts and minds would be open to your will for us. So bless us, Lord. Help us to go forward. Help us to grow. Help us to be strong, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. For ten years, as I just mentioned, God has been preparing David for the throne of Israel. For David to be on the throne of Israel. He's gone through trials, he's learned lessons His faith has been challenged and tested. And now Israel, uh, or Judah, I should say. has um recognized David as God's choice to be the next king of Israel. Now I think this role that David God has preparing him for to be sit on this throne Was perhaps is perhaps the most prestigious and important position that any man has ever held. He's going to sit on the throne of Israel, God's people. But not only that, David is establishing, I should say, God, through David, is establishing this throne in preparation for the coming King of Kings. The coming uh king of Israel in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is not just some political position that David uh has been chosen of God for. This is not just some office he's holding for a period of time. This is perhaps the most important position than any man has ever held in all of the history of mankind, establishing the throne of David for someday when Jesus Christ would sit on that throne. That's important to understand that. Saul and Jonathan have been killed in battle with the Philistines. We've noted that. One of the twelve tribes of Israel has recognized that God has anointed David to be the next king. They publicly acknowledge that, as I just said, by anointing David publicly. And David is now king. At least for Judah, not all of Israel at this point yet, he's king, but his trials are not over. If you would, look with me at verse number 8. Now, if you've got a pen there or a pencil, I want to suggest maybe mark these first two words. Verse number 8. I did. I circled them in my Bible. But Avner. David has come back to Judah. He prayed. He waited on God. God directed him to come back to Judah. He's brought his family with him. He's brought all his men that were his associates through all this for the last uh eight, ten years, their households. He's brought them with them. They've established themselves, their anointed king. Everything is going great He everything is exactly as God intended. At this point, David's trusting the Lord. He's in position. And then you have those two words in verse number 8. But Abner I taken this section down through verse 17. This is how I've outlined it. We're just going to look at the first thought tonight. But I uh look at verse uh 8 through 11, and uh I put this down, opposition to God's anointing. The opposition to God's anointing. Verse 8 through 11. Then verse 12 through 14, I notice the opponents In confrontation. You've got Abner and you've got Joab. We'll see this in another study. They come together in this opposition to God's anointing. They meet together. And they have a bit of a counsel or discussion. And then verse number 15 through 17, you have a total outbreak of violence So David's king, he's established, Judah has recognized him, he's got his family together, he's not running from Saul. He's pretty uh established, pretty secure here. Uh uh But Abner steps up. Opposition begins. Here's our first thought is I want us to notice the opposition to God's anointing. Now, the first thing under that is this: the presence of Abner. But Abner. Um, God's greatest asset in the kingdom of God, in the work of God, God's greatest asset is people. That's what God's greatest asset is, is people. It's not gold. Um a church or ministry can have the biggest budget you can imagine. But if there aren't people yielded to the Lord, submissive to the Lord, for God to use, that gold does no good. God's greatest asset is not some programs. Now God use, I mean we use programs. We have various programs here at Mountain Lake, Master Clubs, Teens Alive, use Bible Time. We have different programs we use soul-winning training programs, those types of things. But I want to suggest to you, God doesn't use programs, He uses people And sometimes people can benefit from a program to help us, but God uses people. It's not his greatest asset isn't a program. You can have the greatest program in the world But if there's nobody submissive to the Lord, nobody willing to trust and obey God, that program doesn't go anywhere. So God's greatest asset is not gold, it's not programs, it's not facilities Now I thank God for facilities. I'd pray every day we can get back in here and get these facilities filled with people We're praying, and I hope you're praying to get our new Children's Youth Activity Center built and get some more facilities that we can use. But that's not God's greatest asset. You can there's churches that have just tremendous facilities, but they're not trusting the Lord. The people aren't aren't obeying God. So God's greatest asset is people. People, that's who God uses. That's his greatest asset. Eat and bounds. Tremendous author on prayer. I highly recommend that you get and read uh Ian Baum's books on prayer. He has a number of them. I've got a one volume set. It's tremendous. I read it over and over and over. I was reading it the other day Uh and he made this statement. Ian Bowls made this statement. He said, Man is looking for better methods. But God is looking for better men. Men are God's methods The point I'm trying to make is this. God's greatest asset in his kingdom, in his cause, in the gospel, the great commission in the church, his greatest asset is people Uh Jesus says, uh, he says, um, he says, look on the fields. Uh he says, the harvest is great. But notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say the harvest is great, but the finances are few. He didn't say that. That's not the issue. That's not what he uses, the finances. He doesn't say the harvest is great, but the weather is terrible. Um, you know, there's people up in the Arctic Circle, bitter cold, uh, that are lost and need the gospel. Not because the weather's bad, but because there's no preachers to go there. I thank God for Brother Gary Forney and his ministry up to the Arctic Circle. I'm glad God calls people to go up there. God bless them. But it's people that it's the lack of people. that uh hinders people getting saved. So he said, look on the fields. He says the harvest is great, but he didn't say the finances are few. He didn't say the harvest is great, but the weather is terrible. He didn't say this, the harvest is great, but the Democrats are in office. He doesn't say that at all. It doesn't matter what the political party is, doesn't matter what the weather is, doesn't matter what the finances are. God uses people. He says the harvest is great, but the what? The laborers are few. So God's greatest asset in his kingdom, in his cause. Is people. That's who he calls. That's who he uses. Now, having said that, I need to say this also: God's greatest liability. in his kingdom. God's greatest liability in his cause in the Great Commission is people. His people. Again, it's not circumstances or weather or political parties that hinder God accomplishing what he wants to accomplish, it's the unwillingness of his people to trust him and obey him. Well, you can see that all through Scripture. All through Scripture, the one thing that did the most harm to God's cause, that did the most to hinder God's plans, was people. All through scripture you find it. People, people, people, and that's what we find here. David's on the throne for Judah. Things are in place. Everything at this point seems to be going well. But Abner, right off the bat, a man steps up and begins opposition. Right about the time maybe David was Taking a breath and finally I'm not running from Saul. I don't have all that. Finally, what God has said would take place is in place. Now things are going to run smoothly. But Abner And right off the bat, you have this man show up and begins bringing opposition to David. Now, who is this guy, Abner? Did a little study on Abner here If you'll notice there, verse number eight, it says, but Abner, the son of Nur. Now Nur was Saul's uncle. Saul's dad and Nur were brothers. So that would make Abner and Saul cousins. There was a blood tie here between Abner and King Saul. And so that may be a factor in this opposition. He's family. Maybe there's loyalty to family. Abner was also the captain of Saul's army. Again, verse number eight. But Abner, the son of Nur, captain of Saul's host. And so he held a very significant position in Saul's administration. He was captain of the host, captain of the army. Now, here's where it starts getting interesting. As the captain of the Saul's host, now think with me, he's the captain of Saul's host. How is it that in the battle with the Philistines, just two chapters earlier, how is it that King Saul and his son Jonathan are killed in battle on the battlefield? But Abner is not. He's the captain of the host. His primary responsibility is to keep that king safe. If anybody is going to lose their life on the battlefield, it would be the captain of the host before the king would die. Now that raises a question in my mind, why how is Abner still around? Why in the world did he escape harm? when the man his life is committed to protecting is killed along with his son. Um take your Bible with me And come back to verse 1 Samuel chapter 26. Now we're going to look at this here again a little bit. This is going to be an issue. 1 Samuel chapter 26, and look with me if you would at verse 15. This is where David had gotten the spear from Saul while Saul was sleeping. And David calls out and says, oh, Saul, you're chasing me. And he confronts Saul there from a distance. And look in verse number 15. 1 Samuel 26. Look what David says to Abner. And David said to Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? And who is like to thee in Israel? Alright, you've got a name, you've got a reputation, Abner. Wherefore then hast thou not kept thy Lord the king? For thou not uh for then um for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord. This thing is not good that thou hast done, Abner. He's rebuking Abner. As the Lord liveth, you are worthy to die, because you have not kept your master, the Lord's anointed. Come. In fact, when David took this spear, Abner failed in his responsibility to protect King Saul. David could have killed King Saul easily. And Abner's responsibility is to keep that from happening. And he did not fulfill his responsibility. Now, here we are, a little while later. King Saul has been killed on the battlefield along with Jonathan, and somehow Abner survived that. Now I don't know the answer to that I could be completely wrong in my speculation, but I'm wondering, did Abner flee from that battle? Did he abandon his king and his responsibility? when he saw the situation was turning against them. I don't know. Um I know he failed previously in protecting King Saul I'm wondering was Abner, for all his reputation and for this great position he held, I'm wondering if Abner maybe was incompetent in his ability fulfill his responsibility as captain of the host. Now I don't know the answer to that. I'm speculating, but I do find it interesting that Saul the king, his son, are both killed in the battlefield, yet the captain of the hosts is still alive and and well. And so that's this fella Abner. So David's on his throne, he's got his family, things He can breathe easy for a moment, but Abner steps up and he begins this opposition. So we have this uh the presence of Abner here, but then we have the promotion of Ish Basheth. Now I've been practicing that word for a week, that name. Ishbasheth. Ishbasheth. So you work on it home there and try and get that right. Look at verse nine. And made him, uh the uh the end of verse number eight. Abner, the son of Nur, captain of host, took Ishbaseth, the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahe Mahanayim. Now this was the city across the Jordan, away from David. He in He got him in a safe place here, and made him king over Gilead, and over the Asherites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. Question, who made Ishbaseth king over all of these tribes of Israel. Who made them? It was Abner. Wasn't God? It wasn't even Ishbaseth. He wasn't, as far as we know, he wasn't pursuing this So who is this guy, Ishbasheth? He was a son of Saul, but his name is interesting. The meaning of his name, Ishbaseth, means this: a man of shame. Now, what a name to carry around What a name to be known by, a man of shame. Many times in the Old Testament names have significance beyond just identification. They would often uh indicate the character of the person who had that name. And so here he is, the son of Saul, a man of shame. As we look at him And we'll see this in coming studies. He's a very weak man, and by that I mean weak in character. Um he was a puppet of Abner. We'll see that as we study here a little bit later on Man, uh Abner just played this guy. Abner was using him. Just a puppet of Abner. He was a foolish man. We know we're sure of that. In fact, and we won't turn there, but in 1 Chronicles chapter 8, verse 35. There he's given, he has a little different name he was known by. He had two names he was known by. In Chronicles, he was known by as Esh Baal. And it simply means this, a man of Baal. Now, what do we know about Baal? Baal was a false god Baal was an idol of the pagans, of the uh Philistines and others. Uh he was just uh an idol, a meaningless, wicked idol. He was very perverse to worship And here, Ishbazeth, the son of King Saul, is identified with this false God, this perverse, wicked worship. of an idol. He was, apparently, we take from that, he was a very wicked man, a very foolish man to leave the worship of the true and living God And worship this wicked, wicked, false idol. And so he was a foolish man, a worshiper of a false god, and um easily used by Abner. And let me say this: easily used by Satan. There's more going on here than just Abner challenging this throne. This is Satan making a very direct threat against the throne that Jesus one day will sit upon, the position that Jesus will one day hold. And so a weak, wicked, self-centered, foolish man is just putty in the hands of the devil If you would, notice in verse number nine, it says, and Abner took the Ishbasath and made him king over Gilead and over Asherites and over Jezreel, over Ephraim, over Benjamin, over all Israel. Now, it sounds like they're all gung-ho. Sounds like, yeah, we want Ishmazzeth to be our king. But I don't think that was necessarily the case. I think again, Abner, because of his relationship uh uh his family relationship with King Saul because of his position as captain of the host, these people kind of fell in line, but not necessarily enthusiastically. Look over at chapter 3 And verse number 17. Here we have an Abner communicated. This is after he dumps Ishbash. This is down the road of ways. We'll look at this in a future lesson. But in verse number 17, Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, Ye sought for David in times past to be king over you. Now then do it. Abner got disgusted with Ishbashath over one of the concubines there. We'll look at that. He pushes him aside and he comes back to the uh Israel, these other twelve uh other eleven tribes And he says, Hey, you guys wanted David to be king in the first place. You know what I think? I think when Abner came around saying, Hey, we're going to make Ispof king instead of David, I think these other tribes went and followed him, but Reluctantly. I don't think they uh they knew David was anointed of God. That was very clear to all of Israel. But yet Isberseth used his position, his influence To get these folks to do something that I believe in their own hearts and minds knew wasn't right. So, number one, we have the presence of Abner shows up, but Abner Then we have the promotion of Ishbash. Abner puts him up in this position as king. And then last of all, we notice the purpose of the opposition. Look with me at verse number 11. And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. So David's, for seven years and six months, David's king, but just over the tribe of Judah. Abner, during this time, apparently it took a little while. uh for him to get this coalition together and get uh these guys agreeing to make Ishbash their king He's working on this over a period of time. But the question came up as I was studying this, what was Abner's motive To challenge David, to confront David, this uh the throne. What was his motive to use Ishpaze to challenge David? Uh now I'll be first tell you we're not told. We don't know. The Bible doesn't say what his motive was, so we study it and look at it, and uh we make some speculation. I think we can learn some things from this. Number one, I think there's two reasons. I think he had two motives here, perhaps, or two observations about it anyway. The first one is this. I think it was personal revenge against David I think Abner hated David just as much as Saul did. I think there was bitterness in Abner's heart towards David. And the reason I say that is because of what we read in chapter 26. back in 1 Samuel, when David publicly rebuked Abner for failing to fulfill his responsibility to protect protect uh King Saul. I think that got under King uh I think that got under Abner's skin. I think that ate at him. I think that that point on, he was probably already poisoned in his thinking about David from King Saul, his cousin. But at that point, I believe Abner established, perhaps established bitterness in his heart, and he saw here's an opportunity. to um uh get revenge on David by challenging his position on the throne. Now whether that's the case or not, uh I do know this. The next statement I do know is true. And that is this. This was blanton rebellion against God. Um maybe it was a personal revenge against David That may or may not be the case, I think it was, but I know this. This was blanton, absolute rebellion against God. Abner was not mistaken. This was not some misunderstanding on Abner's part that, boy, I wonder who the king really should be. It probably should be the son of King Saul. No, no, no, no. He knew God had anointed David. All of Israel knew that. In fact, he references it later on that God had chosen David to be king. He knew full well that David was God's choice for this position, and this was intentional, inexcusable rebellion against the clear, known will of God. I put this down. His rebellion was intentional. It was inexcusable. And I put this: it was futile. I am going to lose every time that I rebel against God. You study your Bible carefully, you look at history, you look at experiences around, some of us from our own personal experience. Every time we rebel against God, every time we raise our fists, not physically, but in our will and in our heart, and we say, No, I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to do what I want. I'm going to lean on my understanding. Every single time it produces anger, it produces frustration, and it produces death eventually. I tell you, I really don't want to dwell on what's going on in our country now. I want to keep our eyes on the Lord right now. Pray for our country. We are praying. But I tell you, as you see a nation as a whole Rebelling against the clear will of God concerning abortion, concerning marriage, concerning the home, concerning any number of things You have a nation that rebels against the declared known will of God. You find a nation that is angry. You find a nation that is violent. You find a nation that is frustrated. You find a nation that is killing itself and dying. Because of rebellion against God. It's the sin of witchcraft. I've seen it in the hearts and lives of Christians, young and old. They get set in their will, they harden their hearts. And rebel against the known will of God. And I'll tell you, it's just a matter of time until it destroys them. The best way to, the best life to live The best, some guy wrote a book, your best life now. I'll tell you what your best life now is, submit my will to God's will To yield myself to him, present to him my body, a living sacrifice. God says it, ah, that settles it. I'm going to believe it and trust him. Abner, but Abner, he's rebelling against God. He knew David was in the position God had chosen him to be in. But Abner rebelled against God. I don't know about you, but I don't want to be a butt abner. I would never, I pray, as I was preparing this, I paused and prayed to God and asked God, God, I pray it would never be said. But Dennis. God's will is being done. God is blessing. God's doing a work. But Dennis rebelled against God Disobey God. I would hate for that to be said about anybody in our church, any member of our church. God is blessing. God's hand is there. We're trusting the Lord. We're fulfilling his will, seeking to get the gospel into all the world, fulfill the great commission, but so-and-so rebelled against God I tell you, uh, I would hate for that to be said about me. Satan is using Abner, I believe, to corrupt the throne of David. And perhaps in Satan's mind trying to hinder the coming of Jesus Christ who will sit on that throne someday. But Abner, but Abner. Ecclesiastes chapter 9 and verse number 18 says this. One sinner destroyeth much good. I tell you, God had everything in place. David was in the position, but one sinner, but Abner. Stepped up and brought great grief and many, many people died. Like I just said, I don't want it to be, I don't want there to be a butt dentist about me I don't want there to be but Matt, Pastor Matt, or but Mark, or but Jamie, or but anybody. I want us to trust the Lord and be yielded to Him. And follow his clear and distinct will. What is God's will for you? God lays it out for us. And so I want to challenge all of us as a church and all of us as individuals, those that have tuned in I hope you listen through this. And let's just ask the Lord to help us to be tender-hearted. Let's ask the Lord to help us not to allow bitterness or envy or self-will Get down in our heart and soul, and the problems that would bring. Oh, Abner, but Abner, I circled those words. And let's pray it not be said about any one of us. Father in heaven, we thank you for what you have done for us in saving our soul We thank you for what you've done in our church all these many years, soul saved and baptized, the influence of missionaries out around the world. Lord, help us to trust you and obey you and walk in submission to your clear, revealed will in your word. I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen.