Thank you. We're both nervous. Anybody say that? Give your Bibles turn to 2nd Corinthians. Appreciate uh your past. I didn't know your pastor was going to be here. Our pastor. I should say our pastor. And um I did not know he was not going to be here this evening. And uh I don't know if he tricked me or I just forgot and didn't listen. But uh anyway it's a blessing to be here to this evening. It's a blessing to be in this church. I told Pastor Leatherman the reason why uh you know why why you're coming down to Mountain Lake and uh I told him because God's here. Don't take that for granted. God's here. God's doing something like Brother Derek was saying. I mean if you get pumped up about being in the church, um there's there's something wrong. God is God is here. God's meeting with you folks. And uh meeting with us. And uh we ought not to take that for granted. And uh, you know, I think Mountain Lake, when I first came here, was the perfect church. I mean you have the perfect people, you got people that love uh you're a the pa their pastor, I mean they're going slow wedding, they have programs, youth. I mean you have people that just love the youth and then I met Brother Ed And I was like, okay, maybe they're not as perfect as I I thought they were, so praise the Lord that there's still people God's working on. You're welcome. And I guess they were talking earlier, they have the substitute teacher in tonight. So I know how you work with substitute teachers, so turn crank the heat up, take the offering, throw it out there, give it back to 'em. And uh Lit the church or whatever you need to do. No, just kidding, don't do that. And uh when you have a substitute teacher, you do whatever you want, right? And uh so if you want to speak in tongues or whatever you're doing, you just do your thing Because the substitute teachers in tonight, but uh but it's a blessing to be here. Good to be with you folks. Um I also believe, and do you believe God speaks to people through dreams? Well, don't answer that. Uh I had a I had a dream and I went to heaven and uh saw Brother Derek there and he was handcuffed by the ankle and by the arm to this now you're allowed to be a little bit um I guess bad during a during a joke right so he was there handcuffed to this ugly woman I mean she was she was pretty ugly, Brother Derek. And uh and I was in heaven and I and I said, Brother Derek, I mean what what's this all about? He said Well, I had some unconfessed sin, and so God has me handcuffed with this woman for about ten years until uh till I'm forgiven. And then I saw Brother Jerry. He's not here. Well, we'll make it Brother Ken. And then I saw Brother Ken. And Brother Ken was handcuffed by the arm and by the ankle. This I mean sh this this woman was she just nagging and talking and I mean you couldn't get anything and I mean she was just not a very pleasant woman at all And uh I said, Brother Kim, what's this all about? He said, Well, I have some unconfessed sin, and so for about uh three years I have to be handcuffed to this this lady here. And uh and then I saw a couple off to the side And I thought, Oh, this is strange. I see Brian and Sandy there. I said, Oh that's that's nice. You guys both made it to heaven. That was great. And I said, Well it's good seeing you folks. And Sandy said, You know I have some unconfessed sin. Anyway. I love love you folks. Lotta times my jokes aren't they don't get 'em. But Anyway, I appreciate you folks. Second Corinthians chapter ten. Second Corinthians chapter ten. Um I want us to look at the Bible and uh and use it practically tonight. I really want to focus on one verse. I'm going to read the whole chapter so we get the gist of what's going on here and uh 2 Corinthians chapter ten. But there's no doubt that people will uh admit um that apostle paul is probably one of the greatest Christians ever lived. Um just an amazing man how God turned him from the Hitler of his day to a an amazing uh preacher and man of God It goes to tell you that, I mean you look at these little kids and some people say, wow, you know, they're they're bad kids. You know, I we've got to ride the um we've got to drive um uh a van for church and we did uh the bus ministry as well and we went did that at Faith Baptist Church as well as Clear Ridge when we were there. And uh you know you look at the kids and and you know what? You You don't realize what Apostle Paul was before he got saved. Apostle Paul was nothing like the kids we have blessings in this church. And uh, you know, we we've got been able to see kids that that did not know the Lord, did not have parents that cared about the Lord, to grow up to love the Lord and and change and see God do a work in their lives. And uh the Apostle Paul, when you read him, you've got to realize his past so you can understand what he's talking about many times. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Let's start in verse 1. It says, Now I, Paul myself, beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who in presence am base among you, but being absent and bold toward you. But I beseech you that I may not be bold when I am present with that confidence wherewith I think to be bold against some. which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations in every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God and bringing bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. And having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled, do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man trust to himself that he is Christ, let him of himself think this again, that as he is Christ, even so are we Christ. For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority which the Lord hath given us for edification and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed. that I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters. For his letters, say they are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible Let such in one think this, that, such as we are in the Word by letters when we are absent, such will we be also indeed when we are present. For we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure as though we reach not unto you. For we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ. Not boasting of things without our our measure, that uh that is, of uh other men's labors, but having hope when your faith is increased, that we shall uh be enlarged by you according to our uh our rule abundantly. To preach the gospel in the regions beyond, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand. But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. For not uh he that commendeth himself to approve, uh but when but whom the Lord commendeth In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, I want us to focus really on one verse as you see him preaching to the people at Corinth. I want us to focus on verse 12. For we dare not make ourselves of a number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. But they, measuring themselves by themselves, In comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. I preach a message entitled Comparing Themselves Among Themselves. Paul was talking to the people of Corinth. And he was rebuking really the false teachers that came in after he led folks to Christ. and uh and started to work there in Corinth, which we know is a ri a wicked port city. I mean it was the political pretty much the capital of its time and the uh economic uh uh uh uh uh uh powerhouse at that time And uh but it was very wicked, a lot of prostitution, witchcraft, and and uh a lot of false religions. And and as he led some folks to Christ, um these false teachers came in. And they will made themselves look good comparing themselves with the people of Corinth. I'm just gonna tell you there's a danger in that. Comparing themselves Among themselves. Let's think about that as we pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, we love you. God, we so desperately need you. And God, I'm asking you to do something supernatural tonight. God, I pray, first of all, that you'll be with our pastor as he preaches and presents. the message, Lord, for the missions conference. May that church get on fire for the things of missions and seeing people saved in the foreign countries, Lord. God I'm asking for us as well here that you'll meet with us and that you'll show us truth tonight That we'll remember and take with us, Lord, that we'll apply it to our lives. Help us, Lord, to each look at ourselves and not point fingers tonight. God, I'm praying for your power. In Jesus' name. Amen. Comparing themselves among themselves. Now, Corinth was the political and commercial center of Greece and known for great wickedness and immorality. And as we turn back to Acts chapter 18 real quick. Acts chapter eighteen. Just a couple books to your left, right before Romans. Why don't you look at a couple verses? Look at verse 9. The Bible says in Acts chapter 18, verse 9: Then spake the Lord to Paul. in the night by a vision. Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace, for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee, for I have much people in this city And he continued there a year and six months teaching the Word of God among them. So Apostle Paul in the town of Corinth He spent about a year and a half preaching and teaching and seeing people saved and baptizing folks and trying to get a work started in Corinth. Now we have 2 Corinthians chapter 10, and we see a letter that Paul's writing, and you'll see that people are challenging him and challenging even his authority. To the people. He even feared for his life and goodwill. And that's why God said, Be not afraid. But speak and hold not thy peace. So these folks must have had some uh uh gave him threats and and bodily threats and maybe even uh death threats and and uh he so God uh calmed him down and said, Fear not Be not afraid, for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee. For I have much people in this city. So all there though there were many that would receive Christ. There are also others that would oppose Paul and even question who he uh where his uh authority came from. The verse 8 in our text back in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority Which the Lord hath given us for edification and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed. Paul made it very clear where his authority came from. It came from God. It was not self-given. Then Paul criticized these folks, these false teachers, who tried to prove how great they were by comparing themselves with others. I want you to think about that. They tried to prove how great they were by comparing themselves with somebody else. Comparing themselves among themselves. Folks, uh I found out that there's always some area of my Christian walk. And this is not braggadaceous, but there's someplace in my Christian walk that I'm better than somebody else. And I also found in that same area that there's somebody better than me. See, we all can, if we want to be like these false teachers, we all can find somebody spiritually weaker in an area than we are. We can also find people that are spiritually stronger in those areas But there's a danger when we take ourselves and compare ourselves with somebody else. If I take myself and compare myself to a child, maybe somebody that comes on the bus or somebody that just newly was saved, and we compare ourselves with them and say, We're okay There is a danger with that. It's also a danger for a teenage child or even a child that's been saved for a couple years that compares themselves to somebody else that may just start going to church I want you to turn to first Peter chapter two Trying to lay the groundwork before we get into the message. First Peter chapter two Look at First Peter chapter two, chapter two, verse twenty-one. It says, For even Hereunto were ye called. 2 Peter 2, verse 21. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. Who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committeth himself to him that judges righteously Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness by whose stripes we Ye were healed, for ye were as sheep going astray, but are now returned unto shepherd and bishop of your souls See, folks, we're not supposed to compare ourselves with others. We're supposed to compare ourselves with Christ. See, we do ourselves a disservice, and we are, I'm telling you, we will be in a heap of trouble in our Christian walk if we compare ourselves with others. Because what we'll do, we'll find the weakness of somebody else and compare ourselves to them in those weak areas Instead of comparing ourselves to Christ, is this water for me? Or is this here since Tuesday? Praise the Lord. Ice is still there, so good sign. It's still cold. That's good. So we must be careful that we don't compare ourselves with others. Verse 12 of our text in 2 Corinthians 10, Paul criticizes these false teachers for comparing themselves with others, and that they are not wise. Do you want to be a wise Christian tonight? How about you compare yourself with Christ and don't worry about anybody else? Even if you are a new Christian. Don't compare yourself to the pastor. Compare yourself to Jesus Christ. Because you know a new person, I mean a new Christian that just got saved. They can be just as right with God, whether they're chewing, smoking, spitting, cussing, whatever, they can be just as right with God as the person that's 40 years in the ministry and serving God and going soul winning. They could be just as right with God if they just got saved. Because we're supposed to grow in Christ. You've got to give that person time. You know, there's nothing worse than a stagnant Christian. So if we're comparing ourselves with others, I'm telling you folks, you will be in a heap of trouble and you will have a hard time. Keep growing for Christ. We're supposed to compare ourselves with Christ. He's our example. You know, when I grew up uh and started getting when I got right with God and and and God started working on me, I already had three years of secular college Went to Lebanon Bible College for two years, then went to IUP in the University of Pennsylvania for a year. And then uh and uh and then I went off to Bible College. And I was seeing some preachers and I was intimidated. What did I get myself into? I was in a Bible college full of uh PKs. Anyone know what a PK is? Are you a PK? Hey, who's a PK here? Preacher's kid. I mean, uh these all these preachers, I mean, they love God. Or do they? Well I was always comparing myself to them instead of realizing where God had me and he was trying to get me to grow and take that next step and take that next step in that next step. They went to Christian school and they they learned. I mean, who was the Apostle Paul? I knew somebody in the New Testament going to Bible college and that's all I didn't know a lot. I mean, folks, it was intimidating. Guys, I had to realize that God had me in a place God had to work on me. There's some things he had to chisel out, and he's still chiseling those. And I had to stop comparing myself with everybody else and realize God had me in a place and had me in a ministry that's different than somebody else And Paul criticized these false teachers for what they've done. So I want to look at some areas, and I don't have a poem at the end of this at the end of this, but uh at the end of this message, but I have three points and I want to look at three different areas of our life. I'm gonna talk to uh and I teach the I'm gonna tell you I love this young marriage class. I love it. It's just a blessing And uh if you're a part of that young marriage class, trust me. I get up in the morning sometimes just thank thank God I get to teach a young marriage class. I appreciate those folks who come. But I want to look at uh what about our spouses I'm going to tell you something. I want to be sober a little bit tonight. Be careful comparing your spouse with another spouse I'm not talking about immorality. I'm just talking about be careful comparing your wife or your husband with another wife and husband. We should not compare our wise with somebody else's wife. You don't know what that woman is like. She may be totally something in public and totally different in the home. Do you realize that uh you know You don't have to uh spend all of your time with anybody else, pretty much, except for your wife or your husband. You know all their ins and outs, you know all their weaknesses And you look at it you w w you and women, same thing. You look at a man and say, Man, he has it all together, he's nice his wife, and you don't know what that man's like when he goes home. You be careful comparing your marriage with somebody else's marriage. You don't know the baggage that those other homes have. Well, our marriage is great compared to, careful with that. You don't know what they have dealt with. You don't know what type of upbringing they had. You don't know what type of parents they grew up under. That man might not have had a godly father to train him and teach him how to be a godly husband. That woman may not have been raised in a godly home to Teach her how to be a godly woman. You don't know what type of sin she came out of or he came out of. You be careful comparing your marriage with somebody else's marriage. There's some things that we have to look at. If the best thing to look at is Jesus Christ in the church, the perfect example. Jesus Christ as the husbandman and the church as the bride. That's who we should compare ourselves with. I don't know if you guys remember the first Sunday school class, Young Mary's class. Remember what I said the first thing? About me? I just want to let you know. I said I I just want you to know what I say I'm the perfect husband, perfect father, and I forget what else, three things I was a perfect husband, perfect father, and something else, perfect teacher or something like that. And I said, I hope that's the last three lives I tell you in this class And I thought I'm not teaching a class because I'm perfect. Others marriage is a lot better than ours in the in in the church. It's just you know, that's just where God had me at that time. But if I ever take my wife and I compare myself and compare our marriage to somebody else's marriage, we will be in a heap of trouble That's not what God wants us to do. And it is unwise. Man, I wish my marriage was like their marriage. Really? Be careful with that. You don't know what type of home they were raised in. You don't know what's happening in a home. You're not with them twenty-four hours a day. Boy, they could look shining as a bell when they come to church. When they go home, it could be MMA. I don't know. For some of you folks who don't know what that is, don't don't ask. Be careful comparing your your marriage and your spouse with somebody else. Do you realize that there's, and I know this is hard to believe, but there's no man that's perfect. I know you women have a hard time believing that, but there some of us men sometimes doubt that, and but uh but there's no man that's perfect. But just because you see a man open the door for his wife doesn't make that man any better than the man that God gave you. All the M man said. No, just kidding. Um But we'll look at something that uh you know us ladies we us You ladies will look at these men and you see what they do and how kind they are. They do in kind acts for their wife and say, Man, I wish my husband would do that. And you don't realize some of the things he does do for you He gets up out of bed, works, brings a paycheck home. He loves you. He's faithful to you. He cares about you. He prays for you. Yet we have this one area that we saw somebody else do We say, well I wish I had that. Of course men will see ladies and and see how uh they uh are towards their husbands and we say, boy I wish my wife was like that. Careful. We ought not compare ourselves with ourselves. There's a danger in that. Apostle Paul was talking to these false teachers, and that's exactly what they did. They took their righteousness and compared themselves with the people. We're better than them. See, some of us might or should have a better marriage than others because of our upbringing. Sometimes in our spiritual walk, we ought to be at a higher level than what we are You may say, if I just had that lady. Have you ever thought how great uh uh um how great can that uh woman be if she is willing to commit uh adultery with a married man. Now listen to what I'm saying. A man might say, I wish I had that. But if that woman was so great, why is she flirting with a man that's married? If that man's so great That is willing to uh cheat with you, well, what kind of man is that? How much does he respect women if he's flirting with a married woman? Be careful, because comparing your marriage to somebody else can lead into some pretty uh wicked sin. You ought to thank God for the we ought to thank God here at Mount Lake for the women that we have. There's nothing, and I'm going to tell you something, ladies, there's nothing more precious in a man's eye than a godly lady. And man, there's nothing more precious in a woman's eye than a godly man. Turn to 2nd, well, you don't have to turn there. 2 Samuel chapter 11, we know the story David was the king. In 2 Samuel chapter 11, we know the sin of David with Bathsheba. He was married. I mean, he could have married any maiden or any single lady in the country, but he wanted that which was off limits. Why do you think our marriage would be better with somebody else? See, adultery comes from uh comparing what we have now to what we wish we did have. And then we mess the whole thing up Comparing ourselves among themselves. So we ought not compare our marriage or our spouse with another spouse, but I want us to look at something else a little bit more broad. I want to think about our families. Number two, what about our families? Parents toward their children? Or what about children towards their parents? If we parents compare our children with other children, uh we're not wise parents. Do you realize, I don't know if you realize this, but children are different. We only have two kids. My soul, they're totally two different people You have children here tonight, more than one, you could probably say, you know what, they are they are two they are polar opposites many times They could be twins and they could be totally different. Do you realize that they have different pers personalities? They have different peer pressures. They have different struggles. They have different strengths. And they're in the same family. Why do we think it's any different with our kids than somebody else's kids? Now, it's not this church, but I was a part uh we were a part of church one time where everybody was comparing their kids with somebody else's kids and I I I did I didn't want to be a part of all that and some people would compare their kids with how great somebody else's kids are or how bad their kids are. You better be careful with that. And you better be careful saying, I wish you were more like Johnny. We ought not compare our kids and we ought not compare our kids in front of them with other kids. Now it might be some personality traits, might be some traits and some good uh things that they do that and you may say you know you ought to toughen up or you may uh you know mean more girly or something like that you may want to uh talk about different traits but you better be careful comparing your children with somebody else's children It's not wise to compare our families. Listen, here kids, teenagers, young kids, don't compare your parents with other parents Well Johnny's dad gets to let him. Sally's mother allows her to Kids, believe it or not, just as much as you are a blessing in an answer to prayer and a God giving child given child to your parents. Your parents are given to you as well by God. There was a girl in Bible college, and she wanted to get married, and her parents weren't in agreement to it. But they're already engaged and she realized that it was a it wouldn't be a God-honoring message or or marriage if she would marry the guy and she actually shut it down. It hurt. Hurt her, hurt him, but she knew that although her parents I don't I don't even think they were saved. They may have been saved, but they were not right with God at the time. And that was the statement she said, Well they're not right with God, or they're not saved. And she ended up not marrying the guy because she knew that her parents were given to her by God for a reason. I remember when I was getting engaged to my my wife. And I told my parents, my dad said, Yeah, you're not ready for marriage, yeah. My mom and I, uh, we we drove and um she knew the whole plan. I just had to tell dad, you know, mom and I knew it. Mom's easier to persuade. Right? So I was going to tell Dad and I was getting ready to go church or go back to Bible college. It was about a three-hour drive. I'd come home. On Friday nights after midnight, drive until 3 in the morning, Saturday, do the whole bus visitation, and get ready for Sunday school and then drive three hours back. Getting ready to go back to Bible College and said, Dad, remember Sandy He didn't say a word. Said I I think I want to get engaged. I think I want to marry her. No word. Nothing. Yeah? To dad. I think I want to get engaged this week. Engaged to Sandy. Ah, yeah, you know, marriage. I told mom, I said, as I was walking out the kitchen and to go to my vehicle, well I guess I'm not gonna get married to Sandy. I'll have to take the ring back next week. I don't know if it's God's testing or what, but um so I went to my car and before I opened the car, my dad's run, and my dad doesn't run for nothing, you know. My dad's running, hey, woo woo Are you serious? Yeah, got the ring and everything, Dad. He said, uh, that's fine. I have no problem with you marrying Sandy. Amen. It doesn't matter if your parents are right with God or not. God gave you your parents. And you ought to honor it, honor them. I don't know if I've ever had a time. I I really I really believe this. I don't think there was ever a time when I thought I wish I had somebody else's parents. I love I mean my parents weren't my parents were not the picture perfect parents and they don't write books about being parents But I thank God for them, and I thank God for the traits that I received from my parents. And you kids ought to thank God for your parents. Well, Johnny, Daddy lets him Sally's mommy lets him lets her. It doesn't matter. God gave you your parents. Do not compare your kids with somebody else and don't compare your parents with somebody else's. Telling you kids You'll be in trouble for that. It is unwise to do that We don't know what that child is going through when we compare our kids with some other child. Children are all kind altogether different. They're unique You would discourage a child if you said, well, why can't you be more like? It's the same thing with you. I wish my parents were more like. Kids don't compare your parents with other parents. Because you'll be unwise. You know, wisdom is a wonderful thing, if we get it. You know, I I I pray to God that we don't, as a, even as a church, compare our kids with other church kids or bus kids. It's not wise to do that. Third thing I want you to look at, not only our marriage or our family, I want to think about our ministries. If you're trying to do someone else's ministry, then you are out of the will of God. You know, they told us pastors and preachers that you'd be careful trying to covet somebody else's ministry. Well, I wish I was a Sunday school teacher for that. I could have been I could do a better job than careful. Well, I wish I had that ministry. Be careful comparing ourselves among ourselves. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter or sorry 1 Chronicles chapter 13. That's back in the Old Testament for you deacons. Second chronicle or 1 Chronicles Chapter thirteen comes right before Second Chronicles. And we need to be careful that we don't try to do something that God does not. And here's the part of uh comparing ourselves in the ministry with other people. Because many times when we compare ourselves with somebody else in the ministry, we often will get ourselves out of the will of God or do something where God is not in it. And we can actually mess somebody up pretty quick. We can mess kids up if we're not meant to be in the children's ministry and we just say, well, I want that ministry. I want that ministry. I've had to learn that many times. And the more and more I'm uh that uh uh me as a young man is tr is has grown to realize, you know what God works in different ways. And He uses people in different ways. And there is no ministry for God that's too small. For the longest time in Faith Baptist Church, one of my jobs, one of the things I did is change the light bulbs That's before the LED and the light bulbs that never go out. I don't know how that happens, but anyway. Um I was changing them every week. Well you're the associate pastor. It doesn't matter. I just something I just did I remember my wife many times cleaning the bathrooms when the pastors was uh was away and I think his wife uh did a lot of the cleaning at that time and my wife would clean well she went to Bible college. So Somebody else could have done that, so. I'm going to tell you something. Another ministry within the church that goes unnoticed many times, almost like the alignment of a football team, is a nursery. I'm telling you. Gotta be careful saying this, but they're the workhorse of the of the church. Careful. When you say that about nursery workers. But anyway, uh they I mean they work hard and many time go unnoticed. It is such a needed ministry. I don't know if you understand the entirety of a nursery, but you will when you have children. The blessing that is for mom and dad to sit in the preaching and hear the word of God. Well you take care for their child and they know and they feel secure because you do such a great job in the nursery. They feel secure of leaving your their baby in your hands You women understand how that is when you see you got a newborn baby and how what a blessing it is to be able to be comfortable handing that to somebody to care for. Why you go listen to preaching for an hour? So don't compare your ministry or what you do for God with somebody else. In 1 Chronicles chapter 13 We see somebody doing something out of what they are called to do. Look at verse 3. It says, and let us bring again the ark of God to us, for we inquire not at it in the days of Saul, and all the congregation said that they would do so for the So David gathered all Israel together from Shahor of Egypt, even unto the entering of Ahemath, to bring the ark of God to Kirjath Jerum. And David went up in all Israel to Bala, that is, Pirjath Jerem, which belongeth to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God, the Lord. That dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is called on it, and shall and they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab in Uzzah and Hio drave the cart And David and all Israel played before God with all their might and with singing and with harps and with psalteries and with timbrels and uh with cymbals and with trumpets. And when they came unto the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God. See, that was only for the priests. That's only for the Levites. That's that was no touch, Uzzah. You're not, that is not your responsibility. And yet he put his hand on it. Something that was not his responsibility, although it was a good thing. I mean seeing teaching a Sunday school is a good thing and pastoring a church is a good thing and and uh driving a bus is a good thing and teaching on the bus is a good thing, and but if it's not God's will for you. It could be disastrous. All he did is put his hand on the ark, didn't want it to drop. God was angry, killed him. One thing I learned from a pastor at Bible college He said if you pastor a church and he was talking to preachers in doctrinal class, if you pastor a church and you are not pastoring the church if God wants you to, or you're pastoring a church when you shouldn't be pastoring a church, you can mess people up. I'll never forget that. Don't covet somebody else's ministry. Don't compare yourself with somebody else in the ministry. Find out what God wants for you. What is it that you're good at? What is it that you can do? What is it that God's gifted you with, and what is it that God wants you to do with that gift? It's a wonderful thing when a person, no matter how difficult or how easy, or or whatever the ministry is, whether how how big it is or how small it is, It's wonderful to see a ministry where somebody knows they're very in the very will of God, doing exactly what God wants them to do And seeing that ministry just continue to grow. How many people do you know that through the years that you saw them in a ministry and you thought That doesn't something something's off there. That doesn't doesn't look right. I know some people that was in a ministry, in a certain ministry, that just did not Something was off. We have got to be careful. That we don't compare our ministry to somebody else's. Well, I wish I was the youth pastor. Well, I would do this, this, and this. Well, I wish I was the choir leader. I'm sorry. Every time I think about Brother Mark, I think about the sound of music. I don't know why, but I think the very first Sunday that I was here, I think Pastor said something about him liking the sound of music. Every time I I like the sound of music too, Brother Mark, if you so you don't feel alone. Comparing themselves among themselves. You know, we often think of pastors or Sunday school teachers and say, um Well, I'm not going to compare myself with them because uh, you know, they're meant, they're supposed to go soul winning. They're Sunday school teachers supposed to go soul winning Stop comparing ourselves with the preachers and the Sunday school teachers, and we ought to say, what would Christ want me to do? Christ is my example. What would he want me to do? Comparing themselves among themselves. They're not wise. And number f actually I got four points. I'm throwing the fourth one in there. What about our salvation? What about our salvation? It's a dangerous thing when we compare ourselves with others to find out whether we're saved. I think it's a beautiful thing. We just had two folks just recently saved in this church. I think about uh Miss Becky Heath and I think about Jacob. And if they would have compared themselves, and I'm not here to uh swell heads or anything, but if they would have compared themselves amongst uh you know folks that uh around them, they might say, you know what, I'm just as saved as anybody else How many times have you ever heard that? Don't compare yourself with somebody else or how they are or who they are. How many times you knock on a door and they say, well, I'm just as saved as you? We've got to be careful that we don't compare ourselves with others when it comes to salvation as well. And this is not to put them down, but can you imagine if they would have left that that let that go? And they would have went on to eternity. And you stand before Christ, I taught a Sunday school class. Well I went teen I went teen soul winning, God. I mean I go to teen activities. Maybe there's somebody else in here. Well, what will people think of me? There was a pastor near our Bible college during one of the conferences and he got saved just shortly after one of the conferences. I we couldn't believe it. This time his name escapes you. I don't know why But he was a pastor for over twenty years and got saved. He was pastored in a church near Philadelphia. Twenty years as a pastor. If you compare himself with somebody else, I mean, he would have been saved. But folks, we know we don't get saved by comparing ourselves with somebody else. We're not saved by what we look like, by what we act like. We're not saved by comparing ourselves with somebody else. We're saved because of Christ. So it's not wise comparing ourselves with somebody else. I know Pastor already talked about it, but I want to look at our Bibles in Luke chapter 18 Pastor talked about this this this morning, but I want us to look at Luke chapter eighteen. Look at what happens when a man uh compares himself, his spiritual condition, with another man. In verse 10. Luke 18, verse 10. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one at Pharisee. And the other publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in a week. I give tithe of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes into heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Can you imagine a Percy? Okay, what is it that he does that I told All of us can if we want to make ourselves look good, all of us can go to somebody else, pray right beside them, and find out what their weaknesses are, their their uh their downfalls, and and find out where our strengths are, and thank God I'm not that. He forgot to mention, thank God I'm not as prideful. Uh-oh. We'll keep that one out. We won't compare ourselves of our pride. Be careful of salvation, folks. Don't say I'm just as good as that guy. And that guy isn't good enough to save himself either. Have somebody say, you knock on the door and say, Well, I'm just as good as you. I've had that a lot of people say that. I'm just as good as you. And I needed to say you're too. Comparing themselves among themselves, they're not wise. You know, many times when we compare ourselves with somebody else, we get our eyes off the off track When we compare ourselves with somebody else, what it is, is we get our focus off of the wrong person, on the wrong person. When we compare ourselves with other folks, whether it's in our marriage, our homes, our families, our ministry, and our salvation, what happens is we're Our focus is off. There was a there was a, and this was a couple years back, it might have been a decade or more. There was a ladies track meet, and maybe some of you folks may have heard of heard of it. I think it was even on YouTube. But there was a ladies track meet. And it was one of those long distance, at least a 400, maybe a little bit longer than that, maybe an 800-meter run And then during this ladies' track meet, and it might even be in the Olympics, maybe that's why it stands out. I'm not exactly sure. But in this ladies' track meet, at the end of turn four This lady was that was in second place past the leader. And she was on the outside of the leader and uh in and past her, and she was about a stride ahead And she went down the front stretch, and at the end of the race, she realized she was in second place. What happened I mean she passed the leader. She was at least a stride ahead of the leader. I mean she kept an eye on her But she didn't realize that to her right in lane three was another racer That was shoulder to shoulder with her. And as she kept her focus on the leader and made sure she was just a step ahead of the leader, she didn't realize there was somebody on her other side that was about to pass her And she got second place. See if that lady may have won that race if she just kept her eye on the goal. I don't know if anybody watch and I'm not a big I play baseball, I didn't do track. I don't know if anybody watched the organ They track athlete from Oregon, and what he did, he celebrated about 50 yards away from the finish line, and as he was celebrating, somebody passing. What happened? He got his focus off. He wanted glory. I mean he was waving his hands. He got his focus off of the prize. He was comparing himself with everybody else, and he was just in his glory. Instead of just staying focused. To reach the finish line. Truth of the matter, that's what we ought to do. We ought not give up. And if we're more uh uh spiritual or we're in a different level than somebody else in this particular area, we ought not quit. We ought not compare ourselves because that's another danger of comparing yourself with somebody else Because if you're a different level, whether it comes with compassion, or it's an area of forgiveness, or if it's in the area of kindness, or if it's in the area of giving, and we compare ourselves with somebody else, that we should be in this level. But we remain on this level because we don't grow when we compare ourselves with somebody else. We don't get to the next level in our lives. What is it folks that we're struggling with? Who are you comparing yourself to? Christ? Or someone else? Who are you comparing your marriage with? Jesus Christ in the church? Or somebody else's marriage? Who are you comparing your family with? Your kids. Hey kids, who you comparing your parents with? Who you comparing your ministry with? Well, you don't understand this so-and-so had a Sunday school class of a hundred people. So I come to say find find out that when we think we have it all together, we don't. When we think we don't need revival, we do. And when we think we have arrived, we haven't. I love this church. I'm telling you folks, there's something real happening in this church. People are getting saved. The baptismal waters are are are being moved. People love the Lord. People are soul winning. There's people that don't get to go so with the church that are leading people to Christ in their workplace or in their streets or in their families. People were testifying about going soul winning. People were excited about being in church. You have a pastor that loves and cares for you. You have you have everything in this church To be a godly church. To be a godly fa have a godly family, to be a godly person. Do you have the right Bible? You have the right God? Let's not take that for granted. And let's not compare this church with somebody else's church. And let's do everything we can to be exactly what God wants us to be. Think about that. Comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. Let's pray. Heavenly Father I pray you help us tonight. I don't know what. I really don't know what all you're doing. I don't I know what you're doing in my heart. I know what you're doing in me. God help me to be more. Help me to be stronger. Help me to be better. God, I pray this this church will continue to grow. I pray that we'll continue to lead people to Christ. I pray that we'll continue to tell people about the Lord and what he can do in their lives. Help us not to compare ourselves with others. Because we'll just get discouraged, down, depressed. Help us not to get to focus off at the goal God forgive me when I have compared myself with somebody else or my family or the things that are around me, Lord, and God help us to understand that you're trying to do a work. Help us not to compare ourselves with others. Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking around. How many people will say with an upraised hand? Preacher, God's talking to me, speaking to me about some area in my life. Listen, folks, I won't pull you out, I won't drag you out. I just want to know how many people say God's speaking to my heart. About an area of my life. Pray for me, preacher. Anybody like that? That's me, preacher. I see those hands. How many people will say, preacher? I'm gonna be honest with you. I'm not sure that I'm saved I've been comparing myself and where I was compared to other other folks, and and uh I'm gonna be honest tonight, preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved Listen, there's plenty of people, men and women here, that could take a Bible and show you for sure how you can know That you're going to heaven when you die. How many people say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart about my salvation? And I'm I'm tired of comparing I want to know for sure that I'm going to heaven. Anybody like that this evening? With an upraised hand, that's me, preacher. I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven, but I want to know. Here's the invitation. If God spoke to your heart, the altar would be open God's dealing with your heart. The altar's open. Maybe you just want to come up and pray, God could keep me. In your will. Keep me in the fight Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking around as we stand to our feet. The pianist is going to play. When the pianist plays, you come talk to God, what He talked to you about.