Grace. What's the unmerited favor. We're gonna talk about that a little bit, hopefully. If I get there. Alright. Forget to do anything. Turn your Bibles to Joshua, first book of Joshua, or first chapter of Joshua. We're going to read from there tonight. Talking to Brother James, sometimes I have lessons that I just come up with from reading the Bible and devotions and things of that nature. I didn't really have anything like that. Um I had gotten some uh some books with lessons in them and uh I looked at the first one in the book and I thought, I'll just do that tonight. It's a really good lesson. But it's uh the the title of this uh this book of lessons is Conquering the Battles of Life. And it takes it studies in the book of Joshua. Now we're going to be reading from quite a few other books, but it's conquering the battles in life. It's about six or seven pages. Ms. Helen said, you think you can pull a chip tonight? I said, man, I don't know if I can get that much in 15 minutes or not. But uh I'll try. And those of you that have it master kids and master clubs, you don't care if I go to 830, right? You gotta be a little 830 anyway, so who cares? Um I don't know, I'll try to get through it Book of Joshua, chapter one, verse one. We'll read through uh verse nine, I believe. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua the son of nun, Moses ministers, saying, Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, into the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses, from the wilderness and this Lebanon, even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life, as I was with Moses. So I will be with thee, I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Be strong and of a good courage, for unto this people shall thou divide for an inheritance of the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. Let's pray. Father, thank you for another day that you've given to us, Lord. Thank you for the opportunity to be in your house tonight, Lord. It's refreshing to be here, Lord, and be with your people. And uh study your word. We pray that uh you just bless uh uh our service tonight, Lord. I pray that you would help me to uh bring this lesson and just say what you want me to say. And that it might be a help to someone here tonight. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, that's a great portion of scripture, isn't it? So I said we're going to look at look through the book of Joshua a little bit. There's a thread that we find throughout the Bible, and it is the redemption. of God's people Israel. It begins in Genesis 3. I'm going to turn back there real quick. I was going to have some people look up some verses tonight. Forgot. Genesis 3. 15, if you want to go to it. Genesis 3. 15 says, And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel. So in uh the first book of the Bible we uh is is a prophecy uh that's pointing to Christ. And uh and that thread of of of uh regarding his people runs throughout Scripture, beginning here in Genesis. Genesis, we're kind of going to be looking at Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and Joshua tonight. Not in detail, of course. But uh uh in Genesis uh is the beginning of that seed. In Exodus uh we saw the redemption of the people. In Leviticus, we we read about the worship, their worship, the the tabernacle and the w the the offerings and and all of that, the Levites and and how all that came came together and how how God planned all that. Numbers, we we look at their walk and warfare. Deuteronomy talks about the preparation of the people. to enter to the the land that God promised. And that's kind of what I'm going to focus on tonight is is the promised land. And the land that that God promised to to Abraham. Joshua, the book of Joshua is more of a conquering, the people conquering the land and going and God promised the land of of of Canaan to the people, but they didn't just walk in and and have it. They had to they had to conquer it. So there was uh and that brings us kind of to the conquering of the battles in our life too 400 years before God told Abraham that he would give this land to the people, to Abraham's seed. You guys hear me okay? Sometimes I feel like you can't hear me. There's a lot of a lot of types. And I didn't know what a type was until I took uh Bio Institute. It's very simply just a picture. I think that's the first thing I remember learning in the Bible Institute was that a type in the Bible was a picture. And there's a lot of pictures in in in here that we can we see of of Israel that that picture what we deal with the same things today. For example, Israel's bondage in Egypt, what what would that picture what do you think that would picture in in our lives? They were they were slaves to to Egypt, they were in bondage to Egypt. Right, right. I got here, I can cheat on But yeah, we're we are in bondage to sin. We are slaves to sin, right? Or at least we were. If we're saved, then we have some of that taken care of. Not all of it. But uh We're in spiritual bondage to sin. The Israelites came out and they crossed the Red Sea, which was a picture which was their deliverance from Egypt, which would picture our salvation. It would picture our deliverance from the bondage of and the slavery of sin. Now we still sin, but when we're saved, we're delivered from that bondage. of of sin. Israel received the law. They received the Ten Commandments, which is a picture at Mount Sinai, which is a picture of us receiving biblical instructions. I was thinking me and Jackie have been uh looking at replacing her vehicle for the last couple weeks. And uh when you get those things they have a instruction manual, right? Who all who well I think I've asked this question before. Does anyone ever read that thing? You only read it if other than Ken You pointed to him the last time I said that too. It would probably do it be a good thing If we did. The only time I get mine out is if I need to know how many quarts of oil it takes. Because I forget every time between you'd think you'd just write it down there on the motor or something. It'd be bright, but I'm not that bright. But uh you know, and if you can't figure something out, and you absolutely can't, and you spend half the day trying to figure it out, and you can't, then you finally go look it up. And stuff like that, if you have problems, you go look it up Um but god you know God gave us the guidebook, he gave us the manual, uh and we have it right here, and I'm guilty as is anybody that I don't I don't use it. A lot of times I don't go to it So I absolutely have to. Um But God gave them the the law. He gave them uh gave them that. We received biblical instruction and and their conquering of Canaan uh parallels spiritual victory Uh I I'm looking at Canaan tonight for the believer not as heaven, but as a little bit of heaven on earth, maybe. Uh like my one of my favorite verses, I don't know if I can quote it, I meant to look it up and I didn't Is that we can uh live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. That's my canon, I think, on on earth But that's all I ever wanted. You know, I was yeah, I mean, we get caught up in the world and wanting the things that the world has, but I I've just always wanted to live a quiet and peaceable life. and in and godliness and honesty. That's that's my my heaven. But um okay. So from Sinai the people travel can you put that map up for me, Dave? You're not gonna be able to see this very well. But it might help a little bit with the visual. I don't know if anyone can read that. Maybe the people in the front. I'll try to point it out. The laser pointer doesn't work on the TVs. It's terrible, so I can't point at it. When they left, they crossed the Red Sea, right? When they came out, that's clear at the bottom. They crossed the the Red Sea. All the way at the bottom of the map. There, um if you can see that blue. Um they traveled uh north to Kadesh Barnia, which is about Two-thirds. No, no, it's about halfway. Halfway up there is was Kadesh. Kadesh was the southern border uh of of the promised land. And uh the people traveled, um they traveled there. They were going to uh to the promised land, the land that God had promised them. Um and we all know the story from there. God how many spies did they send out? Twelve. Twelve spies. I can see how you could confuse that there, because ten of them brought back uh non-believing report and two of them brought back a good faith believing report for our purposes this evening. Um Ten negative, two positive. And unfortunately, the people went with the ten instead of with the two, and with God most importantly. Because God told them The land's yours. I'll take care of you. And I, you know, we look back, I look back, and I missed that point of third top. Um, and we look back at the Bible, I know I do this and I say, what a bunch of idiots. You know, they They did what God said and he blessed them and then they turned from God and He withdrew His blessing. So then they came back to God and He blessed them again and they went around and around and around and around their whole lives And but I do the same thing. You know, um when David sinned were looking at Bathsheba and And we think, you know what? Pastor always says when he reads that, he's always saying, No, don't do it. But you know and we say, you know what What an idiot. But I we do it all the time. And why o I do it all the time. You know, God says don't do that, don't look at that and I still do it anyway So we're no different than they were. We lack in our belief. But anyway, because of their unbelief, they did not get to enter the promised land. And everyone twenty years and older died in the wilderness. So a lot of those people's lives were cut pretty short. I don't know what life expectancy was back then, but I mean, if they were 20, then they'd died at 60. So a lot of their lives were cut cut considerably short. Only two of the spies, Joshua and Caleb, who brought a faith report uh would enter the promised land. They believed. And evidently the rest of the people didn't believe. Because I think if they believed, God would have have uh have spared them just like he did Joshua and Caleb. Deuteronomy 1 verse 2. I'm not going to have you look up any of these because I have them right here and mine are written down. If you want to, Deuteronomy, a lot of our verses are going to be in Deuteronomy Going through here. So if you want to, you can flip that direction. Deuteronomy 1 verse 2 says, There are eleven days journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir unto Kadesh Barnea. So when they came out of um When they crossed the Red Sea and they went up there about six inches, that was Mount Sinai. You can't see it, it's right below that red view there Uh so they went up to Mount Sinai. There was eleven days journey from Mount Sinai to Kadesh, which is halfway up the map. Which I don't know how do you know how far they would have traveled in those days, Brian? A day, how many miles they would have been able to do? Okay. Yeah, so what's fifteen times eleven? I I'm not good at math without a calculator. Anyway, so that's how many miles fift Come on, brilliant people. 165 miles. And they travel approximately they traveled that in eleven days to get from the Mount Sinai of Horeb to Kadesh. Which is the southern border of the promised land where God told them they were going to go. That's not too bad. Eleven days. Come out of Egypt, eleven days up there, and you're there. Um but what turned out to be an eleven-day journey from Horub to Sinai, or from from Horub to Kadesh, I'm sorry, how long did it take them? Forty years. You know how many days that is? 14,400 days. So what was supposed to take him eleven days took him fourteen thousand And uh in four hundred days, if I did my math correctly. That's a lot. That's b that's pretty big, isn't it? Um because of their unbelief. And I'm sure I'm going to say this uh several more times. You know, we wander in the wilderness too, sometimes our whole life. We could have been there in eleven days, and sometimes it takes us 14,000 of them. to get there. And it's it's it's all because of a lack it was all on their part a lack of belief. A lack of belief. They saw what God had done. They saw me and James was talking about they saw the plagues. that that God brought and and how he delivered them and crossing the Red Sea. Who's heard the story about the little boy and his Sunday school teacher with the Red Sea? Anybody? Wow Alright. So there was a Sunday school teacher and a little boy, and the little boy says, that was what a miracle. And the liberal Sunday school teacher said, wasn't a miracle at all. She said it wasn't actually the Red Sea, it was the Reed Sea. Not the Red Sea. It was only a marshy area. It was 18 inches of water up there. 18 inches deep and it was a dry time and the wind dried up and they were able to cross. There wasn't really that much miracle. He said, What a miracle that was. That is tremendous. And she said, What in a miracle is eighteen inches of water, the reed sea, no big deal. He said, What a miracle. She said, What in a miracle with eighteen inches of water He said, what a miracle. She said, what are you talking about? He said, all Pharaoh's armies drowning in 18 inches of water. What a miracle. He said. Nobody's ever heard that? Right. Yeah. Right. All those people drowning in eighteen eighths of the water. Yeah. So uh anyway, I thought that's uh that's an old Arbiolette joke on uh one of his messages I've heard a thousand times. Uh I'm glad nobody'd ever heard that before. Oh, so now I lost my place. Oh, so they crossed where where where in the world was I Wandering what took what was supposed to take eleven days took fourteen thousand four hundred days of wandering in the wilderness because of their unbelief. Only those two who believed. were able to enter the promised land. I mentioned earlier that Canaan had to be conquered. It wasn't a the cross of Jordan went in, it was theirs. Um I thought of something else. You know, those people that lived in Canaan, if the land when they spired out the land and it was everything God told them, all those wicked people that the Israelites drove out were living in that. I mean that would have been Tremendous. Even though they all got killed in the end. But Deuteronomy seven verse one When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it, and have cast out many nations before thee, the Hittites, the Gergesites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Pharizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites Seven nations greater and mightier than thou. Something I noticed in that verse, it says, God shall bring thee into the land where thou goest to possess it, and hath cast out many. That's talking about God is casting out. All they had to do was believe. God would do would would do it for them. He w he said he would do it. He he cast out all these all these pieces. Seven nations greater and mightier than that. So I don't think all of them combined. I could be wrong about this, I didn't research it. I don't think all of them combined were greater and mightier than the Israelites. I think the Gyrgishites were greater. and mightier than the Israelites. And the Amorites also. I mean this was I mean they had it just wasn't one that was a little bit bigger than them. It was a tremendous, you know, amount of people that were greater and mightier. It would have been a little intimidating, I can understand. These seven nations living in Canaan were collectively referred to as Canaan. All these people together were collectively referred to as Cannon. Cannon's the shaded area, if you can see the different color above, there is right in the middle, about About middle is Kadesh, and then from there up to the top of the map would be Canaan. Um So let's make that a picture of the of the of the Christian. So they had they had to they were to get rid of uh these nations. They had to drive them out, they had to conquer them, um with the Lord's help, of course So in our life, you could list a whole bunch of enemies. I have a few listed here. I added a couple. One was pride. That'd be one. Uh bitterness, uh anger, jealousy, rebellion, hatred, unbelief is a big one. I I have I struggle with unbelief. Resentment, moral sin. Just fill in fill in the blank. Fill in the blank there. Some struggle with some things that other people don't struggle with. God wants us to be holy, and He's able to cast out these just like they had to drive the people out, He's able to do the same thing. He's able to give us victory over these sins. And the key to getting rid of those is faith, the word faith. Faith is believing. Just like we said, grace was unmerited favor. Replace the word faith with believing. Um we just have to believe. And it sounds easy, but it's not always easy. It's not always easy. But we you know the the the Cain they they had seen God do these miraculous things. But who here has ever seen God do something, and there was no doubt in your mind that He did it? It was Him. I mean, it was Him. And we see that happen. We see miracles, and there's no other explanation for it And and we still, and we come to the next one and we're like, yeah, he did that, but I don't think he can do this. Pastor talked about that, I think, on Sunday a little bit And uh testimonies. Dale, some of your t testimonies you had the other night about how God took care of you. And those things build. I think we'll talk about that a little bit. Uh Canaan was a was a blessed place. Deuteronomy 8. 7 describes it for us a little bit. If you're still in Deuteronomy. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of and of valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates. A land of olive oil and honey, a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness. Thou shalt not lack anything in it. A land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass. What a place, huh? That to me is um quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. That that's what it is to me. I've just gotten so caught up in the world that we think we have to have everything else go along with it. And uh sometimes I just gotta remind myself that It's not that. Um 40 years in the wilderness. And I I I assume that throughout that time, those forty years of wandering, they had this to look forward to. Um I'm sure they were constantly reminded of this, what they had to look forward to. Israel would enjoy living near mountain brooks, covered with trees, all the water they needed, they wouldn't lack water, they wouldn't have to. Hit rocks and speak to rocks and and you know and and things like that it'd be everywhere. Um they'd have all the food. It says uh bread without scarceness Everything that that anyone could ever want um was was was available, was available to the people. Um God likes to give us us good us things. Deuteronomy eleven nine describes Canaan as a land that floweth with milk and honey. It says milk refers to the necessities of life, while honey refers to the luxuries of life. God tells us He'll take care of us. We'll have everything we need. But He also tells us that we'll have exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. So he's he's willing to give us we just have to get it in our mind what that is. It's not a mansion. Um, our mansions later on. Um it's not it's not a a luxury car. It's uh it's not those things. Um we just have a a wrong perspective of what of what God means I think by that. It's it's having everything we'd ever need. We're happy. Yes, Joe. Yeah, I just I know when I used to drive back and forth the public, I don't know how many reps I had, but I never hurt no one. And never But God delivered us out of so many different things, but yet we were doubt that there We're we're no different than they are. When we read it though we say you idiot. I do. Come on, people. What's wrong with you? And I do the same thing though. Yeah. Terrible. Uh Isaiah 62. I missed a port, but that's alright. Isaiah 62, 4 calls the land Beulah land. We like the song Beulah Land, Sweet Beulaland is on their mouth. Saying, uh look away across the sea where mansions are prepared for me. View the shining glory shore, my heaven, my home, forevermore. It pictures that. The be your land means the land shall be married. That is that it would be it would be favorable. It'd be favored and blessed of the Lord. Um reminds me a little bit of maybe what the Garden of Eden was like. Although it wasn't cursed. I mean the world would still be under that. Um we sing songs about crossing the Jordan River and And that God is with us when He takes us over that river. I had a bunch of stuff I was going to cross out if I was going to run out of time, so I think I'm going to skip some of these things. But I already mentioned that heaven on earth. Deuteronomy says, the days may be multiplied, the days of your children in the land of the Lord swear unto your fathers to give them as the days of heaven upon earth. And I think that's what Canaan was to these people, a little bit of heaven on earth. And the the the spirit filled uh life where God has for us, I think, is is what he's talking about there, having uh a little bit of heaven, heaven on earth. Deuteronomy thirty, God told Israel that uh that life and death uh were set before them. If Israel followed God, we talked about this already, they would be blessed. But if they turned from God, they would perish They would perish off the land. And regretfully we uh we do the same thing. Many Christians today live defeated lives, um, just like the unsaved, wandering around in the wilderness. We also hear um I'm going to skip that part. Moses told Joshua. Joshua began, the book of Joshua begins with Moses. Turn and over. Joshua takes over, and he's going to lead the people into the promised land. Deuteronomy 31, 6 says, Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Deuteronomy 31:7 says, And Moses called unto Joshua and said unto him, in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and of a good courage. For thou must go with this people unto the land which the Lord hath sworn unto their fathers to give them, thou shalt cause them to inherit it. And the Lord He it is that doth go before thee. He will be with thee. He will not fail thee, neither forsake thee. Fear not, neither be dismayed. Over and over, just we read three verses, three or four verses in Joshua that said the exact same thing. These are multiple verses in Deuteronomy where he constantly is reminding the people: fear not, don't be afraid. I'll be with you. Be strong. Be of good courage. Trust me. Believe me. And we have the exact same promise. We have the exact same promises to us going through whatever we're going through in life is that we're going to come out on the other side. He'll take care of us. Twice Moses admonished Joshua to be strong. Be strong and of good courage. And Joshua, Joshua led the people. to victory. And so Joshua is another type. He's another picture. And Joshua pictures Christ who would lead Joshua would lead Israel to victory and later would give the tribes their inheritance and Christ leads us to our victory. So Joshua's kind of a picture of of that. Um you know I was thinking too, and they brought this up in this lesson about um they say ejecting the tenants. Um you know they drove out a bunch of people. uh all those people off off their land. And and sometimes, you know, sometimes I've thought about that and and how how God, you know, would just drive off these people and kill all these people and the mass of things like that that happened, but um God used God used uh the Israelites to to uh exercise judgment upon these people. These weren't nice people that they drove that they drove off the land. Um I don't know where that oh actually it's back here. Um it says God was long suffering with these people. Um each generation of the Amorites went deeper into sin than the previous uh generation. The the people had had just gotten And it was God's judgment upon them. He judged these people. He used the Israelites to to judge them and eject the tenants, it says Um which I I understand that anyone who's ever dealt with with tenants. Um you know sometimes it sometimes you gotta eject them. Uh God owned the universe, he had the right to eject the wicked tenets. Uh he used floods, uh catastrophes, sometimes he used people. In this case he used the Israelites. To judge the people. 1 Corinthians 10 said, but with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things were our examples to the intent we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Let me read that again. Now these things were examples to the intent we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. The world's lust in Scripture was an intense desire, an intense desire for the same thing we have: money, possessions, happiness, fame. 1 Corinthians 10 11 says, Now all these things happen unto them for in samples, and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Israel's goal was uh was was Canaan, the the promised land, the land that flows with milk and honey. Likewise, God's God's uh goal for each one of us Is the same thing, to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, to trust Him, to obey Him, to believe Him, to put our faith in Him It was all about faith. It was all about believing. The reason they wandered in the wilderness for forty years was because of their unbelief Uh the reason why they were able to enter the promised land, I I trust that if had they not believed when the forty years were up that he probably would have shipped them off for another forty years But um I guess they got it together. And uh sometimes unfortunately we we get it together after forty years too. You know, sometimes we wander for a long time and And uh it's a lot easier to do it the other way, but uh that's tough. It's easy to talk about it, but man when you come up against those things it's It's not so easy. But it's it's it's it's faith in God's promises that cause the Christian to grow, to have the victory. Trying to read what I wrote. Fighting uh fighting the battles of life help us to grow. Um we all say, you know, when you when you go through through tough times Um sometimes if you don't trust the Lord and have faith in him, a lot of times they just get tougher. But if we go through 'em with the right attitude, trusting the Lord, and He has a purpose for it, even though we don't know what it is. Uh you know, we've seen God do these things. We know he can do them. Um and if we just trust him, when we come out of it, we're stronger. And he tells us we'll be stronger. That's just one of those things we have to understand. Now the wilderness represented the carnal Christian, one who focused on the difficulties and problems. of life and experienced defeat. Hebrews 3. 9 says, When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their heart, and they have not known my ways, so I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, and departing from the living God. Now if we're saved, we're going to go to heaven. That's not what he's talking about there when he says, they shall not enter into my rest. Um it's it's having that heaven on earth that we miss out on. It's having that that abundant life here on earth It says, take heed lest there be any of you an evil heart of unbelief. It's back to the unbelief thing, the belief or the unbelief. Now Hebrews 3:17, but with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses stell in the wilderness, and to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not? So we see they could not enter in because of their unbelief. It's all about faith. God's promises were activated by faith. And faith gives us access to God, God's grace. That's what we said earlier when Brother Jerry's saying about grace. The definition of grace is unmerited favor. For by grace, unmerited favor are ye saved through faith, which is believing. So it's by unmerited favor through believing that we're saved. And that's it. Now if you don't obey God, your salvation is Secure the dead you trust him. But you lose your joy and you lose the power of the Holy Spirit when you walk in disobedience. And if you continue that way, he will bring chapening into your application. Because you are a thing. You are his child. So that's the reason to say, you're right, Lord, no matter what the step is, just walk one day at a time according to his way. Yep. Absolutely. Romans 5. 1 says, Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access. By faith, unto his grace. Again, we have access by believing to his unmerited favor. It's through belief. The unbelief is what gets us in trouble. It's what got them in trouble. Forty years worth of trouble. Faith gives us access to God's grace We can only receive his blessings and favor by our faith. I think I've said everything I wanted to say. Wrote some other things down here. Oh. Sure. That same thing that he's talking about, they repeatedly did. They would turn away from God They'd bring him into bondage, they would cry after him, he would raise up the judgment of laws and would defeat them mightily with just a little bit. Look at Gideon. He had too many schools And they busted thing in the lights and they got scared of the enemy and killed each other. The same way with a mighty work like that. But and they would walk with the Lord as long as that judge was alive. As soon as he died, he just went right back in that you said. Yeah, yeah, we do the same thing, don't we? We do the same thing. I think at nine eleven. You know when nine eleven happened everyone fell on their knees. Month later month later. Anyway, um uh the law itself can never inherit the promises of God doing religious things In and of themselves, without the faith, without believing, doesn't do us any good. Now it says uh you know, without faith without works is dead, so we need the works are important. But without the faith, they're they're pointless. They're they're not acceptable. Um good works to God are are are meaningless without faith, believing in him. Um Faith is the most vital ingredient in our relationship with God. Believing on God, trusting Him through everything, through all the trials of life. will get us to my Canaan, which is what I said earlier, uh a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. It would have got the Israelites to where God wanted them to be quickly. But we all struggle with those things. So that's it. Let's pray. Father, thank you for these And how they struggled with the exact same things that we struggle with in our lives today, Lord. And uh we just pray that you would help us Lord, to believe you the first time and trust you that you are in control, you know what's best for us. Help us not to to uh be in unbelief and have to go through the wanderings uh that that they went through. Lord, uh we just thank you for your grace. We thank you for the unmerited favor that you offer to us, Lord. Just pray that we would believe you and have the faith, Lord, as we go through our daily lives. Lord, we just uh pray your blessing upon the remainder of our service, Lord, as we have this uh brief time of invitation now, Lord, we just ask uh bless and we just ask in Jesus' name. You would stand together, heads bowed, eyes closed.