Looking at this section here, it actually the context begins, I believe, in verse number thirteen and goes all the way down through the end of the chapter. Um and there I see a threefold subject being dealt with here in this part of the book of James. First, of course, is prayer. And you notice there in verse 13, pray. Verse 14, pray. Verse 15, prayer. Verse 16, pray, prayer. Verse 17 Dean pray verse eighteen pray And so obviously the emphasis here on this last portion of the book is on prayer. But also, there's the subject of sickness is being addressed. And if you pick that up, he's coming down through there. Any afflicted, verse 13, pray. Verse 14, any sick among you. Verse 15, sick, verse number 16, that you may be healed. So he's also addressing, along with prayer, he is tying in to this issue of Christians dealing with sickness. But there's a third subject here also that's tied, these three are all tied together, and that is sin. And that subject of sin comes out through here. If you notice there, verse number 15, if you have committed sins, verse number 16, confess your faults And he comes down through here, verse 19, if any you do err from the truth, verse 20, he that converted the sinner, the error of his ways. So sin is a subject So this last part of the book of James, prayer, sickness, and sin, are all related. Now, of course, prayer is the overriding issue. But in the context here, I'm noticing, it's coming out to me, that sickness and sin Do it, at least in this context, are associated with each other. And we say this, and I referenced it this morning. There are times when our sin makes us sick We can engage in sins that are harmful to the physical body. And sometimes, I'll touch on this a little bit later in the message, but sometimes Uh part of God's chastening of a sinning Christian is sickness. Could very well take the form of sickness. Now, I always try and caution us, not every time someone's sick does not mean God's chastening them. We must not go down that way But we do understand that sin and sickness are sometimes, maybe often, associated one with the other. Now the overriding Subject here, the overriding theme is prayer. That's that's very obvious. In fact, James, the book of James is really a book of prayer. As far as I can tell and looking at this, prayer is addressed in the book of James more than any other book of the Bible No other book in the New Testament, particularly, addresses the subject of prayer as much as James does. I remembered from Bible college when we were studying the various authors of the of the of the of uh the Bible, particularly the New Testament, James was referred to, he had a nickname Does anybody rem know what the James contemporaries, what nickname they had for him? Does anybody know? Any of you Bible college folks? What his nickname was. It was old camel knees. They referred to James as old camelese. Why in the world did they call James Camelese? Well the reason was he had spent so much time in prayer, his needs literally had swelled up to a uh uh abnormal proportions. And because he was such a prayer warrior, and the condition of his knees, they would refer to him, and I think sometimes in a derogatory way, as old camel knees The book of James begins and ends with the subject of prayer. If you would come back to chapter one with me, I just want to remind you He says in verse two, he says, My breth my brethren counted all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Verse three, knowing this That the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God. What's he talking about? Prayer. Prayer. And now he ends the his book on prayer. Starts it out, trials and prayer. He ends it. Sickness. San and prayer. And so, uh James knew a little bit about prayer. Now, we've been preaching Wednesday night, and this is not by design. I tell you one thing. If you're faithful to church and you pay attention what God is doing in church, you can't help but see the hand of God. working in a local body of believers that is trying their best to go by the word of God. You follow what I'm saying? We're preaching Wednesday nights on prayer Uh, Sunday mornings, subjects come up. And again, I don't plan it this way. I sincerely seek the Lord. I want God's direction and what to preach Sunday mornings. I kind of leave that open And do you notice recently? It's much been on prayer. And Sunday nights now as we get to this portion, prayer, prayer, prayer. I believe God is calling Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to an intense ministry of prayer. I believe God wants us to pray. Pray as individuals, pray as families, husbands and wives, and pray as a church body. I believe God is directing us just because of how this all comes together. Now what about prayer? Prayer, I believe, is intensely personal. Prayer is between God and I. I am glad that I do not have to be dependent upon someone else to get my prayers to God. I can go directly to God in prayer. Me and the creator of the universe. Communing one with another. Of course, because of the Lord Jesus Christ, the mediator between me and God. But I can go directly to God in prayer. Prayer is intensely personal However, the Christian life is not an isolated life. We are part of a body. And a body cannot function as isolated organs, as isolated parts My arm needs to be attached to the body if it's going to be able to function. My toe needs to be attached to my foot and my foot needs to be attached to the leg bone and the leg bone needs to be attached. You get the idea. We're a body. And every person, every one of us, plays a significant role in each other's spiritual development. The Christian life is personal. Prayer is personal? Absolutely, intensely so. But neither are we isolated. And I very much need the prayers of the other members of the body of Christ. And you need the prayers of the other members of the body of Christ. We need each other. God has designed it that way. We were talking in Sunday school about church and the significance of the church. God designed the church. And we cannot just dismiss that. And we neglect it to our own spiritual peril. And so prayer is intensely personal, nevertheless. For us to function and develop as Christians, we need the prayers one of another. And we're going to notice that here in this little passage we just read, it comes out. Prayer is incredibly powerful. I believe prayer is the most powerful resource you and I have. Prayer can and will do more for us, if we do it right, than any bank or any government or any military or any rich uncle or any physician. Prayer is the most powerful resource we have. However, having said that, our prayer, some things must be in place For that prayer to be effective, for that resource, that power to be made available and to be engaged into my life, some things must be in place. Charlie Harsh will tell you, if you buy a brand new set of tires, You ought to get your car aligned before you put those tires on, right? What's going to happen if your ti if your car is out of alignment, you put new tires on. What happens to new tires They just get eat up. They don't do you any good. And in like manner, if our prayers are gonna be effective, if we're gonna see the power of God In response to our prayers, our Christian life has to be aligned up. Follow what I'm saying? To simply pray Without giving any consideration to what God says about prayer, can very easily become presumption. Well, I'm just going to pray. I'm not going to pay any attention to what God says about prayer. I'm not going to give any consideration about the areas of my life that need to be aligned up if my prayers are going to be effective. I'm just going to pray. Now I'm glad you're going to pray. But God has given us some very specific instructions about what must be in place For our prayers to be effective. If you'll pay attention, nearly, I want to say every, but I'm going to say it this way, nearly every prayer promise has a condition attached to it. Well, God, uh all these things will be added unto you, Jesus promised. Yes, that's true. God will meet our needs. But the condition attached to that is seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added unto you. And so God has given us tremendous prayer promises But we must not be presumptuous. We must stop and say, all right, what needs to be placed? What conditions have to be met for these prayers to be answered? the this effectual, fervent prayer uh to avail much, what needs to be in place. Well we get we're given a few here and this is what I want to share with you very quickly. Number one I notice we must be responsible in prayer. I'll explain what I mean by that. We must be responsible in prayer. Look at verse 16. The first part. What's he say? Confess your faults one to another. Now what's he talking about? The word confess simply means this, to acknowledge to be true. To acknowledge something is so. I come to my wife and I confess that I ate the entire cherry cake she made the other day, uh entire plate that was left. Remember that? Did you notice it was gone? Uh I ate I was hoping she went no and I got convicted even while I'm preaching here and uh I confess I ate that entire thing. But um it was very small. It wasn't big at all. It was it was very small. So the word confess means to acknowledge something is so. Now here's where it gets interesting: the word false What's he talking about when he says, confess our faults one to another? The word faults there has this idea to areas that I am prone to fail in. All of us have strengths and weaknesses. All of us have areas that we're have a tendency to be victorious over. And all of us have areas we have a tendency to fail. Now they're not the same for all of us. What Randy Ringer's strengths may be, may be my weaknesses What my weaknesses may be, may be Brother Jerry's strengths. What his strengths and what his weaknesses are maybe my strengths. It's different for all of us. And so when he says confess, he says acknowledge these areas where you have a tendency to fail in areas that you may be working weak in. Uh one of the definitions I was working this through and seeing how it's used throughout the Bible in different places. One of the ideas that came out to me was uh the faults would be reoccurring trespasses. That word faults is Translated throughout the New Testament many times to trespass, your trespasses. Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive others. So I believe what he's referring to here are areas of our life where we tend to be weak in. Maybe it's what Hebrews refers to as besetting sins. And so he says, confess one to another your faults. Confess your faults one to another. It's possible, then he goes on and says that you may be healed. I'm jumping ahead here a little bit, pray for it. But I'm wondering if the some sickness says maybe God's chastening Because of these faults that I cannot get a victory over, I'm not willing to deal with. And they need to be addressed. So confess your faults, these recurring trespasses, these areas I tend to be weak in, these besetting sins. Confess them one to another. Now let me talk about confessing sin. A good rule of thumb in confessing sin is this: public sins should be confessed publicly. Public sin should be confessed publicly. If I say it in some fashion that it becomes very, very known, it's public, the w the whole community knows about it, whatever like that. If I want things to be made right, if I want to restore my testimony, if I want to have uh bring any glory to God, I need to address that publicly and deal with it. David did that with his sin with Bathsheba. Very public confession and dealing with that. So public sins should be dealt publicly. We had years ago a fella that got saved short not long after I was here. And he got saved, baptized, he did pretty good. He struggled for about a year. He got in some trouble with the law. It was in the newspaper. Pretty much everybody knew about it at the time. And I w I was away when it happened. I got back and I found out what took place and I went right down to see him and uh talked to him a little bit. He was absolutely broken. In fact God used that to turn him around and get him uh living for God. But uh he pro when when I was talking with the praying with him he said, Pastor Leatherman, I need to tell the church, I need to deal with this in front of the church. I said, Now listen, I'm not saying you should. I said, but I said, you know, uh it's not a bad idea. And some of you perhaps who are here remember a Sunday morning. Of his own free will he came and said, Listen, church, I messed up. He said what He said, I confess it, I forsake it, repent from it. And he from there on out he had a tremendous testimony. It was a great blessing to me. So public sins, as a rule of thumb, should be confessed publicly I put it and the the second rule of thumb is this personal sins should be confessed. What do you think? Personally For instance, if I sin against Dale, I do something wrong to Dale, nobody else knows about it. It's between him and I. It's personal. I need to go to him and personally deal with that, confess it, and make it right Personal sin should be confessed personally. I don't believe personal sins should be dealt with publicly. It's not anybody else's business What transpires between us, and we make it right, we get it right with God, we can go on. So public sins should be confessed publicly. Personal sin should be confessed personally. Private sin should be confessed privately. And that's where between God and I. And I confess it, and I forsake it, and I take care of that. In other words, the rule of thumb is this: no more people should be involved than what is absolutely necessary. I don't I don't buy into this idea that we have to hang all our dirty laundry out. Everybody needs to know everything that pe everybody does wrong in the church. I don't buy that at all. God is are you aren't you glad God doesn't hang out our dirty laundry? I'm glad God does not put on his Facebook page everything that everybody does wrong. Amen. And so only involve those that absolutely have to be involved in that Confess it, forsake it, make it right with those that need to be made right with, and then praise God for forgiveness and get up and go on. Amen. You understand what I'm saying? Now, what is he talking about here? Oh, by the way, the whole purpose of confession is not to shame the person or even punish the person, but it is to restore the fellowship. If I sin against Dale, I say or do something that sins against him, I want to come and confess it. I want to make it right. I want to be restored, our fellowship to be restored. I want my fellowship with God to be restored. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, turn with me to Galatians chapter number six. This is a great verse to keep in mind when dealing with people. In fact, he uses the same word here in Galatians 6 as is used in James 5. 16. Galatians 6 and verse number 1. Notice what he says here. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, there it is. Ye which are spiritual, what's that next word? Restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Here he's talking to someone that's overtaken in a fault. Now maybe that person came to them to confess that fault, say here's an area. My whole purpose in dealing with that, in confessing that fault, is not to let everybody know what a terrible weakness this person has and how they keep struggling with it. No, no, no. The whole purpose is to what? What's the word there? Restore such a one. I circled that in my Bible. That is the keyword in that whole verse. To restore such a one. Turn with me if you would to 2 Corinthians real quickly in chapter 2. 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Now the context of where we're going here in 2 Corinthians. In 1 Corinthians, Paul addressed a fella in the church at Corinth. That was living an adulterous situation with, of all people, his mother-in-law. And they're living instead. And it's a horrendous thing. And did the church not only not deal with it, they were glorying in it. They were saying, hey, the grace of God, and it was uh, you know, just something, as far as they were concerned, not an issue In fact, they talked about it openly and positively. And Paul said, wait a minute. And in First Corinthians, he deals with it very strongly, very clearly. You need to take care of this. This needs to be corrected. uh the fellowship with this guy. If he's not willing to make it right, that fellowship needs to be broken. He needs to be uh uh uh dealt with. And lo and behold the church at Corinth dealt with it And they addressed it, and uh the fellow confessed his sin and repented. He made things right That's what we want. Now look at 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Look with me at verse 6. Now he's addressing this fellow. This is after it's been made right. Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted of many. So they dealt with it, they got it corrected. So that contrary-wise, ye ought rather to what? Forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Wherefore I beseech you that you would confirm your love toward him. Come down to verse number 10. To whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also. He says I'm not holding this against him. He's forgiven. It's been dealt with. For if I forgive anything, to whom I forgive it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ. Now look at verse 11 lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. What's he saying here? Seeing this whole process of dealing with in this confession, this fellow confessed his sin and made things right It's not to shame them, it's not to punish them, it's to restore them, to restore a testimony. And now the church has a good testimony here. Things are made right Now, he said all that, come back to James to say this. That's not what he's talking about. He's not talking about publicly confessing my sins or going over. I believe when he says in James 6, uh 5, verse 16, confess your faults to another. This is what I'm convinced he's talking about. He's talking about being accountable to somebody. Making myself accountable to somebody to help me get victory and have my heart and life pure so that I can pray and get my prayers answered Did you notice? Look at what he says. Confess your faults one to another. What does that mean? It's reciprocal. It's back and forth. The Catholics like to tell us that we need to go to the priest and confess our sins. Well, if they're correct, then that priest needs to confess his sins to me also. Because he says, confess your faults one to another. It's reciprocal. It's back and forth. It's a mutual thing going on here. So that tells me it's not me sinning against Dale and then coming to Dale, sorry, I was wrong, I was completely out of line, I disobeyed God in doing this, I want you to forgive me, I confess it completely. Uh God is absolutely right, you're right, I did wrong. That's not what this is talking about. This is me coming to somebody who I confide in, who I'm confident that they can keep a confidentiality, that they have my best interest in mind. I trust them, they love God, they love me. And I can come to them and say, hey, here's a fault in my life. It's an area of weakness that I struggle with. And it's hurting me spiritually, and it's hindering my prayer life. And I want to acknowledge this to you so that we can pray, and he says there, pray ye one for another, so that we can pray together, and you can be my accountability partner. And help me strengthen this area where I can go on and be the person God saved me to be, and my prayer life can be effectual and fervent and powerful. I'm convinced that's what he's talking about. an accountability so that I can overcome this fault, prayers can be answered, and healing can take place. Fact of the matter is, Christian life, we're not Lone Rangers. We need each other to help each other. Iron sharpeneth iron. And it helps us grow and have victory. Find someone trustworthy who can work with me and hold me accountable, and vice versa. I had a young preacher call me, it's been several years ago now. And um he was starting out in the ministry and a good guy, had a wife, a lovely family. We talked. He would call me different things over time and just different questions and I tried to help him. One day he called me up and said, Pastor Lemon I'd like you to do something for me. I said, I'd do anything for you, brother He said, I would like for you to call me the first Saturday of every month. And he said, I'd like for you to ask me a series of questions and hold me accountable in my Christian life. He says, I have a series of questions I'd like you to ask me, and I would like for you to ask me any question you feel would be necessary to be dealt with so that I can be not just the Christian God wants me, but the preacher God is calling me to be. And so for about a year's time, maybe a little over a year, every Saturday, call this young man up, just about every Saturday, I'd call him up. We talked. Sometimes it was just five, six minutes, sometimes it was half hour, 45 minutes And we go through it. I'd ask him questions. What about this? Here, your victory over there. And he assured me, he gave me his word up front. I said, I'm going to be completely open and honest with you. I will confess my faults And so we went through, and I trust it was helpful for him, and then things moved on, and uh we did that. I believe that's what he's talking about here If I'm in a situation, I've got to have God answer this prayer. I have got to have God answer this prayer. And I want to be absolutely sure that my heart and life is, everything is in place. Nothing in my heart and life will hinder this prayer from being answered. In this context, sickness. And I get an accountability partner, somebody I trust, somebody who's reliable, somebody that loves God and loves me. And I can say, all right, here it is, I need you, I'm professing you, to pray with me and with each other. that we can get this thing taken care of and settled. So I believe there is a respon be I must be responsible in prayer, and by that I mean uh gain some accountability. Number two, uh I notice here that there is a it I must be reciprocal. in my prayers. Confess your faults one to another and pray one for another I'm praying for you, and you are praying for me. Turn with me, if you would, to the book of Job. There is a fascinating statement at the end of the book of Job that I believe addresses what James is talking about directly. Alright, we need healing. I want to make sure there's nothing in my heart and life that hinders God from hearing my prayers so I get an accountability partner. I confess my faults. They're they they love me, they care about me, they're trying to not trying to shame me, they're not trying to punish me or anything, they want to help me get victory over this and so that my prayers can be answered. Now, we're praying one for another, and this is the entire body, we're praying one for another. Listen, if I I I'm gonna I get a little ahead here, but let me make this statement. If I want healing for myself Just as important as getting people to pray for me, I ought to be praying for others. You say, you're the one that needs healing. I know it. I need to pray for others. Look at Job chapter 42 and come down to verse 10. Would you agree with me? Job was dealing with sickness of sorts. Right? Good night. Who, in the whole book of Job, who would you say, humanly speaking, needed the prayers the most? Job. Good heavens. He needed his wife's prayers. He needed his friends' prayers. As far as I can see, he didn't get any of that. His wife didn't pray for him, his friends didn't pray for him. All they did was try and do what Satan was trying to do, get them to be destroyed. But look at chapter 42, verse 10. And the Lord turned the captivity of Job. Now, the captivity of Job is referencing what Sachan was doing to him. The Lord turned to captivity of Job when his friends prayed for him. That's not what it says. The Lord turned to captivity of Job when what? Job prayed for his friends. Healing came to Job when he prayed for others. Isn't that interesting? James says, confess your faults one to another. Pray also one for another. That ye may be healed. We have a tendency, I don't know if you do, I afraid I do. I hate to admit my faults, one to anyone else, but um I have a tendency when I'm sick to get selfish. And I know nobody else here does, right? Oh, I'm so sick. Oh, let me clean the house for you, sweetheart. Oh, I'm sick, I'll clean. I don't do that. I tend to lay in bed, James, and uh we were teasing James about this. Uh I tend to lay there and say, Oh, bring me some Uh milk. Uh I need grapes and ice cream and strawberry cake. Uh I you're all looking at me so pious. But James is saying here, listen, you need to pray for others. You need to pray for others. Get your eyes off yourself. And so when Job, the one in need of prayer, he was healed when he prayed for his friends. Who should have been praying for him? When you and I are in need of prayer, one of the best things we can do is not just seek prayer from others. We should. That says that up earlier in the chapter. But we ought to pray for others. We ought to be sure to not just seek prayer from others, but supply prayer to others. Did you ever go visit somebody, a mature godly Christian, they're in the hospital, or maybe they're in a nursing home, they're very, very ill, they very much need prayers, you go in to visit with them, and you come out of there feeling more blessed than you were when you went in And you come out of there feeling like they help me more than I help them. I think that's what he's talking about here. You're sick, you're in need of healing? You can find a find an accountability partner so you can get things right. But in your prayers, don't just seek prayer from others. You pray for others also. You pray for them. You pray for them. And then last of all Confess your faults one to another. I need to be responsible in my prayer. Have accountability. Pray for one another. I need to be reciprocal in this matter, that ye may be healed. That ye may be healed. I put it this way, I must be riveted in my prayers. In other words, stay focused. Be specific. The word that there has this idea to the end or for the purpose of. I'm confessing my faults one to another. I'm praying one for another, to the end that, for the purpose that I may be healed, I may be made well. The word healed there means cured, made whole. Made free from error is one of the definitions. I like this idea that you may be healed has the idea of that which is wrong is made right. Confess my faults one to another, pray for one another so that I can be healed. So that which is wrong can be made right. Is it limited to physical healing? I don't think so. Does it include physical healing? Obviously. But I believe what he's talking here, we need to be prayed that ye may be healed. Be specific in your prayers. Our prayers are to be very direct. Our prayers are to be very specific. Lord, this is what I am asking you to do. I cannot do this myself. And I am asking you very specifically to do this for me. Now, do I just pray and be presumptuous? No. I need to stop. Is there area in my life that I need to be dealt with? Some areas that are sin I need to be be dealt with I deal with them, confess them. If I got one that I'm struggling with, I can't seem to get victory over that. It's a fault. It's an area of weakness. And I know it's hindering my life. Maybe I need to go and confess that to somebody, acknowledge it, and get them helping me and praying for be holding me accountable. And then I not only get others to pray for me, but I also include praying for others, not just for what I want, but I pray very, very specifically. God, this is what I want. I want to be healed. I want this wrong to be made right. I want this which is broken being put together again. Very, very specific. I love Hudson Taylor. I like to read anything I can about Hudson Taylor. What an amazing man. He was on his first trip to China. Of course they didn't have planes and all that. He's taken a ship, a sailing ship. They got between the Malay Principal uh peninsula and the island of Sumantra. And there came and knocked to his door. He had his own little cabin on the bait, great sailing ship. And there came and knocked to the door. Lo and behold, it was the captain of the ship. Came to Hudson Taylor's cabin. He says, What can I do for you? The captain said this, Mr. Taylor, the wind has stopped. We are drifting toward an island where the people are heathen and we have reason to believe they are cannibals. If we drift to that island, we're very likely to be killed and eaten. And he said this. Put and Taylor said, Well, why are you telling me that? What can I do for you? He says, I understand that you believe in God. And I am asking you to pray to God that He would send us wind. Mr. Hudson Taylor responded, okay, Captain, I can do that. But you must set the sails. He said the captain hesitated a little bit and he said something to this effect. That's ridiculous. There's not even the slightest breeze out there, and all my sailors will think I'm nuts. Hudson Taylor said, I will not pray unless you set the sails. They went back and forth a little bit. Finally, the captain agreed, I'll set the sails Hudson Taylor said, I will pray. Forty minutes later, there was a knock on Hudson Taylor's cabin door. He said, come in. The captain pushed the door open. Hudson Taylor was on his knees. And the captain said this, Mr. Taylor, you can stop praying now. We have more wind than we know what to do with. And the ship sailed on safely to its destination. Hudson Taylor knew something that we need to learn. God answers prayer. God answers specific prayer, but we must come to God God's way. And if there is something, anything in my life that is hindering God from answering my prayers, I need to do whatever it takes to get that right. I need to get my eyes off of myself, and as others are praying for me, I need to be praying for them. And I need to come to God very specifically and pray to God. Pray to God. We need prayer. This afternoon I and I I'm just saying this try and encourage us But before I came over, I slipped to my knees in our living room. And I've got something, a need on my heart, that I need God to do. And I said, God, teach me and help me in the message tonight. To be a kind of Christian whose prayers are answered. And whatever it takes, Lord, I'm willing to do it so that you can get the glory. And prayers can be answered. And my challenge to our church, I know, I know, I'm talking to a lot of people here tonight, that you desperately need God to step in and help you in some area. I don't know what that area may be, but I know that's true. And let's tonight determine as we finish out the Lord's Day, start a new week. Let's just determine, God, I'm willing to make things right. Whatever it requires, I'll make it right. If it means getting help from someone, I'll do that. If it means dying to self and praying for others, not just for myself, I do that. But Lord, this is what I need you to do. Maybe it's healing, maybe it's a healing of a marriage, maybe it's a healing of a body, maybe it's whatever. But let's be very specific and let's be very Very pure As we come to God. Does that make sense? I believe that's what he's teaching us here. I really do. And so let's respond in faith and trust the Lord. Father.