1 Peter chapter number 1. I'm going to begin reading in verse 13, and I'm going to read down through verse number 16. I want to keep this passage together to keep the context. We've been looking at this a little bit, and everybody got it there. Let's read verse number 13. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Number one, be sober. Number two. And three, hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Then he goes on, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. I just entitled the message tonight, Confidence. And I'll explain that title here in just a moment. Let's pray and we'll look at this. Father in heaven. I thank you, Lord, for a good day in church. And Lord, I just love these Sunday night services. We can just fellowship a little and testify and sing and laugh and rejoice together a little bit. I'm just so grateful for a good day. And I pray now as we finish out today in your word that you would speak to our hearts, that you would challenge and encourage and stretch us, Lord, convict us where we need conviction. And Lord, we just need you to do, I need you to do in our midst here what I can't do. I can't convict or do any of that. So I ask with all my heart, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I present my body anew to you to be used, and I yield my will, guide my words, and just speak through me. And I pray we leave here a little more confident and prepared to serve you during the week and be a witness. So please bless now this hour I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. I heard about years ago, I heard about two twins that uh the parents were very concerned about. They were as different as different can be. Isn't it amazing how two young people can grow up in the same house, same parents, same influence, same environment, and be so different. Anybody notice that, parents? And uh these two twins were so different. One was an absolute optimist, no matter what was happening, no matter what was going on, it was just the greatest day of his life, it was the greatest thing ever, it was the most wonderful whatever, no matter what. He was always optimistic about everything. The other one was the exact opposite. Didn't matter how great things were, it was terrible. Didn't matter how wonderful things were going, it was awful. And uh mom got very concerned. And she uh approached the uh the daddy and her husband and said, you know, man, these kids, uh we we need help, something, no matter what happens. This guy's all happy and excited, no matter what happens, this is all negative and bad terrible and and uh awful and he goes well we need to go see a psychiatrist so they took the two to a psychiatrist and he interviewed them and talked to them he says well we're gonna have to do some testing here They took the one, the optimist, uh, no, they took the the pessimist first. They took him in one room, he put it in there, and he put him in there and he locked the door. He's in there by himself, and the mother said, What's in there? And the room was full of toys and candy and ice cream and uh ro rocking uh uh uh little uh Uh what are those horse things called? Rocking horse and all this stuff. And and uh got in there and they waited, we'll wait one half well we we will wait one half hour And so they waited, and finally they looked in, peeked in, and the little uh pessimistic boy sitting in the middle, crying or moping, and they said and he said, What's wrong, young man, what's wrong, toys, uh uh ice cream. And he says, if I play with the toys I might get hurt and hurt myself. And I said, well why eat the ice cream? Oh, ice cream will give me a headache if I eat that. Uh candy, I'll get cavities and get sick And no matter what they did, it was all terrible and awful. This is terrible. And he says, Oh, not good. They went in the next room and said, We'll put the other boy in here. They put him in the next room. Mother said, What's in there? She said, It's a room full of four feet of horse manure. This is the optimist. They put them in there, leave them one half hour. They lock the door. They're staying outside and they hear this! Woo! This is great! Wonderful! Woo! I said, what in the world? They opened the door, said, and he's throwing it around and digging and crawling around. They said, what in the world are you doing? He says, with all this stuff in here, there's got to be a pony somewhere. Now I said all that to say this Of all the people in the world, of all the people in the world, you and I as Christians have every reason in the world to be optimistic. And I'm not talking about just a superficial don't worry, be happy, smile, and that type of thing. I'm not just talking about a superficial put on a show. I mean we have absolutely have a solid Bible basis for us to be ha uh to be optimistic in this old world. Peter is writing to these Believers in the in the early stages of the church. And uh, as we've been pointing out every message, we've been highlighting the fact that these, the audience of his uh of his letter here, the recipients are being intensely persecuted. And uh you talk about you talk about a tough time. You talk about somebody having an excuse or a humanly a reason to mourn and complain and to be pessimistic, it would have been these dear folks. They've lost their homes, they've lost their jobs, they've lost their families, they're fleeing for their lives literally because of their faith. Some of them are being physically beaten, some have been martyred, lost their lives. And it's hard for you and I to imagine the circumstances that the people he's writing to are in But he says there in the first part, we notice this, they are absolutely rejoicing. And I can't get over this one statement in verse 8. The last part. He says to them, he says, ye rejoice. And he's making an observation about them. Ye rejoice with what's the next couple words say? Joy unspeakable and full of glory. And that is a powerful testimony to the faith That these dear folks had in the Lord in the midst of these trials. Now I pointed out last time, a couple weeks ago we looked at this, but I pointed out last time that verses 1 through 12 He's writing to them, he's encouraging them. And we looked at that in depth. We went down through there. He makes some tremendous statements to them about their position in Christ, about their security, about their future in the Lord. He makes tremendous statements. Very encouraging statements to them. And I put this down. He's telling them basically, and I hope I'm not being disrespectful in this, but he's telling them basically, God's got your back God's for you. You're okay. God's you're secure. You're safe in Christ. You have reserved seats in heaven. God's got you. And he writes them encouraging them, would you agree with me humanly, in the midst of persecution and injustice and unkindness, it would be easy to get discouraged. Can I get a witness? Anybody? You're at work or whatever. Anybody here ever try and witness to somebody hand attract and they turn you down Maybe they spoke unkindly to you, and you walk away and you're kind of embarrassed, self-conscious, discouraged. Anybody know what I'm talking about? George, can you multiply that a hundred times? And what would you face? And so he's writing to them, encouraging them. And then verses 13 through 25, the end of the chapter, he's not, first part he's encouraging them. Now he's exhorting them. And we talked about this already. He's urging them. Listen, don't you quit. You stay the course. He makes a statement there in verse number 15 and 16. He says, But as he which hath called you is holy, Who is it that called them? I don't see if you're with me. Everybody with me? Who is it that called them? It's the Lord. Is it God? The Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, as he is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, in every aspect of your lifestyle. You be holy, as he which called you is holy. Look again at verse 16. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. So he's encouraging them To stay the course, live a godly life. Don't you give in to sin. Don't you let the overwhelming persecution and the discouragement that comes with that and the opposition, don't you let that get you uh off track and get involved in disobedience and sin and that type of thing. And I uh you know I've never really faced opposition uh that they faced or persecution. Hey David, I've never had that. I've been cussed out and had doors thrown at me. I had a fella down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, many years ago in when I was in college Uh we knocked on his door and we're in the inner city projects knocked on his door and uh I don't remember what all happened there, but uh it was just just basic and we're walking out and this guy comes out of the door with a baseball bat this Big guy. I mean he's like Pastor Matt's size. He's got a big baseball back and he is screaming at me and all kinds of filthy language. And um I turned around, saw him, and ran for my life. I mean I took off. So that's about the extent of my threats on my life, really, uh uh uh uh be personally, right, a one on one. But um I would imagine And I know the little bit of opposition I have faced. Sometimes there's a temptation there to just say philly on this. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Ever say that philly? Stewie on this been out witnessing sometimes and get cussed out and then you know I've got some more doors I want to visit and this guy lays into me and it's like stewie I'm going to go home and watch gunsmoke or something, you know. Now these these dear folks are intense opposition. They are treat being treated unjustly. They have things taken from them, their property's being taken from them. They're imprisoned. They're beaten, literally, because of their faith in Christ. And I would imagine there's a danger there of them saying philly. I'm going back to my lifestyle. I'm going to go live like the world. I'm going to just go and live it up. Now there's no indication they were actually doing that, but I think Peter is writing to them to exhort them to make sure that does not happen. That they stay the course. They live holy lives. If you would, take your Bible with me real quickly. Go back to the Gospel of Mark. I was studying this. This parable that the Lord gave in Mark chapter 4 came to mind as I was thinking about The danger that perhaps these New Testament believers were facing in the midst of their persecution. In Mark chapter 4 and verse number 14, the Lord's explaining A parable he had said just in the previous verses. It's the parable of the shower and the four the four soils The four types of ground that the seed lands on. And uh he's explaining it to them, and most of us are familiar with this, but he's explaining to his disciples what he meant by that parable. And look at verse 14 He's saying this, the sower soweth the word. All right? It's giving out the word of God. And these are they by the wayside. All right. That's the first type of ground that the sir that the seed, the word of God lands on They are by the wayside where the word is sown, but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. Alright, it's pretty self-explanatory. They've heard the word of God, they came to church, or somebody witnessed that door at work or whatever, and Satan just got them distracted, Satan got them off, and they never respond to it in any way, shape, or form. Then in verse number 16, he says this, and these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground. Now look at his description here Says, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness. Alright, so far so good. But look at verse 17. And they have no root in themselves, and so endure But for a time. And afterward, what's the next word after afterward? When, not if When afflictions or persecution arise for the word's sake, that's exactly Exactly what the recipients of 1 Peter are going through. Affliction and persecution for the word's sake. Now look what happens to these dear folks. Immediately they are what? Offended. That word offended there means to stumble. It also had the idea of beginning to distrust, and this is what the definition caught my attention: to desert. To walk away from. Billy. Uh I've received the word. I've heard the word of God. What God's told me. I've received it. Oh, this is wonderful. But when persecution and opposition came, they said, Phoei, I'm offended by this. I'm deserting it. I'm walking away from it. He goes on there, for sake of time we'll not look at the others. The next one is ground with thorns, and uh that's the cares of this world, deceitfulness of riches, lust of other things. And then they become fruitless, and then the last one's good ground, and boy, they go on and live for God. The point I'm trying to make is this this parable gives two dangers in the Christian life, the Christian growth. One is persecution. It'll throw some people. It'll discourage them. They'll quit. Walk away. The other one is prosperity. And that'll distract people. And boy, they get caught up in money and stuff and things. And they walk away. I believe the Peter's concern for these believers was that persecution crowd. The stony ground. He was concerned that they not walk away from it, that they get offended. Now, come back to Peter real quick, and I'm trying to buzz through this because I want to finish up this verse number 13. Peter comes back here and we pointed out that he's making a point. He says down in 15 and 16, be ye holy, be ye holy, be holy. Verse 13, he says, he's basically saying this. If you're going to live holy, you've got to think holy. How many people remember me saying that a couple weeks ago? Good. Good, I can say it again. If we're going to live holy, we've got to think holy. How many folks like me, that word holy is a little intimidating. Huh? Holy? Like God's holy? That's intimidating. And you know, until I learn to think holy I'm never going to be able to live holy. I'm going to be intimidated by that very concept, my entire Christian life, until I get my thinking straight. In fact, I want to suggest to you, every aspect of our Christian life, we're going to be defeated, we're going to be discouraged until we get our thinking straight. And that's why we're parking here on verse number 13 for a couple messages, because he's establishing what needs to be in place before I can live holy. I've got to get my thinking holy. Now we've already looked at the first part, gird up the loins of your mind. I put it this way just to br to uh uh to go over it review it is uh that needs to be constrained thinking. I can't let my mind wander As a Christian, if I'm going to live a holy life, I cannot let my mind wander. I've got to gird that thing up. I've got to tighten it up. I've got to Gotta bring that thing and constrain it. How many people here, your mind wanders and next thing you know he says, what in the world was I even thinking? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You're driving down the road and Your mind waters. We've got to keep that thing in. I think that's what Solomon was talking about a little bit in Proverbs chapter 4. And he says, he says, keep thy heart with all diligence. Don't let it wander. Don't let that thing get out there. So first thing we've got to do is we've got to constrain our thinking. Second thing, we need to control our thinking. He says there, be sober. That means be disciplined. And you're thinking. In other words, not only do I keep my mind from wandering off on stuff But I get control of that mind and I focus it on specific truths. We're told in Philippians. Think on these things. Whatsoever things are help me pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are of good report, there be any virtue, there be any praise. Think on these things. I don't quote all of them there. I don't think I had that exactly right, but the point is this: he is telling us you be sober in your thinking, you discipline your thinking. You control, you decide, this is what I'm going to think about, not that other garbage. Amen or not? And until I do that, I'm not going to be able to live a holy life I tell you, dirty lives begin with dirty thinking. Dishonest lives are the result of dishonest thinking. I think on things that are pure, I think on things that are lovely, I think on things that are good, I think on things that are, if there's any good report, if there's any virtue, if there are any praise I discipline myself to think on those things. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us, he said, you can only have one thought at a time. Make it a good one. And for the next month, I tried so hard to have two thoughts at one time. Try it. You'll go cross-eyed, I'm telling you right now. And so he says that. Now he comes to the third one. And I took longer to build up to this than I wanted to. But he comes to this confident thinking. Look here with me. Bird up the loins of your mind, verse 13. Be sober. And now he says, and hope to the end. For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Hope to the end. Number one, I'll buzz through my points here real quick, so bear with me. Number one, that's a confident hope. A confident hope. My thinking must be confident. Now, that point there, a confident hope, it's actually a redundant statement because the word there, hope. Means something a little different than how you and I use the word hope. The kids are sitting here tonight and they're thinking, oh, I hope it snows and school's canceled tomorrow. Does that mean they're very, very confident it's going to happen? They're sure, expecting it? No, it's something they desire. Something they wish. They have no clue whether it's going to happen or not. But it might. All the parents are saying, oh, I hope they have school tomorrow. And um Uh I hope oh I hope I get a raise next year. Oh I hope uh uh I hope uh card uh in the shop doesn't cost $1,000. I hope, I hope, I hope. That's how we use that word. But that's not what it means here. That I'm just wishing or desiring something that has no basis. The word hope here has this idea. Listen, a confident expectation. When the Bible says hope to the end, It's an instruction he is giving to them under the inspiration of God, and he's saying, you make a conscious decision that you are going to anticipate with full assurance. That certain things are true. Hope, it means it's actually a form of trust. It's a form of faith. It has this idea. I expect this to happen. Hope to the end. I'm expecting this. I'm anticipating this. As I studied this, I came to the conclusion: hope is in many ways the basis of our faith. Hope is I'm confident I fully expect God to keep his word that what God says is so. And because of that, I'm putting my faith in him. Or I got saved as I was reading the Bible and I was seeing from God's word that I could be saved, that I could have a new life, that God could break these sins that were controlling my life And I saw that, and it became a hope. I became confident. I believed that. And as a result of that, I exercised faith in Christ. And you know what I found out? God did exactly what he said. It's a hope. Hope to the end. Have confidence in God's uh in God's word in what God has said Hope is a Bible-based confidence in the truth of God's Word, regardless of circumstances, regardless of appearances. Real quickly, Romans chapter number four, come over there with me. Abraham understood this concept of hope. And in chapter in Romans chapter four, we have a testimony given here about Abraham and him exercising This biblical hope in God, a confident anticipation, a confident expectation. How many people agree with me while you're finding Romans 4? Do two things at once. Find that. And how many of you agree with me? There's a world of difference between expecting something to happen and wishing something would happen Yeah. Expectation has a sense of confidence, assurance. I expect that to happen. I expect the sun's coming up tomorrow. I don't wish it will. I mean I wish it hope it does. But I fully expect it to. You probably see the difference? And so look at Abraham here in chapter number four. Look at verse 18. It says, speaking of Abraham, who against hope, in a situation that looked like there's no way this could possibly happen, there's no hope of this happening. Nevertheless, against hope, he believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken by God, so shall thy seed be. And be not weak in faith, There's his hope, this confident anticipation, expectation. He considered not his own body now dead when he was about how old? Hundred years old. And neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. Sarah's in her 90s. So let's get the context. I'm going to look at another verse. So here's Abraham. He's about a hundred years old. Sarah's ninety-something. And um God shows up, he says, hey, guess what, kids? You're gonna have a kid Abraham, uh Sarah says, she laughed, the Bible says. She says, right, I'm 90 years old, I'm gonna have a kid. And uh, you know, and um, but Abraham believed God. Now, all appearances, all circumstances said, there ain't no way you two are having a kid. But Abraham believed He against hope believed in hope. You follow what I'm saying? He was absolutely certain. Regardless of appearances, regardless of circumstances. He absolutely fully expected God to do what God said he would do. I don't know about you, but I guess this tells me a little bit about Sabra Sabra and Arab Araham. Uh Sarah and Abraham. Uh I guess they're a little spunky Hundred years old, ninety never mind. Um But Abraham understood this in spite of appearances. He was fully confident that what God said was going to happen was going to happen. That was hope. That's biblical hope. Confident thinking. Yes, Abraham got it in his head. He was thinking correctly. God said we're having a kid I'm 100 years old. She's 90 years old. There is no way in the world this can possibly happen. But if God said it, I'm sure it's going to happen. That's a confident hope. And Peter is writing to these believers that are being persecuted, and the whole world is against them, and the whole world's had to kill them and crush them. And he says, listen, don't you guys lose your confidence in a coming event we'll see here in just a moment. And so it is a confident hope, a confident hope. These believers needed to be could not lose that assurance. And I think I've referenced this here recently. But um I like uh I like to study World War II a little bit, Europe and read different things. And one of the uh generals I really like, he probably one of the nicest guy in the world, but uh is George Patton. What amazing man. And a what amazing general, a military man. He would get up in the morning, look out on the battlefield, say, what a lovely day for a war. And I was reading about him, and again, I think I mentioned this recently, but I was reading about him some time ago, and uh they were interviewing him, and they said um they said, you're fearless. Your battles, your your your conduct in combat is you're a fearless man. And he said, that's not true. He said, to be honest with you, I'm scared to death. He said, in fact, when we go to battle, I get so scared my hands tremble and they get all sweaty. He said, but I learned something years ago that has helped me. Now get this. This statement has helped me so much in my Christian life from somebody like that. But God has helped me with it He said this, I don't take counsel of my fears. Now think about that. I'm scared to death. But I don't listen to my fears. I don't take counsel from my fears. I take counsel from what we train to do, what we prepare to do, what the strategy is Regardless, I push away my fears. I don't take counsel from them, and we do what we train to do. Now you take that in the Christian life. You look at circumstances. You look all around, you say, oh, this is terrible. Man, the whole world's falling apart. There's no hope. There's no way. This is awful. Don't take counsel of that thinking. Push that aside and get hope and say, no, God It said certain things are true, and this is the way I applied what George Patton said. I applied it this way. I'm not going to take counsel of my doubts. I'm not going to take counsel of my fears. I'm not going to take counsel of my own unbelief when I struggle with it. I'm going to take God at his word. Regardless of what I think or feel, regardless of what the circumstances are, I'm acting upon what God has said and trust Him to come through. That's a confident hope. And that's what he's telling these dear believers. You hope in the uh he says uh uh uh let me quote it correctly here. He says, um, and hope to the end. For the grace that it's to be revealed. So it's a confident hope. Bear with me, please. Number two, it's a complete hope. He says, to the end. That word, that little phrase, to the end means perfectly, completely, not lacking. I think one of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is maintaining my walk with God as time goes on. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Time goes on. What are some of the dangers that time presents to the Christian life? Somebody talk to me. What are some dangers that time would present to the Christian life? Who's thinking with me here? God, become complacent. The novelty wears off. It's not new anymore. Oh, I've I've heard a message on that 75 times. And we walk away. And our hearts get hard. Our necks get stiff. Our love grows cold. We become indifferent to the things of God. And time for a Christian can become a very, very dangerous enemy. I'm not careful. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Begin. A little cold. Ah, here's a danger. You watch garbage on TV. At first you're offended. Oh, I've got to turn that off. Or you go somewhere, oh, oh, oh, I can't do that. And it's again, and it's again, it's again, and next thing you know, we're sitting there tolerating stuff that ten years ago we'd have said, I will never do that Time becomes the enemy. And so he's saying to them, Hope to the end, hope completely. You keep that confidence in place, don't let it fade. Maintain that confidence. I don't have time. John 14, 1 and 3, Jesus said, he just told Peter in chapter 13, he says, you're going to deny me. Y'all are going to deny me, Peter. Peter said, I'll never deny you. He says, Yeah, you will, three times. And then in chapter 14, verse 1, he says this. He says, Ye believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. When he said to him, believe in God, he was saying this, Peter, you're going to fail, and you're going to fail in ways you never dreamed you would fail. But don't you lose your confidence in him. Don't you lose that faith, don't you lose that hope. You trust me through all of it. And um and so he says, listen, it's a complete hope, a hope that doesn't doesn't fade away, doesn't come up short. He says, let not your heart be troubled. That word trouble means doubt or become distress. Cause you to give up. He says, you believe, you have confidence in me. In Acts chapter 6 and 7, you have Philip And he's preaching the word of God, and the Pharisees come and take him and they imprison them and they threaten him. And he preaches a long sermon in chapter 7. And then he gets to the end of the chapter and uh they start stoning him. How many people remember that? They laid their coats at Paul's feet. And uh they're stoning Peter and he says at the end he says, Father Receive my spirit. Forgive them. Receive my spirit. I'm not quoting it correctly. You know what I see in that? Somebody that hoped unto the end. Even when the whole world turned against him, they're stoning him, he says, my confidence is in God. God, you forgive them and you receive me. What a testimony. And then last of all, it says our uh it's a credible hope. For the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I tell you what, our faith in God, our confidence takes a beating when we get our eyes off the Lord and we start looking at circumstances. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I started looking at certain maybe you maybe you or I messed up. Maybe we we blew it like Peter. We just blew it. There's no other way to say it. I blew it. And you say, pfft And I get focused on how I blew it. I get focused on my shortcoming. I get focused on how I failed. And that's all I can see. It's all I can see. It's all I'm focused on. You know what happens? I get my eyes off the Lord. And my confidence is shaking and my hope in God is shaking. Uh, people start cussing you out at work. You're trying to be a good Christian, or maybe at school. And you bow your head at lunch and you thank God, just a simple little witness, thank you, Lord, for this food at lunch. And everybody's looking around, they start laughing at work or in the office or at school or anywhere, out in the restaurant, and start laughing and I tell you what, if you're not careful, you get focused on how people are responding to your faith, your Christianity, get your eyes off the Lord, your confidence takes a beating. Follow what I'm saying? What I'm saying is this what he's telling them. Listen, Jesus coming back again someday. Jesus has grace for you guys. You're getting persecuted. Don't get your eyes off the Lord. You hope to the end for that grace that will be brought to you at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Keep your eyes on Christ. Keep your eyes on Christ. Say, oh, my husband's giving me a rough tie. Get your eyes off your husband. Get them on Christ. Ah, my parents. Get your eyes off your parents. Get them on Christ. My boss, the neighbor, myself. Get your eyes off all that. Put it on Christ. Because when we start looking at the circumstances, our hope's going to start shaking. Our confidence is going to get a little wavy. And this old world, this old world is pretty good at convincing people the Lord's not coming through for you. World's pretty good at that. I read about Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln was a very lonely man. He's a very lonely man. At the point there when the Civil War was going on, about the whole country was mad at him. The newspapers were writing articles against him that were flat-out lies. They're calling him names. They're saying ridiculous stuff about him. And it seemed like everybody had turned against him. His wife was a mess. And he was a very lonely man. When he was shot there at Ford's Theater, took his body. Afterward, I guess the coroner or whoever it was. They uh took his clothing, his belongings, and he went through his pockets on the clothes he had on him the night he was shot. And they brought them out and they put them in a little container. And years later, one of the TV stations was doing a documentary on them, and they had this expert that on Lincoln And they brought that box out and they had them open it up and explain what all was in that. And there was little things. I think there was glasses and the pocket knife and just some things you would expect. But there was something else that Lincoln had in his pockets that night that you might not expect. He had a whole pack of newspaper clippings. That were praising him from years ago. And apparently he had those little clippings where they said good things about him. He carried them with him at all times, apparently. And what he was suggesting, he was suggesting that many times late at night in the White House Lincoln by himself, everybody's calling him names, everybody's turning on him. He said, I can just see him getting those little paper clippings out And reading down through and thinking, maybe I'm not as bad as they all say I really am. And he would find encouragement, he would find strength for his confidence from those little clippings Can I just give personal testimony real quick? Sometimes people give me a hard time. I'm not complaining. It's been great. But sometimes things are said and some things are done, and I'll be honest with you, sometimes the preacher gets discouraged. And uh sometimes I sit back in that office, maybe a Sunday night or a weeknight, and late and it's dark, everybody's gone. I'll just sit in there and I'll get feeling sorry for myself. I know you all never do this. I get feeling sorry for myself. What in the world? And uh sometimes I look up on my wall on the one side of my office there. I have my uh graduate d degree, diploma up there, and a couple other awards things I've gotten over the years and different stuff. And if you want to come back, I'll show it to you how wonderful I really am. And um But I look at that and I'll think, you know, maybe I'm not as bad as what the devil's trying to convince me I am. Now here's the problem with that. That's looking back. That's looking back. And what he's telling the believers here is don't look back, don't look at your sales, don't look at your awards, don't look at the newspaper clippings. You look at Christ. Keep your eyes on Christ. And before you're ever going to live a holy life, before you're ever going to have a pure, holy, godly life, you've got to get your thinking straight We've got to bring those, don't let your mind wander. Control it. Focus it on the right things. And you keep your mind stayed on Christ. You keep your mind stayed on Christ. You do that, this whole world won't have the influence that it does if you don't. Am I making sense? That's this week. We finish up the Lord's Day. We've got a new week ahead of us. Let's just determine tonight. I'm going to keep my eyes on Christ this week. I want a pure heart. I want to be holy like God wants me to be I'll keep my eyes on Christ, what he's promised me. And I fully expect someday he's coming back. Everything's going to be exactly the way he says. Amen. Father, please bless this effort. Lord, just like Peter challenged those New Testament believers, I pray you'd challenge us. Get our minds stayed on thee. Lord, that we can walk with you and not let this old world beat us up. Let this old world weaken our faith. Let's just stay close to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I really need to get my eyes on Christ? Maybe some have been dwelling on a situation at work all week or a home situation or whatever. And you say, preacher, I need to get my thinking straight and get it on Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand, that's what I need. My thinking on Christ. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, it'll change your life. It'll change my life If we can get that one thing straight. Be sober. Gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober. And hope to the end. Until the coming of Christ. Father, bless our invitation, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed