Even though I'm young, I take a look around at Christianity, the shape that it's in. I don't m really mind what church you go to necessarily, but I'm seeing a lack of confidence in our Christian walk with God. God is still the same. It's just uh a matter of the condition of his church. And that kind of bothers me. So I've been challenged through the book of 1 John John's uh writing is just replete with issues about competence in our Christian walk. We talked about competence in salvation. Not an entire message on that, but of course John is assuming that you could be competent in your salvation Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. He wrote that a little bit earlier in his life. No man comes to the Father but by him. He knew that experientially, and we get to read that. Confidence, he doesn't stop there. He says confidence through fellowship. We discussed that. confidence through confession, we looked at that, and then confidence through obedience. But as we peer into chapter 3, John gives a different slant on confidence a believer has, and that's confidence through God's love. Confidence through God's love. I'm going to read just the first couple verses one more time. Behold, 1 John chapter 3, verse 1, behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. Just think about that. Behold, what manner of love. He's saying, let me draw your attention to just the quality, the type, the demonstration of love God the Father has bestowed on upon us. He says, behold it, look at it, examine it, stop getting over it, okay? Or don't get over it. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, as his fear children, folks, that we should be called The sons of God. Can I even say the daughters of God? It's generic. The children of God. Amazing. That uh therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, Jesus Christ, we shall be just like him We shall see him, for we shall see him as he is, some remarkable truth. But the topic really at hand is probably the greatest topic that mankind could ever discuss, and that's the love of God. We're not attempting to do that justice this morning, but there's probably been no topic that has been written upon than the very love of God. You've got a song in your hymn book, page 29. Here's what we're going to do is I've asked Jen to play along there. You can focus in on the verse number one, and then I'm going to invite you, especially for those that are new to this song, to join in on verse number three. as we discuss, I think, the greatest topic the world could ever discuss, the very love of God and the confidence we can have through it. So 29, again, it's a little bit different in your hymn book. Hold your place in your Bible. The love of God, page 29, as Gen place, think that it would impact us. As children of God, we would be more confident And perhaps as those who do not know Christ as Savior, we would see your love demonstrated and trust in it fully holy in the form of Jesus Christ for salvation. God, I pray that you'd meet with us this morning, we ask in your precious name. Amen. All right, I know that was a slightly different way to start things off, but John is an amazing writer. He touches on things that are of the personal nature. I used to think when I first got saved as a six-year-old that Christianity had a lot to deal with a list of dues. and don'ts that if I wanted to be right with God, then I needed to somehow perform and measure up to what it meant to be a Christian. And I went through a lot of my life like that with a s This proverbial checklist saying, God, I've done this, I've done this, and now look at me. Don't you love me? And you know what I find the more I read? in the holy word of God, the more I grow in my Savior, the more I realize that has nothing to do with it whatsoever. That the love of God is the greatest thing ever, and you don't merit it In fact, it's kind of impossible for God to love you any more than he already does. John is trying to express that. You, my friend, can have confidence in the love of God. John also gives us the popular verse, John 3. 16, though in the blank, for God so loved the world. There it is. that he gave his son. He also writes God's love saying, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man is willing to lay down his life for another person amazing. Frank, can I say it this way? It is impossible for God to love you any more than he does currently. There's no greater demonstration of love than God already did in sending Jesus Christ to die for your sins, to take your place on the cross. So that you can have everlasting life. John goes a step further to tell us not only that love is of God, but in fact God is love. Amen. If John were here today, he would tell us, believer, there is confidence through God's love. You don't need to merit it. You don't need to earn it. We're not here to uh wow God or please God. In fact I find it kind of sad the longer I'm in full-time ministry. There are thousands, I would say yay, even millions, of people suffering today with some tremendous insecurities. What do you mean by that Insecurities in their heart, wondering if about the love of some relative, maybe the love of your spouse, the love of your parents, the love of children. But as we understand the love of our Heavenly Father There is confidence that ought to fill our hearts and allows us to go on day by day, facing some of those trials, facing some of those difficulties, so that we that we could go through these things, understanding, being more confident. through the love of God. I'd like to examine just a few things that will help remind us of the magnitude of what exactly is going on in this passage here. What John is trying to get at if he were here this morning speaking to you. Who we are, number one, number two, where we're going, number three. How in the world do we get ready for this? Okay, we're talking about confidence through God's love. Number one, so first of all, we need to notice John points out the position of the believer. We're talking about who we are. One thing you need to realize is that you have a position in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is in official, it's in a recognized position. You uh You stand in Christ, the Bible says over and over in the New Testament. That's an amazing thing. Um just by way of illustration, some of you that are anybody in here uh politically minded Okay, you get into politics, you watch this. Okay, so I'm a little bit like that, maybe a little bit too much like that, but if you've been watching the news recently, uh you can't help but see that President Trump's been criticized for the declassification and release of intelligence information. You're aware of that, some of you that watch news. But I, you know, they they people can disagree with them all they want, but the fact of the matter remains the same. He has the right to do what he does. Why? Because he's the president of his because of his position. He has uh since coming into the office, he's um uh also appointed several cabinet members and released some cabinet members, but guess what? He has the right to do that. Why? Because of his position. President Trump has the highest one of the highest security clearances for um for the same reason because of his position the he has the greatest security detail we just came back from capital connection. He has the greatest security detail that the world has ever known. Why? Because of his position. Can I tell you that although President Trump's position is very high and esteemed in the world that we live in and offers a lot in this world, you and I as believers, we have even a higher, yea, the greatest position that anybody can hold, no better than any job or any other thing in this world You and I have a position as believers, and it's far better than what this world can offer. I'm thankful for that. I'm growing into that knowledge. This is why John says that behold, now we should be called the sons of God. That's kind of an amazing thing But one thing I do want to point out is that not all are called the sons of God. Yeah, I'm aware, I w having gone to Bible college, there are a lot of false teachings out there, and many theologians say that Everybody is a child of God. Jesus Christ died for all and and so that by inference now all are saved. And the Bible clearly teaches that there are some In fact, there may be somebody in this room, not being mean or ugly or vicious, but somebody in this room may not be indeed a son or a daughter of God. That is a possibility, even though there are others who do Because the Bible says very clearly, in fact, John says in his earlier writing, ye must be born again. He wrote in John 8. 44, some people, Jesus Christ even said, Ye are of your father, the devil. But when you're born of God by the Spirit of God through the Son of God according to the Word of God, then you become a child of God. So I just wanted to make that clear. We're not all the children of God according to this passage. Galatians 3. 26. For ye are the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. I mentioned G uh John wrote, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And I know many of us understand that. But listen very closely, if you've not experientially received Christ as your personal Savior, then you are in fact biblically, the way God looks at it. Not a child of God. And you can get that very thing settled today. In fact, you write that where you are. You could say, God, I recognize this thing, and whoa, boy, I don't, I'm not sure if I've ever done it. I hope. this morning that you've made that decision to personally give your life to Christ. And uh he sure knows how to take great care of it. But um So notice that the Bible says in verse 1 that we are first of all the sons of God because we are loved of the Father. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. You know, we love God. Because he first loved us. In theological terms, it would mean that Jesus Christ, he's the progenitor of love. He got it all started He shows us what it actually really looks like. I love watching the well shouldn't say necessarily love, but uh it's comical watching the world throw around that term and s uh They barely even scratch the surface of what love really is. Why? Because without Christ, without God in your life, you really can't experience the love of God. But those who have received Christ, you can uh know and have confidence in your position. Why? Because you are loved of the Father. There's uh the the way of uh there's uh this this verse here to me kind of levels the playing field somewhat. Uh many of you may have heard the name Ron Comfort. He started the Bible college where uh Jen and I graduated from. I I love that place and I love that man, respect him highly, but he often reminded us that the ground at the cross is level. And we come the exact same way. Everyone comes to God, does so on equal ground, equal footing. There's no uh impressing God, I mentioned this earlier, no wowing God. You don't convince God. No, what makes us confident of our position as a child of God is the very love of God. Let me say it this way. Salvation from start to finish, folks, is all about God's love. From the very beginning to the very end, a demonstration of God's love. So we're loved by the Father. Salvation from start to finish is that expression of love. Notice you'll see, behold what manner I pointed that out a little bit earlier. That's a special quality. An out of this world kind of love. Something that the lost just does not completely understand. Again, you can look at me and say, Pastor Bret, that's kind of being bigoted or or how can you say so-and-so doesn't love? It's just What the Bible says that they really don't understand because God is the author of love. You can't claim to understand some book an individual wrote. without um first understanding that it it comes from that individual and getting into his mind. Well the same way with God. God authored love. So that means we need to get into his book. We need to understand, hey, where is God coming from? We need more importantly than that God in us. Romans 5. 8 gives a little glimpse into what kind of love God is talking about. Behold what manner of love. Romans five eight, you know it. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. While we messed up, Christ was willing to take the price. While we sinned against him and wronged him, and you know how easily it is to get back at somebody for that. Not God. God was willing to take that hit, take that plunge, and that's the kind of love. But I find this you'll relate well with this, I'm sure, uh, if you're honest, that we tend to fall in a kind of conditional love though, don't we? Uh as long as our spouse treats us the right way, and I'm kind of getting a chuckle just the talk that we had earlier this week. If our spouse treats us the right way, hey then that means that I can love so-and-so. Uh maybe, Pastor, so long as you don't preach on things that I like to do, then you'll be okay in my book, okay? I know I'm not like that. Maybe Pastor Leatherman. But um that's not God At all. Okay, we realize that. That uh God's love is supreme and it teaches us what kind of love we can expect from him and what kind of love we uh the confidence that we can have in him behold what manner of love the father bestowed upon us. I read a story um years ago there was a young girl, and this is a true story, whose face had been badly disfigured by a fire that she was in. Her parents thought because of this that uh and other things that uh some complications it would be best to put her up in a boarding school that was specifically designed for handicapped children. So she was taken to the train by train to a town where she would attend this special school. While she was waiting at the terminal, she saw some other young girls and uh or she she saw others um there, boys and girls who evidently were being enrolled in this thing. uh same school and they were awaiting some transportation. Well slowly a line, a cube began to form with the superintendent at the front holding a sign with a name printed on the front so as not to mistake it for anything else. She uh then watched as the superintendent of the school greeted little boys and girls with a simple hug and a genuine kiss on the cheek. After a long time, she gingerly made her way toward the line. The superintendent realized at this point he was missing just One child, one student. So the little girl approached the superintendent and said in a little bit of a whisper, Please, Mister. I I know I'm not pretty like the other girls, but would you mind hugging me? You you don't have to kiss me. Um on the cheek. The superintendent hugged the girl. and kissed her on both cheeks. Young lady, I want you to know that we love you and we are so glad that you're here. This moment from the story that I read impacted this young girl. The rest of her life. And you know, one one day Jesus Christ came to this world. He looked on our scars and our ugliness, and he was willing to die for it. for us. He was willing to go through some very agonizing things. Read the his prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane, folks. Jesus Christ went through all this. Why? So that we could experience the love of God. Notice our passage there. It says in verse 2, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Have you ever noticed that God's word doesn't really just put in added words on Uh for no reason. The everything's there for a reason. I love that because it says behold the now are we the sons of God. That's uh means that it's not later, it's in fact now that we get to experience the love of God. We don't have to wait till sometime later. Uh there's no such thing as uh soul sleep. There's no such thing as purgatory based on what I've read in the Word of God. But now you don't have to wait, become a child of God. Some folks have some deep-hitted needs in their life. Guess what? There's a remedy with Jesus Christ. You can ask Him to come into your life, and behold, now you become the child of God. You don't have to wait to have everlasting life. God gives it to you right now. It reminds me of another song that we sing in Old Classics Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste. That is tasting ahead of time of glory divine. You guys get that right here. on earth, behold what manner of love that God's bestowed upon us that now you and I get to be the child of God. But recognize this in verse number uh the last part of verse number uh one it says therefore the world knoweth us not Because it knew him not. Here's where I personally feel that a lot of Christians miss the mark Here's where so many Christians are having trouble. They want to walk with the Lord, but they also want acceptance from the world. I remember being there in my high school days. That, my friend, is a no-win situation situation. The fact of the matter is that if you truly live for the Lord Jesus, truly desire a godly, holy life The world's never going to accept a dedicated Christian. That's just the fact of the matter. Not because of what I say so, but the Bible says that if you're acting like a child of God If God is living in you and you're experiencing this love and confidence through this love, that mark it down. The world is not going to know you. They're not gonna understand. They're not sympathetica, okay? They're not on the same page. It's not going to work. Um that uh that's why John ex explained the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. He came unto his own. Why? What happened? And his own received him not. He was despised, rejected of men. That was a prophecy that took place many, many years before Jesus Christ even came. So we know that it in the same way the world's going to reject. Jesus Christ and has that the world will reject us as we step out and live for him. That's a message that I uh implore the young people to take heed to that you can't please certain friends. You can't please everybody. You can't like the world, be like the world, and try to please the world. and please God at the same time. It just doesn't work. Same way you flip on a switch in a room and the light has a way of expelling darkness so um that we cannot live uh pleasing the world and pleasing God at the same time. You're gonna have one or the other. There's a old spiritual song. I don't necess know necessarily how it goes, but I know the words somewhat. It uh starts off sweet little Boy Jesus, we didn't know who you were. Sweet little boy Jesus, we did not know who you were You know, I feel like that's the song of our society today. Even conservatives. It doesn't matter who you are, what you call yourself. Little Jesus boy, we didn't know who you were. And we we carry on like that. But that's what God says is gonna happen. Um that uh that we we They didn't know him or just refused to accept him. The theme of our world today, the world system, we know this. It's simple. The world system rejects the Lord Jesus Christ, his mastery over the world. But I believe as Christians we shouldn't be d too disappointed when that same thing happens to us because guess what we're in some pretty good company. It reminds me in uh teen class we're discussing the death and resurrection of Christ, the doctrine of Christology. And I think of Jesus' mock trial. We're going through that uh just went through that. That they cry, give us Barabbas. You remember this? They Their custom was to release a prisoner, and Barabbas was a uh really bad down and out kind of guy. Uh just d deplorable behavior and any intelligent person would say, a guy that I don't disagree with or this filthy, downright, no good, uh terrible evil person that most would uh common sense would choose this however we know that's not what happened they said give us varabbas Give us Barabbas. And that's the same cry that I feel that we hear across our land today, the United States, give us Barabbas, give us Barabbas, take away these. Dedicated Christians from us. We can't stand it. We we don't like to see it. We don't like to bear it and just get them out of there. It's it's the stuff that I see on television where uh young people are following after sports heroes that stand or don't stand For certain things if you know what I mean by that. and such high esteem. Yeah, we'll we'll reject the Lord of all the earth, Jesus Christ. And it's it just it's this cry going across the lane. Give us Barabbas. Give us something else. Take this junk away from us. You know you gotta realize, Christian, you may not be the most popular. at work on Monday morning. I understand that. You may not be voted most likely to succeed, but you can certainly be confident of your position. in Christ that you are beloved of the Father as one of his dear children. That means a lot to me. And I know to a lot of folks in here. But uh just realize that we have confidence in our position, that uh our position is Jesus Christ. Who are we? Well we are we have a position in Jesus Christ. But notice number two, our promise. Number two, our promise. So who are who who we are and where we're going, a promise. Look at verse number two. Beloved, now are we the sons of God and that doth not appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, promise number one, we shall be like him, promise number two, for we shall see him. as he is. Couple promises here that really have a l a big uh bang in a Christian's life. Number one, promise is the return of Christ. Number two is the resemblance to Christ. And they really kind of go hand in hand. Okay? So the promises of God. We're talking about confidence through God's love. The return of Christ, you saw that in verse 2, he shall appear. You can mark it down. I look at this world today, and in a lot of ways I try to push back the negativity. There's two ways of looking at this. Jesus Christ is going to come back again, Pastor Bret, and I see the signs And I read in Paul's letters to Timothy and to Titus, I know what's going to happen. And what's the sense in fighting it? There's wars, there's rumors of wars, there's Earthquakes in diverse places and the world is falling around me on a crash and ah and boom and oh no all these things going on and I do watch the news and it makes me sick and I'm so discouraged, oh what am I going to do? And I see this sort of attitude. There is a way to look at it that way. Oh wow Jesus Christ may come back again. But realize this this is a promise not to discourage us. But to encourage us. We don't need to be bogged down by that, but rather say, Hey God, I'm expecting you to come forward. I know these things are going to happen, but that doesn't stop me from living godly. Right in the midst of all this chaos, all of this junk that's hitting our country, these crazy things, I heard a statistic that I wasn't aware of at Capital Connection. We're one of four countries in the nation Um I used to think that man we're doing a little bit better than parts of Europe and so forth. But we're one of the four countries in Europe in all the world where we actually allow late-term abortions. No other one by one countries are saying, no, that's not right. No, we can't do it. And yet still our country is standing for that sort of garbage. Of w only one of four countries. I can't name the others uh off the top of my head. I believe China, maybe another one, but all around the world, um that uh you know what that just tells me Folks is that, yeah, it's looking a little dark in our country. Yeah, our country does need us to intercede. We'll talk about that tonight. But um that even though it's chaotic and all this uh well j Jesus said will I find faith when I come back on the earth you know he can he can find you being faithful. The return of Christ, John is writing in the midst of here, not uh and not some doom and gloom letter. He's saying, hey listen, you're a child of God, behold what manner of love, and guess what? Jesus Christ is going to come back He's a little upbeat about it. Can't you hear him? Almost as if he were today. My Jesus is going to come back. That's exciting. We don't need to be down and out about it. Colossians three four when Christ, who is our life Shall appear, then shall we also appear with him in glory. That's kind of exciting to me. Okay, uh recently I've undergone a little bit more pain, maybe nothing compared to some what you folks are dealing with and you I hear all the time just wait till you get older and that sort of thing. But you know already I've got some aches and pains and I I'm starting to feel old and and the prospect of Jesus Christ coming back Doesn't really seem all that bad, Amen. You know, that's that's pretty exciting. And that's sort of what John's getting at too. I picture this old guy Um Isle of Patmos, finishing up the the book of Revelation and just reflecting on these things. Hey, my Jesus is going to come back. I don't care if it's an island. I'll just make some life gives me lemons. I'll make some lemonade and sip it on the beach here. Bless God. You know, that sort of thing. But you know, this thing. of Jesus Christ coming back, that it that ought to get us pretty excited about it. We ought to be able to share that. That ought to be confidence that God keeps his promises. That's another uh because God keeps his promise, we could be confident of the love that he has for us First Thessalonians four sixteen for the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are in Christ, which are alive and remain, will be caught up together with him And so shall we be. And you get to the end of that passage and it says, wherefore, uh encourage one another with these words. Be glad in these words. Not something to fear, but to be looking forward to. There are over 300 references in your New Testament alone that refer to this very event, return of Jesus Christ. But that's not the only promise John is letting us in on that we could be confident of. There's also the resemblance to Christ. We shall be like him. Recently, just being transparent, God is dealing with me about my selfish attitude. Again, I'm just being honest. that uh a lot of my life I'm I'm going on and I'm realizing, boy God, it is all about me. And you know, it seems like the more I try to fight that The more I try to die to myself. I was just reading in devotions and this morning over at the house and uh God Jesus said, if you're gonna follow me, take up your cross and I I'm thinking, God, how can I do this? I I'm struggling with this. I can't seem to get over myself. I I it's like I'm stuck. The number one enemy to me being confident in your love is is in fact me and I that's why what John writes here is when Jesus Christ is going to appear I will be like him. I can set all that junk off to the side and I have this promise. He is actively conforming me to this world. In fact it's a pet peeve of mine. Let me read a verse here. Romans chapter 8, 29, I'm going to highlight a word. It says um Paul writes uh Paul's writing for whom he did for know, talking about God, Jesus Christ. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. That's a little bit antiquated verbiage, don't you think? first uh first uh born and uh conformed pre predestined. But uh you know, I'm kind of tired of folks, a certain group hijacking, that's how I say it, hijacking the word predestination. You know, predestination is not unto salvation, but unto sanctification. So get this that uh you don't have to be afraid of you Oh God's predestined me to be like his son. You know that doesn't mean that uh God that those who will um are predestined that that means that no matter what they choose, they're going to be saved. No matter what, they don't really have a choice in the matter. God knows already so All they gotta do is just follow in line. God's wound wound up the the little tinker toy and it just follows along just as he planned it all. And uh you you think you have a choice but you don't really Can I tell you that's not my Bible at all. That's not what God says. No, rather, the predestination is a powerful doctrine, and that is this, that the moment you accept Jesus Christ, then you become predestined not to salvation. But you become predestined to be conformed to the image of God. But you know, sometimes I find on this earth that we we do a great job at walking God in the process. that he wants to take place in our lives. We do a great job at uh bashing predestination. God wants us, the moment you get saved, he has set you on a track. I want you to be more like my son Jesus Christ. He is going to appear. And when he does You will be like if folks, why don't we just start right now? Uh that's that's the frustration that I have is like Paul said, that oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this? Thank God for Jesus Christ who will. Thank God for this promise he's gonna come back. And not only is he going to come back, not only is the return of Christ sure, but the very resemblance we'll have to Christ will be something sure. Um Philippians 3, 20 through 21, you don't have to necessarily turn there. Philippians 3, 20 and 21. Again, Paul writing, he says, For our conversation or manner of living is in heaven. From whence we also look for our Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself. You notice some really strong language in there? He says he is going to be able to change our vial. bodies. Uh Pastor Bret, I don't think that I appreciate you calling my body vile. Okay. You know, I've been to some youth rallies where that Teens just get really offended. Not our teens, of course, they're angels. But um, you know, vile, vile, vile. Okay? We're vile. That's what God says. That you can be the most healthy person in here today And there are some of you uh that but I don't want to discourage you, but your body is indeed vile. In fact, our bodies are decaying right now, so you guys are kind of a bunch of rotten people. Okay, so Pastor wanted me to tell you that. Um it might be a cavity, um, it might be an ingrown toenail, it might be something of maybe a little bit of a more serious nature like cancer, but the fact of the matter is our vile bodies are decaying. And you could be confident in the love of God because of the promises of God. Jesus Christ will return, and you will be like him That's not some dictorial mandate. That is just one of the most blessed promises John is affording every believer. that really desires the same intimate walk that he had. Like I said, John is the perfect guy to write this. He is the beloved disciple. The one that got really close to Jesus. The one who just was always there. I read in my devotions this morning about the Mount of Transfiguration. Guess what? There were two others, but John was there too. In the garden. John was there. When John, when Jesus was t teaching other people, there was the beloved, right near the heart of God. Hey, do you really want to be close to God? Do you want to know that intimacy? You want to be confident in the love of God, not something you need to merit, but something that God gives to you, recognizing your position And the promises of God is a wonderful place to start. And then we need to move on to number three, our practice. This falls along the lines of the first question that I asked. How do we prepare for this? So our practice. Look at verse number three. We've read Beloved, now were we the sons of God, and it doth not appear all that we're going to be in Christ and the streets of heaven, and we sing about it and think and the love of God and will enthrall us and surround us. These are very exciting, lofty truths, and maybe sometimes too lofty for us to attain unto, like some of the early writers talk about devotionally But still nonetheless it it's appropriate for us to dwell on these things. But guess what? Here's where the rubber meets the road. That wonderful that we can be confident in the love of God. But here's how you're gonna master that confidence and that is our very practice. Look at verse number three. Because of everything that has been said up to this point by the Apostle John, here's what he says, and every man or woman that hath This hope in him, that is salvation in Christ, let him purify himself even as he is pure. Even as he is pure. There's a strong root here based on our hope. The hope is not found in Washington, D. C. , as I alluded to earlier. It's not in the military. It's not in a 401k, not in good works or even good looks, it's all in Jesus Christ that we are um we were rooted and founded in him. My hope is built, I think about that song. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus Christ and His righteousness. Luke 21, 27 through 28. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with power. and great glory and these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your hands for redemption draws nigh. The practice of the believer is based on that very hope that Jesus Christ will appear. But to what end? If you and I were confident in the fact that Jesus Christ would return very, very soon, which he may very well be, I know we hear that and rehearse that. I know the disciples in fact thought that they We're living in the midst of the last days and we're still expecting. But to what end, if Jesus Christ we knew he was going to come this week or this year, or um how would we live our life differently? Because John says here, I'll tell you how. If you got this hope in you, you're a blood-bought Christian. Your practice ought to be different. You ought to be purifying yourself, even as God is pure. Peter says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. That's what Peter says. John's saying the very same thing. How would we live our lives differently? A strong root. How about the scriptural response here? Is um purify yourselves. Um the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses and sanctifies us. We throw those words around us uh around, but how much do they actually penetrate our life? That the selfishness that I struggle with and sometimes almost physically rack myself over and I'm tired of living for self I'm tired of struggling with this This ridiculous sin and I it seems like the more I try and give attention to getting victory over it, boy, they just um musters up and comes back with more fervency and man does that sort of thing sort of ruffle your feathers? Does that bother you and And uh are we looking for um are we confident in the love of God where we would uh recognize Jesus Christ is going to come back? And We needed the right response, the right practice is to purify ourselves. A matter of daily sanctification, maintaining purity in the face of temptation. Again, this is where the rubber meets the road. This is not me talking. This is John, if he were here this morning saying, beloved. I love how he uses that term, dear child of God, my brother and sister in Christ. You know Christ is coming back. Let's let's live purely. You know, that's what I want to do this morning, is encourage us as a body of believers in strong need of confidence, is that there's there's that confidence to just live purely. I was visiting with um uh with my pastor from Illinois um some time ago. This is when I first was sort of cutting my teeth in in door-to-door ministry. And now I I've really learned to love it. But he was very avid and uh even when we walked from door to door it wasn't like, hey brother Brother, you know, it was like you know, I mean that was just kinda how he was. And uh just really driven kind of guy and I was like, Whoa, you know, slow down and so we get up to the door and I was like, you know, finally reach behind them, but I I remember now Illinois is a little bit fast paced and people are kind of private, so they don't normally invite you in, but we did get invited in um to this person and I partially because Pastor knew him, they had visited the church and uh uh he he knew them and they they knew him. So um but I remember that uh The man answered the door and said, honey, the the pastor's here and um you know someone else from the church and they'd like to they'd like to visit, they would like to Visit They would you said that already. They would like to visit, so we uh we're gonna let 'em in it's like It kind of got a little awkward. I mean, maybe I exaggerated just a tad, but uh so we they uh after just a few minutes of exchange and plenty of warning for the wife Uh I we caught the tail end of what was going on. And you know, of course they were you know the drill. They were clearing some some of the things off of the table and And most of it was just kind of cleaning up, but we did happen to see some uh alcohol and other things there and um you know, just turning the television off, which I mean Oh, we could hear everything that was going on. We knew what channel they were listening to. You know, it was very, very obvious. But quickly as we made the way into that house, you know, I I appreciated this, that they did respect uh us enough and uh recognized enough that they want to clean before our visit there. And uh sometimes maybe you've experienced that a little bit where uh you know a guest is coming over or a relative is coming over and we'll busily clean things and hopefully not uh necessarily trying to hide stuff like the folks that we visited did. But it's a shame that we can uh get so ready and so prepared for a visit from the pastor, but we're we're not as prepared for the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Our light is just not right. John says, are you purifying yourselves? It's great that you know the promises of God. Maybe of those 300 promises that talk about Jesus Christ, you can name 289 of them. That's wonderful. But what are you doing about it? Are you purifying yourself? Is that process slowly you're finding yourself closer to the very breast of Christ, your Savior? that you are more and more confident in the love of God. I I try to explain this and make it clear. Christianity is not a list of do's and of don'ts and things that you can do and can't do. That's not God at all. But uh you can't merit God's love any more than what God already loves you and has demonstrated through his son Jesus Christ. So uh but uh James, I'll just mention this, James chapter one Verse 22 through 25, some of you are familiar with this passage. I love this passage. James says, I want to encourage you, but be ye doers of the word, not hearers only. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like unto a man beholding his face in a glass, for he beholdeth hims his himself And then he goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But um we need to be not just hearers of the word, but whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty. and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed. And as he don't miss it, the Bible acts Much like a mirror for you and I. We're looking at a mirror this morning. First John chapter 3 says that we need to purify himself And we need if the if we allow it, the Bible will tell us some things we need to correct. Like some of us if we could think of a mirror, okay? I'm glad uh I consult a mirror every day, guys. You know, you wipe the drool off and that sort of thing. Hopefully brush your teeth. A lot of the teens don't, so I thought I ought to mention I'm just teasing teeth. I'm only teething. No, they're they're great. Um but y you know the drill we we do a little bit of checkup and the girls need to tame the hair down and do whatever they do for an hour in the morning in the bathroom, um, you know, that sort of thing. But we uh I'm only teasing ladies that um but we we realize that it's a good idea. to consult a mirror before we step out of our house. We don't shame ourselves. We we see some things we need to correct. You know, we need to do the same thing with God's Word as just take a glance at the perfect law of liberty and continue therein and make the changes God's holy word tells us to make. A young girl was uh out with some friends late and someone suggested that they go to a questionable place. She said, uh I don't know. I I I better not go. I I don't think that's a good idea. Her friend said, Oh, come on. Why don't you want to go with us? Are you afraid that you might hurt uh uh that your father might hurt you? She replied, No I'm not afraid of my that my father will hurt me. I'm afraid that I might hurt my father. You know, the fact of the matter is Jesus is coming back. We ought to want our lives to be in order for his coming. Christianity is not a series of do's and don'ts. It's way beyond that. It's the love of God. And that ought to constrain us, ought to cause us to purify ourselves so that it's not about what God's going to do to us because He can't love us anymore. We established that. But we ought to just love God. Pour it on. Be enthralled with it. So thank God. For the believer's position, loved by the Father. Thank God for the promise, his return and his resemblance Thank God for the practice that you and I can have purifying, that is preparing for his coming. I'll share this. A lot of this challenge has been for the believers in God. Those that are confident through God's word, I am on my way to heaven. I know my sins are forgiven because of my faith in Christ. But let me uh let me share something here. Recent U. S. news polls Show that 61% of people said that they believed Jesus is coming again. That's high in my opinion, but that's what these polls show. Only 15% had accepted Christ. Other people pulled. And isn't that just like us to do to put off something so important? You know, we know April 15th is coming around the door, don't we? So we get stuff together April fourteenth. If you're anything like me, um, praise God for my wife who doesn't do that. But we know our anniversary is coming, so what do we do? We pay for the one-day express shipping And hopes and prayers that it'll reach the house on time. You know what I'm talking about, guys? Oh hold on honey, don't come in here, I'm getting ready. You know, and it's like you know, that sort of thing. But we we kind of put that sort of thing off. You know, let me encourage the the uh other group of folks here, not just isolating you, but maybe you're not so confident with what's going on here. Maybe this is a little troubling. all this Jesus coming again. And it it could be that we say, oh Pastor Brad, I believe Jesus is coming again. That was that was well said and and that's that's right. But the question is are you the 15%? that has not received it. You know, the it this passage really speaks to all. Those that are not saved, you could be confident of the love of the Lord. the Father that he has given his son Jesus Christ. Those who are saved, I said, stop trying to earn God's favor. Stop trying to woo and wow him. Instead, just be confident that God loves you so much it's impossible. For him to love you any more than he does. Let's pray. Gone I love you so much, and I know that that doesn't compare to the love you have for me. My simple prayer, Lord, is that we would Understand something so infinite like your love. And not only that we understand it, but like we heard this morning, we would respond to it. Well, I pray for two groups this morning, those that don't know Jesus Christ as their Savior and have not received the greatest demonstration of love the world has known. that they would set that uh uh perhaps pride aside their own thoughts and own feelings, uh set self aside and trust Christ as the one and only Savior. And I pray for another group. Your children, your beloved, your dear children, God, that we would be so moved by your very love that we would have confidence in your love. of not trying to earn it anymore, but instead just relishing in it, living in it, and being competent in it. Lord I pray that this challenge, this message from the book of First John would would would be beneficial for your people, we ask in Christ's name. Before I finish, let me ask two questions. Question one, is there anybody in here? that would say, in a moment the piano will play, but just for now, let me ask question number one. You'd say, God, I am not confident of my salvation in Christ. And and that concerns me. Would you just very simply you can put your hand up and put it back down because we're not into embarrassing you. We respect privacy. But would you put your hand up that would let me know to be praying for you? But if God spoke in your heart, you say, God, I am not sure 100% that Jesus Christ is my salvate uh is has saved me from my sin. Would you just be honest enough to say, Pastor Brett, would you pray for me? And I promise you I will do that. Anybody here like that? I don't see any hands. Let me ask question number two then. Who would say just frankly, Pastor Brah, God, I needed this reminder of your love that I don't earn, I don't merit. but that you've freely bestowed upon me. Help me to march forward from this day in confidence of your love. Forgive me for trying to earn it. If if God spoke to your heart along those lines where you just say in simplicity, I needed that reminder this morning, and I want that truth to impact my life, the way I live, would you Put your hand up. Good. A lot of hands. I need that reminder. I sure do. I fail the Lord all the time, and I'm just thankful that his love is so unconditional. At this time I'd like for us to stand as Miss Jennifer plays the piano and you're welcome.