That and then we're going to come back to Psalms. 2 Timothy chapter 1. I'm going to begin reading in verse 6. Wherefore, this is Paul writing to Timothy, a young preacher boy. Paul had led him to Christ. And uh he's writing to him, he's kind of tutoring him and training him in the ministry. He says, Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. Now look at verse 7. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me as prisoner. But be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel, according to the power of God, who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. Now look again at verse number seven. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear. If I have a spirit of fear, this verse tells me where it did not come from. Correct? If I have a spirit of fear, I know that is not of God. God did not give me that. That's not God's intention. Have a spirit of fear. But God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but you could say God has given us the spirit of power and of love and of a sound mind. Now, with that in mind, come back to Psalms 56. Now, if uh you have a little notes in your Bible, and maybe at the top of this chapter there's some notes there uh kind of giving information about this chapter and who was the penman of it and to who it was to. Sometimes it'll give a little information about the background of that chapter. And you notice this says, uh, to the, if you have this note there, it says to the chief musician upon Jonath Lem Rechakem. David. So who is the penman of this? God's the author. Who's the penman? David is the penman. Now it tells us when this took place, when the Philistines took him in Gath. So this is the period of time where King Saul is pursuing David out of jealousy. He wants to kill him. David finally comes to the end of himself, and he makes what I believe is a horrendous decision, and he default he defects to the Philistines. Now he's doing it Uh deceitfully, he's not actually siding up with them. He's just trying to get out from under Saul's thumb He's trying to get some of this pressure off. Now, I believe David made a mistake there because it says he said in his heart, he was leading on his own understanding when he made that decision And there was some terrible consequences. But keep that in mind. This is what I'm wanting to say. This is King David, and all that we know of King David. And he's in horrendous circumstances. With that in mind, look at verse number three. And I would like for us to read verse three together. Psalms 56 and verse number 3. Ready? Here we go. All together. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. My message this morning is confronting fear. Confronting fear. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study of your word. Lord, this is your word. It's not mine. Our church didn't come up with this. This is the eternal word of God. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to you. I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Spirit, speak through me, challenge us, help us. Lord, I pray you'd give us victory over the spirit of fear. I pray that some of these thoughts, these principles, these scriptural truths would help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'll be very honest with you. Verse number three of Psalms 56 is kind of surprising to me. In that King David is the one, David, he's not king at this point, but he is the one writing this, making this statement. David of all people says, What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. I don't know about you, but I don't generally think of David as being someone who is afraid. Of all that we know about David, he doesn't come across to me as someone who struggled with fear. In fact, in my mind, just off the top of my mind, I don't see David afraid of anything Now think about what we know about David when he was a boy, a young boy, 12, 13 years old, we speculate. He's taking care of his father's sheep. He's a shepherd. He's out there at night, day and night, on his own for the most part, given a tremendous responsibility to care for these sheep. This is his daddy's livelihood. This is what they depend on. This is their job. And as a young boy, he's given the responsibility to care for these sheep, make sure they're well fed, make sure they're rested, make sure they're safe, protected And the Bible tells us, and he tells King Saul at one event, that his sheep that he was responsible for, at one point as a young man, were attacked by a bear. And David said that he slew this bear with his bare hands. He killed the bear as a young boy. Now, if I was, I'm thinking back when I was 13. And if a bear would have attacked me, I would have ran as fast as I could away from them. You say, somebody said, somebody said, Preacher, you'd never outrun a bear. I I know, but I just have to run faster than my sister And so uh don't tell them I said that, but um But here's a 13, 14-year-old boy, a young teenage boy, and he is stepping up between the sheep and a bear, and he's killing this bear. Pretty impressive, huh? He says, not only that. When I was a young man taking care of the shepherd, uh taking care of the sheep, uh a lion attacked. Now I'm scared of a bear and a lion, but I'm more scared of a lion than I am of a bear, personally. Um and here he kills that. Pretty impr how many people agree? That's pretty impressive. That kid's got guts You know, I mean he stepped up, responsibility, did what he had to do, put his own life at risk to fulfill his responsibilities. Well, he communicated all of this to King Saul and his and his soldiers and stuff, his officers around him. David's communicating this at the time when Kings when uh Goliath Is out there defying the nations of Israel. And King Saul and his whole army is scared to death of Goliath And Goliath Goliath's proposition is simply this, listen, I'm the champion of the Philistines. You send one of your champions out, rather than everybody fighting, everybody getting killed Just the two of us, whoever gets killed, uh the conquering team, they take over, they win the war. Sounds reasonable. Rather than seven seventy thousand people getting killed, one person gets killed. Well, they're scared to death of them. Nobody goes out against them. Have you seen the size of this guy? He's a warrior from his youth. And everybody is afraid. You know the story. David hears what's going on. He steps up and says, what? Isn't there not a cause? Isn't there a God in heaven? And um you know the story as I said, he gets out and David goes out there with his sling and slings, slings, slings, that, and he kills Goliath. And you read that story very carefully. And there is not a hint of fear suggested on the part of David. The only thing I see in reading that event is total confidence. On David's part, that God is going to take this guy down. No hesitation, no second thoughts. He just goes out and does what needs to be done. So man, that's a kid. That's his frame of mind I have responsibilities to do. I have a great, great God. There is nothing to fear, whether it's a lion, a bear, or a giant Philistine. I have no reason to fear. And then you think of David as he gets older. And he enlists in King Saul's army. And David becomes one of his greatest warriors. In fact, he became such a great warrior, so successful in battle, that the women of Jerusalem start singing a song. Saul has slain his thousands. That's pretty good, huh? Saul was quite the guy himself. He could handle himself on the battlefield. He wasn't afraid to face the enemy, and he he could handle himself with the sword. He could handle the sword. Saul has slain his thousands, but gave in his what? Tens of thousands. I've come to the conclusion cowards don't slay tens of thousands of enemies on a battlefield with swords and shields. That's not somebody that's a scaredy cat is out there doing that. Somebody that's slain tens of thousands of trained Philistine warriors, uh experienced men on the battlefield And just all the blood and guts and the gore that would go along with that type of combat. And is able out there slay tens of thousands. This guy is not a coward I'm trying to paint what I believe is an accurate picture of King David, of David, and then look at this statement he makes here in Psalms 56. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. This great man, a very brave, courageous man from his youth. Tells us here that he struggled with fear. That fear was an issue in David's heart and mind. Now, he doesn't tell us in this context exactly what he is afraid of. We can speculate that Saul's just on him, on him, on him, and fear is starting to become an issue. But it just speaks volumes. That David of all people would say, you know, when I am afraid, my response is David, you mean to tell us you're afraid? There's times when you're afraid? Yeah. Yeah. In fact, you read through the Bible, some of God's greatest men struggled with fear. It was a significant issue in their lives. Moses. Moses grew up in Caesar's household. Or Caesar and the Pharaoh's household, I'm sorry. He grew up at Pharaoh's right hand, adopted into the family, so to speak. He's out and he sees an Egyptian he sees an Egyptian uh abusing a Jew and he kills the Egyptian I mean that that's not a coward. It's not somebody that walked away from something. I mean, I think he lost his temper probably and blew up and killed the guy. And Moses, I don't picture Moses as a Frady cat. But nevertheless, when Moses is called of God to come down and lead Israel out of Egypt, He's scared to death. And he's coming up with all these excuses why he can't do what God is calling him to do. He's coming up with all these reasons why he cannot do what God is telling him he should do. And my impression is this: Moses was just scared. He was afraid. To do what God was telling him to do. Moses, the greatest leader, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, in my mind, in all of history, Moses. is afraid to do what God is instructing him to do. How many people here ever read a verse or heard a sermon and God's touch your heart, something you ought to do? And your initial reaction was, boy, I don't think I can do that. Sure. We're afraid. I'm scared to death to do that. How could I do that? Hey, Moses, same thing. Same thing I think of Joshua. Man, what a great man Joshua was. Moses' right-hand man. And when Moses passes off the scene, Joshua is the next in line, and Joshua is given responsibility for the children of Israel. Just as they are at the point where they're crossing the Jordan River, coming into the Promised Land, and they're going to be in war, in battle for Extended period of time as they go in and conquer the promised land and take possession of what God has been promising. And you know what happens? Joshua is scared to death. And you read Joshua chapter 1, and we're going to look at some of these here in a little bit, his experience there, but Joshua is afraid. And God has to say to Joshua over and over and over again: be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. Be of good courage. Be strong and of good courage. Joshua is scared. What do you think of when you think of Elijah? Elijah, the mighty prophet of God. Of all the prophets, he displays the power of God in amazing ways. He challenges the prophets of Baal to pray and call down fire from heaven and consume. And Joshua empower and encourage and faith prays, and the fire of God falls. He slaughters the prophets of Baal. I mean, this guy is fearless. His confidence in God's power is unshakable. But as soon as that event takes place, Jezebel, the queen, makes a snide remark and threatens Elijah. And all that courage and all that confidence melts away, and he flees like a little boy from this woman. I like Dr. Robertson said, he said, it's probably a good idea to run from a woman when she's threatening you, but Dr. Robertson said that. I didn't say that. Dr. Robertson said that. And he goes into a period of deep depression to the point where he says, I don't even want to live anymore. Fear. Elijah, surely, this prophet of God, with the power of God on him, like few others, he would never be afraid of anybody or anything. No, he was. And boy, it threw him for a loop. Here, Moses, Joshua, Elijah. We read in 2 Timothy of this young preacher boy Timothy. And I found that sometimes uh uh uh uh these young fellas are much more bold Much more fearless. They'll charge in places where angels fear to tread, and they'll just come charging in, water gun, taking on hell with water pistols, you know And um there's a reason we send our eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty, tw early twenty boys to war. They're physically fit and they're not scared of nothing. And so here's Timothy studying for the ministry, and Paul is tutoring him and mentoring him. And Timothy's scared. He has a spirit of fear about him. And I don't know what that consisted of, whether it was getting up in front of people and preaching the word of God, whether it was giving the truth of God's word out, regardless of how people may or may not respond to it, whether it was the persecution that was on that early church and he was afraid of being persecuted. I don't know what that spirit of fear consisted of. But Paul had to rebuke him. And he said, Timothy, listen, this spirit of fear that you're dealing with, this is not of God. God gives us power and love and a sound mind. He does not give us a sphere to fear. So Timothy struggled with fear. Joshua, Moses, Elijah, we could go down through the list. Now, the Apostle Paul, I think of him, I think he's not afraid of anything. This guy stands in the marketplace. place and people are throwing rocks and he's he's being stoned and he's preaching the gospel. He's being thrown in prison. He's going on ships in the midst of storms and being shipwrecked. And nearly killed. And none of this moves him, he says. None of this phases me at all. I am locked in on the gospel. I am locked in on serving Jesus Christ. You can throw storms at me, you can throw stones at me and throw me in prison He stands before governors and unashamedly declares the gospel of Jesus Christ. This guy is fearless. Except in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 27, we're told that Paul was afraid of being made a shipwreck. He says, I fight, I keep my body under discipline, I keep myself controlled, I work very hard. Because I do not want to be a castaway. I don't want to be a shipwreck. He's saying we use this term, I don't want to be put on a shelf. Paul was afraid of failing God. He was scared that he would not live up to his expectations, and God would put him aside, and he would be of no use to God. Paul struggled with fear. Paul struggled with fear. It is possible to be a very moral person, upright, morally. And yet struggle with the spirit of fear. It's possible to be very successful in the financial world and business world. It's very possible to be very successful in my home and family, in my marriage, and yet still struggle with fear. Some of God's greatest men, as I tried to point out, struggled very strongly with fear. It was a huge factor. Fear does not discriminate Rich people have fears, poor people have fears. Strong people have fears, weak people have fears. Unsaved people struggle with fear, saved people struggle with fear Does not discriminate fear. Fear comes in many shapes and many sizes. I did a little research about phobias There are literally thousands of phobias that people have come up with. Some people are right now scared that I'm going to talk about phobias. Let me give a few. This is just the ones that start with the letter A. No, no, no. Um. Uh Blutophobia is a fear of taking a bath. I think there's folks here today that have that fear. Uh uh Acrophobia. Acrophobia is the fear of itching. Aetrophobia is the fear of sourness. I'll pick a few out. I won't read them always. Acousticophobia. Acousticophobia. What do you think that is? Fear of noise. I have this a little bit. Acrophob Acrophobia, fear of heights. Uh here's I'm not even going to try. Aerophobia, fear of windrass. Um Uh here's one um I have a gate to ophobia, fear of insanity. I'm scared to death. I'm going to go insane. Somebody said too late. I have this one, uh agliophobia, fear of pain. I don't want to have pain. Fear of open places, fear of wild animals. See how many people have this. Doesn't bother me when other people have the needles. Uh uh laurophobia, fear of cats. Fear of garlic, fear of riding in a car, fear of looking up. Here's one. Fear of men. Um Anglophobia, fear of England. What in the world? Uh fear fear of bees. Here's one. Upotomenphobia. Fear of people that have amputations. Fear of spiders. Can I get a witness? Fear of fainting, fear of stars. Fear of atomic explosions. I try to avoid them. Here's one, fear of the northern lights. Um fear of being dirty. My boys never had that when they were young. Paul, aviophobia, fear of flying. He can relate to that. What I'm trying to say is this. What I'm trying to say is fear comes in many shapes and sizes. Now some of those in our minds a little silly. But the fact of the matter is, if I would go down through that whole list, I'd venture to say one of them would touch on us at some point. Because fear is common to all men. Fear is very real in life. Now notice here in Psalm 56, 3, what time I am afraid. Now he uses the terms there, very interesting What time I am afraid. He doesn't say, if I ever get afraid, I'm going to trust in the Lord. There's a remote possibility that something might scare me And if that ever happens, I'm going to trust. So he doesn't say that. He says, what time I am afraid. That phrase, what time, has the has this sense of a specific day. There's a season of time I go into. When that happens, when that day comes, that day of fear arrives, what time? When that time shows up. David wasn't saying, hey, this is a possibility. He is saying, listen, this happens. You see, a lot of times, I don't know, I haven't seen it so much lately, but for a while there, trucks and cars would have on their no fear. No fear. No fear. Did you ever see that? Anybody ever see that? Every time I see that, my first thought is they're trying to convince us they're not afraid of something, and they are They're overcompensating. Somebody walks around and says, I ain't afraid of nothing. Good chance there's something they're scared of. Right? And so he says, listen, it happens. There's a day when fear comes. What do people fear? I put down some here that you and I may face: financial failure. Man, how many people spend sleepless nights because they're worried about whether I'm going to be able to pay that bill or not? They're worried about whether the collection agency is going to show up or not. They're worried about whether I'm going to have to default on some loans or I'm going to lose my house or whatever. And financial failure is a very real fear. And credit card companies and banks prey on that fear And they'll say, Boy, we can help you pay your bills. We can help you consolidate this. We can help you do that. And man, they just put you in worse shape And so financial failure is a very real fear that people struggle with, and actually finances and fear of them and worrying about them and stress about it has destroyed many, many marriages Destroyed homes and ministries. Financial fear. Family failure. Not worried about whether this marriage is going to work. Is my spouse being faithful to me or not? Is there something going on I don't know about? Worried, scared. How are my children going to turn out? Am I doing a good job? What are they going to be? Unforgiven sins. You'd be amazed how many people I've helped worked with and tried to help, I should say, over the years that would have this idea, this fear in their mind that I have sinned so bad God could never forgive me. Now, can you imagine living life thinking that God cannot forgive me? That mental anguish that would be there, that God cannot forgive me for this sin. Or some people said to me, preacher, I don't see that God would ever forgive me for what I've done I mentioned in a recent message of fell, he passed away that I was able to lead to the Lord just shortly before he died, and he had told me a situation And weeping. He was an elderly man. Weeping, he said to me, Could God ever forgive me? He was scared. And he was going to go and face God, and God could not forgive him for what he'd done. Hey, just quick aside here, I got news for you. There is no sin in the world that God cannot forgive. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. But nevertheless, people fear that. People fear failure in their faith I don't know if my faith is strong enough. I don't know if my faith is going to really get me to heaven. Is my faith strong enough? Again, I think I mentioned this recently in a in a message, but uh we had a lady a number of years ago when I was working with hospice. and making visits for them. And she was diagnosed with cancer. She had a brief time to live. She knew that. Everybody knew it. She didn't have a pastor. She had not been real interested in spiritual things before this. Suddenly it became very real. Suddenly, the reality of heaven and hell and eternity dawned on her, and something had to be done. And I was able to take my Bible, take her Bible actually, and sit down in her kitchen and go through the gospel with her. She prayed with me, accept Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm telling you, God got a hold of her. And though she was very, very ill, she came in, church, got baptized, she wanted to be baptized, identified, she goes, I want to do everything I'm supposed to do as a Christian. And her health deteriorated over about a two-month period of time, maybe three months, her health deteriorated. She'd attended a little bit here when she could. And it was obvious the time was at hand. She called me up one day. She said, Pastor Leatherman, can you come over? I said, sure. She just lived down the road here. I hop in the car, went over there, I said her name. I said, what's going on? She was sobbing. She was in her hospital bed and they had had in the in her house there and I said, What's the matter? She goes, Pastor Leatherman, I don't think my faith is strong enough. I don't think my faith is strong enough. I'm afraid my faith is not strong enough for when I die. I was able to take the Bible and show her it is not the strength of our faith that makes the difference, but the object of our faith. And there's no doubt she was trusting in Jesus Christ, but she was afraid that her faith wasn't strong enough I said, you can have faith, the strength of a spider web. If it's in Jesus Christ, you'll make it. You'll make it. So sometimes people have fear of their faith will fail. Some people have a very unscriptural, unreasonable fear that if I don't live it, I'm going to lose it. I think many folks genuinely trust Christ, accept him as their personal Savior, and they are taught for whatever reason a wrong teaching that I can lose that salvation. I've heard preachers say it with my own ears, come from their own lips at funerals and various things. They say, if you don't live it, you'll lose it. That is as unscriptural as you can get. Um, it is an unnecessary fear, it is an unscriptural fear There are so many passages. There is so much important doctrine in Scripture that absolutely proves that you cannot lose your salvation. I am secure in Christ. I'm kept by the power of Christ. I have everlasting life. It is not temporary life. It is not probationary life. It is eternal life. And we have it now. The word saved all through the New Testament in referring to a believer is in past tense something that's already settled, something that is already in place, something that in God's mind has already happened. And nevertheless, we have people that are worried. Oh, I've got a I I ask folks almost every week I get out talking to people and Do you know for sure if you died right now? Boy, I hope so. I accepted Jesus, but I don't know. I hope I'm being good enough. Unscriptural fear. Fear that I'll fail to live up to it. Fear of the finality of death. Preacher, I am afraid to die. Now let me say this. For an unsaved person, that's a legitimate fear. If you're here this morning and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I mean really, not just going through emotion or did a little ditty But you never genuinely accepted Jesus Christ as your own personal Savior, been born again by the grace of God. If that has never happened, the greatest fear you have to face is of dying in that condition. There is nothing worse that can happen to a person than to die in their sins, unforgiven, lost for all eternity. You ought to be afraid. Ought to be afraid enough to drive you to Christ to accept him as your own personal Savior and have that fear settle. Have that fear taken care of. Amen? So the fear of dying for an unsaved person is legitimate. But the fear of dying for the child of God is a groundless fear. I think it's natural we want to live. There's that, I think there may be an element of struggle maybe for some Christians. I believe God gives us dying grace when the time comes. But for the Christian to be absent from the body, for the Christian to die, is simply to go into the presence of the Lord. It is just a continuation of our life here, simply on another plane in another place with the Lord Jesus Christ. I like to point out at funerals when someone dies, they say, Oh, you lost your loved one. Well if they were saved, we didn't lose them. We know exactly where they're at. We'll see 'em again. In a couple in a month or so, Kathy and I are Uh I had the privilege to go down to New Zealand and preach for Lewis Howe. He's got us preaching every day all day long. I think I'm gonna let Kathy preach. I'll go do Mill Horse Round. No, not really. And uh somebody says, Oh, you guys lost. Oh, Pastor, he's gone. He's lost. So it's no, he's not he's just gone somewhere else. He's just in a different place. Can't see him, can't touch him, can't hear him, praise the Lord. Uh can't see. But uh he's just somewhere else. Hey, that's the way it is for the Christian. So, fear of dying, fear of failure, fear that my faith isn't strong enough, all of these fears. Take your Bible if you would. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 29. Some young person says, Preacher, I ain't afraid of nothing. Uh, yeah, sooner or later. Proverbs 29, look at verse 25. The fear of man does what? The fear of man bringeth a snare. You know what fear does? Unscriptural, illegitimate fear. You know what it does? It snares us, it imprisons us. It hurts us. I put down a list here of what fear will do to us. One, it will derail my Christian service. You know, I have no doubt, I'm talking to some folks right now. You won't witness to lost people. You won't tell them how to be saved because you're scared to talk to them. Your fear limits, derails your Christian service. There's folks that you could teach Sunday school, you could witness, you could do a discipleship thing, take a new believer, teach them Some principles from God's Word. You could do it. You have the ability, but you're afraid. And it limits your service to Christ because of fear. Fear will limit uh will derail my Christian service. Fear will diminish my Christian testimony. I'm on the job or I'm with a family and I have unsaved or family members not living for God or I'm working on a place where there's unsaved or uh uh people there and they know I'm a Christian and I'm scared to death of this and I'm worried about that and I'm all uh this, that, and the other. What am I saying to them? What is my testimony My testimony is God might not take care of me. My God, I can't have much confidence in him. I can't really trust in him too much, and I'm scared to death. Fear will derail my Christian service, diminish my Christian testimony, it will distress my own heart and soul. Fear affects us spiritually, it hinders our growth, it it undercuts our confidence in God. And it affects us physically. Ulcers, nervous breakdowns, upset, frustrations, all because of fear. Affects us. It will distress our heart and soul. It would degrade my decision making. How many times people made a foolish decision because they had ungrounded fear? Afraid of something that did not exist? And I made a foolish decision and maybe lost some things and set myself back because I was afraid of something that never happened, that never even existed. Fear, fear, fear. Over 60 times in God's word, we have this little phrase, fear not. Fear not. Fear not. Alright, real quick. I only got a couple minutes. Let me give you how to confront fear. Number one, write this down. Trust God completely. Learn to trust God completely. It's a decision. What time I am afraid? I will trust in thee. That is the decision David is making. When that day of fear comes, when that situation comes up that I am afraid of that scares me, I'm going to make a conscious decision. I am going to trust God through this. When God called Israel to go into the promised land, he says, you trust me. Don't be afraid. Be not dismayed. You trust me, I will take care of you. And I have got to get to the point in my Christian life where I am mature enough to say, I am going to trust God in this. I will not let fear affect me. Trust God. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. It's a decision I must make. All through Scripture, God calls his people to trust me. Trust me. Trust me. Mark 11, 22, got me through Bible college. Jesus answering said unto them, have faith in God. When situations were such I didn't understand, when things arose, needs arose, and I don't see how in the world I can meet that need. God said, have faith in me, you trust me, you trust me. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 16, the Bible references the shield of faith. A shield is something I put between myself and danger. A shield is something that I put up there to protect me from something that will harm me. And God says, when we're afraid, when there's something there that we believe will hurt us, when there's something there that we believe is dangerous to us, we need to exercise faith in God. And trust him. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. You know the story. Nebuchadnezzar says, y'all bow down when you hear the music, you bow down to this image. Uh Shadrach and Mesha, they refuse to bow down. Anybody that doesn't bow down, they're going to be thrown in a fiery furnace. Let me ask you a question. You don't think those three boys were scared? It would be unnatural for them not to be afraid of that. But when time they were afraid in that situation, that day of fear They made a conscious decision. We will trust God. You can throw us in that fire. God is able to keep us out. But even if He doesn't, we ain't bowing down to your idol. They made a conscious decision that they were going to trust God. So, how do I combat fear? I trust God. I must get to the point in my Christian life. Where I am mature enough to say I'm going to do what's right. I don't know how scary it is, how fearful it is, I'm going to trust God through this. I'm going to have faith in him. Jesus' sharpest rebukes for his disciples was their lack of faith They're out in the middle of a storm. These are seasoned uh uh sailors, seasoned fishermen, they've been through storms on that thing, and they are scared to death, they're fearing for the life. Jesus gets up. Peace, be still. And the storm stops. And he turns to the disciples, and I'm putting it in my own words. He says, what in the world's wrong with you fellas? Why didn't you trust me? Why were you afraid? And his strongest rebukes to his disciples was for them not trusting him. And I say to you, the Lord Jesus' rebuke for you and I today is when we don't trust him. What an insult to our God! To not have faith in him. So we combat fear with faith. Simply take God at His word, trusting that what He says is so and acting on it. Number two, let me give you the second one real quickly. Number one, trust God completely. Number two, I wrote this down. Obey God courageously. Obey God courageously. Now we need to go back to Joshua real quick with me and I'm winding down here. Joshua chapter 1. Would you turn there? I want you to see this. Moses is dead. Israel is on the uh on the Egypt side of the Jordan River. They're fixing the pass into the promised land. It's fearful, these these these armies uh that are on the other side. They're strong nations, they're strong city-states, they're powerful armies, they've got huge walls around their cities. Israel's been wandering around for forty years in the wilderness. And they're going to conquer this? And here is a very real issue in Joshua, the sixth book of the Old Testament, in chapter 1, look at verse number 6. And there should this is God speaking to Joshua. There shall not any man Verse six Be strong and of good courage for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them Only be thou strong and very courageous. He's rebuking his fear. Then look what he says. That thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from the right hand nor to the left. That thou mayest prosper whithersoever goest. Look at this. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night that thou mayest observe to do According to all that is written therein, then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, then thou shalt have good success. Haven't I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage, be not afraid Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever goes. He's saying, Joshua, don't you be afraid, don't you be afraid, you be courageous, you do exactly as I told you to do You do exactly what I tell you to do, and you will be just fine. You trust me and you obey me, and you can overcome your fear. Look at verse number 10, verse number 18, chapter 1. Now these are the people of Israel, the Israelites talking back to Joshua. Look what they said. Well whosoever be that doth not doth rebel against thy commandment, will not hearken unto thy words unto in all that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death. These are the Israelites talking to Joshua, and look what they say. Only be strong and of good courage. The Israelites are saying to Joshua the very same thing God had been saying to Joshua. They're picking up on this. Joshua, if we do what God says. It's going to be alright. If we do what God says, it will be okay. If we follow God's instructions, if we obey Him courageously, regardless of how afraid we are, if we obey Him, it's going to be okay. Now come over to chapter 10 real quick with me. I'll show you one more thing. Alright? God's telling Joshua, Joshua, don't be afraid, just do what I say. The Israelites say to Joshua, Joshua, don't be afraid, just do what God says. Now look what Joshua says in chapter 10 and verse 25. And Joshua said unto them. Fear not, nor be dismayed. Be strong and of good courage, for thus shall the Lord do to all your enemies against whom you fight. Now Joshua is saying the same thing that God said. It sunk in. He got a hold of it. You know what happened? Joshua trusted God God told him, cross fat Jordan, you do exactly what I said. Joshua obeyed God courageously, in spite of obvious fear He did what God said. God came through. God did what he had promised. Joshua looks back and he says, hey, folks, no reason to be afraid. Do exactly what God says. It'll be okay. It'll be okay. I'm here to testify this morning. Thirty-five years ago, I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you, when I obey God, God comes through every time. People all across this auditorium could stand up and say, it's the best thing in the world to do when you're afraid is to trust and obey God. I'm telling you. See, well, I just don't, if I do what God says, I just don't see how it worked out. It's what Joshua's struggling with. He obeyed God and God brought him through. If we really want God to bless us, if we really want God to bless our homes, we must trust him. and follow his instructions in our personal life, in our family structure, in our homes, in our church, in our ministry. I love the song, Trust and Obey. For there's no other way. To be happy in Jesus, but to what? Trust and obey. Obey. Nineteen seventy nine, January, February, March, April. I struggled and struggled and struggled With accepting Jesus Christ my personal Savior. I knew I needed to. I knew I needed Jesus Christ. I knew it. But I was afraid. Of what would happen to my life. I was afraid of what changes would take place. I didn't want to be the man I was. I didn't want to be what I was becoming. I knew that. But to accept Jesus Christ the Savior, I didn't know what would happen. And I was afraid. Finally, May 7, 1979, I accepted Christ as Savior. You know what I found out? All my fears were groundless. There's nothing to be afraid of. When we trust and obey God, God comes through every time. God comes through every time. I have never, ever, ever regretted obeying God. Not one time do I look back on my life and say, boy, you know, I wished I wouldn't have done what God said. Never happened. I hate to say this. I can look back a number of times. Well, I wish that I'd have done what God said. Huh? Can I get a witness? Well, I wish that I'd obeyed God there. What do you do? How do I confront fear? Number one, trust God completely. Number two, obey God courageously. And the last one's very simple. Very simple, but so powerful. Pray to God continually. Pray and pray and pray and pray. First Thessalonians 5:17, pray without ceasing, incessantly Luke 18. 1. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. Philippians 4:6, be careful for nothing. That means be worried, be anxious, be afraid, be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Prayer is the greatest resource any Christian has. Ask God for wisdom. Ask God for direction. Ask God for courage. It's what the New Testament church did. You read the book of Acts, you know what they're praying for over and over? God, give us boldness. God, give us boldness. God, give us boldness. You know what? They were afraid. And they wanted God to give them courage, to give them boldness. They pray. Pray and ask God for victory. You say, Preacher, I'm scared. I can't conquer this sin. I can't get victory over this. I'm afraid what it's going to do to my life. I'm telling you, you have a resource in prayer. You can find victory when we pray. Number one, trust God completely. Number two, obey God courageously. Number three, pray to God continually. Janez Russ read about this guy. I read about him some time ago. I looked him up again this week. Genes Russ lived in Germany during uh Adolf Hitler's reign and the Nazi government in Germany. He was a shoemaker and more than anything else, he wanted to be successful. The Nazi government was so powerful, he did not want them to quench him and squash him. So he got out and he would support the regime He wanted them to recognize that he supported them and that he was behind the Nazi regime. Well, you know the story. Germany fell. We conquered them. Nazis were up uh in uh for war crimes, going to jail, being executed. And Genes Rus became scared to death. And he fled that he was afraid that they were going to find him and find out that he supported the Nazis and execute him or put him in prison. And he fled out to the country and he moved into his sister's farm in Slovenia. And there for 32 years the story goes. He hid in her farm. Never went outside. Never went to the marketplace. Stayed in the basement of her farm for 30 plus years. Afterward, well they found him the way he found him was she was buying all this food more than just herself for her brother down in the basement and finally somebody got found out what was going on and one thing led to another and He's brought out saying I don't think anything ever happened to him really. But he made this statement. Reporters came to him and interviewed him after he was discovered. They said, how in the world could you have stayed hidden for so many years? He said, fear controlled me. It kept me in the prison of the statesman. He said, if I would hear somebody outside laughing, I would sob Because I was a prisoner of fear. Prisoner of fear. He went nowhere, he visited no one, and he lived a life of regret. I'm telling you, Satan wants you and I to be afraid. He wants to hinder our faith. He wants to hinder our spiritual growth. He wants to hinder our obedience to God. He wants us to be afraid. But God hath not given us a spirit of fear. And when we get afraid, we must trust God. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, when the day of fear arrives, help us to trust you. Make that decision. God, if there's some area of our Christian life where we are disobedient to you because we're worried or concerned that it won't work out. I pray you'd help us to trust you completely, to obey you. Just step out in faith and obey you. And God, for those hidden fears of our hearts, help us to pray, pray and pray and pray. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, there'd be some here this morning say, preacher, I'm a Christian, I'm saved. But there's some area in my life I really need to trust God. There's some issue in my life that I just I need to make a conscious decision. I'm going to trust God on this matter and put it into his hands and trust him. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. There's some area in my life, an issue I need to trust God. How about it? Up raise hands. God bless you, hands all around. Some very specific issue. Is there some this morning, say pray to there's something God is instructing me to do? Very clear in his word But I'm afraid. I don't think I can. I don't think I I don't know how it worked out. But you say, preacher, by God's grace, I'm going to just do what God says I'm going to put my fears aside. I'm going to be uh be of good courage. I'm going to like Joshua step out and obey him and trust him. Is there any like that? Preacher, there's some area in my life. I know God has instructed me. I know God has made it clear to me I'm a little concerned about, but I'm going to trust them. Any like that, hands around. God bless you. A bunch of hands. Could be baptism. Could be church membership. It could be witnessing. It could be ministry. It could be anything Whatever God would instruct. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need to just trust God and do right and not be let fear stop me. So some here say, preacher, I know I'm not praying like I should I know I'm not praying. There's issues there and I worry about them and they upset me and I need to pray and just put these things in God's hand. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I don't pray like I should. I need 2015 To be a year of prayer. God bless you. Hands all around. One other question. Is there someone here to say, preacher? I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in a right mind wants to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need this settled in my heart. I need to know I've been born again and I'm saved. And I don't go to hell when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I do not want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Any at all. Father, bless our invitation time now. I ask a lot of hands raised. God, you know our hearts. You know our needs. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.