Verse number nine. I'd like for us to read it together in unison the message this morning. I really wish, I'll just tell you this. I really wish I could preach this whole thing all together in one sitting. I really do. But we don't have time for that, so I'm going to make a little series out of it. I believe this is vitally important in the Christian life and living a life that's pleasing to the Lord. So I hope you'll give me your attention. I'll give you the outline of the whole sermon, but it's going to end up being three I don't know if it's one sermon with three messages, or it's one message that is three sermons. Right? I think it's one message, three sermons, right, Brian? I think that's what it would be. So we'll look at uh the first thought. But read along with me if you would. Verse number nine. Let me ask this. How many folks have this verse memorized? Well if you don't, you should. How many folks have ever used this verse You know what I mean? Everybody ever use this verse? How many people haven't, but you should. Telling you, you're not Christian, you're not saved long before you don't end up 1 John 1. 9 Let's read it together. Ready? All together. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I wrote in the margin of my Bible sometime, I don't know when, it's been years ago, I wrote this, the Christian's reset button. Christian's Reset button. I want to speak about confession and forgiveness. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we thank you for a wonderful time we've had in your house with your people. My heart's been blessed. I've been encouraged. Lord, we look forward to what you have for us through the rest of the day and then throughout the week. Our Bibles are open before us now, Lord. This is your word. Or do you want the whole world to have it? You want every child, every teenager, every adult, and every village, every home to have a copy of your word. I know you do. So I ask you'd help us to do our part in making that happen. Lord, I pray you'd speak to our hearts now from your word, this Bible. Pray you'd help us in this matter of sin, particularly in the life of a believer, and how we should respond and what it does and how it's dealt with. So I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew, and with all my heart, I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit and you would speak through me and teach us and help us. God, maybe this morning some decisions would be made and victory would be found. And maybe a Christian testimony would be salvaged, and others could be brought to Christ, and this old simple world impacted. So please help us Meet with us and challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Here's my three thoughts to what I want to, Lord willing, eventually bring. The first one we'll look at this morning is this: the reality of sin in the life of a believer. The reality of sin in the life of a Christian, a saved person. Sin in the life of a saved person. The second thought, and again, Lord Wilm, we'll get to this, maybe both of them next week, but is this the response to sin on the part of a Christian How do I, and again, I'm speaking to saved people for the most part in this message, but how do I, as a Christian, a child of God, someone who's been saved From the judgment of sin. I've been saved from eternity, separated from God. God's given me new life. He's made me a new creature. And I find sin in my life. How do I respond to that? The Bible tells us how we deal with that. And then last of all is the removal of sin by our Savior. And I tell you one thing Jesus can do. He can do anything, but one thing he's very, very good at is this: cleaning up a messed-up person. And he can take the most vile, wretched, wicked, lost sinner, and he can save them and make them a trophy of his grace. And he can take the most backslidden Christian so far from God, so hard-hearted, and God can take that old boy or that old gal, and he can turn them around and make them somebody he can use. Our God, I guess what I'm trying to say is this, our God is a wonderful God. And we live in a wicked world, and we need him so desperately. 1 John is written. Anybody want to guess who the penman of 1 John is? John. Of course the author is God is the author of scriptures. He's the author of all the Bible. We always say that. The Bible is given to us by inspiration. God is the author. He used various men over hundreds, thousands of years, sixteen hundred years or whatever it is, he used these various men to record down his words for us. He's preserved them for us. So John is the penman. I like the Apostle John. He's one of my favorites. In fact, my favorite apostle is whichever one I'm considering at that time. But I like the Apostle John. He's a very, very gracious man. A few things that we glean from him, and the Bible reveals to us about him, he was the son of Zebedee. And he and his brother and his father, Zebedee and no doubt other family members, they operated what we perceive to be a very successful business fishing business They were commercial fishermen. And we have reason to believe they were very, very successful. The Bible back in the Gospels when Jesus called John to follow him, his brother James. When he called them, uh, they said they left their nets with the hired servants. Now that tells me something about their business. That tells me they must have been pretty successful that they were able to hire servants. to come on and work with them. They had a a team of employees, so to speak. And so they were very, very successful. What does that Tell us about some fishermen who, which is a bit of a risky business, you know, it's a little bit like farming. You're very dependent upon things that are out of your control. And so here they're very successful. That tells me a few things by inference, that infers a few things about these guys. One, uh they probably were men of character They were out there working. I'll tell you, if you're dependent on creation, if you're dependent on things that you had a little control over, you better be out there working. You better make hay when the sun's shining, right? Well, I was gonna play video games today. You're not gonna be successful in life with that thinking, amen or not? And so it tells me a little bit about these guys, is that they were men, uh implies to me they were men of character, they were very successful, uh, no doubt men of integrity. Apparently they were well trusted by their customers and others. And so he comes from a family and a business that was very successful in this commercial fishing business. We uh are uh understand that the apostle John was uh perhaps the youngest of all the apostles. He was the boy. And ironically, he outlived all the other apostles. Many of them, if not most or all of them, gave their lives for the cause of Christ. Beheaded, Peter, we understand, was crucified upside down. But John outlived them all. He suffered greatly for his faith. He suffered greatly for the preaching of the gospel. In fact, we understand he was uh thrown in a pot of boiling oil. He was banished to the Isle of Patmos, where the book of Revelation was recorded for us uh through his pen. And so he's quite a fellow. Um the youngest, but uh outlived them all. Uh it's interesting if you study 1 John and you study 2 John and 3 John, he never references himself His name is not there. The books that God used Peter to inspire, Peter's name is in there. James, his name is in there. Jude, his name is in there. Paul, his name is in them. All of them, with the exception of Hebrews. I believe Paul was the penman of Hebrews. But you get to John's epistles, his name is not in there. Now that's, I think, is uh interesting. I think it's kind of typical of John. He'd go through the gospels, he would often refer to himself in a roundabout way. Rather than mentioning himself or his name, he would say something like this. In fact Four times, I believe, in the Gospel of John, he says this the disciple whom Jesus loved, he wouldn't just say John. He'd say, the disciple, whom Jesus loved. I don't know about you, that touches my heart. What kind the relationship he had with Jesus Christ? Just the fact that he would use that terminology, oh, the disciple whom Jesus loved leaned on his breast. Sat beside him. He was always close to the Lord Jesus. It tells me there's a couple things about John. One thing it tells me is he was very sensitive to the love of the Lord Jesus. He would see Jesus interact, Jesus say things and do things and maybe, and wouldn't it be amazing to be there in person, see this, but the way Jesus would look at him. And say, boy, my Savior loves me. He loves me. And He does things. He provides and does that. I tell you what, it's good for you and I to be very sensitive to our Lord's love for us. Get up in the morning and boy you can breathe and the sun's up and you got a little bit of food in the fridge. Say something like this, boy my Lord loves me He did all that for me, gave me food, gave me a new day, uh, roof over my house, it didn't leak much. And um Boy, my Lord loves me. My Lord loves me. What do we do? Oh, it's raining again. Oh, we're gonna have to build an ark But John was very, very sensitive. He saw the love of God all around in so many ways. It'd do us a heap of good. And I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody. It'd do us a heap of good to drop the complaining and start rejoicing in the fact we have a God who loves us. The disciple whom Jesus loved. Tells me he was very sensitive to the Lord's love for him, but also tells me this: he was very confident in the Lord's love for him. John, does the Lord Jesus love you? Absolutely. Why would you even ask that? There's no doubt about it. I'm the disciple whom Jesus loved He was very confident in that. There was no doubt in John's mind that his God loved him. Oh, preacher, if God loved me, why'd I get a flat tire? Well, maybe because God loves you, you got a car. Huh? He was very confident in love of God, and I'm telling you, he went through it. He was tortured for his faith. I mean literally tortured Because of preaching the gospel and and uh serving the Lord Jesus, and no doubt, at no time, at least not recorded for us, did he question or doubt the love of God? Now he wasn't perfect, he along with the disciples, the Lord crucified He struggled, but he was right there. He was right there. Took care of Jesus' mother Mary. And so John's uh is one of my favorite. He's a very He's a very compassionate man, very strong in his faith, very bold in his preaching. He was fearless in declaring the word of God, preaching against sin, but he was very sensitive and very compassionate And so John, the Apostle John, God used him to record 1, 2nd, 3rd John, and the Gospel, of course. And the book of 1 John is written to believers. It's written to saved people. If you would notice with me, I tried to touch it a little bit when I was reading through and emphasize a little bit. Verse 4. Look at chapter 1, verse 4. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full He's writing to believers, and you say, listen, we don't want you just to be saved from sin in hell. We don't want you just to have eternal life. We want you to have a full, joyful life. Does God want us to have joy? Yes, absolutely. Jesus says that my joy may be in you. And he says one of the reasons that the book of 1 John, and no doubt it would include all the scriptures, so that we can have the joy of the Lord in our life. And so he's writing to believers, he's writing to saved people, and he says: the reason for this book is that you might have joy. Come over, if you would, to chapter 3 and look with me at verse number 1. Now I'm trying to establish the fact that this book is addressed to people who have been saved, people who have genuinely been born again. And he says in verse 1 of chapter 3 He says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. You catch his rejoicing in that He is just relishing that God would love me and I'd be called the sons of God. Hey, lost people are not the sons of God. An unsaved person is not the son of God. This teaching in some circles that, oh, everybody's going to get to heaven eventually. Everybody's we're all the children of God. You won't find that in the Bible, my friend. Only saved people, only folks that have trusted Jesus Christ Savior, been born spiritually into the family of God. They are the only ones that are sons of God. So he's addressing saved people. Look at the rest of the verse. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. By the way, we can be saved now and we can know we are saved now. Not hope so someday. Now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be what? Like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. If you would come over to chapter 5. Now again, I'm establishing the fact that the book of 1 John is addressed to believers. It says not writing to the unsaved. 1 John 5, and I want to begin reading in verse 11. Now I have this underlined, I have it highlighted, I have it circled, I have a bracket around this passage. This is a vital, uh, important passage. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is where? in his son. He that hath the son hath life. And he that hath not the son of God hath not life These things have I written unto you, look at this, that what? Believe on the name of the Son of God, saved people This book is addressed to folks that have been born again, trust in Christ. Then he makes that great statement that ye may Know that you have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. So, the Apostle John, very compassionate man, a man of integrity, a man of character. Very sensitive and confident in the love of God and his love for the Lord. He references all through this book And he writes this again under the inspiration of God, the moving of the Spirit of God upon him to record this down word for word, exactly as God wants him. And he writes this to believers, the saved people, the sons of God. And he addresses two major Issues, two emphasis, I guess you could say, through the book. Number one, living the Christian life. Living the Christian life And again, this would be a whole series we could preach. We can't address all this. But he goes in the first part of the book. He says repeatedly, something to this effect. If you're saved, if you've trusted Christ, you're born again, I'm writing to you that as you are, as a son of God, then this will be true of your life. Then this will be true of your life. This will be true of your life. And he addresses living the Christian life, how God saved us to live. And he mentions that it'd be a great study, just of your personal go-through, and what should be the characteristics, what is a testimony of the fact that I've genuinely been born again. And then the other emphasis, I believe, through the book is loving of Christ our Lord. So number one, living the Christian life, and then number two, loving Christ our Lord. Now we get to verse 6 through 10. That's our text. That's what I want us to look at this week, and Lord will in the next couple weeks. And he's dealing with what I believe one of the most important issues in the Christian life. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Alright, follow along, because this is important. I sincerely believe if you and I do not grasp and understand what he's teaching us here, we're going to struggle all through our Christian life. We'll never have victory. We need to understand this. And he's addressing this subject when sin is present in the life of a believer. When I, as a child of God, born again, saved, member of God's family, a genuine biblical Christian, and I sin. What does that mean? Is it a possibility? And how does it affect me? How does God respond to that? And how should I respond? The sin and the life of the believer. It's incredibly important. It's incredibly important. He's dealing with sin in the Christian's life. Now One thing we can be absolutely certain of, and that is this, God is not the author of sin Now mark that down. And our Calvinist friends who try and imply, some of them just come right out and say it because that's what the teaching leads to. Or they'll hint around the fact that God is uh God has determined everything and and man has no free will and if somebody sins Then that was God's will, and that was the way it's kind of a fatalistic type mentality. And I'm telling you that is absolutely unscriptural. We had a situation years ago where I had a fellow that was involved in some things and there was question about whether he had done some things to some children, some unspeakable things to some children. And I needed to get some advice and I called a preacher that had a testimony referred to me. I knew him for years. And um, you know, I need, well, you know, how do I deal with this? And can you talk to him, maybe help, you know, we need to get to the bottom of this and get deal with this. And I brought that up and I said, you know, there's a possibility of this situation. He made this statement to me. I about fell on the floor of my office. He goes, well, if it did happen, then we know it was God's will. I thought, you have got to be kidding me. To me, that's borderline, if not full-blown blasphemy to suggest that God did God permit it? Yes, obviously. But to suggest that it's God's will, absolutely I mean my head just exploded. I had to clean the room up. It was terrible So this idea, this hint that somehow God is the author of sin is a flat out lie, the devil. And we even live in a day and age now when people are living in ungodliness and living in sin and all kinds of wickedness, and somehow trying to suggest that God is okay with that God is not okay with it. God is not the author of sin. I put this down. Sin is not the will of God. In any case, in any situation, ever at all for any reason. And you can throw your argument out there all you want, and you can use your perverted reasoning to come up with somehow God is okay with my sin. But in the end, you're going to be wrong every single time. God is not It is not the will. Sin is not the will of God. Sin is never the will of God. Look at chapter 2 with me, if you would, and look at the first part of verse number 1. Look what he says. 1 John. In chapter 2, the first part of verse 1, look what he says. Again, isn't that John? Just tender and gracious, compassionate. My little children, these things write unto you that ye what? Can you get clearer than that? Let me ask you a question. Is it God's will that a person sin? No. Is it God's will that a teenager sow their wild oats? No. This idea that, well, they're teens, they're going to live the way they want. Listen, you don't find that anywhere in the Bible. A young person, a five-year-old kid, a 15-year-old kid, a 25-year-old adult, 55-year-old adult, 105-year-old adult, should fight sin just as much as any one of those others. It's never excusable. It's never okay. God is never okay with sin. Never, ever is he okay with sin. God never ignores sin Never. He never ignores sin. He never disregards sin. Oh, well, that's just the way he is. You read through the Bible, both Old and New Testaments, and you find God's men, some of God's great men of faith. And when they sinned, God never ignored that. Well, you read some you read the heavy price that some of these guys paid for their sin, their wickedness. God never ignores sin, he never disregards sin, he never passes over sin Now, is God very patient? Yes. How many folks here are glad God doesn't bring the hammer down the second I sin? He gives us a little space to repent. He gives us a little space to deal with that. I always think of Achan. How many people are familiar with Achan in Joshua chapter 7? They go in, they take Jericho. Joshua fought the battle at Jericho and the walls came tumbling down. He says, Don't keep anything. It's all for the Lord. It's all you'll be able to get plenty of stuff later, but this Uh it needs to be for the Lord. Ayton gets in there, he sees the gold, he sees some silver brick bricks of silver and gold, sees this Babylonian starving. Boy, I'd fit my wife beautifully with gold, it would pay off the house, I can get a new boat and four-wheel. Boy, this would be great. He stashes it in the bottom. And because of one man's sin, because of one man, an entire nation is defeated. In their progress. In fact, what was it? 36 fellas lost their lives in the next battle of Ai because God removed his hand of protection and blessing. Did you know? One person in the church living in sinful rebellion against God can hold off God's blessings on that church Whether it's the preacher or whoever it may be, I'm praying for revival in our church. I'm praying for revival. We need it. We need revival in our teen program. We need revival in our adult program. We really need revival in our senior Sunersons program. Good. But we do need revival. And I pray so often, Lord, show me. Lord, would it be me that would keep God's hand? And I think it behooves all of us as members of the body of Christ. Seek the Lord. He's given us. He's very patient. He's very long-serving. He gives us, Lord, is it Lord, search me, try me if there's something thing. You know what I found out about the Holy Spirit? We we mention this a lot when we do Lord's Supper. It doesn't take the Lord very long to point out a sin. A life of believer. Lord, is there any sin? Yup. Boy, he brings it right there, right there, right there, right there. The Lord never has to say, well, let me think a little bit. You got some sin in there, let me see No, he knows it. Right there. By the way, ninety-nine percent of the time we know it also. And so God never tolerates sinning over overlooks sin. He never ignores it. He's very gracious. He gives us plenty opportunity to repent and take care. And I got back to Achan. Let me get back to Achan. He takes all that, he stashes it. They lose some lives. God removes his hand of blessing and protection off of Israel. They're defeated because of one man's sin. Joshua seeks the Lord. He said, The Lord says there's sin in the camp. And so they go through this elaborate process. For God to reveal to Joshua who the one is that has this hidden sin, that's unrepentant He goes through his elaborate process, and of course it takes quite a bit of time. They bring the tribes by, and then they bring the households by, and then the families by And then the men by and finally after all this process they're all lined up and they're coming by Joshua, it's not him, it's not this tribe, it's that they'll go through all the tribes, all right, it's this tribe Go through all the households, alright, it's this household, go through all the families that alright this family, all right, all the men in that, alright, it's this man's family. The whole time, I always picture it this way, the whole time Joshua is in l or uh um Not Joshua. Achen is in line. Does he know he's guilty? Yeah, he does. And he's got it there. And I'm convinced all that's gone through his mind is that gold and silver, I won't know. They'll never know. They can't find out. There's no way they can find out. And lo and behold, his tribe is chosen. Ooh, that's just a coincidence. He's there waiting a line, waiting a line. Finally it's his household. And it's his family. Then it's his the man of that family. Finally, he's in line. You know, it looks to me at some point he'd be coming to the conclusion God knows about this And it's narrowing down and narrowing down and narrowing down and finally he's the next in line. And then he steps up and God presses Joshua. That's the one. Now my question is this, why didn't God go through such an elaborate process? Why didn't God just tell Joshua, uh, Taken, right over there, is in the back. See him in the corner, standing there? Tim. Go check his tablet, his uh tent out. He's got it. Why didn't God just do that right away? This is what I'm convinced of. The Lord is very merciful. He's long-suffering, slow to anger. And that whole time, I'm convinced God was giving Joshua the opportunity to step up, say, or not Achan, God was giving Achan the opportunity to step up and say, I sinned. I confess. I sent, here it is, I want to forsake it. My opinion, I can't speak for God, I wasn't there, I don't know this for certain. My opinion, I believe God could have and perhaps would have, I know he could have, perhaps would have forgiven him fully. If he'd have confessed his sin and forsaken it. So God is very the point I'm trying to make is this. God doesn't overlook sin, he doesn't ignore sin, he doesn't disregard sin, he deals with it very thoroughly. But he's patient with us. And he gives us opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to come clean. 1 Corinthians 11 concerning the Lord's Supper, he says, if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. He's saying this, listen, you come clean, you you repent of it, you confess and forsake it and repent of it, and uh it can be it would be fine. Or you can try and hide it and cover it and and uh not repent of it and harden your heart Then you're going to face God's judgment. And you're going to face God's judgment. God does not ignore sin. God does not overlook sin. He doesn't disregard it. He deals with it and he deals with it very thoroughly all the time. But he's very patient and he's very long-suffering. Now, I want us to consider the reality of sin in the Christian life. Is it possible for a Christian to sin? They've been born again, saved, they have eternal life. I've got a new nature. I'm a new creature. I'm in the family of God. Is it possible for that person to sin? Well, let me put it this way. Number one, under this thought, the reality of sin in the Christian's life, under that I put this down. We must never be flippant About our claim of salvation. We must never be flippant about our claim of salvation. Are you saved? Oh, yeah When'd you get saved? Oh, I took care of it sometime. I I get out soul-winning, and many of our folks in church here do. We get out and we knock on doors and we talk to people, we try and talk to people about their salvation, share the gospel with them. And I'll tell you, sometimes people give a very flippant testimony of salvation. Well, yeah, uh, I'm not worried about it. Yeah, it'll be fine. I had a friend of mine, best friend all through high school, as as far as a drug addict, lying, stealing friend can be. And we were buddies, partners in crime. And I got saved. Man, God changed me so dramatically and so drastically and scared all my buddies. They thought I freaked out. And um, so I started witnessing to Denny, his name was Denny. I started witnessing talking to him. One day, to make a long story short, I went and visited him. I was down in Bible college. I came back home at Easter. I found him. He's living in a beautiful condominium, very wealthy, all drug money. I mean, very wealthy. Showed me all around some amazing wow Danny is incredible all paid for, paid it all cash, and uh he's going on. Finally I said, Danny, I didn't come by to see all your stuff. He says, I want to tell you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven when you die and sins forgiven. And he goes, oh, okay, whatever. So I said, can I show you, can I show you from the Bible? He goes, no, no, no. And this was his statement. He said, and I went by Denny at the time. He said, uh he said, Denny, he said, everything is cool. The man upstairs and I, we got it all worked out. Everything is cool. You know what he was doing? He was very being very flippant about his salvation. Everything wasn't cool. It's not how we're saved. We need to take this matter of salvation very seriously. And I'm afraid a lot of times we got people running around living an ungodly sin, living lives just saturated with sin, and they just flippantly say, oh well, I'm saved. I think that's foolish. I think that is very, very foolish. If my life is saturated with sin, I need to be very careful about making sure I've genuinely been saved. You follow what I'm trying to say Salvation is not something we should just be flipping about. And I'm not trying to get somebody that's genuinely saved to doubt their salvation. If a person genuinely saved, praise God for it. We need to deal with that. But I'm simply saying, not just thinking, oh, everything's fine. I need to be sure of my salvation. Paul said, told the Corinthians, he says, examine yourselves and make sure you're in the faith. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 21, 22, and 23. Jesus said this. If we had more time, we'd turn there, but we don't. He says this: not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. For many shall come to me in that day, Lord, we've cast out many demons and did this and we did that and we did many miracles. 9-8. And then one of the most tragic statements in all of Scripture. Jesus says, depart from me. I never knew you. What's he saying? He says don't take this matter of salvation flippantly. Oh, I s I said a prayer. Now listen, a lot of people get saved and they express their faith by saying prayer. I'm not trying to Diminish that. But simply saying some words never save the soul. It's from the heart man believeth unto righteousness. It is a turning to God in repentance and faith saying, Lord, I need you to save me from sin and hell. I don't know. I I've been told by folks before that I'm weird. I don't know. But when I got saved, the night I got saved, maybe you've heard me say this before, but the night I got saved, I wasn't calling out the Christ to save me from hell. That didn't even enter my mind. Hell. What I needed to be saved from was sin. My life was racked by sin. I was becoming a man that I despised. I was becoming a man that was vile and wicked. I thought I don't want to be that. I don't want to be what I am. And as I tried and tried to change me and make me something different, I couldn't I began reading the Bible and I saw there's only one salvation from sin. And that's Jesus Christ. That night I called on the Lord to be my Savior. I was crying out to Him to save me from the sin that was destroying me. So I'm I but I'm trying to get at is this: let's not be flippant about our salvation. We need to have that settled. We need to be sure that Christ has saved us. We must never be flippant or careless about salvation from sin and hell. It's the most important So my thought first concern is this when we talk about sin in the life of the believer, I need to be sure, as a uh a sin in the life of the believer, I need to be sure that I'm really a believer That I've been saved. Number two, I put this down. One, we said this must never be flippant about our claim of salvation. We need to be serious about that and make sure that's genuine salvation. Number two, we must never foolishly think that a saved person can or does not sin. Look at 1 John chapter 1, come back to our passage. And notice with me if you would at verse number 8. Now he's very, very clear here. I don't know how you can't see this If we say that we have no sin, we what? Deceive ourselves. Oh, I'm saved. There's no sin in my life. That says you're only fooling yourself. You're only fooling yourself. I don't think it's as big as it was for a little while there, but you get in certain areas and somebody talk to somebody, oh, I I have reached sinless perfection in my Christian life. All my years I've only come across one bird that suggested that. I've reached sinless perfection. What they do is they simply redefine what sin is. But my answer I always tell folks, if you come across someone that says that they're saved and there's no sin in their life, my advice is ask their wife. If they agree with that, ask their kids. Or ask their husband or whatever the situation is. So we must never think that, well, I'm saved. It was foolish to think that, well, I'm saved now that sin is no longer an issue with me. Uh sin is no longer a factor in my life. Uh uh I I I I have no sin. He says you're full in yourself. I had to learn that. I got saved. Man, my life was so dramatically changed. You know what I found out? I was a new man. There's no doubt about it. People, what in the world got into Leatherman? I heard that so what in the world got into Leatherman? My dad said Jesus got into them. But you know what I found out? The old Denny was still hanging around. I still had an old sinful nature. Brother, I remember I got saved on Monday night. I'll tell you about it sometime. Monday, all day long, my friend Denny and I, we were out partying, drinking, just going crazy. Took Monday off for my birthday. Blasphemy, filthy language, nasty sin. At night I got saved. Next morning I got up. I'm at work. Some filthy word comes out my mouth. And I learned what conviction was pretty quick. It's interesting. 24 hours before, it didn't bother me one bit. Now I took the Lord's name in vain. And I found out pretty quick that Christians can and do sin. I struggled with it for a little bit there. And I thought, you know, my it Is uh am I saved? I knew I was saved, but how does this all work out? So we must never foolishly think that because we're saved we can't sin. Sometimes people get saved and they go out and that old sinful nature is still there and they say or do something they shouldn't do. And they think, oh no, I need to get saved again. No, that's that's not correct. We're going to address that Christians can undo sin. The Bible clearly teaches that salvation produces a new creature. Salvation initiates a spiritual transformation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. And that is absolutely true. However, that old creature still lives there. We still have that old nature and that new nature. How many people know exactly what I'm talking about? And that spiritual warfare that takes place in the heart and soul of every believer. Um We still have a sin nature. We still have the ability to sin. It's not eradicated. Look at verse 10 of our text. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar. Every Christian has two natures, an old nature and a new nature. There's this constant tension in the Christian life. There's this constant conflict. How many people agree with me? Paul was a saved man. No doubt about it. He said, I know for him I have believed and am persuaded. That he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him. He gave testimony over and over and over in the book of Acts, how God saved him on the Damascus Road. He said in Ephesians, I'm saved by the grace of God. I am what I am. Paul was a saved man. I want to challenge you sometime to study Romans chapter 7. Now it's worded a little, I don't know, awkwardly, maybe it's a it's uh you have to pay attention how it's worded there, but this is what he says in there. He goes, as a child of God, and I'm putting this in my own words, I'm paraphrasing here very loosely. But he says, as a child of God. With a new nature, the divine nature that God has given me at the moment of salvation, Christ living in me. I have desires to live for God and serve Him and do what's right. There are things that I would do, but I find myself I don't do them. And there's things that this new nature I have, this this uh new desires I have, that there are things I don't want to do. They're wrong. They have no place in the life of a Christian. Find myself doing it. And he says, that which I would, I do not. That which I would not, I do. He says, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? And then he says, thanks be to God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, some folks try and suggest, well, that was a past experience. That was a phase that Paul went through and he got victory over it, and now he no longer deals with sin. But if you'll read it very carefully, it's all present tense. He doesn't say I did that, that was past. He says here and now, while I'm writing this, this is a battle goes on in my life. And so Paul tells us, and all through Scripture, we're told very clearly, we have testimony in the Old and New Testament that the people of God can and do sin, even though they're saved, it's still a reality in the Christians' life. And let me give you this last thought, and then we'll pick up the others. This is the reality of sin in a Christian's life. We must never falsely believe. That when a Christian sins, they lose their salvation. We must never falsely believe that when a Christian says, oh, I got saved, I trusted Christ, he changed my life, and oh I sinned. I lost it all. I lost it all. That's not Bible teaching at all. It is not the absence of sin that saves a soul. Right? I'm telling you, if somebody were to come to me on May 5th of 1979 and said, Denny, you've got to straighten your life up, you've got to get all this sin out of your life, get it all out of your life, then God will save you. You know what I would have done? I'd have probably got a gun out and blew my head off. Because that was my whole problem. I couldn't stop sinning. I couldn't change my life. I could not do that. I needed somebody that could deliver me from this. So it wasn't the absence of sin that saved my soul in the first place. It was the presence of sin that made salvation necessary. In fact, Jesus says, they that are whole need not a physician, but they that are healed. I came not to call the righteous to repentance. But sinners. Sinners. So it's not the um by the way in Luke chapter 18, you have the rich, you have the this Pharisee and you have this publican, a wicked, wicked man. And they come up to the temple to pray. The Pharisee says, I don't do this, and I don't do that, and I don't go there, and I don't go here, and I do this, and I do that. Lord, I've got it all covered. I do not have sin. I am not like that bird. Publican comes up. Couldn't even lift his eyes up to heaven. He smote his breast. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Which one got saved? The publican. So my point is this: it's not the absence of sin that provides salvation, that makes salvation It's the grace of God. And it's not the absence of sin that keeps me saved The absence of sin does not save me in the first place. It's God's grace. And the absence of sin is not what keeps me safe. I heard a- I was at a funeral years ago and the preacher got up there and he had a nice message. He talked about Christ on the cross And he ended his message. He made this statement. He says, but if you don't live it, you're going to lose it. I sat there and I said, that man is wrong. I couldn't live it to get it in the first place. I can't live it to keep it. It's all of grace. It's all of God's mercy. So I can't be flippant about my salvation. I need to make sure I genuinely be saved, and God will begin a change, a transformation process. And I'm not the man I used to be. I'm not everything I should be, but God is changing me, God is working me. Then I need to understand, yes, sin is a reality in the Christian life. It's something I have to deal with, my own personal sin. It's real. As a Christian Number three, I must not think that when I do sin as a Christian, that I automatically lose my salvation, I lose my salvation. Absence of sin does not save me and it does not maintain or secure my salvation. Now I know what some people think. They said, oh, so if you're genuinely saved, you trust in Christ, God changed your life. Sin is a reality. You sin as a Christian, and you're saying you can't lose your salvation, you don't lose it all, then You have a license to sin. I had a lady down here in Mount Lake Park at one of the apartments that did a Bible study. I told you this before this years ago. She said, Pastor Leatherman, I have a question and I want an answer, yes or no, nothing else. I said, well, I'm not going to answer that way, because you're just setting me up. Do you believe one do you believe once saved, always saved? I said yes, but That is not a license to sin. Well, I don't see how it isn't. I said, but it isn't. I was a little nicer than that. I said, well, let's get our Bibles out. Anyone want to guess where I took her? Hebrews chapter 12. Would you turn there real quick and I gotta quit? Hebrews chapter 12 The fact that I as a Christian can and do sin, and the fact that when and if when and when I do sin as a Christian, I don't lose my salvation does not mean I have a license to sin. Oh great, I can just One guy told me, oh, that's the best of both worlds. I said, I don't know, this world doesn't have much to offer. But look with me if you would. Hebrews chapter 12. And boy, you ought to be familiar with this. Nowhere does the Bible suggest that because we are secure in our salvation, that that means we can just live however we want. Beginning in verse number four, and I've got to go through this quickly You have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. So he's saying, listen, you haven't done everything you could to not sin. And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the what? Chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Paul expected them to know this. He says, You've forgotten this. We taught you this. When God chastens you as a Christian, you haven't resisted against blood. You've sinned. And that sin, being not dealt with, brought on the chastening of God. Verse 6. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. That word chasteneth has this idea: the pain of correction. As a child of God, if I sin and I don't deal with it, and first John 1 9 is going to tell us how to deal with it when it comes up, but if I don't do what the Bible says as a child of God and I'm in sin If I'm genuinely saved, God is going to chasten me. He will use the pain of correction. Now that is not retribution. It is not God saying, you stupid idiot, go! God doesn't operate that way. It's whom the Lord Loveth, he chasteneth. And so he brings the pain of correction down so that my behavior is altered, so that my thinking is changed. I'm renewed. And he corrects my behavior, and I get back in fellowship with him. I'm back where I ought to be. And then he uses an incredibly strong word and scourgeth every son. What do you picture when you see when you hear that word scourging? Cat and I tail, jeez, ripping the back. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, God takes sin very seriously. And he says, I'll do whatever it takes to have one of my children living in sin, I'll do whatever it takes to get them to make that thing right. That can take a lot of forms. I'm not trying to scare or be sensational, but it might be a car wreck. Might be the loss of a leg. I can give you a testimony. Fellow stood on this pulpit, lost his leg, saved man, living in sin, refused to repent. Motorcycle wreck lost his leg and he said God used that to get my head straight, get me back where I ought to be. Scourging. Boom Um and let's go. I've got to quit. He says, for if you endure chastening, God dealeth with as deals dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? The answer is none. If it's a father, God's going to correct him. If he's any kind of father. Look at this. But if ye be without chastisement, if you claim to be saved and you're living in sin and God is not chastening you, Whereof all children of God, I'm reading into it here a little bit, whereof all are partakers, then are ye. Man, he used a hard word. Bastards. And he says, and not sons. He says, if you're you claim to be a child of God, you claim to be saved, and you can live in sin and live in sin and live in sin and live in sin. There's no chastisement, there's no conviction, there's no chastening of the Lord. You can claim to be saved all you want, but your claim is a, bear with me, bastard claim. The word bastard simply means this, illegitimate. Your claim to be safe is not legit. It's not legit. You're not a son. So, is the fact that a Christian can and does sin, does that mean we lose our salvation? No. We can't lose our salvation. There's scores of scriptures that assure us of that. But it is not a license to sin. God deals with it as children. He doesn't send us to hell. I raised two boys. This may be a shock to you. This may be a shock to you, but the preacher's kids didn't always do what the preacher said. How many people are shocked? You know what we did? We chastened them. When they were young, we chastened them. Sometimes we s we didn't use a scourge, but they thought it was. But I'll tell you one thing I never did. I never got the gun out, put it to their head, and shot them in the head. And that would be the equivalent of God sending one of his children to hell. God never sends one of his children to hell. He'll chasten them, he'll discipline them, he'll scourge them if necessary, get them straightened out and bring them back in line. He's not sending them to hell. So, uh I read FB Meyer, I got a qu let me end with this. F. B. Meyer, one of my favorite authors, Christian authors, he's pastor and England and the States here back in the late 1800s, I think early 1900s. He pastored Spurgeon's church for a little while after Spurgeon died He told about two Germans who wanted to climb the Matterhorn, Big Mountain. They hired three guides. They began up the steep, treacherous cliffs and up the ascent. The guides instructed them to rope themselves together. And the way they did it was the first one in front, it was two climbers, three guides. Um the way they did it was the first they had a guide. He was up front, got all his gear on, his all the stuff. Then tied to a rope that was attached to him was an X, and that guy was a traveler, one of the mountain climbers, inexperienced, but they wanted to climb. Behind him, rope to him, was a guide Behind him was the second mountain climber, and last was a guide. So it was guide, climber, guide, climber, guide. They made their way up, everything was going well, FB Meyer said. They got to a point where it's especially treacherous. They had to go up the face of ice and rock. And they began making their way up. They were all up, going up the face of this rock, and the last fellow, the last guide, his foot slipped and broke out on some ice, and he dropped. But he was tied. He struggled and struggled a little bit, and the pressure on them caused the second mountain climber to break loose. Now there's two of them hanging there They're squirming around trying to get their footing, get back, cause the third fella to break loose. Finally left the first guy, the guide, the only one holding on, dropped to their death. However, that first guide, knowing the situation and what could happen, had taken his pin and driven it deep into the rock. And he was attached to that rock. He could not come loose And he held there and held his position, and as they dangled and finally got their footing back on the side, they were to progress on up, and they survived. And he said this. He said it was their attachment, it was their attachment to the first guide that saved their life, kept them secure. And he said, in the Christian life, you and I as Christians, our foot is going to slip. And we're going to fall. But because we're attached to Christ, who is the rock, We will never, never lose what that salvation gives us. We are secure in Christ. So, can a Christian sin? Yes. Don't horse around with your salvation, make sure. If you're genuinely saved, born again by faith in Christ, yes, sin is a very real possibility and probability. It's going to happen. If we say we don't, we're a liar. But that doesn't mean we're going to lose our salvation. Now we do need to deal with it, and he tells us, and we'll talk about that. But I'm secure in Christ. I'm secure in Christ. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to live our lives in submission and humility. According to your worth. And Lord, when sin arrives, when we sin, I pray you'd help us. To understand our security in Christ, but also to take it very, very seriously and deal with that as you instruct us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But boy, that battle you talked about is raging in my heart and life. That old sin nature and that new nature. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need to take this seriously. Maybe I'm talking to some folks that there is sin. The Holy Spirit of God right now is nailing it in your heart. And you say, preacher, I need to address that. And I need to address it now. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know it. The Spirit of God is there dealing with it. God bless you, hands all around God bless you, hands all around. If we say we have no sin, we're a liar. Calling him a liar. Truth is not in us. We need to acknowledge that I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm not sure about my salvation. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to be flippant about that And we'll play with that. I need to make sure that Christ has forgiven me and saved me of all judgment. And I'm in Christ. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? I'm concerned about that. I need that settled. Now, Father in heaven, I saw hands, Lord, you know our hearts Help us, Lord, to take this seriously. Help us, Lord, to do business and to follow your instructions in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation. I'm telling you