Second Thessalonians chapter three. Did I tell ya that I'm sick and tired of people picking on Justin Bieber? Did I already say that? Really? I didn't remember seeing it. I wish they'd just leave her alone, you know, just That is my favorite joke right now. Nice thing is I can just go and tell myself jokes and laugh all day long and just have a good time. Nobody gets them. Second Thessalonians chapter 3. I want to look at verse 4 and 5. And um I tell ya this is there is so much stuff here as we're winding down uh Paul's letters to the Thessalonians. You get to chapter three, and I don't know, I just kind of got in my head, all right, we're winding down. He's at the end of the letter. This will just kinda and each verse I get into, uh, he makes some tremendous statements here. Look at verse 4. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 says, and we have confidence. Now when I read this, pay attention to the wording, okay? Look very carefully what he's saying. Sometimes we just read this and we miss it Look what he says. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command you. And the Lord direct your hearts unto the love of God and unto the patient waiting for Christ. I've just called it, I've just called the message in confidence in the Lord. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study of these two verses here. God, um You spoke to my heart about uh some of the statements here. I pray that through me you would speak to all our hearts, and I yield myself to you, present my body anew. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. And help us to have confidence in you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to think in your mind, don't say out loud, but think in your mind, who is somebody you would say that you have great confidence in? Think of somebody in your life. That you have great confidence in that person. For some of you, it might be a family member, might be a spouse, might be a co-worker, might be somebody that influenced your life, might be yourself. Someone you have great confidence in. Now let me ask you this. This is where I want everybody to think a little bit with me. What do we mean when we say we have confidence in somebody? Well what are we saying? What does that mean when I have or in something? I have a lot of confidence in it. You can count on it to do or be whatever you're anticipating it to do or be. Trusting in it, you're somebody if you if you have great confidence in this person, you're trusting them to do or be whatever uh you expect from them. Anything else? How else would you expand on that, maybe? Alright, you believe in them? You have faith in them. Okay. What are what? You consider that person to be very reliable. Let me ask you this. Have you uh what are some things, let's put people aside, what are some things that you would have confidence in A vehicle, that's what I was thinking. Every one of us exercised confidence this evening driving here to church. You had confidence the brakes are going to work and the vehicle is going to work. What else would you have confidence in? Yeah, the pews, that's what I was thinking. I didn't see anybody testing them out, you know. Put weight on it there first. Of course some of us it would require a lot more weight than others, but um some of us, I said And um so uh but yeah the chair, we sat in a chair, uh machinery at work, those types of things. Uh so to have confidence. Let me ask you this. Have you ever put confidence in some type of thing and uh that confidence proved false? Sure. Uh vehicles and and different things. Any ever put confidence in some person and that person failed your confidence? Sure. How many people ever had very confident that you were up to the job and then when it came down to it, boy, you didn't quite live up to your uh what you thought you would be. Anybody there? Sure, we've all been there And so what I want us to think about tonight is this matter of having confidence. Now look at verse number four. And look what Paul is saying here, of course, under the inspiration of God. He says, we have confidence in who? In the Lord. And so um I want to back up here a little bit. I uh I overlooked. When I was twenty years old, I got saved at the age of nineteen. About a year, year and a half later, um, and I mentioned this before I've used this illustration before, but in a different direction But uh I was I wasn't sinning against God. I it wasn't sin in any scriptural sense, but I was going outside of God's will for my life In a direction as a new Christian. And God had been dealing with me. You know, everything that's not sin doesn't necessarily mean it's right or good for you. You follow what I'm saying? Uh and so I was going a different direction that now looking back I can see clearly where God was leading me. I didn't know where God was leading me at the time, but I knew that He was telling me not to go this direction I was going. And boy, I struggled with that, and I fought the Lord on that. I hate to admit it, but my argument was always, God, there's nothing wrong with this. Lord, there's nothing wrong with this. This isn't sin. But nevertheless, the Lord kept convicting, convicting, convicting. And one night I was driving home, and uh Um it's coming down, it was about eleven o'clock of the evening. I was driving down Route 119, goes over to the uh Harleysville where I was living at the time. And um uh I was dri can everybody hear me okay? Everybody alright? Alright, um and so anyway, uh I was driving across there about eleven o'clock at night and this car I just saw it at the corner of my eyes coming up. I didn't have the stop sign, I was just had uh like a regular road And this car came up the stop sign, never even slowed down, just came right through the stop the stop sign and plowed into the passenger side of my car. spun me around and I it was God working in my life. But the point I want to make here is this. For a number of years, I mean many years after that, when I would come up to an intersection That was something similar to that, and there would be a car there. You know what? I would react to that. Um if there was a car pulling up, I'd be coming this way. If a car was coming this way, boy, I would instinctively Grit myself and prepare for a wreck. And uh what had happened? I had lost confidence in other drivers in that situation. Up to that point, I always relied. I trusted that they were going to stop, that they would not pull out. I had confidence that drivers would do that. And that confidence was violated And every time I got up to that situation, I would tense up and I was I was uh I was um not confident. In that situation. So Paul says here, we have confidence in the Lord. You know the answer to this question. Can does God ever fail us in our confidence in Him? No, of course not. Now here's my outline. Number one, I want us to notice the basis of Paul's confidence. Now this is where it gets interesting. We have confidence in the Lord touching you. That you will both do, that you both do and will do the things which we command you. And to be very honest with you, as I got paying attention to this verse a little bit I thought the wording's kind of odd here. Because it looks like Paul would say, it looks like he would say, and we have confidence in you. That you will both do and that you both do and will do the things we command you. What he's talking about here is the church at Thessalonica, the believers there, that they were doing what he had commanded them and they will keep on doing what he's commanded them. But he doesn't say my confidence is that you're going to keep on doing what you've been doing. His confidence is where? Is in the Lord that they are going to do what they've been doing. I got looking at this. I thought it would make more sense to say we have very confident. We have confidence in the Lord that the Lord will keep doing what he's been doing. Or you would say, we have great confidence in you that you will do what you've been doing. But he doesn't word it that way. Why in the world would he say that I have great confidence in the Lord that you will behave a certain way? Why would he say that? Let me offer my suggestion. I think it's not that Paul did not trust the Thessalonian believers. I think he had great confidence in the Thessalonian believers Uh you say, why do you think that? Because remember the beginning of 1 Thessalonians and the beginning of 2 Thessalonians, what's he doing uh to these believers? He's bragging on them And he's saying, Man alive, you guys have tremendous uh uh influence in the world for the size of your church. The amount of influence you have is just You're a model church. You're ready for the rapture. He has nothing but good to say about the church there. So that indicates to me that Paul does have a level of faith and confidence in him. He's very Confident they're going to keep on doing. They've proven themselves. They have a good track record. But nevertheless, he says, My confidence is in the Lord that you will do right. I believe it's that when it comes to spiritual development in our lives as Christians, it ultimately comes down to God's faithfulness, doesn't it? It's not, listen, if a person is a good Christian, it's not because there's something great, it's because God is great We've said that many times. I think Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a great church. And I thank God for it. But we've often said this. God has blessed us tremendously, not because we're wonderful, but because He is wonderful. And that church at Thessalonica, Paul recognized that they were what they were because of God's faithfulness in their lives. Turn with me, if you would, over to Philippians, not too far away, just a few pages back towards the beginning of your Bible. If you go backwards, you have 1 Thessalonians, then Colossians, then Philippians. Can anybody here say the books of the Bible backwards? Well, that would be a challenge, wouldn't it? Can you do that, Elizabeth? You've been in Bible college a whole year, and you still can't say the books of the Bible backwards. Philippians chapter 3, and look at verse number 3. For we are the circumcision which worship God in the Spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have what? No confidence in what? The flesh. What was he saying? Can everybody hear me okay? I can preach louder than I am now, I'll tell you that. I just What are you doing to your poor kids back there, Eric? What are they doing to you is the question, right? Um He says we have no confidence in the flesh. What is he saying? He's saying if if a church or an individual is strong in the Lord and strong, it's because God is working. You and I are not what we are because we're great. Because we're so strong and boy we're really something. It's God's faithfulness, and Paul saw that. Sure, the Thessalonians had exercised faith in God, they followed the Lord's leadership God was doing great things. It wasn't that God just arbitrarily against their will did all these wonderful things. They cooperated with God But it was ultimately God doing that in their lives and making their church what it was. What I'm trying to say is this, and what I think this passage is teaching, is we need the Lord We never get to a point where we're so strong spiritually or we're so close to the Lord that we fail to need God. In fact, the strongest Christian in here needs the Lord just as much as the weakest Christian. And so he says, we have confidence in the Lord that you guys are going to keep on keeping on. And you're going to keep on doing what you need. God had seen, uh, Paul had seen God develop their spirituality into a strong, effective believers. God saw, Paul saw what God was doing. In their lives, in their midst. And he expressed confidence that God was going to continue to develop them And that they would continue to trust him and obey him and let God have his way in their lives. It is a great, as I was studying this, I was encouraged. As a pastor, of course, I want to see other Christians grow and develop. I want to see myself grow and develop. Do you ever stop and think the pastor needs the church as much as the church members need the church? The pastor needs the fellowship and the exhortation and the and all that as much as any other member does. We're all part of the body of Christ. And uh, but as pastor, uh it's a blessing to see I I am very anxious to see the members of the church grow and develop, their faith get stronger, and learn to trust God and develop uh uh their walk with the Lord. I want to see that. Uh but if you're not careful, it's very simple to get into the idea that boy, that person Has to be this, that, or the other. And this encouraged me to get my eyes maybe off the person and on the Lord and see God working, look to God to work in their life. Am I making any sense? And my hope for a person developing, myself included, but for a Christian, maybe a new believer, somebody struggling for their faith to develop My hope needs to get off of them, not to have any confidence in them that they're going to but in confidence that God is going to work in their heart and life and God is going to enable them and God is going to do what needs to be done to bring them along. And so this just captivated my attention. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you in relation to you. So that's the basis of his confidence, God's faithfulness. God working in their lives. Now, what is the content of his confidence? That's the basis. What's the content of Paul's competence? In other words, what is he sure that God's going to do? What is he sure that's going to happen? Uh look what he says. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you. Alright, what is this about? That ye both do And will do. Now here's where the wording isn't what I would expect again. That ye do and that you both do and will do the things which What's the next word? We command you. Now again, I'm reading this and I'm thinking, all right, he's confidence in the Lord. Is that they will both do, that they both do and will do. All right, I can see that relation. Now he brings himself into it that we command you. Looks to me as I was studying that looks to me that uh you know you have to be careful here, but you ever read the Bible and say, that ain't right Come on now, y'all look so pious at me. Oh no, you know. Uh and God ever do something in your life and say, God, I just don't see it that way. I'm looking at the God, I don't see it this way. That which we command you. I thought, it should be that God commands you. Confidence in the Lord. You both do and will do the things that the Lord commands you. That's not what he says. He says the things that we command you. And boy, that threw a wrench in my thinking, and I had to work an extra hour on the message to figure that out. I think what Paul is doing here is he's referencing his apostolic authority As part of the church's foundation. Now let me explain what I mean. Again, come back, not far, come back to Ephesians There's an interesting statement here that we don't really give it a whole lot of thought. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 20. We talked about the apostles in Sunday school, the office of an apostle. And uh, you know, their names are going to be on the the foundations of heaven, uh the uh the the pillars of heaven. Now notice what he says in Ephesians chapter 2, look at verse 20 He's talking about the church here and how they're all part of the household of God, verse 19, and are built upon the foundation of the Apostles and prophets and Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone You follow what he's saying here, he's saying the apostles, the office that the apostles filled, that role, was part of the foundation being laid for the church. And they were given authority that I do not believe that after the Bible's completed that anybody has anymore. That apostolic authority is not available anymore. Does not exist anymore. Now the authority of the church is what? The Word of God. Baptist Distinctive. Our sole authority is the Word of God. But until the Bible was completed and as the New Testament was being given, God had given to the apostles what we called apostolic authority. And Paul, as an apostle, of course, those scripture, the letters he's writing here are part of scripture. And he could say, we command you in these areas. In developing this church and establishing churches and organizing them, he could speak with that authority and say, We command you. Very much like the Old Testament prophets did. They would speak with tremendous authority as the mouth of God. Now I will be the first one to step up and say, there's not a pastor today can say to his people, I command you! I do not have that authority. The authority I have, delegated by God as an under-shepherd, is the Lord commands us. Follow what I'm saying? Scriptures require of us. And so when Paul's writing here to the church at Thessalonica, he says, You'll do, you've been doing and you will do the things that we command you. He was speaking in a very unique position, I believe, as an apostle, and he had the authority to command people. As a pastor I do not have authority on my own, apart from Scripture, to command people to do this or not do that. You follow what I'm saying? Y'all look like you're very confused. I mean more so than you normally do. And uh so he's speaking. No man has this authority today. My responsibility, the Bible teacher's responsibility, the evangelists' responsibility, all of us, our responsibility is to communicate the commands of Scripture. To implement into our lives and our ministries, our church, the commands of Scripture. But no individual can say, I command you. That's where cults arise When a man takes the position of God and takes the position of Scripture. I told you about a church, this was many years ago, probably 10, maybe here 20, about 10 years or more ago And a church was having a revival here in our community, and one of the folks that was in the service, I heard this firsthand, said to me, They said, last night, the preacher said, put don't bother bringing your Bibles to the revival this week. I've got a word from God. Listen, that is unscriptural. That man does not have authority to speak for God outside or without the scriptures. Now Paul was while the scriptures were being developed. He had apostolic authority. He could say, these are the things we command you to do. And we trust you'll do that. So we have to be real careful here. And uh so number one, the basis of his confidence, God working in their lives, making them into what they were The content of his confidence was that they're going to do what he tells them to do and they're going to keep on. They've been doing it, and he's confident that the Lord's going to keep working in life and they're going to keep on doing What he's been instructing them to do as an apostle, establishing the church, getting that thing laying the foundation, get that thing up and running the way it needs to be. Then last of all, the result of his confidence. And this is verse number five And the Lord direct, and here's all part of his confidence in the Lord, and the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and unto the patient waiting for Christ. I think there's two tremendous motivations given here for us to trust God and let Him work in our life and make us into the people He wants us to be. Number one, when we understand how much God loves us. If I realize how much God loves me, boy, then I can trust him. I say, all right, because what? God wants you to go to Mongolia? You know what God wants you to go to Kazakhstan and be a missionary and leave your family behind and live there and go through all those hassles? Do what Adams? And you know what Jewish response is? God loves me. How could I not trust him? How could I not when I understand how much he's not being hateful, he's not being negligent to me, he loves me dearly As a plan and purpose for my life. And then the other great motivating factor is one I understand my heart is directed to the love of God, and then when I understand, hey, Jesus is coming back again someday. And I think along with that is the idea of accountability. How many folks here, uh I I've used my me for an illustration, let's use you for an illustration. How many folks here, your folks when you were young, your folks went off somewhere, gave you a list of things to do before they got back. And about an hour before they got back, suddenly you were very motivated to do what they told you to do. The eminent return of mom and dad. With a tremendous uh motivating factor in doing what you want to do. How many of you fellas your wife went away for a while with the ladies or something? And the house went to pot and you she called and say, Alright, we're gonna be there in two hours, be home in two hours. Suddenly you're highly motivated to do the dishes, washing, clean things up. Anyone here? Can I get it? Come on, she's sitting beside you. You better uh admit And uh so the coming of the Lord is a tremendous motivating factor for Christians to live for Him and trust Him and do what He says. I wrote this down under the results of Paul's confidence. This is the application Our hearts need direction. Look at verse 5. And the Lord direct your hearts unto the love of God. We need God to direct our hearts. The Bible tells us in Proverbs that he that trusteth in his own heart is a what? Fool. God is saying, don't you dare trust your future, your destiny, your life with your own understanding. That's what our heart is. Man, you you trust and lean on your own understanding, you're gonna mess up. We need God to direct our hearts. Remember Solomon? I'm reading about Solomon in my devotions. uh just in his early years. He messed up at the end. But boy, in those early years he was something else. And what a tremendous prayer that every one of us prayed. He says, God gives them the option, basically, do you want riches or do you want wisdom? And in his wisdom, he chose what? Wisdom. You know what he was saying? And he says this in so many words. Lord, I I don't have the wisdom, I don't have the ability to lead these people. And direct this great nation. I need you to direct my heart. I need you to give me wisdom. And just as Solomon didn't have the wisdom to lead that nation, you and I don't have the wisdom to lead our lives. And I saw what I did with my life in nineteen years. I need the Lord to direct me. I like this quote. I came across one of the books I was reading, I was studying. And I thought this was a great quote. The heart that is self-led is misled. Isn't that a good statement? The heart that is selfless. Wait, what's the world tell us? Just follow your heart. That is as unscriptural as you can get. Somebody tell me what Jeremiah 17:9 says. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And Paul says, I have full confidence in God. That you're going to keep on doing, that you've been doing, and you're going to keep on doing what we're commanding you, what we're sh telling you you need to do And that I have full confidence that God's going to lead and direct your hearts into the love of God and the return of Christ. And that's what we need. I tell you, we don't even have the wisdom to know how to direct our lives for the next ten days. We don't know what's going to happen. We don't know what tomorrow holds. Here's a neat thought. God does. God knows exactly what's going to happen in the next 24 hours, and I need him to lead and direct me. And uh, you know, you pull on the road, you're driving a road, you don't know where that road goes. You pull over and the guy says, Yeah, I drive this road all the time. It goes here and you go up there and you turn there and it goes around there. That guy's been on it a bunch. He can tell you what's ahead. That's what the Lord is He knows what's that. He's got it laid out. He's already there. You can say, all right, this is what you need to do. This is what you need to do. Because trust me. Let me have my way. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us To allow you to direct our hearts and lives. Lord, help us to get in our Bibles every day and take the principles and the truths that you give us and implement them into our lives. And Lord, we have confidence. I have confidence, God, that as you lead and direct us, we can be the people that you want us to be, and we can be directly in your will and be a good, strong church. But God, we need you. And our trust needs to be in you. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm just going to make this one application, invitation tonight. How many folks here say, preacher? I'm facing a situation, I have things coming up, and I really need God's wisdom. I really need God's leadership and direction. There's some decisions that need to be made, and we all do on a general basis, but tonight specifically. Say I've got something. And I need God to direct my heart. Remind me how much He loves me. He's coming back and to lead and direct me. Is there any like that, preacher? I got a specific situation. a need where I really need wisdom from God for. Anybody like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Let's trust the Lord. Let's put confidence in him. And let him lead and direct us and not lean on our own understanding. Father, help us, Lord, to have faith in you and let you have your way in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.