Christian living. And I'm going to say a little word too, bragging on the teens. I really appreciate them. Several of them said that Pastor Bra, I really don't sing But I'm willing to at least get up there and uh give it a whirl. So if you see some of these teams, let them know these are young people using some of their gifts and just their willingness. to serve God and I'm really blessed. They tackle songs down there that most of us really haven't ever heard of. We have, and so I uh really am thankful for them willing to do that and kind of cater to us and um also to to use their their talents for God's glory. So I I really like that and uh you can let them know that too. All right. So first John A little bit that I want to explain and mention, just kind of by way of introduction, is uh confident Christian living. I sort of consider myself, comparatively speaking, somewhat of a younger Christian, a younger person. Um and but even though I would consider myself that way comparatively speaking, even in my life I've noticed something all across Christianity. I'm not talking about denominationally. I'm saying Christianity, I've noticed this drift away from just I can't say it any other way, confidence It's like we turn to doubting and swaying and nobody really wants to stand for much of anything. I've heard it said that you don't stand for something, you'll what? You'll fall for everything. But I think that in uh we stand in this day and age, whether you're talking about my generation, an older generation, or a younger generation that one of the biggest words that comes to my mind that we need in Christianity today, no matter who you are, where you're at, is confidence. Competent Christian living. Even when I say it, I think, boy, that sounds like something God that I need. And I hope that's where you're at this morning. That's why, like I mentioned, that uh the plans are. It's just a tackle, and they're all from the book of first John. So rather than thinking Pastor Brett's challenging us, I'd have you consider that the Apostle John is uh living yet today and is challenging you if you were here with these very same things competent Christian living. All right, so we read read the text there. Um We're going to begin the way John does. And John is kind of a sweet, more sensitive, sentimental guy, kind of maybe the opposite. antithesis to the other apostle Peter, okay? He's a little bit more, I would just say sensitive in nature, but he's uh in my opinion, the perfect person human author to pen this book because he begins this exactly where we're going to begin in our series, and that is confidence through fellowship. You're not really going to experience true confidence that we're talking about here, confident Christianity apart from that fellowship. I like to say this with the teens. There's really no shortcut to Christianity. There's no fast express route to becoming magically godly, all right? So that's where we're going with it. Um the book of 1 John And let me go ahead and read this text again. I know Brother Mark did, but follow along. I'm going to highlight a couple words. Pause, draw your attention to them, and I'll let you know too where I'd ask you to fill in the blank. But John writes under inspiration, of course, this is his second book. that he's written, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our own eyes, if I can add, which we have looked upon ourselves. And our own hands have handled of the word of life. I'll just fill in the blank there, absolve the mystery there. Talking about Jesus, verse 2, he says, for the life was manifested. And we have seen it, and we bear witness. We show you that eternal life which was from the Father and was manifested unto us. Verse 3, that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. That ye also may have, what's the next word? Fellowship. I love it. with us. And truly our, what's that word? Fellowship is with the Father And with the Son Jesus Christ. His heart's starting to bubble over if you're watching. Verse 4. These things write unto you that your joy, as simple as you could put it, may be whole. Wow. He's pouring a lot of his heart into this. I mentioned John I think is the perfect guy for this job, the perfect one to point us to a competent Christian living. He the Apostle John was called the beloved You may not be aware of that, as in contrast to the rest of the disciples that were not called that. It was John under the inspiration that said, We love him because he first loved us. John was a guy, in my opinion, looking at his life, that he knew how to not only receive the love of God in his life and it made a difference, but then he turned in turn loved God back. And he referred to himself as the um as the apostle whom the Lord loved. It was almost like a little badge that he wore around everybody he wanted to know Go ahead and take a look there. You know what I'm saying? Maybe a little child wins an award or something like that and they kind of hold up. I have a feeling in his proverbial trophy case that the most pronounced trophy of all of them is that Jesus Christ, my master, loved me That's what I'll go ahead and remove all those other trophies out of there, in fact, so that everybody can see what really means a lot to me. This is John the Apostle, talking to us if we can. the Lord or you've been doing this for a lot more years than I have. We can all do for just confident confidence and walking with the Lord and having that sort of life. Let's pray. God, I thank you so much for your word that's passionate. full of everything that we need. And I pray that you'd help us to unfold that this morning and almost, as it were, hear John's heart coming out in the words that he penned many, many years ago. but we realize they are still so very appropriate and needed for us today. So I pray that you change us more and more into the image of your dear son. Give us confidence, not pride. the confidence as we fellowship with with the one who saved us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The Golden Gate Bridge was a massive undertaking. From what I've read, it took over four years from start to finish to build this. massive drawbridge over the San Francisco Bay, but with a construction height of get this two hundred and fifty feet in the air to the towers that were 750 feet in the air, one little dinky slip off of those metal beams meant certain death. for these guys, plummeting into the frigid waters below. They had and they understood this. Such was the case for one of those men. Like any other morning, clocked in, however they did that, gathered his equipment, his tools, made his way up to a half-built tower of the Golden Gate Bridge. Without even thinking, slip back as one recalled. And he watched his best friend plummet to his death. It wasn't very long before that sobered everybody. In fact, the effect it had was it stifled the progress of construction. Nobody wanted to work. It was almost came to a halt. When finally the foreman said something needs to be done and they installed the first ever safety nets underneath of these four gentlemen that were working. It wasn't actually a couple days from the account that I read when somebody tested those out. He fell off with his tool malfunctioning and landed right on the net, and rather than plummeting to his death like his friend. He was saved. And from what I've read that this happened repeated times and every time that safety net worked exactly the way it was supposed to. And it it it they didn't die. And news spread across the site of the uh across the bridge and construction sped right back up In fact, they even finished construction ahead of schedule on the Golden Gate Bridge. You know it's amazing to me what confidence in a person's life. can do. But do you know for a Christian, confidence doesn't come from some self-help book. It doesn't come from a seminar. It doesn't come from from a good paying job security financially. It's found in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. John, like John, you've got to realize when you step into the family of God, there is total acceptance. There's total understanding. And I love that there's total purpose when it comes to all because of what Jesus Christ does in a person's life. Not anything you can conjure up on your own. Several of you in this room, you're aware that John is the human pen of not just one or two New Testament books, but five. And it's interesting to note that you take a trip over to the Gospel of John, and you know what he does? He gives us confidence regarding the gospel. How so? Because he tells us how that we're sinners, the whole reason his Savior, the one that loved him a lot, uh came and died and had to go through these agonizing things, even though he was on his chest and bearing some of these pains with his Savior. John gives us a glimpse in his gospel how to deal with our past, how we can be confident when we call on God to save us. He's going to do it just exactly that. But then you take a step over into 1, 2nd, and 3 John. I love these because here John is laying out full-on confidence for the Christian in the present day. how we deal with everyday things. It's not just good enough to say I'm saved and now what? He's saying there are things that happen in your life, things that rob you of joy. struggles that you have going on. You fail and God doesn't. But what do I do with all these things? He says, I'm giving you some confidence in your present-day Christian life. I gotta say this before um to be honest to this text. First John is not written primarily to unbelievers. It's not written to those that are teeter-tottering with Jesus Christ. Rather, the terminology is is not to get you to question whether I'm really saved and This is more a test of fellowship. That's what this whole book is about. That's why I love it. So when we approach 1, 2, 3 John, he's saying, listen, Christian, you need company. evidence in your present day. And then he's still not done. The last book of the Bible, of course, is the book of the Revelation of Jesus Christ. John on the Isle of Patmos tells us about the next thing we're looking forward to. That's the rapture and the um earth makeover the during the tribulation and then the judgment seat and the millennial reign and all these wonderful things. But by the time you get to the end of the book it talks about Jesus coming back and guess what? He is victorious. That gives me confidence to know that uh my future is secure. I'd love to go into a basketball game in my high school career and know that I was gonna already win the game. I don't know how that would happen and it didn't happen a lot, but um it would be nice to know those things. is sort of giving us a huge picture, past, present, and future. God wants you to be confident in your Christian walk. Are you confident? Are you walking around knowing all that Christ is to you and all that He's done for you? If not, John is saying, listen, I don't want to beat you up I want to encourage you and build you up. So I believe one of the greatest contributing factors to the apostle's confidence is his abiding fellowship. The more I study that word, boy, I love it. Fellowship. Guys, fellowship is the Bible word for a close companionship. Almost like a husband and a wife. It's the word for best friend. Hey, we all know that, don't we? You everybody in this room has had a best friend. You know what that's like. God says, I want you to have fellowship with me just the same way you would. Wood with the closest friend that pops into your mind this morning, that's what God wants in your life. John is pointing us that way to that sort of thing Um in fact this book opens up with the first subject matter is pointing us to this very personal intimate relationship we have with Christ. In a moment we're going to look at some uh the privilege of this fellowship that we can have giving us confidence, the privilege, and the products. But before we do that, it would behoove us to look at the first thing John does, and that's the person of this fellowship. That's where exactly where he starts. Alright? So in uh ver ch uh ver John, 1 John 1. 1, John writes, that which is from the beginning. He already said, hey, that's Jesus Christ. You say, well, from the beginning, from Bethlehem? No. That's not what he's referring to. When he says beginning, he means the beginning. Okay. Jesus Christ is eternal. He's just every bit of God as the Holy Spirit in you or as God the Father as we understand that. But uh he's the first subject matter, he gets right to it, is my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I I just can't help it. I don't know about you guys, but I like getting around Christians that are so sincere. You can't be around them very long. I'm not talking fake and phony and loud and whatever personality. I'm talking that you get around some Christians. And it's like not long before they get into the conversation that they just start talking about the Lord and Jesus. I love people like that. It's it's very easy to find people that you begin to talk with them and they talk about individuals who are very influential to them in their life. I think of a lot of our culture put highlights sports figures. This sports figure I like not only the way that they are and you're five minutes with a person and they rattle up off of the uh their height and their weight and their stats and what records they beat and what team they play for, the team's record and uh even before they were born it seems like they know all the stats. It's like, man Where how in the world they you could tell that they're kind of like passionate about it, like some of those Eagle fans and stuff. They're just like they really get in to some of these things, you know. You You're not five minutes into the conversation. It's like, how in the world does that have to do with that? But they find room to talk about it, don't they? Or or some people I find are wired this way. I'm kind of this way if I'm not careful political. I love following politics and of Chris praying for the government and punching the TV screen, all those things together. Um but I love following politics. So you're you're not maybe a few moments into a conversation and it's like it They ask the question, you know, y you're trying to avoid it, what do you think of and then here it comes. You know, oh boy. But they're they're talking about maybe a politician that they think is doing right and they want you to think the same way they do, you know what I'm talking about. And like, why aren't you thinking the same way I'm ma'am? You know, and uh but they're people will often talk about some influential figures in their mind. and give the very best about them. But it ought not be said of the child of God that we can't be with somebody for any length of time before we just start talking about Jesus Christ. He oughta be there. He oughta be out in your mind. He oughta be just bubbling over. But it's a shame, tragedy that so many Christians are quick to talk about these things and very slow to talk about everything that Jesus Christ is to them. Um that's why John wrote that which is from the beginning, the very first clause, grammatically speaking is in reference to the Savior who uh the he he says, I am beloved of this guy, this guy that is from the beginning. It's it that's how he starts this book off. And uh just to give you an idea, it's not like Paul Who would often take these formal letters to churches and he would take a a rather formal introduction to say, Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father. John says, uh-uh, that which is from the beginning, my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You know what he's saying though when he's pointing that out? When he's talking, first before he gets to the privilege and all the products and things that we get because we walk He's saying, you've got to first get a hold of this person that I'm going to talk to you about. But you know what he points out? Not just the person of Jesus Christ, the some of his personality. Jesus is eternal. Didn't you see that? He says in verse 1. That which is from the beginning, that's a big statement that flies in the face of a lot of people today. He's pointing out his eternality Eternity. From the moment of creation, Jesus Christ always has existed. Think about what that does for him and his relation to people on earth. He's greater than them. He created everybody that he interacted with. He created the very people that crucified him. He created and and even went forward with the disciple that betrayed him. Jesus Christ deserves a lot of mag uh a lot of uh magnifying and lifting up and and on this earth it just seemed like he was so mistreated and could Uh never really was the earth all that worthy of him because here is the one who was creating but never was created and willing to go through all these things for us. John 1-1, again the same author, different book In the beginning was the word, and what? The word was with God, and the word wasn't just a God, like some cults. The word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. Without him, nothing was made that was made. Jesus did it all. He was all there He was all present. He was eternal. Hebrews 13, 8 says, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. You serve, when you talk about Jesus Christ who died for you. Realize you're talking about the same guy who formed the fibers of your uh of this mortal flesh, of your body, who's sustaining it on a regular basis. So in a lot of ways we have no choice but to fellowship with Jesus that way. He's holding this whole thing together when you think about it that way. But Jesus says, I want to go a little step further. I not only own you because that I created you. But I own you in a second fashion because I saved you for many folks in this room. Um but uh John, I think, also We don't know this for sure, but history tells us he was writing that which is from the beginning, which we've seen, we've heard, we've handled, we've experienced him. I believe that he's also saying this as a jab and a pointing out of a very growing group during his time called the Gnostics. The word means no, but don't let it fool you. They weren't in the This group actually knew very little because they denied the fact Jesus was eternal. They said he would just began when he was born in Bethlehem. And John says, uh-uh, my Jesus, I didn't know it at first when I first met him, but I'm convinced when I walk with him, I talk with him, I saw the stuff. that he did not only for others but for me. I'm telling you, this guy is the real deal. He's from the beginning. He was countering some some very detrimental c uh some detrimental heresies like a lot of cults today. And don't be afraid, my pastor uh actually I was almost embarrassed to go with him sometimes at my pastor in Illinois. Uh we would go soul winning. And man, he really wasn't afraid to sort of put the fist in somebody's face proverbially, not for real, although I maybe he would uh do that if you provoked him enough. But he was that kind of guy And man, I remember one time when we were talking with a Jehovah's Witness and uh they were arguing, obviously the deity of Jesus Christ, that Jesus was just a God, not really God. He wasn't eternal. and we can become just like him on equal footing with him, which will never happen in God's economy, just so you know. But uh when he began to explain that to him And Pastor still went on and he said, listen, um the Bible says this is appointed unto men wants to die, and after this is the judgment. That's exactly where you're headed because you're denying this. And the guy got so fed up and maybe even so afraid of Pastor whose veins were starting to pop out about the deity of Jesus Christ that he slammed the door, maybe out of fear, I don't know. But um i it i I learned something that John, along with the rest of us, you don't need to be afraid of standing up for the person of Jesus Christ. He is eternal. He is important. And your Christian life really isn't going to make a lot of sense apart from this fellowship with him. And that's what he's really trying to get in at. But John moves from this personality of him and also begins to describe him as a historical figure. You see that because in the verse he says, we've heard him. We've uh been eyewitness of him, we've looked on him, are it's almost like We really were there. We really did see it. Are you catching that come out there? John was first hand experience of a lot of these things. While we can't experience the things the way that John did. John is saying, that's the reason I'm writing to you so you realize all that Jesus Christ did. Hey, it's real. It really happened. It really happened to me. And maybe someone who got to see a cool show or something like that. Oh, you should have seen this person. And they were doing all these flips and they did all these things. It was amazing. Or this person sang so well. I wish you were there and they you could see the excitement in their voice. And that's what John's getting at. He says Listen, I know that fellowship. It's really close, really tight. I know he's dead and uh risen again and in heaven now, but I know that fellowship, and that's what I want to you to have as well. Um the life was manifested The life was manifest. Manifest just means to make something known. That's where Jesus Christ didn't begin in Bethlehem. Folks. He always has been, always will be. Jesus Christ is, like the Bible says, we quoted earlier, the same yesterday, today, and forever. But first Timothy three sixteen, without controversy, Great is the mystery of godliness. God manifests in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and received up in glory. John 1. 14, the word was made flesh. dwelt among us, we beheld his glory. The glory is of the one and only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Jesus Christ, who was eternally pre-existent, We know this already. He took on the form of a man in order that you and I can know him personally. That's a huge deal. I often tell the teens, especially because I follow politics, but Trump is a pretty rich guy. Okay, you know that already, his sweet wherever it's at, and he's welcome to it. Um made of all that plated gold and so forth, and very well to do man. There's nothing in the world wrong with that, and I'm not knocking him at all. But I could not really imagine anybody of his stature, maybe someone even with more money, stepping down from that lifestyle. of getting any car or any house that he wants, uh living anywhere, going anywhere he wants, stepping down from that. to be like maybe you and I are in Jesus' case even worse than all of us. But that's exactly what Jesus did, as unfathomable as it was, as hard as the disciples tried to grip their mind around is this Really Jesus John said, are you really he who should come in prison and John the Baptist and struggling with some of these things? Are you really that person? Is this even impossible. And John says, you betcha it is. I've seen him. I've witnessed all that. I experienced what he did to this girl and I and he even says in the gospel, the half hasn't been told. There's no book in this world that can contain all the things that Jesus did. I love that about Jesus. John is taking every opportunity to point to the fact that, hey, there are privileges and benefits to Christianity. There's no doubt about it. I love that. Joy. Full there's purpose to my life. I don't have to struggle with all sorts of things the world does. Hey, I there's nothing wrong with bragging about that, okay? So amen to that. But um there's uh that Note that Jesus uh and said 2 Peter chapter 1, you don't have to turn there. He says, we're witnesses of his majesty. So Peter gets in on it and says, wow. What a life he lived, what an impact he made on so many people. This is why in survey of the Bible, if you're able to come out on Mondays, it might be a little late to get in on this. Why I made a point of in our class, every book that we tackle, we begin to point out that Jesus Christ is really in it. He may not be a central focus theme, but we know all across the Bible, Jesus Christ is in every book. And there's a reason for that. I uh have a list here. I won't go through all the but it sometimes we think the New Testament is when Jesus came into existence. But realize how Jesus appears in some of these Old Testament books. We've talked about some of these in survey class, but Genesis, do you know he appears as the seed of the woman? Exodus. He's the Passover lamb Leviticus, he's the priest, he's the altar, he's the lamb of sacrifice. Numbers, he's the cloud by day and the pillar by night that they got to follow. Deuteronomy, he's a prophet just like Moses was. God makes that comparison Joshua, we see him appearing as the captain of our salvation. Judges calls him the judge and the lawgiver, the ultimate one. Ruth, he's our kinsman, redeemer. 1 and 2 Samuel, he's that trusted prophet, just like Samuel was in Kings and Chronicles. He's our reigning king. Ezra, he's the builder of the broken-down walls of human life. Nehemiah, Jesus is our restorer to fellowship. Esther, he is our advocate. Job, our ever-living redeemer. Psalms, the great shepherd. Proverbs, our wisdom. Ecclesiastes, hope of a resurrection someday. Song of Solomon, he's the loving bridegroom. Isaiah, suffering servant. Jeremiah says he's the um he's he is the righteous wronged one. Lamentations, the weeping prophet. Ezekiel, he's the one with the right to rule over all. Daniel is the fourth man in the fiery furnace. We know that to be for certain. Hosea, he's the faithful husband forever married to the saints, Joel, the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. with fire. Amos, he's the restorer of justice. He uh in Obadiah is the mighty to save. Jonah, the foreign missionary Micah, he's the one who brings good news. Nahem the stronghold in the day of trouble, uh Habakkuk, God my Savior, Zephaniah, King of Israel, Hagi, the signet ring, Zechariah, our humble king, riding on a colt, and Malachi Jesus is the son of the righteous God. That's just the Old Testament. You could go through, you can ask me about that later, but I believe wholeheartedly you can't divide this book, you can't read a book without seeing the King of Kings Lord of Lords Jesus Christ. And that's why John is pointing him out here. He says, listen, before we get to anything about this Christian life, before you try to make any sense of this world, it's a good place for a Christian to start. Hey, we need to consider the person of Jesus Christ. He's the theme of the Bible and he needs to be the theme of your life. He needs to be the theme of my life. Hey, if I can be transparent, I'm preaching this this morning every bit as much to me because I Need this. I I the more I grow in my Christian life, the more I realize I look for those shortcuts. I look to impress man, but none of those things are going to do. John starts with the cheapest thing, the greatest thing, the foremost question I think anybody can ask any church is, what think ye? of Jesus Christ. I know uh many folks are are faithful here and so forth, but uh oftentimes when we consider a church or we're thinking about what really matters, um uh a lot of times we'll uh we'll ask Um questions about maybe the children's program. We'll ask questions about parking facilities, music, and maybe even the temperature in here. You know, not stepping on anybody's toes, but we keep it cold so that way everyone stays awake, okay? So Pastor told me to say that. Um but uh we ask about all these things, and listen, this stuff isn't necessarily wrong. They have their place. They are important. But it's not the most important thing. The most important thing, John is saying, is he which is from the beginning. There's no shortcut to this. If stuff is not really making sense in your life, I like to be a visual person and I use my hands a lot. Sorry if that distracts you, okay? But uh think about Gears. I'm not a m hugely mechanical guy. I call brother Tom screaming and asking for help if something happens with our car, okay? He says, Well maybe check the oil or put gas in it, okay? I'm not a mechanical guy, but I understand gears. Okay. But what happens is gears are slotted just right. No matter what the machinery is. I worked in a welding shop and stuff. We had huge presses that would come down and Man, one little thing would get off. It could be a bolt, a screw, or whatever, to need a tweak in the whole thing would shut down millions of pounds of tonnage and all that stuff. Um but I I realized quickly that gears are extremely important, that they function properly. But here's what happens when we in our Christian life, we get out of fellowship, out of whack, out of focus of the person that really is that fellowship. And what happens is those gears begin to grind And rather than them all sinking together, instead they're all conflicting with each other. And maybe that's kind of how you feel right now. You feel like a clock that has its gears all off, your time everything is all messed up. Stuff is kind of just not flowing right stuff that doesn't seem right and my life isn't going the way that I should and one frustration after another and it's like you're just kind of being dragged against you're trying to swim against the current of light and it's just like, man, one thing after another. I don't know how to explain. But I've had that in my life where it's almost like, oh, oh, oh, oh. I keep trying to go the same way I'm going. And finally it w it dawns on me Wow, I've been walking one day, one week, one hour, one month, or something like that without really considering my fellowship with God. I'm out of it. I'm out of it It's something happened, and the gears all don't align. That's what John is getting at. He says that that's the most important question. These questions are important as I mentioned, but that's not the main thing. John wanted to set it straight. We believe Jesus Christ. He's Alpha and Omega. He's eternally God, virgin born, God in the flesh, perfectly sinless, dying voluntarily. And uh vicariously, that is for you and for me, he secured our salvation. He shed his blood, the resurrection from the dead. We praise his name continually for great things he has done. That's what John was getting at. So before we we delve into some of these privileges, John is saying, listen, you need to first get a hold of the fact. that there is a person that many of us have just kind of left in the dust. It can be having left in the dust because we're so busy serving. That's possible. It could be left in the dust because Uh we have landed a great job and it's stolen our focus away. It could be that we left him in the dust because he told us to get something right and we didn't listen, so we don't really feel like going back there too much. I'm just being real John says, before we can get anywhere with this fellowship in verse 3, I'm parking it in verse 1 to say, get Get a hold of that person. The person of our fellowship is Jesus Christ. We we when you know him well and you love him, And experienced his love, it's hard not to talk about Jesus and tell others all the things that he's done. So John is telling us first about the person of Jesus Christ. But number two, the privilege. of our fellowship, the privilege. It is a privilege to serve God. I express that any chance I get to preach and Pastor finally steps aside and no I'm just he's a I appreciate any opportunity that I get to preach. And you know something I count it a huge privilege to do what I'm doing Sometimes I get one of those moments, you know, maybe like a little kid finally riding a bicycle and he's like, yeah, and then it's like, you know, like, oh wow, I'm so good. Well I'm kind of there except I'm a little bit more excited. maybe than that, um, and a little more positive. But I you know, I'm excited. Wow, I cannot believe such excitement and privilege to serve him. But we're talking about something even more intimate and passionate than that. And that is that fellowship with him. If I mention the names, I'm looking at this crowd here, you'll probably recognize these names right away. I'm going to give it a shot. Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz. Okay, so you probably recognize I may not have you seen it completely right, but they're probably better known as their uh names, what, Lucy and Ricky, okay, in the hit sitcom in the 50s called I love Lucy. Okay, so you guys are following along. But uh my grandpa and grandma actually had the opportunity to meet these two individuals and they were a couple in real life, at least during that time. Um and when they were living in California raising horses. And I tell you, I don't know how many times I've heard that same story about how they talked and talked and then they said this and then it was like this is a big deal. You know, and they were talking about like all the things that they talked about and they're like They were um you know best friends and like, hey, I was second grade and so you know, like oh so cool. You know, and they over and over again I can't tell you all the things um uh uh about the the privilege it was to run into these two uh individuals that were so well known, such uh celebs during their time and so forth. But um uh you know even though they kind of brag, I mean I gotta say, they they brag about it, uh about the privilege of meeting such famous people, um, they never really got to I they can't say that they know them. And not well. I mean they met him and they hit it off pretty good. It they don't know him really closely. But but get this. There is the greatest person that ever walked the earth the King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Savior of the entire world. And I hate to even compare it to this, but But think about the privilege it is to not only, oh, I met Jesus. I met him. Oh, he was a really cool guy. And he did the all these cool things. You know, some of the apostles could have done that and then just left. But no, they were so impacted. And she's that's the point of all of this, of all Christianity, is this relationship, is this privilege of getting not just knowing Jesus where we kind of tend to stay, but actually getting in there getting gritty and um getting to know 'em we live just three hours, uh a little over three hours from the president of the United States. But how many of us being honest, as much as we'd like to, will ever get a chance to even meet The president. Probably very slim. Maybe some in this room have met him at one time or another. But what I'm saying is I'm pointing to someone even greater than And all that. Jesus Christ, we have the privilege. I don't know how else to say it better than John did that. He said, We have seen this, we've heard, and all the whole reason I'm writing this letter, this really intimate letter from my heart to yours is so that you can experience that same sort of privilege that I have. Note that John he enjoyed this fellowship with the Lord. But can I say this, that John's fellowship dogmatically, that's that is for sure, begin with salvation, as it is for any of us. Turn over to 1 John chapter 5, same book. 1 John chapter 5 Verse number one, John writes here, he says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone that loveth him that begat um him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. It's a little bit older terminology to basically say that we love him because he saved us and if you believed on him you have everlasting life. But John, just because he walked to talk with Jesus and experienced these things like one of the disciples we know demonstrate does not mean that he automatically had faith. John had to in turn, at some somewhat of a risk of his own life, put his personal faith in Jesus Christ. Can I just say the best that I know how there is no fellowship with God Apart through one person, that is Jesus Christ. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. You may know that today factually, but if you don't know that actually, that does no good to you whatsoever. So you may be here teeter-tottering like I mentioned earlier, but if you've not personally received Jesus Christ, nothing in your mind is going to make sense. Nothing in your life is going to add up. Your gears will be grinding. You won't have this intimacy. You won't have surety of past, present, and future like John's writing of. You're missing it all. And it's not because God doesn't want you to. It's because John is saying, listen, I had to personally put my faith in this guy that I watched perform miracles and do all these wonderful things. I had to risk my own life. I had to give it up. I had to turn from my ridiculous, stinky fishing nets that made me money. At least I was s safe and secure. I had to give that up to follow Jesus Christ. And that we ought to be willing to do it. John absolutely was willing to do it, but you know that fellowship has to start with. I I'd be amiss to overlook this. It has to start with a personal receiving Jesus Christ. I don't know everybody's heart in here. Obviously, that belongs to God and you personally. But there may be somebody here this morning that feels distant from God. We know it's a relative term. Distant from God, searching. Jesus plainly came to this world to die for you so that you could have everlasting life. John says, don't get over that. Especially Christians, get a hold of that. But for those that haven't placed your faith in Christ, I I challenge you like John does it, it's only going to come through him. Your life's only going to begin making sense through him. I remember This reminds me of a mission trip that I took to Singapore, which is just south of Malaysia. We used a church and we would take several legs of trips into very Muslim-dominated uh Malaysia. In fact, we we kind of were at risk with the law because if we initiated a conversation with an Islamic person, they could turn us into the authorities and we be w in prison. They told us just this right before we got out of the bus in Malaysia and said, Oh by the way, this is against the law to talk about Jesus Christ unless they initiated and if they get really mad at you you may get thrown in jail anyway. We're like You know, that sort of thing. I mean I was just in college and I was like, I'm too dung young to die, you know, uh that sort of thing. Um but so we did it anyway. We had BBSs and everything went just fine. But I remember meeting somebody in a very faithful member in the church in Singapore that sent us out, and she had such a beautiful testimony. It was like she She got up in the morning and shook Jesus' hand and talked with them and kind of had a little bit of coffee with them and when they did tea and had a little bit of tea with them over there. And um it it was like that. But she said it always ha hasn't always been like this. I grew up and I I was always religious as far as I can remember. I went to a Buddhist temple and I was taught to I was a a one of the servants in the temple. And I was in line for even going higher and higher. I don't know how their hierarchical system works in uh Buddhism, but she was in charge of administering some of these sacrifices and uh whatever it may be, it could be just food or whatever it was, and incense, all these things she did. And she said she went faithfully because she was so afraid. She felt so empty inside. She said, but you know something? It it never satisfied. I went and I craved and I looked for something. Sometimes I just looked up at the ceiling and I could memorize every crack in that ceiling. because all I can think of is, God, I know you're somewhere, but you cannot be in this building. So then she turned to a Presbyterian church which is getting more and more popular in that area of Asia, Southern Asia. over there and uh she said that they were just it it was almost the same empty feeling that they were they were somehow she had to do all these things and she never knew if it was enough till finally Praise God if somebody came to her door, a girl that was younger than she was, with a simple gospel track, and shared how she can have a personal fellowship, friendship with God. She said everything she was saying was kind of like this. I was so turned off and distrustful of religion. It was like this. And then she said But w don't you want to be friends with God? And she broke down and knew exactly half what's been missing in my life. my life. She called on God to save her that day, like many of you have in this room. And boy, she saved. She is best friends with Jesus. Nobody beats Jesus in her life. How about you? It does almost everybody meet Jesus? Do you think like that? That that was the sleep. So the the fellowship began with salvation and it continued daily. Um in fact the word we're jumping ahead to verse three. And it says that ye also may have fellowship. The word is koinania. And if you're familiar with your Bible, Koinanea actually is um Greek in the New Testament was Koine Greek. The reason they called that particular dialect of Greek was because it was the common language for everybody. And the word koinonir, that fellowship, means you have all things in common. That means John says, I not only got to walk with him, that means every part of my life is infiltrated with the Lord Jesus Christ. What part of your life maybe is not so infiltrated with the Lord Let me ask that. Why don't you do a little bit of evaluation? Is there a part of your life you know without a doubt you maybe haven't really thought a lot about it recently, but I'm saying that there is a part of your life where Uh, Jesus really hasn't infiltrated. He's uh in your life, yes, but there there's a part that's not John says that um this fellowship He doesn't even labor it. He just says fellowship means you have all things in common. Like the songwriter, what a friend we have in Jesus. All to him we owe. Everything that we we have uh belongs to him. There's no uh I'll say this too, that there's no real need. When we're talking about fellowship or friendship, there's no need for a Christian to ever feel lonely either. And that's something that I see all the time. Throughout Christianity. We're we're talking about competent Christian living and here we're we're living lonely or dilapidated Christian lives. are just not met, we're not satisfied, something's kind of bugging us, and it's like, where am I going? What am I Do it. You know, I've gotten there before. And uh there there's no need for that in a Christian life. In fact, I'll say this, that if that's where you find yourself or a marriage that's kind of just lost its joy. A uh relationship that wasn't what it used to be, um a family, a house that's not really full and replete with joy in there, uh purpose, then it I can tell you and point the the fact that that's a house that has very little fellowship with Jesus Christ. Why? Because when Jesus, when you fellowship with Jesus Christ then that the uh he gives that joy and he gives that purpose and he takes all that that sort of thing away. And that really there's no place for that in the Christian life. Um I remember kind of talking about um oh let me mention one other thing that uh uh I have done a little bit of reading and many of you know that I like to use illustrations but Um there's this British author who paid a little boy maybe you've heard this before, but um and I almost couldn't believe it when I read the story, but a British author, they were just about ready to load up on a ship and we're talking about talking about Christians feeling lonely here. They were just about ready to load up on the ship. And he noticed as he looked around, the sky, well well known author, was looking around and saw everybody else waving goodbye. to some loved ones and some sweet goodbyes and sentimentals and things said and so forth. And so he decided the boat wasn't gonna leave yet. Um he went down off of the boat onto the dock and found a random boy and handed him a fistful of cash and said, Here, if you take this and I want you to wave goodbye to me when when the boat leaves and he says sir and he said no you heard me right uh when the boat leaves I want you to wave go out kind of like I were your father and you were my son to For this? I sure I'll do it. So the man made his way back up on the boat, and sure enough they were all waving goodbye and uh Everyone was saying their goodbyes and there was the little boy waving at this perfect stranger and maybe blowing some kisses or whatever. I don't know. Bye bye, bye-bye. And went off and I don't know what he used the money on. But it's it's it's kind of a sad picture, isn't it? That um Someone had to pay someone for something like that. But it it's sad that a Christian goes so unsatisfied in their their Christian life. that it's it's that same sort of emptiness that maybe you see the person next to you experiencing, but not you personally experiencing. Fellowship needs to be continue daily. I remember our honeymoon. Um we got I think of we had one of the best honeymoons I could ever think of. Maybe that's just me personally. But we uh we went took a trip out to Colorado and we got to stay in the Garden of the Gods, um, and we actually got to stay in a real-life, legitimate castle. in the United States. You can see me later for details if you're jealous. But um it was really great experience. We got to pick the room We got uh to take a tour, we had a little tea party type thing that they had going on there. It was nice. So the nice staircase, grand entryway. Um they didn't even have actually centralized air in there at all because they wanted to keep this castle nestled in the heart of the god uh garden of the gods a state park in uh right outside of Rocky Mountain National Park They wanted to keep this as authentic as possible. I'm telling you, we still talk about that castle to this day. And we got to spend a lot of time together. We could go from our room. downstairs and right into the garden of the gods, take our own personal trail and walk around. It was kind of like heaven on earth and it made And you know, I thought, wow, this is so amazing getting to spend this sort of time with Jen and getting to know her. And then we got back and the rush of life set in And it wasn't long before she was talking about that honeymoon and say, well what a All due for a little bit more of this byproduct. All right. Um I'm thankful for photosynthesis and plants and stuff, and they say it's really good for your health to have those around the house. But a byproduct of photosynthesis is oxygen. So at least you're getting more oxygen in the morning if you have plants and stuff. But you know a byproduct of real fellowship? Wears all over your countenance. And we could tell a whole lot better than maybe you even know. And I'm not getting down on you. I'm saying that there is a correction for that. I mentioned earlier, you show me a teen that uh perhaps maybe uh does faithfully, and I'm not just picking on teens, any youth maybe faithfully comes and checks off the list and does things for Masters Club and works hard and comes very faithfully and does what needs to be done and that's wonderful. I'm very thankful. for our youth department. But then they get home and they s put their Bible up there and they uh do the exact same thing and so forth. And their life is just kind of really unchanged. They're um not really happy. Uh they uh their life's un impacted and they're going through the same struggles, and that really any different than the rest of their buddies at school. Or you show me a Christian marriage as I mentioned earlier. with no joy and I'm trying to be as real as I can. I've been there, I've done that. We've had some where we're not fellowshipping with God. Listen, when you're arguing with your spouse or there's conflict going on there, there's something Um there's obviously something wrong, but I can I should say it's it's impossible to fellowship with Lord Jesus Christ and have that byproduct and those things. So that's giving it away. They're struggling with Yes. Oh shit. Oh And that's what John's writing for is to get back to there's joy um and all sorts of things in the Christian life. Uh several of you n and have comment and so forth that oh wow Pastor Bray you must drink a lot of coffee and a real a uh full of energy and so forth. That's a little bit of my personality. But you know sometimes I gotta admit I'm not always full of the joy of the Lord And that's to my shame. That I struggle just like anybody else does. That I'm not talking about slapping a smile on your face. I'm saying when it's hard, you could still have joy in your heart. heart. When you get bad news, you can still have joy in your heart. When you get so frustrated because something happened to the car or something happened to the business or something happened to the house and it's going to cost you all this extra money, you can still Have joy. Somebody's just bugging you in your life. You can still have joy. Uh stuff's compiling on top of you. You can still have joy. That's what I'm talking about. I'm just being real. Joy and salvation. Isaiah 12, 3, therefore with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation. Salvation. There it is. Joy in your salvation. The most joyous truth in my heart, I could say personally, is that God saved me. And I know I'm on my way to heaven. Everything else can be going wrong, God, but at least that I can have joy in my salvation. Have you ever been like that? There's nothing wrong with that at all. You could be in the middle of prison like several of the apostles found themselves or on the guillotine, whatever it may be, and you could still say, God, at least I've saved and I know where I'm gonna go. We had a preacher that said in uh Bible college while I was at Pensacola Christian College students sophomore year, Mark Monty Preach Semester, all children of wrath. The point was this, because listen, you college students, you're really good at complaining and getting down on like Because we can say stuff would be a really ripple across the two parts. Everything's done. Our parts. Someone would say, Oh Ms. Wilson gave us a she made the assignment do a week early and we had It's better than you can say. Uh oh we w I my college feeling like hey listen, it's better than you can do. Better than you deserve. There's some things in life, but joy, joy in the salvation realizing that if anything else is better than we deserve we that we we have joy in salvation how about joy in scriptures joy in scriptures Where do I get that? Psalm 119. 97. Oh how love I thy law, it is my meditation all the day long. Psalm 119, 167, my soul hath kept thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. Do you love this book right here? Do you spend time in God's Word on a daily basis? Pastors often made the comment that when somebody comes to him for personal counsel, And often he'll t wind back all their uh problems and after they've spent an hour venting on on him what's going on and I'll never forget um it was recently that he just said he'll back up and say, have you been spending time? Every day, every morning with your Savior in this book right here. And like he mentioned, without fail. There's been a lack there. It it just only makes sense, okay? If if you stop breathing oxygen, what's gonna happen to your face? It's gonna get real red and poofy and And you know, it's gonna be ridiculous. You're y I mean if you keep that up at that pace, you're gonna die. Um but you know, you said, Well no duh. Well w what do you think is gonna happen if if y you go too long and just leave that off Forget about it, I'll get to it, or rush through it. What do you think that's gonna do? You know what I'm saying? I'm speaking this same thing to myself. joy in salvation, joy in scripture. How about joy um and uh just tacking this on along here, joy in soul winning. Uh he that wineth souls is wise, I believe that. Uh man that's one of the most exc one of the most exciting things a Christian can do. Uh her testimony is this Boy, what a jump start when you could delete somebody to the Lord. That is more thrilling than almost anything that I could think of. You know, right now pastors halfway around the world preaching at a conference, not currently. I think he's sleeping probably. Um, but halfway around the world preaching a conference, you know what that conference is all about? This very thing. Soul winning. Jesus has done us so many things the half hasn't been told for you and for me. Getting up and telling people about it, I'm I'm tell I tell you, it's it's hard work, but it m it brings joy. Joy is a pro byproduct of that uh of our fellowship with Jesus Christ. And maybe if any of one of those things have waned, joy in salvation, joy in scriptures, joy in just soul winning and telling other people and living that outstanding Christian life, uh, if any of that's waning, it could just be indicative. that we're missing the very important, most important thing in our lives. Jesus Christ. No greater joy than helping somebody else to be saved. I mentioned that. But joyful, confident Christian living is the result only with fellowship with the the Lord. I want to close with this illustration. Abraham Lincoln's son, if you know your history. Willie, um, of all of his children, was especially close to his father, the sixteenth president of the United States. Uh honest Abe made it a practice of not only being the best president he could, but the best husband and father that he could. He used to tell all of his children, now you understand I am a husband and father before I am President of the United States. And he practiced this truth. It was said that even in the midst of the meeting with some of the most important figures in his office. or discussing the resolution of the United States Civil War between the North and South. Willie would run in there, I like this just to be with Daddy. Instead of turning him away, Lincoln would scoop him up in his welcoming arms. What amazing confidence Willie had. And his father, the president of the United States of America, that he could just do that. You know, we need that confidence. There's no need For this in our Christian life. For getting down, Darb. Depressed. Whatever you want to say. There can be joy in personal fellowship. Perhaps you could think back to your salvation or a revival meeting when, oh man, that that was good, Pastor Brad. I do rem I wonder whatever happened to that. Telling you, confidence through fellowship is really what we need. I'm going to pray and then encourage you to respond. Father in heaven, I thank you. for your word and the challenge that it is to my life, and I trust everybody in this room this morning. In a moment, Lord, I pray, not through me, but through the preaching and through your word, that you'd honor that and do a work that lasts. in in your people's lives. I pray that you would tender our hearts to respond to something so basic like this challenge this morning about having confidence through fellowship. Lord, we we just dedicate the rest of this uh this morning's service to you. We we pray that your people would respond. Before I conclude, let me ask this question all across the congregation. How many would say God, not just dance for breakfast, but God Uh b before I can even experience this fellowship or a deeper fellowship, I need to come into fellowship with If if there's somebody in here that's honest enough, I promise you I'm not into pointing you out or embarrassing you. Definitely we'll be praying for you. and encourage you to respond. But is there anybody here this morning that would say, Pastor Bret, God, I'm not sure that I'm saved in that I've even begun this fellowship with the Lord. Is there anybody like that? Anybody. You could just slip it up and put it back down. I promise you, I'm not here to embarrass you. And I don't think anybody else is either. Anybody like that? Nobody's looking around really. I'll ask again anybody else who would say, Pastor Brad, I've never asked Christ to save me in and I'm I'm concerned about that. I don't see any hands. Let me ask another question then, moving on to believers in this room this morning. Who would say Pastor Brett? I have trusted Jesus Christ, but something that was said this morning really connected with me and I needed it. I've left off some bare-bone basic fellowship with my Savior. And I need that. I I maybe need it deeper. I need it more. And I realize that, just like John had. I need that in my life Maybe a lack of joy, maybe it's something specific in your life. Would you just be honest enough and say, God spoke to my heart and I really want to do something about it? Awesome. Very good. Several around the room, and I appreciate you responding. Of course, just raising our hand doesn't secure that change. But I can promise you you respond just trusting God to do that work in your life. There is a lot of of of change there. As the piano plays, I'd encourage you, we'll all stand together. Everybody stand. As Miss Jennifer's playing, God spoken to me.