Two first no John chapter eight. John chapter eight In your Bibles? When you find that, then go to 1 John chapter 2 and mark that. I'm going to use those two verses to get us started this evening. John chapter 8 And 1 John chapter 2, the Gospel of John and the Epistle 1 John. While you're finding that, a teacher was teaching our Sunday school class. um about the dangers and the wickedness of drinking alcohol and and uh those uh beer and wine and whiskey and all that stuff And so she decided to use an object lesson and she had a glass of water and she had a glass of whiskey or some kind of alcoholic uh no, no, no, I'm sorry. She had a glass of water and she had a glass of rubbing alcohol. And she was going to use these. And she had a bunch of worms. And she says, Children, I want you to learn from this lesson. And she took one worm, uh earthworm, put it in the glass of water, and a little worm just squirmed around in the glass of water just fine and seemed to enjoy it. The other worm she took and put it in the alcohol and dropped it down. As soon as she dropped in the alcohol the thing just went and died. It killed it instantly. And um she goes, Now children, you see what happened. Put one worm in the water and it's fine. I put the other worm in the alcohol, killed it instantly. What does that tell us? What do we learn from this? Little boy raised his hand. She goes, uh, Johnny, he said, when you got worms, drink alcohol. And um So he kinda missed the point there. So I hope you don't miss the point of tonight's message. John chapter 8 and verse number 7, this is the situation where the Pharisees had taken this woman who was Who was caught taken in the act of adultery. And the Bible says, in the very act of adultery. And they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ, and they say, the law says she should be killed. What do you say? And you know the story Jesus wrote in the sand, and then we get to verse 7. It says, so when they continued asking him, I mean they didn't leave him alone. They just pressed him and pressed him and pressed him. He finally lifted up himself, and he said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone. Hmm. Bible says then he stood, and again he stooped down and wrote the ground. They which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning with the eldest. We have a classic example here of some religious people, Bible believers. Pharisees believed the Bible. They were misconstrued it, but they believed it was true, God's word. And they were so caught up in what we call the sins of the world, adultery. That they failed to see the sins that were taking place in their own life until the Lord confronted them about it. And once the Lord confronted them about it, then the Bible says they were convicted in their own hearts, and suddenly they had to deal with sins that they really didn't have a problem with up until this point. The Lord confronted them concerning their comfortable sins, the sins that they were okay with in their life. uh until the Lord confronted them. Now come over to 1 John and chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And verse number one, the Bible says, My little children, these things write I unto you Now, the immediate context of that statement is the book of 1 John, the letter that John is writing, this first letter that John is writing. But we could, by application, say that would apply to the entire Bible God has given us the Bible. Notice why. These things write I unto you. Why are you writing this unto us? That ye, what's the next two words? Sin not. The Lord does not want us to sin. Now here's here's the here's the Thesis, I guess, of my series I want to begin for the next couple months probably on Sunday nights. The Lord does not want us to sin, and that is not That is not restricted to what we call the big sins of society. God doesn't want us to sin, period. And so that's what we're going to confront. So let's have a word of prayer and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I do ask that you speak our hearts, Lord, my heart. God, uh, we're so worked up, Lord, about the same-sex marriage and abortion, and Lord, we should be. It's wrong. But God, don't let us Overlook the sins that are so common in our own hearts and lives. And I pray that tonight perhaps you would begin in my heart and maybe many others, begin a uh remodeling, so to speak, and cleaning out the cobwebs and the areas that we have gotten comfortable with and Gotten maybe a little indifferent towards and God, I pray for your Holy Spirit. I pray you would do for us what you did for these Pharisees here when they were convicted in their own hearts about their own sins And I pray that would be true. Fill me with your spirit is my desperate prayer, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to begin by making a few statements. Number one, we are saved by grace. We never we can never get away from that. We are not saved because we live a certain lifestyle. You understand that? That's not what saves me. It is the grace of God, God giving me something eternal life that I do not deserve As we said this morning, humbling myself before the Lord, trusting Jesus and Him alone coming in my life. So I'm not saved by my lifestyle, how I live my life And my salvation, uh, the continuation of my salvation is not dependent upon how I live my life Uh it's not you get saved. You've heard the guys say it. Uh uh you've heard uh uh what I consider false teachers say, you've got to live it or you're gonna lose it And what they're saying is, is your salvation is dependent upon how you live your life. That is unscriptural. We're saved by grace. So my first statement is we are saved by grace. My lifestyle uh is not what produces my salvation, my lifestyle is not what keeps my salvation. Now having said that, I want to throw this disclaimer out, I guess. God takes us right the way we are. He saves us right the way we are. Sinners, warts, and all. But God does not intend to leave us the way we are. He saves us. Our salvation begins a process of him conforming us to the image of Christ. He begins to transform us and change us. So How I live my life is not what saves me. It doesn't keep me saved. But once I'm saved, God begins working in my life and changing me. My statement number two is this, and I'm not going to dwell on it. Statement number two is a person cannot lose their salvation. Cannot lose their salvation. So when we're talking about the sins we're confronting, we're not talking about us losing our salvation. John 10, 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. There are so many theological and doctrinal problems when you suggest a person can lose their salvation, you have such conflicts within theology and and bibliology and all of that that uh it it's it's uh it's not so. So a person cannot lose their salvation. Number three, I think you'll appreciate this one, Christians can and do sin. I mean he found that to be true. Don't look at your spouse. I'm talking about us individually. Christian, I like the I've said this so many times you probably know what I'm gonna say, but I like the one guy uh preacher down in Texas said, he says, not only uh do uh not only do we believe that Christians can backslide, we practice it. And um that's true. And so um Christians can and often do sin. Now here's the danger. This is what I'm wanting to say. Is everybody okay? Everybody out there, you guys okay down here? Good. Amen. Everybody back here okay? Jacob, you alright? Amen. Praise the Lord. Just making sure. Uh this this is what I want to do. Would you agree with me? Our society is deteriorating. Morally, spiritually. Everybody's all worked up about the fiscal cliff. I tell you what, it's the moral cliff we went off years ago that bothers me. Our society is deteriorating. And here's the danger that you and I, as Bible believers, people that love the Lord, want to do right. Here's the danger we we face as we see our society go down. We become so preoccupied. Now I'm I'm deal this mess this series is dealing with me as much as anybody. But the danger is become so preoccupied with these gross sins That are becoming so popular in society that we overlook and sometimes even justify Our own sins that maybe are not quite as quote-unquote awful as the sins we despise in society. Does everybody follow what I'm saying? Um, you know, sodomy. Man, what what an awful, awful sin. And it is an awful sin And by the way, the Pharisees with the woman taking adultery, they were right. Adultery was wrong. You know, they weren't wrong in condemning adultery. In fact, Jesus himself said, Neither do I condemn thee, go and what? Sin no more. So in a sense the Lord was agreeing with their judgment on adultery. It was just the whole process that they're uh the Lord was had a problem with But here's what I'm trying to say. We can get so obsessed like the Pharisees did with the these awful sins out there that we fail to see our own. And what we need is God to confront us and say, wait a minute. Let's stop and examine our own selves a little bit. Let's stop and evaluate. Where am I? What about these sins that are the Lord knows about? Sometimes others around us know about, but we become so comfortable with them, we don't even see them, and we need the Lord to confront us. The sad truth is, the whole concept of sin has disappeared from our society. The whole idea that there's such a thing as sin is foreign to the world's thinking. And I hate to say it, but even in a lot of churches. Some of those popular preachers on television have deliberately and publicly stated, I will not preach on sin. Not going to deal with it. Not going to mention it. One guy said that's not my calling. I don't know how you can preach the Bible and not preach on sin. I was reading the history of presidential proclamations, and this caught my attention. The last time the word sin was used in a presidential proclamation was in 1953 by President Eisenhower, according to this book I was reading, 1953, President Eisenhower referenced the word sin In a speech he was giving on the National Day of Prayer or something like that, Day of Prayer or something they had going on. And the only reason he referenced sin was he was quoting Abraham Lincoln I don't remember in my lifetime hearing any president making reference to sin. In fact, the pastor that was to give the benediction at the inauguration in a couple days was asked to step down because 20 years ago he preached a sermon against homosexuality. And he was asked to step down. Basically, that is a statement that our leadership rejects biblical Christianity It's what it boils down to. The idea of sin has totally disappeared from society And that has had devastating results. Education system has adopted the approach that they are to make no moral judgments on any type of behavior. You cannot say this is wrong and this is right. God forbid that somebody would in a public sector would say that something is sin. Now, let's bring it home to us, and this is the whole purpose of this. We understand that in the world. But among our independent fundamental Baptist, we have to be real careful. We still preach on sin. And our literature, uh periodicals we put out, different things, boy, there's sermons on sin in there, and I'm grateful for that, but I'm concerned That we have focused so much on the gross sins of the world Adultery, sodomy, abortion, that we're ignoring our own sense of gossip Pride, anger, unforgiveness. And these sins that we are comfortable with, we're uncomfortable with sodomy, we're uncomfortable with abortion, that's awful. But pride? Unforgiveness? Those types of sins. Envy, anger, lust. Those types of sins we tolerate. Sometimes we justify it. When's the last time you had a full-blown sermon on gossip? When's the last time you had a full-blown sermon on envy? And we wonder why there's no revival. In our churches. We wonder why we don't have any power in our churches. We're so worked up about these big things out there, and we need to preach again. So don't misunderstand. But we've got all this. Turnmite sins in our hearts and lives are just eaten away at the very structure of our spiritual life We become more concerned about the sins of society than we are about the sins of God's saints. I like to get the old books, John R. Rice and these old books, Billy Sunday, a bunch of these guys from years gone by, and they preached on all the big society sins, but you know what they preached on more so? They preached on personal revival. It preached on Christians getting right with each other, on fit Christians confessing the sin of pride, Christians confessing the sin of envy. And they brought it home where God can do something in his church. Not all sin Has equal consequences. Right? I've said this before. I think you understand this Not all sins have the same consequences. Some sins in the Old Testament and dealing with Israel, some of the sins, the punishment for that sin, the consequence of that sin was to pay a certain amount of money to the priest. Some sins you'd bring a turtle dove or whatever to the priest. Then there were other sins that it cost the person their life So different sins had different consequences. I've said this often: I would far rather have somebody hate me in their heart than kill me. Can I get a witness? I tend to last longer when people hate me rather than kill me. So not all sins have the same consequences, but let me say this: the Bible is very clear: all sin is equally condemned. Jesus said, if you hate a man in your heart, you're just as condemned. That act, that sin of hating someone in your heart, is just as condemned as the sin of murdering them. Now, the consequences of the two are very different, but the condemnation of the two are the same. God condemns them both equally. Jesus said the very words of our mouths. We're going to have to give an account to on the day of judgment. And so apparently, what we say, the sins of our lips. Are just as condemned as the sins of our hands. And so what I'm trying to do, and what I'm asking God to do, what I believe the Lord is directing me and leading us to deal with as a church, is our own. Sins that we tend to gloss over. When we are as appalled At the pride of our own hearts, as we are at the world's wickedness, we will start to see God working in our lives. When I am just as bothered by my own self-righteousness as I am about the sodomites getting married in the courthouse in Garrett County, maybe we'll start seeing God do something. You follow what I'm saying? Now, I had two thoughts I wanted to share tonight, two points to this message. I'm only going to get to one. And this is, I'm trying to lay the foundation. So we're going to do one tonight, one next week, and then we'll get into dealing with some of these sins. But tonight I just want to go through a definition of what we mean by sin. Sin has become such a strange concept in our world that people don't even know what you're talking about. I got in a debate with a guy from Indianapolis on the computer, it's been a last summer or last spring maybe uh over a sin of society. And he had no idea what I was talking about. I'd use Bible terms. He didn't even know what I meant So let's just start at the beginning and say, what does the Bible mean? What are we talking about when we talk about sin? What is the definition of sin? That's my point. Well, number one, sin is a transgression of the law. I'm using Bible terminology. Look at if you're in 1 John there, come over to chapter 3. 1 John chapter 3, look with me at verse 4. What do we mean by sin? Well, verse 4 of 1 John 3 tells us: Whosoever committeth sin. Transgresseth also the law. Now here he gives the definition. For sin is the transgression of the law Now, what does the word transgression mean? Well, it's very similar in definition as the word trespass. If you have some private property, um uh Tom and I and others are members of a hunting club out in the south end of the county. And that whole property is posted all around. It says, no trespassing, no trespassing. You cannot cross over that property line Onto that property. It is private property. You cannot trespass. That's the idea of the word transgress. Sin is to cross over the line. Sin is to go out of bounds. So sin is a transgression of God's law. God has given us His law. It's expressed all through Scripture in various ways, dealing with various subjects. God has expressed his law, his perimeters, if you will. And to sin is to go outside of what God has Laid down. God has a perfect and exact standard of behavior that He requires from His people, and anything outside of that standard of behavior is said. I mentioned having private property. You put signs up. If somebody is fifteen feet into the private property, are they transgressing? Yes or no? Sure. If they're 150 feet into the property, are they transgressing? Sure. It's not how far you go beyond the border, it is the very act of crossing that line. Is what makes it transgression. So whether it's a sin of 150 feet, so to speak, or a sin of 15 feet. The very fact that I've crossed that line, I have sinned. Um when I was small, I mentioned this many times. We used to swim a lot when I was small, and we just swim, so we just swim, swim, swim, swim, swim. And uh when we were real small, mom would take us occasionally down to the public swimming pool. Now I don't recommend that, but uh mom would do take us down to the public swimming pool and when we were real small you'd uh they'd have different pools and the uh the one big pool they had ropes would go across and one that was a certain depth and then there was a rope And then it would go to a little bit deeper, and then there was a rope, and then there was the bottomless pit ended and no bottom and it it just the the pool went all the way down, never ended. At least that's what I thought as a kid And so if you were going to swim on you had the you had the small, shallow part. And so if you wanted to swim on the other side of the rope. In the middle part, you had to take a test. Life Garbory, you have to swim back and forth, I think, so many times or whatever. And then you were allowed to go on that side of the rope. Ooh. And then if you wanted to get on the bottomless pit end, you had to take another test. And I think you had to stay underwater for so long and do certain things and be able to die and whatnot. And then you could swim on that side of the rope. God forbid any kid that went across that rope that didn't have that s I think you had to wear a special band or something or whatever And uh man alive, you want to cross that road, you were in big trouble if you didn't have that certificate or plan. That's the idea Sin is to transgress. God says, here's the one. By the way, that's what Eve did in the Garden of Eden. Said you've got all this, all the spru you need of any of it, here's the line you cannot eat of that fruit She sinned. She transgressed the law of God. And so did Adam. It was her fault, but Adam did it. So So sin, all sin, is a transgression of God's law. So bear with me here. Everybody got that down? Sin is what? A. Transgression. It's to go across the line. Let me give you another definition of sin. It's found about it's to miss the mark In fact the word sin itself has that very idea of to miss the mark. Anyone notice the dartboard I have up on the thing here? Somebody asked, why is there a dartboard up there? I said it's in case I get bored. But we have the dartboard here and uh they're wanting uh um Naomi asks, why do you have a Steelers dartboard up there? I said, because I'm illustrating sin. And um No, I like the Steelers, sort of. But um when they win. Uh so the idea of Sin, another definition of sin, is to miss the mark. In the middle of the dartboard, there is a bullseye. That bullseye is the exact now, these aren't These aren't real darts, they got magnets. I want stuff that you can poke eyes out with and things like that. But um uh that bullseye is the size of the magnet on the dart And so the object is to be able to throw the dart and get it, oh, that's pretty good, and get it in that Bullseye. That's the idea. Anything that misses the bullseye, that misses the mark, is sin. And so God has set a standard for us. And to miss that standard, if the idea is falling short of it. That is sin, to not live up to that standard. Now, here's the problem. This is where the illustration breaks down. Why am I not able to get that bullseye? I'm standing here, I'm pretty close. Whoa, I almost got it that time. Why am I not able to get that? Talk to me. Well because I'm not that good. All right. That's the way it is, huh? All right. Um I'm not that good. Actually, there's a lot of truth in that statement. Why am I missing it? Am I Okay, none of us are sin-free. You've got the application. But what's the what's the mechanically behind it? Why am I not able to get that? I I try I come pretty close. Was it? Basically he got the answer. Uh go ahead, Brian. I am not able to. Right? I'm not I don't have the experience, I don't have the training, I don't have the discipline, I don't have the aunt high uh high ant the I hand coordination to do it. I don't I don't have all of that. It's not that I don't want to. It's not that I'm not motivated to, I would really like to be able to hit that target every time. But I'm not physically at the point where I'm able to do that. Now that's where the illustration breaks down. God has given us the Holy Spirit, He has given us the Word of God. To do what we're supposed to do. But uh Bob Jones Sr. used to say this, you can do anything God tells you. You can do what you ought to do Right? That is given us the ability. Here's where the problem is. Um let me let me say it the way I've got it written down. The problem is not a failure to it the ability in the ability to achieve But the problem is we have an inner urge to do wrong. You follow what I'm saying? Take your Bibles, turn to James chapter number one. Now I'm trying to get before we deal with specific sins, I'm trying to get to the root of the problem. Come over to James chapter 1 And so the problem, uh unlike me throwing the darts, I'm just not coordinated enough, I'm not skilled enough, uh I can't do it as badly as I want to. We have a little different factor. James chapter one, look at verse number 14. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his what? Own lust. It doesn't say every man is tempted because he's incapable. The problem is we have another force working within us that is drawing us away. From the bullseye, from what God expects of us. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away his lone lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Our problem Isn't that we don't have the resources to have victory over sin? Our problem isn't that we aren't capable of having victory over sin. Our problem is we like sin. We're tempted to. Our flesh is drawn towards it. And the pleasure that our flesh finds in sin We desire more than being what God intends for us to be. That's the whole problem We sin because of the pleasure we get out of it. The flesh is gratified. So sin, number one, is a transgression of law. It's to miss the mark. Number three, sin is sin. I don't know how else to describe it. However acceptable it may seem, however justified it may appear, it's still sin if it's wrong, if God forbids it. I made this statement recently in Messiah, I've been thinking a lot about it lately. Hollywood has convinced this generation that being rude and arrogant is funny. But it's really not funny. It's just rude and arrogant. And the world is convinced a lot of Christians That sin is acceptable, that sin is just the way it is, that uh sin is just uh whatever, it's just life. No, it's still sin. Well, we're gonna make it safe. And the kids are gonna do it anyway, so let's make it safe. Hey, there is no such thing as safe sin. It may be acceptable to the world, it may be justified by the world, it may be celebrated by the world, but as far as God's concerned, it's still sin. And you and I, like the Pharisees in John chapter four, can take the gross sins of the world And somehow try and excuse or justify the comfortable sins of our heart and life. When in reality they're still just sin like everything else. It's sin. Now we're going to get specific. God has been dealing with my heart, and I wish I could tell you, I wish I could say in this series, I'm going to present myself as an example of what you ought to be. Now, I can tell you, I can assure you this, I am working towards that. God is dealing with my heart with these as much as anyone else. I want revival as much as anybody does. And so I'm asking God to deal with me about these sins in my life, and I trust you will, along with me, ask God to do that. I found well let me put let me say this impatience, critical attitude, unkind words Selfishness, they are all serious violations against God A young person talking back to their parents is just as condemned by God as two men pretending they're getting married in the courthouse. It's sin. Unkind words. Selfish, critical, anger, it's sin. And we can try and categorize these and don't misunderstand. Their sins have different consequences. We are aware of that. But they're equally condemned. I've observed over the years that the man or the woman that is most Christlike Is usually, and not usually, I'm going to say, without exception, is the one who is the most sensitive to the quote-unquote small sins. Of our life. The man or woman that displays, manifests the fruits of the Spirit Is without exception the one that is the most sensitive when selfishness creeps into the heart, when an unkind word is spoken. When a dishonesty, a slight white lie, suddenly they're pierced, convicted. The most Christ-like, those manifesting the fruit of the Spirit, I found that to be true. And I first noticed it in Tennessee. I mentioned this times over the years, but there was one fella, he was always at the altar, most godly, sweetest, humble, spirit-filled man, he'd ride his bike around and give out gospel tracts on Saturdays, just a quiet Man, but man, he was at the altar, and my first thought when I got down there said, man, this guy must be living insane. He's at the altar all the time. Must be some wicked, ungodly. I went there along and I realized the exact opposite was the truth. He was so sensitive. To the Spirit of God, that he'd find something in his life, boy, he'd want to make that right. He didn't want to tolerate that, had to be dealt with. Dealing with these sins that we're going to deal with is a lot like remodeling a house. How many folks here ever did a remodeling project in a house you live in? Anybody at all? See if you don't agree with me on this. Um whenever you begin and you decide you're at the point say, all right, we're gonna have to do something, we're gonna remodel this house. And you make the commitment, you step into it, and you start remodeling. Tell me if this isn't true or not. It always is more involved than you anticipated. Right? You say, well, it'll probably take two days. This, that, and the other. And you get in there, and suddenly, three months later, you're still in the middle of it. That is a lot like I believe that is a lot like what we are about to begin on Sunday nights. If we're going to start searching our own hearts and making sure that my heart is completely right with God, We're going to find out that's a whole lot more involved than we anticipated. Um when you're going to remodel a house, see if I see if you won't see if you can't give me a witness on this one. You figure out, well, it's going to cost so much for carpet and so much for this, and you come up with a figure, and you start remodeling it, and it ends up being twice the amount that you thought it was going to cost Right or wrong. How often does a remodeling project come in on budget? Some of y'all are weird, it might happen to you, but normal people it doesn't. It ends up costing more than you anticipated. It ends up being a bigger mess than you anticipated. Good night, that floor's rotted out. Good night, it's rotted all the way back to the back bedrooms. Next thing you know, you've got the hall tore up, the living room tore up, the kitchen tore up, the bathroom tore up. You say, what a mess But if you're going to get the place fixed up the way it's supposed to be, you've got to deal with all this stuff. Now, this is where I'm going with this. This is what I mean by that illustration. You say Sunday night, January 13th, 19, or 2013. Spirit of God speaks to heart. You say, you know, we'll work up this stuff out there. I'm going to ask God to deal with my heart. I'm going to ask God to deal with the sins that I've become comfortable with. I'm going to be everything God wants me to be. And I believe I'm talking to some folks that are that way. I'll be everything God wants me to be. So you make the commitment. And you say, all right, Lord. Alright, Lord, start working on me. Show me what I need to do. And you and I anticipate, well, I already know he's going to change this, and I know about two or three things the Lord's going to get deal with me about. And some of y'all are are thinking right now, you know But you know what to find out You get about three weeks into it and God is tearing stuff up that you were thought, that was fine, God. There was nothing wrong with that. And God says, oh yeah, we gotta deal with this, we gotta deal with this, and we gotta deal with this And they say, God, if I if I make all these things right, then I've got all this other issues I've got to deal with and God if I make that right, then I've got this situation at work I've got to deal with. And God if I do this, then I've got to go to that person and try and make things right, and then that's gonna be it. And God says, Yeah, it ends up being a bigger mess than you anticipated. It ends up being a bigger job than you dreamed it would be. But if you want things to be right Then you've got to do that. If you want my blessing, if you want me to use me, if you uh want me to use you, if you want to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God, then these things have to be dealt with, and it's a whole lot more than you anticipate. But it's right. And it's what is needed. I submit to you, the independent fundamental Baptist churches of America are in desperate need of revival And us included, the more wicked this country becomes, the more godly we must become. The farther this society gets from the Lord, the closer we have to get to the Lord, or we're going to be sucked right along with it. And screaming and don't misunderstand, we've got to preach uh against this stuff out there. We'll take our stands, we'll take all that. But if that's all we're doing and we're not dealing with the sins of our own hearts, we're just floating downstream. Right? So I want to ask you to join me tonight and saying, Lord, I'm opening my heart and my home. The spiritual, my spiritual house, I'm opening up to you, Holy Spirit, to come in and remodel. Get that stuff out. That is eating away at the structure of my spiritual life. Will you join me with that? Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. God, I want To be thoroughly right with you. Lord, as I prepared this message, you spoke to my heart. As I preach it tonight, God, you're speaking to my heart. And I pray we would see sin for what it is in our own lives. We don't want to be like the Pharisees that just condemned the other sin and overlooked our own. We want you to confront us, God. We want you to walk in the front door of our spiritual houses and start remodeling, making things right, patching up, repairing, replacing. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, that's my desire? It's a little scary. I don't know where this is going to lead. I don't know what all God's going to deal with, but more than anything else in my life, I want my heart and life to be right with the Lord. I want him to have his way. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Let's make tonight the beginning of a remodeling process in our hearts and our homes. And let God deal with everything. Let him have every key to every room. Let him pull up the carpet. Let him take down the shades. Let him do whatever he needs to do in our lives. And make it what it ought to be. Father, help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand