Hit from Just a couple of things while you're finding your place there back in the Philippians. I want to encourage folks, if you would, go by the table in the back. We have Christmas cards that folks, church folk had left there for different folks And so we want to try and make sure they all get out to where they need to go. And uh any that are left there, we're gonna root through them for any gifts inside the card. And the rest will be disposed of. But uh so you want to go back and get the cards there. Another neat thing happened this week. Um we had our fingerprints on Thursday and Of course the storm coming in and holiday and different things we uh uh we uh had our our minimal crew there But our goal was to get uh sixty thousand uh Roman booklets assembled and stapled and ready to be cut and shipped out by the end of the year. We lacked uh about seven thousand to reach our goal And uh with a handful of folk we had on Thursday, we were able to reach our goal. Actually went over it, got just uh just over 7,000. So for this year we were able to assemble sixty thousand Romans booklets that are going down to uh central e uh Central America and Mexico and down in that area Spanish speaking folks there. So I want to thank everybody that had a part in that. We're looking forward to this coming year. We want to do at least 60,000 this coming year. We have a new exciting Aspect to our fingerprints ministry, uh some folks in the church of their own desire uh funded uh the ability for us to purchase a cutter for the church. And so now, and that's been purchased, it's you know they're going over a little bit, chips and Got to go over and look if there's any uh any um work needs to be done on it. And Lord will within the next couple weeks we're gonna have our very own cutter here. Which means that we will get the uh scriptures uh in bulk form. We'll take them, break them down, assemble uh collate them. Staple them, cut them, box them up, and maybe even, Lord will, and ship them out from here, uh the whole process being done here within our pr in our house, except for the printing. Isn't that an exciting thing So we're excited about that and uh just adds a whole new dynamic to our fingerprints ministry. And what I was telling Brother Chip, we had breakfast together yesterday, I was I was telling them I would like to see us do, it would be exciting if we could get them on the on the pallet form, go through the whole process, assemble them, box them up. and then be able to take a mission trip ourselves, take them out and distribute them ourselves on the mission field. That would be an exciting thing also. So you pray. Doors are opening up for us and uh it's just thrilling to see what the Lord is doing and the opportunities we have to be involved in a direct way on world missions. And I just love it, love it, love it. So praise the Lord for that. Philippians chapter number one And uh I'd like for us to notice verse number six. What I would like to do is read, have us read verse number six together in unison, if you would. And uh everybody get it there, Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6. Ready? You got it there? Let's read this together, all of us. Here we go. Ready? being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I know I've said this uh a number of times over the years. Nineteen eighty-one I moved out of the house that was living outside Philadelphia with my father And uh we had this uh half a house we were living in. And um I went down to Tennessee, go to Bible College, Tennessee Temple University. I moved out of the house. My father, that very first week, he drove me down, dropped me off, came back. That very first week that I was gone, my father began writing me uh once a week he would send me a letter In that letter he would include newspaper clippings, what was going on back here, a little summary of how his week went, that he was praying for me, and nothing real elaborate, but just every week, this was before internet and Facebook and emails and text. texting and cell phones and all of that. In fact they had just invented the light bulb and um but he would send a letter by Pony Express down to me and But he did every single week for 30 years, up until just recently, and uh he's retired now and we call each other every week But uh he sent me a letter every single week for 30 years. And without fail, I got a little letter from him. And I said all that to say this. At the end of that letter, he'd always sign his name And below his name, he would put this verse just for me, Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. And I mean, I'm telling you, that verse has meant so much to me all these years. One, because it came from my Father. But number two, because of what that verse is telling us, that when God starts something, he's going to finish it. We can be confident of that. And so what I want to speak on this morning is confident Christianity. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, so good to start a new year in your house. with your blessings, your promises in your word, an open Bible before us. God, we're asking you that you would just get our minds our frame of mind established as we go into this new year. Help us, Lord, in our faith, in our relationship with you. That there would be a very definite biblical confidence that you are working and that what you begin, you will finish I plead with you this hour, Lord. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to yours. And I ask that you would speak through me and help us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The Christian life, if somebody determines that they are going to live for the Lord Jesus Christ, I've been teaching the teen class. I thoroughly enjoy it down there, and I noticed there was a little booklet. that uh is either Pastor Grant or Pastor James, somebody had had down there. And in the beginning of that notebook, they had this little note, it said, um If you are deciding to commit yourself completely to live for the Lord Jesus Christ, sign your name here. And there were some signatures there and some quotes and different things. If a person gets the point, if a person knows the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and they make a decision that I am committing my life, To live for Jesus Christ. My entire life is to be lived for the Lord Jesus Christ. That person is beginning a very dangerous life. Living the dedicated Christian life is a dangerous, dangerous life. Maybe not physically for us. However, in some parts of the world, being a committed Christian is physically dangerous. We see it in the news on a regular basis, where folks, particularly in the Middle East and a lot of Muslim countries, are paying a heavy price physically. Because of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know how you feel about that, but that challenges me in my own walk with God. Would I be willing to stand up for Christ? We've seen it a little bit here in our own country when you have folks in some high schools we've that were very uh very uh well known that shooter comes into a high school asking young people, are you a Christian? Yes or no? If they say yes. They shoot him and kill him. So there is an element of physical danger, to some extent, in certain parts of the world, to live the Christian life Now, whether there's a physical danger involved or not is dependent on the circumstances, but I do know this. There's a spiritual danger of living the Christian life You and I, how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. I trust that's true for all of us If you're here this morning and you do not know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell, I plead with you, settle that today. We can show you from the Bible how to get that settled. Please don't leave here With any doubts in your mind about your salvation. Now, those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that accepted Him as our personal Savior, that matter is settled. We have three very, very clever And very powerful enemies. One, the Bible tells us, is the world. And that is when he refers to the enemy of the world, the spiritual enemy. He's talking about society. This world is no friend of the Christian. This world is not out to help us live for God This world is my spiritual enemy. Now we live in the world. We ought to be gracious. We're to be a witness to the world. We're in to go into all the world with the gospel. But we need to keep this clear in our mind in the year 2017. The world, society, is not the friend of the Christian. It is my enemy. I have another enemy. The Bible says very, very clearly, and that is my flesh. When the Bible refers to our flesh, it's referring to our sinful nature, the fact that I have within my very nature. An opposition to living the Christian life. I have within my very nature a drive, a desire that is contrary To living the Christian life. How many folks, after you got saved, you found out that there are two natures within your being? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I got saved that uh back yonder in 79. It didn't take me long to realize that there is a sinful nature down inside my heart and soul that is contrary So the new nature God had given me when I trusted Christ the Savior, this flesh, this sinful nature, is my enemy. I've said this a number of times over the years. The person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that I am the most disappointed with is Dennis Leatherman That old sinful nature there and how that thing will fight me and try and keep me from being the Christian God wants me to be. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so we got enemies, the Christian life, I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, I make a decision, I'm going to commit my life to live for Christ In whatever occupation I'm involved in, whatever uh situation my life may uh entail, I'm going to live for Christ. When I do that This whole world is my enemy. They are not out to help me. My own sinful nature within my very being is opposed to that. And then, of course, we have a third enemy, and that is the devil. The devil himself. And he is flat out opposes us on every hand. He will do everything he can. He'll put every temptation before us. He will do everything he can. To keep us from living the Christian life. What I'm trying to say is this: we are immersed in a world of spiritual danger We are in the midst of it. One of our missionaries, Chuck and Sharon's daughter and son-in-law, Lewis, Howe, and Kim, are down in New Zealand. Lewis is really sick. He's in the hospital. We'll mention that in a minute But he needs our prayers. But down there I've been with them a couple times now. And down in New Zealand, they have a number of active volcanoes. In fact, where uh Lewis lives, you can look out the bay there, and uh it's a good ways out. You just see the silhouette of the island. And there's constant smoke and steam coming out of that island. It is an active is actually an active volcano. And we were down there. I said, is this a problem that there's stuff coming out of the top of that volcano? I mean, is that something we should be concerned about? And he says, oh no. He says, as long as there's stuff coming out, it's good. He says, when the stuff stops coming out, that's when we gotta start running, because it's gonna blow. And throughout the islands and throughout the South Pacific, they have a number of active volcanoes. Now, I know some of you have probably seen these pictures on TV or wherever, but a lot of times a volcano under this ocean Will spew forth lava. Anybody ever see that? And that lava is actually under the water coming out. It is red hot. It is molten lava. It is on fire And it's coming up out of the earth into the ocean. And that water engulfs it. It is completely immersed And that water, that seawater, is doing everything it possibly can to extinguish the fire to put out that lava And what happens when the water accomplishes its goal, that lava becomes cold, hard rock. When I saw that and I got studying this, I got thinking that is very much like the Christian in the world. God saves us and God puts within our heart a fire to live for God, a fire to love the Lord, a spark of fire to To commit my life to Christ and be a witness and be pure, my heart and mind, and be what God wants me to be. But we're in a world, we are immersed in a world that is doing everything it can to quench that fire. Doing everything it can to put out that love for the Lord and that testimony and that witness and to uh to quench the purity of our heart and mind and destroy our Christian life. The Bible says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. So the Christian life spiritually is a very dangerous life. We're immersed in a world that wants to put out the fire of our Christianity, put out the fire of our love for God, our dedication to Christ. And there's been many, many Christians, good, strong, godly Christians, better Christians than I would ever hope to be That the world has been able to extinguish their witness and extinguish their testimony. And so it's a very dangerous world we live in, spiritually speaking A lot of good Christians, as I just said, a lot of good Christians have been taken out of commission by this world's onslaught. In this world's attempt to quench our spiritual life. And when that happens, just like that lava, that red-hot lava, loses its fire and loses its heat and just becomes a cold, hard rock That can happen to you and I if we're not careful. And our own hearts as Christians become cold and hard. and indifferent to the things of God, and our witness in this world becomes meaningless, and in effect we're taken out of commission. I don't think there's anybody in church history that understood what I've just tried to describe better than the Apostle Paul. You talk about somebody on fire for God. You talk about somebody from the day they trusted Christ, dedicated themselves and committed themselves to live for the Lord Jesus Christ Nobody tops the Apostle Paul in his fervor and in his intensity and his total 100% commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Yet there's probably few that have paid a higher price for it than Paul also. He knew that he lived in not just a physically dangerous world, it was extremely dangerous, but he said on every hand he faced opposition. So what did Paul do? Paul took precautions. He understood right from the very beginning that this world was not his friend as a Christian. He understood right from the beginning. He said, In my flesh, in me, that is my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. He knew immediately that there is a nature inside him was not there to help him, that this world society was not there to help him. He knew immediately The devil was opposed to him. So Paul took some precautions. He did not want to lose his testimony. He did not want to lose that fire for God. And by God's grace he was able to keep it until the day he gave his life for the cause of Christ. So what precautions do we take in just the basics of the Christian life? I believe that things we emphasize here all the time I believe every Christian ought to commit ourselves to spend a little bit of time every day in the Bible with the Lord in Bible reading and prayer. Amen or not. You say, oh, that's so simple. You say that all the time. It's so basic. Yeah, but I'm telling you, it is so important in the Christian life. I want to challenge you right from the get-go here on this first day of a brand new year. Let's just commit ourselves as Christians. If I know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, both young and old All of us just determine I am going to take some time every day and spend a little bit of time letting God speak to me from His Word and then pouring out my heart to God in prayer I'm telling you, that seems so simple, but it is so important in this old sinful world. And in faithfulness to church. Paul was incredibly faithful to the house of God. Of course, as a preacher and apostle, he had responsibilities there. But nevertheless, as a Christian, we ought to be faithful to the house of God. God tells us not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. It's a manner of service. But so much the more as we see the day approaching. Jesus Christ coming is getting closer and closer all the time. We ought to be faithful to church I don't know anybody in 30-some years of ministry, I don't know anybody that ever regretted being faithful to church I've never had anybody say to me, preacher, I wish I wasn't so faithful to church. I've never had anybody say that. You know, I've had scores and scores of people say, Man, I wish I'd have been a little more faithful. I wish I'd have gone done that a little bit more. I'm telling you, there is something about doing what God says and being active in the body of Christ. That emboldens us and strengthens us in this old sinful world. Anybody here ever uh uh anybody here ever not feel like going to church, but you went anyway? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Today. You know, it's like phases. I've been going through this lately. The first phase is I got to transition from being asleep to waking up. And that is huge effort. You know, make that trans. Then it's transition from being awake in the bed to getting out of the bed is a huge transition. And then it goes on from there. I tell you there's been many times, and you know what I'm talking about. I really didn't feel like going to church that morning. I was up till midnight watching the stupid ball drop. But you go to church and you do what God says, and God shows up. And a song is sung. The choir sings, and you fellowship with other Christians, and God uses a verse or a statement from the message. And you get to give your offerings and your tithes and your missions and you come out of there and say, boy, I'm glad I went to church today. Anybody know what I'm talking about? stronger spiritually, a little clearer in my thinking about who I am and and God's love for me and my my uh responsibilities in this world. I'm telling you, reading my Bible, praying every day, being faithful to church. Let me give you this. Here's another precaution. Being very, very careful what influences I allow into my life. The shows I watch, the music I listen to, the things on the computer I look at, the books I read. The friends that I associate with, being very, very careful that I don't allow these influence, these negative anti-Christian in many ways, influences draw me away And I lose the purity of my mind and the purity of my heart, a heart gets cold. So, Bible, spending time every day in my Bible and Praying and and and letting the Lord speak to my heart, being faithful to church. And by that I mean Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Just try. You say Sunday night? Yeah, give it a try. It it doesn't hurt. It's really all right Wednesday? Yeah, it's good. And uh being very, very careful. Maybe some of us, I may be talking to somebody, young or old. We need to stop and go through our little library. We need to go through and reconsider some of the things we're allowing to influence us and say, you know, when I start out a year, I want my heart to be pure. I want my mind to be clear and clean and right with the Lord. And God will help us. What I'm trying to say is this: we live in a spiritually dangerous world. And Paul understood that, and there's some things that must be in place: our Bible reading, our prayers, our church attendance, purity of heart and mind, taking these precautions. Another thing is carrying some gospel tracts and giving out gospel tracts. And just determine, I'm going to be a witness this year. I want to have an influence in this old sinful world for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we could go down a great list. But Paul understood that. He took precautions. He guarded his heart and mind. He remained faithful in the basics of the Christian life, what I'm trying to describe. So we're in a dangerous world. It's out to quench our faith. It's out to quench our testimony and the joy of the Lord in our lives. And we have to be very, very careful. Paul understood that. And that is where the book of Philippians comes in. The book of Philippians is an amazing book. Now all the scripture is given by inspiration of God. It's all profitable. But would you agree with me? There's certain portions of Scripture that just seem to stand out, that just seem to mean a lot to us. Anybody know what I'm talking about? The book of Philippians is like that. I look at the Bible kind of as a jigsaw puzzle. And every book of the Bible ha is a necessary piece in that jigsaw puzzle And uh I let me just throw this out here. I think every Christian, at some point in your Christian life, you ought to start reading your Bible through from Genesis to Revelation. I think every Christian ought at some point start reading all the Bible. There are little books in the Old Testament that some Christians don't even know exist. And they're there for a purpose. They're a part of a complete Word of God. And God has put them in there for our benefit, for our growth, to strengthen our faith. And by the way, if some of these books were missing, the Bible would be incomplete. And I wouldn't be able to uh it wouldn't it wouldn't be everything that I need as a Christian. So the book of Philippians is like this little puzzle piece that fits into the overall word of God, has a very key part, a very important role to play in God's Word, and um and uh without it. I don't have a complete picture. By the way, if you're going to look at the Bible as a jinxal puzzle, each book is a different piece of the puzzle. When you put that thing all together, it's amazing. You get a beautiful picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the message of the Bible, the Lord Jesus Christ, what the Christian life is all about. So if there's a piece missing, then that picture is not complete. And the book of Philippians has a key role in the Bible. It is the book of Philippians. Let me just talk about the church at Philippi here real quick. It was started by the Apostle Paul God directed him clearly in Acts chapter 16. God directed him to Philippi. There uh he started uh the church there at Philippi. Now he is penning this book under the inspiration of God. He's written this little book here. It's a letter to the church at Philippi. He was in prison in Rome at the time. He understood the opposition to his Christian faith. He understood the opposition to his commitment to Christ. He was imprisoned because of it. But he writes this letter under the inspiration of God to this church at Philippi and uh from the Roman prison. And he is explaining to them some important aspects of the Christian life. Let me give you a few quick facts about the church here at Philippi and the book. The church at Philippi was the very first church in Europe. How about that? The gospel is expanding, and it's getting up into Europe now. So it's the first church in Europe. The church at Philippi was known for their generous giving. We talked about that in Sunday school this morning with the teens. Church at Philippi, Paul commends them in Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, that in their deep poverty. They gave very generously to faith promise missions, even though they were were were broke, they were poor, they were in poverty. Yet they were very, very generous, and Paul uses them as an example to other churches. Look how this church gave so generously. This church gave even in their poverty They gave so generously. So they were known for that. They were known for their supportive missions. The church at Philippi was known that they were a joyful, active church. The word fellowship is used throughout the book of Philippians. And fellowship, Christian fellowship is a neat thing. Is everybody with me? Everybody doing okay? Christian fellowship is a neat thing. When I first got saved They would talk about in the church. I'm talking in the first couple of weeks, months, I was saved. This was brand new to me. And I'm learning stuff, and uh they would say, we're having a fellowship This Sunday afternoon. Everybody stay after church. We're having fellowship. And so every time I stayed after, when they said that, there was fried chicken everywhere. And so I thought fellowship must be the Greek word for fried chicken. Because every time we had fellowship, it was fried chicken. And I got in my head, fellowship meant food. You know, if you're having a fellowship, there's food. It's the Greek for food. It's a spiritual code word for food. I got studying the book of Philippians, I found out I was wrong. The word fellowship has nothing to do with food. It has nothing to do with fried chicken. Fellowship is simply this. Christian fellowship is simply a couple Christians working together for the cause of Christ. United together Saturday or Thursday, we put we put Romans booklets together. And we were laughing and talking and praising the Lord and talking about different things, putting these scriptures together to go. You know what that was? That was Christian Fellowship. We go out, track month is coming up in April. Now every Saturday track month we take a track month road trip We load up the bus, we get a bag of tracks, and we'll go to Morgantown or Cumberland or somewhere and we'll just work together and give out tracks and I mean we are worn out and sweaty and Taught and tired at the end of the day, give out thousands of tracks, and we're laughing and we're happy and we're praying together and rejoicing in the Lord. You know what that is? That's Christian fellowship Working together to advance the cause of Christ. That's what the church at Philippi was known for, their fellowship Very, very active, working together. And then here's what I'm trying to get to. The church at Philippi, Paul, through the inspiration of God, had given to them a very clear perspective on Christian life and the opposition that you and I face as Christians. He spoke about the right perspective as a Christian on life and death. Look with me if you would Chapter 1, come down to verse number 20. And we could look at a number of passages. We'll just use this right now. Philippians chapter 1 and verse 20. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, look at this, that in nothing I shall be what? Ashamed. Paul says, I don't want to be ashamed of the gospel. Can you sense there a little bit of opposition? That maybe there would be a temptation to be ashamed. Maybe this world doesn't think real highly of our Christ. And we might be ashamed to name him. Maybe there's a tendency in my own sinful nature to quiet, to kind of hide my Christianity. And Paul says, I don't want to be that way. That in nothing I shall be ashamed. Look at this. But that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Then he makes that tremendous statement in verse 21. For me to live is Christ And to die is what? Gain. And to die is gain. What a phenomenal perspective on life. And Paul's writing this. Now we come to verse number six. This verse that my father so many times, for has to be hundreds and hundreds, thousands of times, letters. He signed Philippians 1. 6. We come to this, and Paul makes this statement, understanding that we live in a dangerous, spiritually dangerous world, opposed to living for God. Look at this. Being what? Confident. Confident of this very thing. There's a lot of things in Paul's life that he might not be too confident about. Paul probably wasn't real sure as to how long he had to live. I mean, his life was on the hanging by a thread at all times. He didn't know whether he was going to be stoned for the gospel that day, whether he was going to be beheaded, he eventually did lose his life for the gospel of Christ Paul didn't know whether he had tomorrow to live or not. He didn't know whether he had another week or two to live or not. He didn't know if he was going to get out of prison or he was going to die and rotten that prison. He didn't know if his message would be received and people would be grateful that he came and taught him of Christ, or whether they would turn on him and stone him in prison and beat him as they did many, many times. There was a lot of uncertainties in Paul's life. And by the way, you and I have a lot of uncertainties in our life also. We're not guaranteed, any of us, that we're going to be here next year, this time. We're not guaranteed we're going to be around tomorrow. In fact, the Bible cautions us: boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. There's a lot of things in life we may not be sure about. Your job security may be gone by the end of the year. Our health, we may go to the doctor and find out, God forbid, some terrible thing. It's a lot of uncertainties in life. But Paul said, there is one thing I am absolutely certain of. There is one thing that there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that I am confident of. That word confident he used there, being confident of this very thing. The word confident means this: to be fully persuaded. To be absolutely sure of. It's a very strong word. It has this idea: to have absolutely no doubt about it, unwavering certainty. And that is this. What God starts, he will finish. What God starts, he will finish. You and I live in a world that is opposed to our Christian life. You and I live in a world that is opposed to our faith. We have a nature within us that wants to cause us to doubt God's word, to doubt God's promises, to doubt God's goodness. And you and I need to settle one thing in our hearts and minds as Christians, and that is this: God save me, God will keep me, God will finish what He has begun in my heart and life. Let the world do what it wants. As we go through life, the world, the flesh, and the devil will try to quench our Christian testimony. We'll try and devour our love for the Lord, our walk with God. But we can be sure of this. God never fails And what God starts, He's going to complete. I want us to look at this verse real quickly. I've got a few minutes here. I want us to notice, first of all, the commencement of this good work. He says, being confident is very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you. Notice the commencement. Who is it that's starting this good work? According to that verse. Who is it that's starting it? It's the Lord, he that hath begun a good work in you. I want to say this. Everything about our Christian life begins with God. Everything about our Christian life begins with God. In fact, the Bible begins with God. In the beginning, God. Every aspect of my salvation begins with God. Listen, I cannot save myself. I can't do that. God has to do it I want to remind you, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul. And a fellow, I mentioned this a number of times over the years, but I got a letter from a person from another church in the community here And uh highly critical of us. This was years ago, and they made this statement. They said, you think your church is the only one that can save anybody? And they went down through and they uh they actually put their name on, which is unusual. I got a letter this week and uh no name on it, but um uh they put their name on and uh and uh I knew which church it was from. So I went over to the pastor. And I said, I'm Pastor Levin. We sat down in this office and I said, I got this letter from one of your church folk. And I said, I'm not upset. I'm not trying to do anything. I said, but I thought you would want to know that And uh he read it and he chuckled a little bit. And uh I said, I want to make it clear to you and to everybody, we don't think Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can save anybody. Not only do we not think we're the only one that can save, we don't think we can save anybody. You follow what I'm saying? The fact is, salvation begins and ends with God I can't be good enough to get myself to heaven. I can't give enough money. Good night. How much money would you have to give to buy entrance into heaven? The riches of the world couldn't do that. I cannot save myself. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save us. Our good works cannot save us. In fact, I can't even put things in place to be saved. What I mean by that is everything about salvation begins with God. He's the one that loved me first. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son. Listen, our salvation is simply a response to what God has already done for us. He paid the price. He lived righteous enough for me. He fulfilled all the law for me. He paid all the penalties for my breaking of God's law, puts it all in place. All I need to do is simply what? Accept it. It's a gift. I just receive it. I can accept it or reject it. If you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, if there is a doubt in the back of your mind about whether you're going to heaven or hell, listen Tomorrow is not promise. I don't care if you're five years old or 105 years old. Tomorrow is not promise. And if you don't have that matter settled, I plead with you today Accept what Christ has already done for you. Just receive it by faith, and God will forgive your sins and save your soul. You have a home in heaven. It all begins with God. It all begins with Christ. And so the commencement of this good work is the Lord Jesus Christ, his God. He's done it all, he's paid it all, he's put everything in place. I simply receive it. I'm glad that night, May 7, 1979, when I knelt beside my bed, I'm glad I didn't have to do something or or perform some deed or go through some ritual All I did that night was accepted what Christ has already done for me. So the commencement of the good work is the is God. God does it all. Then notice the character of this work that God begins. Being confident of this very thing. This is what Paul is sure of God started a work in your life. God's done something in your life. And he which hath begun a what? Good work. Now, there's no doubt the work there that he's talking, referencing, is our salvation. Being born again, sins forgiven, new life, eternal life, having a home in heaven reserved for us. And he says that's a good work. The word good simply means excellent, very, very beneficial. Hey, I want to say to you: salvation is a good thing. Being saved is good. Escaping hell is a good thing. Going to heaven is a good thing. I'm telling you, I struggled with salvation for about five months. God was convicting me. I knew I needed to be saved. I knew I needed Christ. And I fought that thing and fought that thing and fought that thing until finally, that night, as I say so often, I accepted Christ as my Savior. And afterward I looked back and thought, What a knucklehead Why in the world was I fighting this? This is great. This is good. My sins are beginning. I have new purpose. I have new meaning in life. Salvation is a good thing. In fact, the night I got saved, I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell. Oh, I want to do, I wanted to get, I just didn't want to be the person I was becoming of these sins. I wanted to be free from these sins. I need to be out of this. And God saved me and delivered me from that. And as I began to grow and go on to church and read my Bible, I found out later that, wow, not only did He remove these sins that controlled me. But I'm going to heaven. I'm not going to hell when I die. I thought, wow, this is amazing. When I was young, we always opened our presents on Christmas morning. We never did Christmas Eve. We always did it Christmas morning. Until this past year, we opened them on Christmas Eve. It was terrible. But um No, it wasn't it was great. But inevitably inevitably my mom would do this. We'd have all the presents there and we'd be ah you know, we'd tear them up, have a good time. There's all these presents. And then there's like that Whoa afterward. You know, it's all excited. Then it's just kind of all the presents are there and everything. And so then it's like, all right, what do we do? And then you start playing with them and doing different stuff Inevitably, about a half hour after all the presents were open, my mom would go like this, Oh, I forgot one. What? And she'd go back, root around, she'd come out with another present. And I mean it was like a party all over again. Oh, there's another's more. And we'd open them all up. About a half hour, hour would go by, she'd go, Oh for Pete State I forgot another one. What? And this would go on throughout the morning and throughout the day, and it would just drag it out. It was amazing. And I'm telling you, that's a lot of what the Christian life is like. I got up off my knees and it's like I'm forgiven Ah, and things are new and I get up the next morning, I'm driving to work, and uh this is true. Uh and uh I I had all this drug paraphernalia and different just Wicked stuff. And I'm driving to work and it's it's May and my windows are down and I'm slinging this stuff out the window. I don't need this no more. Just littering terrible is awful. I was so, it was like such a burden was relieved. Ah. And then it's like a couple weeks later, it's like. God says, Dennis, there's more. What? You're not going to hell. Seriously? Yeah. Awesome. And uh I'm t what I'm trying to say is this. Being saved is a good thing. Don't let this world's lies tell us that being a Christian is some miserable, unhappy, terrible, negative thing. It is a great thing. I've been saved since 79 now. I'm telling you, the worst day of my Christian life has been far better than the best day the devil offered me. No doubt, without comparison. So Paul says to the church at Corinth, and they're facing opposition, and Paul is facing the opposition world. He says, Listen, all that's going on, I am confident of one thing. That God, the one that started all of this in your life, the one that provided salvation for you, He hath begun a good work in you. What you've received from Christ is a good thing. I want to remind you: being a Christian is a good thing. It's a wonderful thing. Deliverance from sin's misery, eternal life, it's a good thing. The worst that can happen to us is we lose our physical life. But to die is gain. This sounds terrible, but uh it's true. I really enjoyed doing Mike Stubler's funeral. We had a memorial service. Now I didn't enjoy the fact that he passed away. I miss him dearly. I think there's hardly a week goes by. I don't think of my dear friend Mike Sudler. Many of us are the same way But I'm telling you to stand up there, and I preached on that passage to die is gained, and got thinking about all that Mike gained the moment he stepped through those gates of heaven. All that he gained, the moment that last breath went from his lips, and the next breath he took was in heaven. What he gained from that is so amazing. Salvation is a good work. It's a good thing. And when the worst comes the worst and we lose our physical life, we've gained eternal life. And the presence of God and all that comes along with that. So the commencement of this work is with God. He gets all the glory. By the way, we get to heaven. We're not going to stand before God and say, man, praise the Lord, I was good enough to make it. It's not going to happen. You know what we're going to do? We're going to bow before Christ, say, Jesus, you did it all. You saved me. You forgave me. You enabled me. And so it all gets so it commences with Christ, with the Lord. Its character of the cre of this work God does in our life is good. And then last of all, the completion of this work. I love this. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will what? Perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The word perform, you might want to jot this down. This is a great definition. To bring to a complete finish. To carry out fully. I like this definition, the word perform. To execute perfectly and completely Listen, the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, God begins a work. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. God begins this process of changing us. God gives us eternal life. And God has begun this new life, and He promises that we can be absolutely confident that what He has begun, He will fulfill it completely In other words, you can read Romans 8. Study Romans 8 very, very carefully. What God begins in us will end in heaven with us in the glory of God. Let me just put it bluntly. Let me just lay it out there very, very clearly. When God saves a soul, that soul can never, ever be lost. What God begins, God finishes. Salvation is all of God. God saves us And he's the one that keeps us. Say, all I do is simply receive it. He begins the work, and I am absolutely confident that what God has begun. He will see through to a complete and full finish. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I can't think of anything hardly any better To go into 2017, knowing this, that God is not done with me yet, and God will finish that which He has begun in my life. We can be confident of that. Anybody here, let's, we're not the biggest crowd we've ever had, so we can just be honest with each other. Anybody here since you've been saved? Anybody here mess up since you've been saved? Today? Uh no. Yeah we do, don't we? Aren't you glad that that which was begun in us is not dependent upon us finishing it? I'd have failed the first week. I would have lost it the first week. There's no way I can finish what God has started. God finishes what he starts. And this old world, this old world will fight us. This old world, listen. If we're not careful, will you listen to me? If we're not careful, next year this time, if the Lord tarries, next year this time, I may be talking to some Christians that are going to have cold, dead, hard hearts. Because you let the world quench out your fire. Huh? Maybe talking to some next year, the old simple flesh is going to mess us up. Maybe the devil's going to get up and trip us up like a roaring lion try and devour us. I tell you what, this whole world can work us over, but one thing this world cannot do is take away our salvation. This old world cannot take away that good work which God has begun in our heart. Now we need to put things in place so that our testimony and a joy of the Lord and living out that salvation That we protect that and put things in place so the world don't take that from us. But one thing's for sure: this old world cannot take away our salvation. And I am glad for that. I am so glad that I can lay my head down January 1st, 2017, on my bed tonight and not have to worry about whether I'm going to heaven or hell. That was settled way back when I trusted Christ as Savior. Isn't that a good thing? That's a good thing. It's a couple ladies were doing a little Bible study, and um They came across in Jeremiah where the Bible says that about the refiner um uh w purifying the silver that God like a refiner will take silver and uh he'll meld it down and purify that silver. And they got talking about that and one of the ladies says, you know I don't understand this whole process, so I'm going to look into this a little bit. And she made some phone calls and did some check around. Lo and behold, in their town there was actually a refiner And a fellow that did what that verse was referencing. So she called him up and said, we'd like to come down and see the process of refining silver and purifying it. We'd like to come and see how that works. And she didn't tell him about their Bible study or anything. And he says, sure, come on down, I'd love to show you. So they gathered there the next week and he had his little pro equipment set up And he began to process, had some iron ore there, and he began melding it down and the heat and the intensity and and all that. But they noticed something the whole time that iron that uh silver was melting He was right there and he and and s as an impurities would come to the top, he'd skim it off the top. And that hot that heat was so intense And uh he began telling them different things and he says, I have to be very, very careful. She goes, Do you have to stay here the whole time? Why can't you walk here? He says, No, no, no. He said if it gets too hot, it will burn it and and uh and uh corrupt the the silver. It has to, it can't get too hot, but if it gets too cold, then the impurities don't come up is I have to maintain the exact intensity of heat until it's pure and clean. They said, well that's amazing. They said, well how do you know? When the silver is ready, when the impurities are off. And he said this, when I can see my reflection in the silver, Then I know it's ready. Then I know it's ready. And the lesson from that was this. You and I are the silver. And in this old world that's so opposed to us, God uses the opposition and the trials of life to purify us. And he applies the heat to us. And he doesn't let it get too hot or destroy us, and he doesn't let us get by too easy, or we'd never, our lives would never, or faith would never develop into what God wants it to be. But when God sees the reflection, when Christ sees the reflection of himself in our lives, then he knows. That what he is trying to do has been accomplished. Does that make sense? So are there going to be heartaches this year? Yes. Are there going to be disappointments this year? Yes. Is the world going to fight against us? Absolutely Are we going to fail? No doubt. But I'm telling you this, God's begun something in your life. If you're saved, God has begun something in your life, and he is not going to quit. until he has accomplished what he saved us to be. And we're going to make it to heaven. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray that you would use these few thoughts this morning To challenge us, encourage us, and help us this coming year to stay faithful. Lord, help us to examine ourselves. Help us to be very, very careful and put precautions in place that this whole world doesn't get to us. And Lord, I pray, and Lord, I hesitate to do this, but Lord, I pray that you would bring into our lives the trials The heat, so to speak, that we need to be the Christians you saved us to be And help us to have faith in you and to be confident that you will never fail us, you will never forsake us, you will finish that which you've begun. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, as we begin a new year, I want to apply myself anew to make sure that certain things are in place in my life. And this is what I mean by this for invitation There's some here that says, you know, I need to get this daily Bible reading thing down. I've got to get that in place. I cannot leave myself vulnerable. To this world, I've got to get my daily schedule, daily time of Bible reading and prayer to the Lord. How many would say, Preacher, pray with me as we begin this new year? I absolutely have to get that in place. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I need to get that in place. God bless you. And we have some tools we're going to give out that will help with that. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I want my faithfulness to church this coming year. to be better than it was the past year. I want to be faithful to church. I know that's God's will. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be able to get that in place and uh be in my place uh as far as churches are. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. How about it? God bless you. Many hands around. That's a good thing. That's Bible. How many would say, preacher, I've got to reevaluate the influences in my life? Maybe the shows, books, whatever. I went through the list. And you'd say, preacher, I know there's some influences there that are not helping me be a better Christian. That are not helping me be Christ-like. And you'd say, preacher, this coming year I want my heart and my mind to be pure. And with God's help I want to correct that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. A lot of hands around. And then we could go down the list. But this matter of being confident that God's working, God's not done, what he started, he'll finish. One last question. There's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven You say, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. And you say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me settle that, that I would know in my heart. And my sins are forgiven. I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. And I need that settled in my heart and life. Any at all? Just slip your hand up. Hold it up high. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. You know what this year holds. And help us to have faith in you and to be confident that you'll see us through and you'll help us if we'll but trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads