Uh that was a blessing, ladies. I really appreciate using your talents for God's glory. First John chapter two, we read there. 1 John chapter 2, we have embarked on a series, if you were here last Sunday, on confident Christian living. By just a little way of review, I mentioned that I believe, even though I'm a I would consider myself somewhat younger, younger of a Christian, that I think what I w as I look around at Christianity today, I mentioned this last week, That one thing I see that lacks a lot is confidence. I'll read my New Testament and I'll see here they may not have known a lot, they may not have had the complete word of God in their hands. But I tell you one thing they did not lack was confidence. And I think that Christianity today, if you ask me Press me on it, I would say we need some good old fashioned confidence. Uh some today find confidence in their job. Some find confidence in their ability. Some find confidence, I'm finding this in improv in the improving political and uh economic climate But I believe the greatest confidence anybody could ever have is in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. That is true in utter confidence. So we began last week confidence through fellowship. The whole book I mentioned of 1 John is really a book not written to those that uh have not decided to follow Christ, but rather it is written to believers. who are perhaps being discouraged in their Christian walk. John is writing this letter as sort of a pick-by-up and saying, listen, you can have, first of all, confidence through fellowship. We're not going to take time to do it. There's a lot of material in 1 John. But if I did have time, I would have taken all day today and say next John addresses competence. through confession. But if you were here Sunday, last Sunday night, you realize we're studying prayer, different types of prayer, and we already hit on uh pretty extensively confession. So I'm going to skip that part. But if you read the end of 1 John, one of the most famous portions in all the Bible, promises in all the Bible, is if we confess our sins, what? He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Then he goes on and says, even when a Christian, a child of God, sins and messes up, He's got an advocate, a lawyer with the bot with the Father. It's Jesus Christ. He comes in and even though we do mess up regularly, he says you can have confidence through confession. I wish I could park it out there, but we really need to hasten on to chapter two. He switches topics a little bit, and he says that for a believer, someone who's personally placed faith in Christ, you can have confidence, here it is, through obedience. It's amazing the difference in attitude between a Christian that is obeying God the best they know how and then a Christian that is defeated only because of their own simple lack of disobedience. It doesn't matter where that lack is. It's found confidence through obedience. Would you just be honest? I'm honest with God, and the Lord broke my heart over this challenge here that I need more confidence in my Christian life. I want to make certain stands. So I'm not going to read the entire section there, but Uh 1 John chapter 2, we already read it, but notice in verse 3 he says, Hereby we do know that we know him. If we keep His commandments. There's a certain sense of assurance that we get, but it only comes when God's children keep his commandments. When, if we can say it in a general term, we are obedient. Father in heaven, I pray as we delve into what John wrote many years ago, that we would not just set it aside as old writing, but that it would be fresh and new for us today. I pray that your children this morning would be adherent to the word, that we would not just hear these words spoken and preached, but that our lives would be changed. and impacted, we pray, God, that you would do a work. Make us just all around more obedient, we ask. In Christ's precious name. Amen. A distinctive doctrinal belief, not only I read amongst Baptists, but a lot of believers, genuine believers down through history, has been the eternal security of the believers. Secure, assured. John writes a lot about that, but this belief, according to Ephesians 1, is according to our eternal destiny is sealed when the Holy Spirit comes into our lives and the Bible says we are sealed unto the day of redemption. No man, and another place it's John writes, no man can pluck us out of the Father's hands. I like the way Paul the Apostle writes it in First Timothy four twelve. He says, For I'm persuaded, um or that for I know whom I believed And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul saying here is that your eternal security is just as much in God's hands as As is your eternal salvation, they're one and the same. Friend, the blessed truth today is that He's not only able to save you But he is able to keep you. The song Um I was lost, but now I'm found. When you are lost and then you're found, you can never be lost again. Your salvation rests secure. And I think of it this way, the provision the pro promise and the power of God Almighty. This knowledge of eternal security, I think, is a wonderful gift of grace. Hopefully everybody here has attained to that. I know that I'm saved, and I'm sure you don't have to turn there, but John, this little nifty book, writes a little bit in the last chapter, one of my favorite verses. to give someone who's just trusted Christ as Savior. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son, the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. In fact, I did a little study. Do you know that the word no appears 39 times in this book alone? That's why I say John is getting at something that we need to get a hold of. Confident Christian living. Hey, believer here this morning, those who place your faith in Christ, you can know certain things. things. There doesn't need to be a question mark in your mind. You can step forward then with that sort of confidence in Christ. Not only confidence through fellowship, John starts off Right off, here's my Lord Jesus Christ, and I walk with him and he with me. And then he goes on and says, You can be confident through confession, even though we don't have time to look at that. And now he moves right along and he says You can be confident just by obeying God in every facet of your life. You know, it's possible to forfeit your confidence in God. It's possible to begin to doubt and question what God really did in the moment He saved you. when you begin to allow disobedience to come into your life. I see it happen all the time. But this word know that we have eternal life. John wants us to know certain things. Some of you, you know certain things. You count on certain things. You can always count on God. I'm glad that my salvation is not based on my actions or my feelings. I'm thanking God for that. It's based on On God declaring me forgiven, all because of what Jesus Christ did for me. Having said all this, I'm saved. It's not only God's will, though, that we know certain things, but that we obey his commandments. I said all those things about confidence in our salvation that just because we're confident, God saves us and he'll keep us. But now God uh John is writing here, Christians, we need to have that confidence, maintain that confidence through obedience to Jesus Christ. It's sort of like uh parents you can identify, you want to train your children to be obedient. I I remember um being in a restaurant and seeing a family over there that was very obedient and the the children were well behaved. And I think that there were like five or six. And somehow or another when we were walking by there, we just struck struck up a little conversation. And lo and behold, finding out that they're a Christian family, they go to a good solid church. But that's that's the sort of testimony believers need to. We see it in our children. We want to instill it in our children. Be obedient. But then how are we doing in our Krishna? Are you lacking confidence just because what John's getting at here is maybe you're not really living all that obediently like you should So uh we're going to look at um some ways that God gives us three results, I put it this way, of obedience. These attributes come in any Christian that is living obediently. So first of all, if you're living obediently as a child of God, God says you will have an assured heart. Verse number three. Hereby we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments, he saith unto him, I know him, and he keepeth not his commandments, is a liar. But the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word In him verily is the love of God perfected, and we know that we are in him. God gives you an assured heart. You'll not be wondering, where is God in my life? You'll be walking with God. What a difference between a saint Then I see that knows that they're living in disobedience. They begin to scratch their head and say, Where is God in all this? Their life begins to sort of almost like I think of a top when you begin to spin it and it begins to slowly spiral out of control. Know that we know him. John wants us to know certain things. But how can I know these things that things are right between me and God? How can I really know these things? So we're talking about an assured heart. If I were to ask you, and I know this is subjective, I know that this is not material things. We're talking about what we don't see on the outside, but do you have an assured heart when it comes to your relationship with Christ. Do you know, first of all, that your sins are forgiven? And uh that's that's what John first gets at. No notice verse 3. Hereby know we that we know him if we keep his commandments. You know, there's no joy, uh first of all being assured, let me say this, of salvation. There is no joy without this assurance. Have you ever noticed that? Um I can't count. How many times at camp, and that's where we were at just before we came here, was we were working at a Christian camp. I can't tell how many times I've seen A teen or a young person go all week long participating in all of the games, uh hitting up the concession stands and having the time of their life making all these memories, except rather than having a good time It's like they have a frown literally all week long. I'm thinking, what more could you ask for? You're having lots of fun, you're around lots of preaching, you're making great memories, but they're doom and gloom, it seems like, all week long. And inevitably, they'll get to Friday, the last day, before they know they have to leave, go back home. They're at camp. And finally they decide to deal with the issue at hand. Nine times out of ten, I'll tell you what it is. It's a young person that all week long is struggling with because they've allowed disobedience in their life They begin to struggle, did I really mean what I meant when I asked Jesus Christ to save me? Did I uh how can I be accursed and live the way that I am Their heart's beginning to flutter, it's beginning to doubt. They want to live for God, but they find this disparity that they're beginning to doubt. There's no assurance in their heart. And finally, Friday, they have to wait all week long to get rid of it. And it's amazing the transformation. when they just begin to realize it's not about the uh what they've done that saves them, but Jesus Christ. And they realize, oh, the reason I'm doubting, the reason I have all these frustrations why I haven't been happy all week long is just because I don't have that assurance of heart because of disobedience. Keeping his commandments, you gotta realize it does not save you But it does assure you, and I find a lot of believers that aren't assured in their heart about this area of salvation. There may be somebody in here this morning that Maybe when someone asks that question, are you 100% sure you're on your way to heaven? Oh boy, that sends doubts to your heart. You kind of shrink. You hope nobody asks for your testimony. You shy away and you almost want to expel it out of your mind. You almost hate when someone begins to ask, do you know for sure that you're on your way to heaven? John's saying, hereby you'll know me that you you know that you'll know me if if you keep my commandments and we won't have to doubt. But I believe that actually we'll we're in 1 John. I'll have you turn over just a book beforehand, 2 Peter Chapter 1, since we're so close, I'll have you turn there. 2 Peter chapter 1. Uh just so that you know I'm not making it up that it's possible for God's people to doubt that God ever even saved them. Hey, I think salvation is super easy. I think you could be on your deathbed and y live a life of d wickedness and Who knows what else you've been responsible for? You could be Hitler, you could be whoever. On your deathbed if you're willing to repent and turn to Christ, salvation is super simple. God will save you. He promises that he'll do that. But sometimes uh we begin to doubt what God really did despite the simplicity of the gospel. Here's what I'm talking about. Second Peter chapter 1. Look at verse number 9. He first says, if you Christian, if you begin to grow in Christ, add these things, boy, things are going to go great for you. But As you notice the first word in verse 9, but he that lacketh these things, he's that not that is living disobediently, he's blind, he cannot see afar off He's forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. And he goes on to say, wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to your calling. Uh give diligence to make your calling and election sure, for if these things be in you, you shall never fall. And I think what Peter and what John is getting at here is that if you live obediently, If you live, if you have that confidence through obedience, you'll have an assured heart, assured of your salvation. You won't be plagued with all these doubts. How much more when you know where you're going, you know stuff is okay, you know there's like the songwriter says, nothing between me and the savior. Man, you can just walk that much more confidently. Your steps are more sure. And that's a that's a scriptural principle. But I think not just a um Everybody falls in this category. There may be somebody here this morning. You can flip back to 1 John 2. There's somebody in here, according to verse 4, that the reason you disobey is that you're not saved. Oh, Pastor Bright, where did you get that? I thought you said this was a book of a test of salvation, not uh uh or this is not a book of a test of salvation, but just fellowship. What do you mean? Verse number four, he that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments, the Bible calls that person a liar. And the truth is not him. That's strong language. Well, I don't write it, I just recite it. Okay. What he's saying is there it's possible for a person to claim to know Jesus Christ But by his habitual, continual, sinful life that shows no interest in turning whatsoever, it is a possible signifying that that person is a liar. And never really has put their faith in Jesus Christ. And it could be really both John is saying it could be both things. It could be that uh you are saved and you're not living right or that you're you've never have been saved and you need to to give your life to God. Um but if someone does not regard But in fact, this regards God's commandments. This may be an indication this person was just simply never saved to begin with. The more I obey in my heart, I'm speaking personally, the more I obey, the more assured I'm in my heart. The Bible says uses that word keep. It means guard continually, obedient in the heart, not perfect, but certainly a heart of obedience. guarding this thing, it means that at least I've got a heart's desire to obey God, not perfect, but according to verse um four, uh verse three and verse four, that I love God, that I want to obey him And because I'm willing to obey him, I'll be assured in my heart about salvation. And I'd also say verse number five, but whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God Perfected, hereby know we that we are in him. I think that's a short of our maturity Keep in that word in verse 5. Keep it is in the present tense. That means it's ongoing. That means that word was chosen specifically. That means that God is trying to communicate something. It's something the present tense ongoing. We need to keep regularly his commandments. John 14, 15. If ye love me, what? keep my commandments. You know, I I think it's amazing the difference between, and maybe you've met you've seen a situation like this, somebody just get saved. I'm thinking of somebody from my home church in Illinois right now Man, he got saved, and you talk about a change. It was like two different people. I'm talking between one Sunday and the very next Sunday. that kind of change. That he started visiting our church, had all long hair, and uh was involved in a lot of things. I won't even explain everything that he was involved in. But he he shared that to me in private. And it it wasn't, but two years after this guy got saved, he was headed off to Bible College. He's studying to be a missionary right now as we speak. And he took off reading his Bible every day. loving everything they had to do with God. But then I've also seen from my home church a lot of people that were sort of trying to put the wet blanket on them and say, whoa, settle down. And let's take it a little bit easy and uh you don't need to go so overboard you're gonna burn yourself out and that sort of thing. And there's a little tad bit of wisdom, but uh what I found uh observing these two different lives is someone saved two years as has almost seemingly more maturity than someone that's saved twenty years who just is kind of coasting along, maybe disobedient and has fallen into disobedience and just kind of lives and coasts along. You've seen that. But maturity, we're talking about um when we obey God It doesn't matter whether you're a babe in Christ or whether you've been saved for many years. Uh I like what the founder of Ambassador Baptist College, where I graduated from. He was a well-known evangelist and he said, Hey, guess what, student body? The foo the ground at the cross is level. So nobody's greater than and you could be a brand new Christian and you could still be assured of maturity. You could be someone 20 years old willing to deal with some things that you've allowed to creep into your life, and you can be come back come back and say, I want to be assured of this maturity. Do you delight to um Obey and serve God? Is it a delight of yours? That's kind of a sign of maturity. Obedience brings maturity. It's like a difference. We're not here yet with Asher, but when Asher eventually understands a little bit more of mommy and daddy's commands, um I'm sort of thinking that so some of you that already have parents Let's say, for example, you ask a son of yours to take out the trash, but you have to stay on him about taking out the trash. If you don't remind him he'll of course forget. If you aren't uh babysitting him each step of the way, he'll leave uh the the trash still in the kitchen, you know what I'm talking about, or a bag. He'll kinda leave over there not even caring. There'll be boxes over there that he's been told and week after week he's supposed to take those with the trash and he's supposed to bring that out. But it seems like somehow he magically forgets every week and finally you get him to take everything out after policing him and getting all over him and man you You f finally got him to do what he was supposed to do, and you thought, man, maybe I should have just done it myself. You know, there's a big difference between some child that acts like that and one that without you having told them, gets up before you even realize it. takes the trash out, does what's expected of him, and does not leave and try to take shortcuts and shirk his responsibility or anything like that. What a difference that is. And you know, I think God looks down and says, What a difference when my children are willing to not be hounded all the time. but just willing to live obedient. I can guarantee you one thing. The more you start being obedient, whatever God's speaking to your heart, you know, and the more you become obedient, you'll not doubt your salvation for one. like you see in a lot of Christianity, you'll be more confident in your salvation. But I think you'll be more assured of your maturity. You'll begin to uh mature up. But I have you noticed God's writing here, not only I believe if you live more obediently in your Christian life, will you have an assured heart, but I believe that you will have an abiding walk. An abiding walk. Look at verse 6. He that saith, He abideth in him, that's Christ, ought himself also to walk, even as he walked. Jesus Christ abideth. I love that term Abitah. The more I grow my Christian walk, the more I realize, God, I need Abidah. I need this. God's not nearly as interested. in what position you hold that church or ministry we are involved with, as he is with our abiding relationship. I think everything else will follow. You say, I can't believe Pastor Brett said that. I'm going to tell Pastor Leatherman when he comes back that he said that God doesn't care about all that we do around church. That's not it at all. But let's make the main thing the main thing. That what he's saying here is if you don't abide, it's it's nothing. It's for naught. That hits home for me. That's my life. I'm I'm up here preaching and this is I'm the live of the gospel and here you want to be involved, I'm sure. But John's saying that that stuff that you do, the position you hold, the name you have, and so forth amongst everybody here, that's not nearly as important as it is that abiding relationship, abiding in Christ. John is the same author that writes in John 15, 4, abide in me, and I in you. As a branch cannot, it's impossible to bear fruit of itself. Um it abides in the vine, so that no more can ye except ye abide in me. Ye have to be plugged into Jesus Christ When you live obediently, you are living an abiding life. You have an abiding walk. Not because I say so. John says that he that uh saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk, walking obediently. Jesus Christ Realize Christians that uh no new thing. Jesus Christ is our supply, our strength, our sustenance to bear the spiritual fruit. that you and I cannot bear on ourselves. Question, how is your fruitfulness? Fruitfulness in your life. Will people look at your life and say, boy, they're not only obedient, they're bearing fruit root that Christ is doing something in their lives. Do people think of your life, your testimony testimony that way? But I said abiding walk. So abide is a neat word, but walk. First Peter 2 21, you don't have to turn there, but he says, For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leading us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Ephesians 5. 1. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. Have you ever noticed? A little child following around a parent. I think it's really neat to see that. And the older Asher gets, the more he's walking around And uh you can ask Jen to um over there, it's it's almost as soon as I enter in the door. It's such an exciting thing that He'll want to just race right across from the room and just walk right next to me. If we're sitting in there, we're doing something. He'll just be near my leg or grab a toy and bring it over there. Why? Because a child just naturally kind of does that. A little boy will follow his daddy around. He'll put on daddy's shoes. He'll bump into the back of his leg. The word here, follow in in uh verse um in in Ephesians five one, it's actually the word mimiti or imitate. Sometimes that can get us in trouble though, can it, Dan? Where the the ch children will learn something or even moms. But for a Christian, it is a great thing. for you to follow around walking in the steps of your Savior and becoming more and more like him, imitating his every move, his every step. I've been challenging the teens, and I don't know, uh hopefully the teens have been challenged. But I've been challenged too. We've been studying the doctrine of Christ, and it's amazing that uh all that Jesus Christ went through And uh the more I study his life, the more I get out of it. The more he went through when he was crucified with us. And I'm finding little tidbits of examples, things that ought to affect my life more and more. And that's what God says that ought to happen for believers The more you obey him, you're gonna have an abiding walk. You'll abide in him, you'll walk with him, you'll learn different things that you never picked up in Sunday school, you never picked up in your Bible reading. You're just checking things out. And now all of a sudden these things come to life. It's the more that we obey, the more that we uh we have these things There was an evangelist who um was having people shouting in the meetings. We're not that quite that kind of church Although I don't mind it. But they were saying like, Hey man, praise God, come on. Uh that's right. Um i I think he even said that they said shake that bush. Maybe you heard that before. I've heard one really strange one that threw me one time I was preaching. Park it Park it, brother. Like what? Kind of park it? Okay. So I had to move on and was a little derailed by that. But what they were shouting carrying on this meeting with all these uh shouting going on. Um but It wasn't that this evangelist minded it so much, but he was just wondering what was what they were shouting about also what they were living So he actually formed a committee to watch the life of those that were shouting during the week of meetings. He wanted to see if their life match their shout. So if they could shout the um and then if the if they did if it did he would say you can shout this week. And I think it's an interesting way of doing things. But what he found sadly was that a lot of these people that were so vocal were living quite a different lifestyle than what they were shouting about. And it's uh you know it's not just Sundays or Wednesday nights but a daily walk with Christ is what it takes. And I wouldn't do what this evangelist necessarily did, but you know it it does sort of force us to realize, hey, am I something different on Sunday, Wednesdays? Am I Different around this crowd. But when we ob are obedient, I find this, that we have an abiding walk. We have an assured heart We have an abiding walk. So as I obey, first of all, there is that assurance. Second, there's that abiding. And then last, I think that we will have an affectionate life. tried to stick with the A's there, but if you want to somehow affection it and say a loving life. Look at verses number seven through eleven. He says, Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you. I'll explain that. But an old commandment which ye have heard from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning. Again, a new commandment I write unto you. Which thing is true in him and in you, because in the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now He that loveth his brother and abideth in the light, there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth Because that darkness has blinded his eyes. A loving life. So he's saying here that if you love me, you'll obey my commandments. You'll have an affectionate love. You'll love the supreme commandment here is Love your brethren. Love one another. Love each other. The commandment spoken of here is not in reference, though, and I did a little bit of research on this, is not in reference to the ten commandments Christ fulfilled the law. So he's not referring to the Ten Commandments. The commandments spoken of here in verses seven and verse eight. Here the commandments spoken of is to love one another. Not that we disregard the Ten Commandments. In fact, I think that if we got back to obeying the Ten Commandments, in this country that we wouldn't be in the mess that we are in today. But that's that's not what John is writing here, okay? Um he says that um but there is a supreme commandment Jesus is giving here And this commandment is to be have an affectionate or a loving life. And that's why it's referred to as an old command, um why it's referred to as an old commandment and as a new commandment. And I'll explain that because I was confused when I read that. I I don't write an old one unto you, I write a new one, but I don't write it this isn't a new one. This is actually an old one. There's a sense in which the co the old commandment Or this commandment is new because we are to love now based upon the love of Jesus Christ, which was evidenced at the cross of Calvary Not under the law because we have to. That's the key phrase. Under the law, because we have to. Rather, this commandment permeates from the grace of Jesus Christ. And that's why John's writing here, there is a sense in which this commandment is very old, but there's a sense in which it's also very new. John 13. 34 and 35. He says, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you, that ye also have love one to another. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if ye have love one for another. Here's what I find is that our English language has gotten mightily sloppy. One reason why I defend the King James Version of the Bible that we use is there was a standardized form of English at the time in which the King James Version was translated. That is, definition stuck, they meant certain things. If you had any question what a particular text was going to mean. It was no question at all. You just needed to look it up. And once it meant this, it always meant this. Whereas our language has kind of taken a morphology a little bit and now one person can say something but not necessarily mean that and words can be twisted and uh rested and all sorts of things that I don't particularly care for, but I'm thankful that when God defines love here, he he it's solidified, even though our culture taints, distorts, discuss really love. And so um I just wrote down something here about defining this love. the what it ought to look like in the Christians' life. And actually it's just ABCs of love is what I call it. But the first thing John points out just by including that word love is agape love. Alright, so A is agape love. Um and he's pointing out it's a deep spiritual love. Not just because of what God can give you, not just because the blessings God gives you, but a deep spiritual love. Um there's a it reminds me of a friend that I had in Bible college, he he had this phrase that he would say all the time. Um I I had it written down here. Oh, he would say something like he'd just start a statement, oh boy, uh Brother Bryant, I just love and fill in the blank. And he would say it just like that too. I could picture him saying, I just love and I mean it would be like in the cafeteria, I just love Mr. Dallas's beans. They are so good. I mean I'm telling you, they're good. You know. Or he would say like, Oh, brother Bra I love my pickup truck. Or uh he was actually got engaged while in college and he said, Oh, I just love my fiance and I sort of was like scratching my head, I was like, Man Yeah, he's lumping all the niggas. He loved the beans more than the pickup truck. Hopefully he loves the pickup truck more than he loves his or not more than he loves his fiancee and that sort of thing. But what was he doing? He was using that same word I Brother Bryant, I just love. I can picture him saying that. And he didn't really, hopefully he didn't mean the same sort of love. But you realize we toss that word around all the time And what does it really mean? John is not saying a superficial uh benefits kind of love. He's saying a sacrificial, he's saying a selfless kind of love, a deep spiritual kind of love. But he's not just saying a deep spiritual kind of love, agree kind of love. He's saying a burden bearing love. You gotta love one another. I found that you can't really uh love God supremely unless you're loving You want another a as well. You can't really be right with God if you've got this bif with somebody else or uh animosity in this relationship or someone I won't dare talk to. So you've got to um be have a burden bearing love, being willing to do things for other people. Galatians 6. 2. Bear ye one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Notice that he says the law of Christ. The old law was you love because you have to The new law law says this. My law says you love because you want to, because of what I've done for you. And I think that if we got more a hold of everything God's done for us, I think that would really help us to have that agape love. to be burden bearing. John 15, 10 through 13, if ye keep my commandments, ye abide in my love. This is John writing again, even as I've kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These have I spoken unto you, that your joy remain in you. and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down as life for his friends. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I have commanded you. Notice Jesus is not describing here, though, in in John's other book that he wrote, a conditional love. talking about uh love that um only when you obey my commandments then will I uh uh love you back in return. He's not describing his love as conditional, but rather as casual. And here's why I say that. That is the more you love Jesus, the more it will cause you to obey him. Jesus is simply saying here, I know that you're you are my friend. if ye obey me. So rather than having that sort of casual love or uh conditional love, Jesus is saying it's unconditional. It's um burden-bearing. How many Christians go around Saying, yes, I love Jesus. Maybe you've even seen that bumper sticker. I've seen it a lot of times that say honk if you love Jesus, it's not as popular now. But chances are that many of us would probably honk at that. We wouldn't have a problem with that. And I often thought we should make one that says maybe tithe if you love Jesus. You know, uh uh maybe pastor would appreciate that too, but there are millions of people that are clad to hung But unfortunately, don't do a whole lot more than that. And that's just the sad truth that um that's not the kind of love God Jesus Christ is pointing at. Not the kind of love that John had for his Savior And while John did have the benefit of walking and talking with Jesus, we have the benefit of living in the New Testament and reading all about the amazing things we have in Christ. And just if we're willing to be obedient. That's what I really kind of find out. If if we're just willing to obey. Um, there's a law that prohibits me from I hate to even say this from beating my wife, okay? Um I can't just treat her Any way I want because she wouldn't have it for one, but uh for two, you know, it's not gonna really go that well. But I can guarantee you that our relationship is far better with the understanding that I will treat, we'll treat each other right, not just because the law says so, but because we have that love There's a law that prohibits abuse of children, but it's far better to care for your children out of love than out of necessity. There's a law that prohibits murder, but it's far better to keep the law out of love. for fellow man than just because the law is gonna bust you for it. You see what I'm getting at, that while we do have a law to love God, to abide in Him, to be obedient, so that we have an assured heart, an abiding walk And um we we have these things in our lives. It's far better to uh to do it out of love, to be motivated out of love. That's what he's saying. Um the usual Baptist is, well, we we better go to church tonight. I've fallen into that. I better help the missionary out. He's so poor. Did you see his clothes? Unbelievable. I guess I better do something, you know, something like that. Um But God's saying the more we mature, the more we are obedient, uh the the more we mature in Christ, the more that We'll do those things out of love, not just out of simple duty. So uh not only uh agape love bear burden bearing love for each other, but I'd say consistent love. And I'd love to park it right here for a long time. I can't and I won't. But look at verse number nine. He that saith he is in the light and hateth His brother is in darkness even until now. I really feel like getting on a soapbox right now and saying something that I've noticed even in our movement today. Um and hopefully I'm not getting too controversial or offending anybody here, but this is just what I believe with all my heart that I'm seeing more and more divisive Christianity. Not just that we hold the right standards, but we do it in the most ugly way. There's a movement when we were the debate about Bible versions was huge and for some reason or another and I have an an idea why it's the case, but some reason or another, a lot in that movement, oh it's can only be the King James Rather than King James only, as they called themselves, a lot of people were looking out and saying, Boy, they are King James ugly. But you know why? They had a right stance, but with a very wrong attitude. Um the right position with the wrong disposition is just as wrong. You see that What John's getting at is saying, hey, Christian, you claim that you love God and you walk with God, but here you are ripping all over people because of your standards or because of the what you know to be right because of how God's grown you and matured you through your Many years you've known and walked with God, and then all of a sudden we look down and we treat other people like dirt or some sort of lesser person. And John say You better get right up off of that right now. God's not pleased with Jesus Christ is not pleased with. I don't care if you dot your T's and cross your uh uh dot your I's and cross your T's, exactly right. But um If you don't do it right with the right attitude, oh my, Jesus is very displeased. I firmly believe he would march down in this auditorium. saying the very same thing. Oh dear children, if you would not only believe the right things, but act the right way, having love toward another uh uh other people. And having not only the right position, but the also the right disposition, I agree that we should hate sin. I come from a very uh uh very terrible immoral. I was just talking to Karen about that this morning. My high school was very immoral, very uh debauched living and All sorts of things, drugs and homosexual homosexuality, all that was very prevalent. And it was very, very easy to begin just antagonistic toward everybody. Nobody believes the way that I do, so I'm just gonna shun them all and look down on them and that sort of thing. God says that's absolutely wrong. We are to hate sin. God hates sin. If you turn to Proverbs chapter 6, you don't have to do it. But I can give you a list of things that God hates. God hates pride in our life when we resist him. God hates a lying tongue. Um, not just to get yourself out of trouble, but just because God hates the shedding of innocent blood. I think the whole abortion industry is of the devil. And it's absolutely h it's hard to get any more against God. God does hate those things. It's okay, Christian. For you to begin hating things, even hating things in your own life, getting frustrated. God, I don't want this in my life. But it's okay to hate sin. Um how about um also Proverbs 6 says sowing discord That means we make maybe a mountain out of a mohell. Maybe we major on some of these standards that we have and oh so and so doesn't think like we do So they obviously can't be right with God and and next thing we know we're divisive and we're dividing against each other. No way in the world I would talk with that person because they deal with this person and they fellowship. with this person and oh I no I'm just going to separate from that because they don't think the same way that I do. And God says all that's wrong. There's a certain level of separation. That is okay. But when you're just sowing discord or you're talking about so-and-so, or that's kind of juicy uh for you to just sort of put that tidbit in there, oh did you say Hear that so-and-so uh believes this or thinks this way. God says that's sowing discord and he hates it. It's okay, Christian. to hate sin, hate sin in the church, hate sin in your life, hate sin in in the school system, hate sin in our country, politics. It is okay to hate sin. But here's the the kicker is that you can't hate the sinner. Jesus would never have died if that were the case. Translate that into my high school years. It's fine for me to hate. I'll just throw one out there, homosexuality. I think it pollutes people's minds and turns them away from the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that it is a form of living that is not only against the commandments of God, but against what very nature teaches you. And I have no problem expressing a disgust over the sin of homosexuality and its lifestyle, everything that goes along with it. However, I better not, before God, say that I hate today a homosexual. God says that is absolutely wrong. But I've got news for you. A lot of people are flooding, escaping, clawing their way out of churches today because of this detrimental, ugly, ungodly, unchrist-like spirit that is permeating I gotta be honest before God. A lot of our churches, God does not like it. Someone may not be where you're at or think exactly the way you do. You know what? Get over it and still love them anyway. That's not my commandment. That's the commandment Jesus Christ gives to his church. And you need to have that consistent love. Agape love, burden-bearing love for one another, consistent love. You know what happens when a Christian has hatred in his life? Three things take place. They live in darkness according to verse number nine. They don't see God working in their lives. Number two, they um they're not only live in darkness, but they're distracting. They cause stumbling to other people. It would be a sad shame if pe uh People were misled by your testimony. Could someone say about your life? I wrote this down. If that's what Christianity is all about, then I don't want it. That's what I'm finding when I call up some distraught peers of mine, some people that I graduated from school with. Um I transferred my senior year to a Christian school. So I graduated, end up graduating Christian school, and some of them are just leaving churches and and I get a hold of them, message them or whatever, well why are you doing that? And why all these people are are leaving Christianity, biblical Christianity, it still works by the way folks today. It's still plenty adequate for us today until the day Jesus Christ comes back. There's nothing wrong with this. It's just wrong with us. But um the when we we we do that is our life. turning other people away. Are we living in darkness, not observing God even working in our lives? Are we distracting or destructive? in our testimony for other people. I don't know about you. I want other people to see my life and be encouraged to give their life to Jesus Christ if they're not saved. or to live for Jesus if they are saved. I want people to see that in my life. And I I wrote down number three another consequence if if you're uh living this way, that um hatred in your life, I think that it's detrimental to other Christians. Verse 11 says, But he that hateth his brothers in darkness, walk in the darkness, knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness has blinded his eyes. He's all um hindered. He's slowed down in his growth. He's not living for God the way that he should. Um hate will cause slowed growth. We can't uh live that way. Um there was one church that I know of Where the pastor, it seemed like the longer he preached, the more frustrated he got. At first, when I observed this particular pastor and I'll I'll protect his testimony and so forth, but the the I observed this pastor and the messages slowly, at first they were very encouraging and loving and building up, but eventually they started taking on a little bit of criticism. a little bit of antagonism, a little bit of frustration, and soon it was just sort of barking out commandments of God. Soon it was, yes, preaching the Word of God, but sort of twisting it and it just seemed to take on a little bit of form of almost hint. not just for sin, but for the sinner. And I watched as that church was slowly started dying out. Were people still growing? Yeah, I've talked to several in the the particular congregation, and they are still growing in their walk But the problem is, is when that kind of atmosphere takes place, whether at church or at home or in your um uh your own personal life, your family, however you carry things out. If that sort of negativity keeps plaguing you, then it's at least going to slow that growth down. God's saying that when you obey me, you'll have an affectionate life, a loving life, that you'll not have this hatred. toward one another. You know, that is just it's so sad to see Christianity with all these bullet holes and broken and shards, like a dilapidated house in desperate need of repairs. I think a good start would be to say, God, I want to obey in my life. I want confidence through obedience. I want to live Right. I want to obey where I know how to and have an assured heart. Have this uh affectionate heart and and um be a assured of these things and to live for God and and to be loving toward one another, I think that's a good place to begin repairing the state of Christianity today, maybe even some problems that you've observed in in church. Every church has them. Even here, where you'd say, God, I want to live more obediently. As I am obedient to his commands, as I conclude here. I'm assured in my heart. I'm abiding in my walk. I'm loving in my life. I'll finish with this. There's a story about a very rebellious son He was only a child from uh he was an only child from a very wealthy family, and because his parents um had him later in life, and from what I read, after they were told they could not have children, they wanted to dote upon him as much as possible. In other words, they kind of wanted to spoil him. But as the son grew, more and more he became ungrateful and had an entitled mentality. It seemed like every rule that Mom and Dad made or boundary they set because they loved him, he would go out of his way just to break that particular rule. When he was old enough, he left his house and he got into some legal trouble. He would go from place to place trying to avoid the authorities. When he finally moved several states away, he thought that he was rid of his parents He had not seen his parents nor talked with his parents since the day he left that house. Several states away he thought thought that he was finally rid of not only his parents, the authorities, no one would catch up to him. He gets something into the mail. that's summoning summoning him to court in his hometown. He thought, great, I thought that I avoided this He decided to move a little bit farther and give nobody his address. Another notice came and was somehow forwarded to his current address. Same thing. I'm summoning we're summoning you to court. Please appear at court. And it gave the date. Because of his disobedient it's not only to his parents and to the law, he all he knew to do was just keep running away and and keep running away till finally Um he decided because several friends told him, you probably better uh appear before court. And um he He ended up uh trying to get back to court but missed his court date and so he thought he was going to be in big trouble. And so since he was in town anyway, he thought he'd visit his parents. He got to where his parents lived. Nobody was there. He poked around a little bit without trying to be too noticed and discovered that his parents passed away, both of them in a car accident. Gone. So now he was troubled and felt somewhat bad about ignoring them and being so disobedient. And so he actually went to the police station, asked what happened, and went to the courthouse, come to find out they weren't calling him to court to charge him with any sort of crimes he had committed. They were wanting to give the inheritance his parents had left him. and would have gotten them all out of all this legal trouble, but because he failed to appear the third time, he forfeited it to the It reminds me that as Christians we've got a loving Father in heaven. Who wants to bless us, be there for us. He wants these things to be true in our lives, to have these things to be true, but because we're living disobedient, running from him. These things aren't true in our life. So how about it? Let me ask again. Are you living obedient to his commandments and do you have that assurance in your heart, the abiding walk? loving in your life. If you're lacking these things, it's it means either one of two things. Either you need salvation, God to save you, take your sin away, give you a relationship. That's where it's got to start. Or it could be for a Christian to just simply trust and obey, sort of like the song says. I'd encourage you, either category that you find yourself in, that you would do business with God. Father in heaven I thank you so much for your word once again. And we pray humbly that you would speak to us. And I have no doubt that you have spoken to many people in this room this morning. I pray that if there's somebody in here that is concerned about their need for salvation, that they would Perhaps swallow pride and just be willing to give their life to you. Lord, we would rejoice with anybody who'd want to come to Christ. I pray for Christians in here this morning that have sensed through the Holy Spirit that they have allowed disobedience in their life. life and maybe symptomatically they're noticing that they don't have an assured heart and uh uh these things in their life that there there's something missing. That s uh they don't have that abiding walk. They don't have that love in their life. Something is just not right. I pray that they would deal with that before I finish in prayer. Let me ask a couple simple questions. Question number one. Please be honest before God. In fact, this is between you and God. Is who would say. . God, I am not sure that I'm on my way to heaven, that Jesus Christ has forgiven my sins, and I'm concerned about that. Would you just raise your hand? You can put it up, put it back down. I'll pray for you. I'm not going to point you out, but if if that's you this morning and you say, Pastor Brett, before I could have these things, that confidence through obedience, I first need to uh to come to grips that I need Jesus Christ in my life. Is there anybody like that that has yet to give their life to Christ that we could uh pray for you and perhaps even a little bit later show you anybody? I don't see any hands. Somebody asked question number two. How about for you, child of God, you'd say, God, there maybe is one area, maybe multiple areas where I've not been obedient. You know, plain and simple. We teach our children in utter simplicity. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe Or trust and obey for there's no other way. Oh bless God, I know that. But you'd say, God, plain and simple, you know there's an area of disobedience I'm lacking some of these things that we discussed this morning, that 1 John talks about, that Pastor Brett mentioned this morning. If God spoke into your heart that way, child of God, would you just raise your hand so that I know and I can pray with you? Maybe you're uh praying already. Good. Good, several around the room. And I appreciate you being honest. I tell you what, if I'm honest before God, God spoke into my heart Here's what I'd encourage you to do is I'll pray for those that raise their hand, then Miss Jennifer will play the piano, and I'd encourage you to um to just respond as God spoke here. Let's stand and we'll pray and then you respond. Heavenly Father, I pray that as you've spoken to hearts this morning, that we would just be so willing to just get right with you and be right and know that we are right, that there is nothing between. We're operating as we have a formal invitation, that it wouldn't just be a formality that we would learn competence through obedience in our Christian walk. Dear God, I pray that you'd help your children to make the appropriate changes that they need to make in the moment. moments ahead. We ask in Christ's name, Amen. As