It's actually one of my uh favorite songs, complete in the when I think about it. Man, we are. We're I mean because of Christ, we we we're we we're complete in him. It's just a it's I just love that song. Philippians chapter one, and we read verses one through six. I'm going to read verse six again. And then the message this morning that I've entitled Confidence in Christ. Confidence in Christ. Verse 6 said, Being confident of this very thing. And he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Heavenly Father, Lord, I love you this morning. I thank you for everything you've done for us. I thank you for loving us. Lord, I just ask that you would bless the service this morning. Lord, I ask that you would preach this morning and hide me behind you. Lord, help me just to get out of the way so that your word can bring forth fruit. Lord, um as I think about confidence, Lord, and I think about the confidence we have in you, Lord, it brings me joy. And the song that they just sang, Lord, how it goes right along with the message, Lord, only you can do that. Lord, I thank you for everything you've done for us, Lord. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. What I plan on doing for the next um month, we are I've mentioned that Pastor's going to be gone for three weeks. So for the next three weeks, I've talked with Pastor about this, and he was all for it. We are going to go through the book of Philippians. via Sunday morning, Sunday night messages, and we're going to just do a study and dive right into the book of Philippians. There's four chapters in the book. And I'll be doing five sermons from the book of Philippians, one for each chapter, hopefully, and then at the end of the month we'll just kind of summarize what the whole book's about And um I'm having fun studying this, to be honest with you. I I I'm I'm really enjoying this um and I've learned a lot. Um From this book and the events surrounding it and things like that. So there's some groundwork we're going to cover here this morning that'll kind of set um set the set the tone for what we're going to be studying for the next few weeks. The book of Philippians was written by the Apostle Paul. Paul was the one that wrote this. We see that in the very first verse here of the book. Now let's think about this for a second. Who was Paul? We know before he was saved, he was Saul. And let's just let this sink in a minute: who this is? In um First Timothy, and you can turn there if you want, First Timothy chapter uh number one Paul says a little bit about himself, and in verse 12 through 15, he describes himself here. Let me turn there real quick. I don't want to misquote anything. Now one second. First Timothy chapter one, verse twelve, Paul saying, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me in the ministry. Verse 13: Who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and jurious? But I obtained mercy because I did it ignorant ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying, worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief Paul's making the statement that I was the worst of the bunch. And we understand before he was saved, he he was rough. Not to go into too much detail, this is who Saul was, who Paul was. He was uh born in uh Tarsus, which was a city in Cilicia, and the significance of that was he was born a Roman citizen. So he was born Jew, he was born Roman, so this gave him certain privileges that came along with being that citizen. But that citizenship was not as common as we think it might be. Um like today and things like that. But this meant this was basically a passport to where he could travel wherever he wanted, and we see where God used that in his ministry. Um and he had certain privileges, certain taxes he didn't have to pay because he was a Roman citizen. But other than that, he was a Pharisee. He claimed to be a Pharisee, and again, he was one of the worst of the bunch. We understand this, he hated Christians. And it was his mission to eradicate Christianity from off the face of the earth. And he hated Christians. And we can um for sake of time, we're not going to go to every single passage, but he admits to Killing men, women, and children, the like, and then arresting them and torturing them. And he thought he was doing God a service by doing this, but the bottom line was he hated those that were of that way, referring to us. He did not like us. Of course then we know Jesus showed up and everything changed. Um he was he got letters uh from from of permission from the the Sanhedrin Which um um we we know they had it was like a religious sect that had their own military and things like that, their own police force I guess you could say But he got permission legally to go to Damascus and to arrest more Christians and take them off to jail. And on the road to Damascus, just to summarize a story, we understand, he got saved. The bright light shone from heaven, and Jesus said, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? He said, Who art thou, Lord? It said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It's hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And then we understand that Saul trusted Christ and then was baptized. And everything changed. And I know I'm summarizing a lot real quick because I want to get into the meat of chapter 1 this morning as well. But it just amazes me how God can take someone like Saul and turn him into someone like Paul. And that's what the gospel does. It changes people. It transforms us. A lot of times we try to come up with excuses on why we can't do things for the Lord. Well, if anyone couldn't do things for the Lord, it'd be the one that went around killing Christians, but no God used them And so a lot of times we think, oh, look at the things I've done in my past, look at sins I've committed. There's no way I could do anything for Christ. Well, yeah, you can I mean i i uh it's just like there's no one so bad that they can't be saved. There's no one so bad that God can't now use them. And God wants to use you. Well, you don't understand what I've done. Oh, I don't. But I know that God wants to forgive and wants to move on and use you. God uses sinners. God uses sinners. And I think it's amazing how he can go from a persecutor, a blasphemer, injurious by his own admission. And go on to be one of the greatest missionaries we've ever seen, probably the greatest missionary. Planted all these churches. We're here as a result of his ministry to the Gentiles, and so on I mean God can take someone like Saul and make him someone like Paul. This is amazing to me. But that's what he does. That's what the gospel will do. And it's wonderful. Now he's written a large portion of the New Testament. And if God can take someone like Saul and use him, then you better believe that God can take someone like you and use you. And he wants to. So that's who wrote Philippians, who penned it down. And it's an amazing thing that God will use sinners. We look at Paul as one of the greatest Christians that ever lived, and what did he say about himself? I'm the chief of sinners. If God can take the chief of sinners, he can take any of us and use us. You can use he can use you to lead people to the Lord. He can use you to minister to others and so on. And for sake of time we'll just move on from that. But I guess what I wanted to say there was don't s think that God can't use you. Yes, he can. So who wrote Philippians? Paul, the Apostle Paul. Who was it written to? Well, the Philippians, the church Philippi I did some studying here. Philippi, this is an interesting city. This was also a Roman colony. So there were certain privileges that came along with that. The Philippians were Roman citizens. A Roman colony that was started in Eastern Europe, known as Macedonia. Go ahead and turn to Acts 16. We're going to be looking at that for a few minutes here. Acts 16. This is when Paul Shows up in Macedonia and Philippi. So while you're turning there, Phili Philippi was a Roman colony started in Eastern Europe. And from what I have researched, this is what I have found. Philippi was under the rule of Macedonia and um they didn't like it. They wanted to be controlled by Rome instead. And during this process, Rome was on a campaign trying to take over the world. That was kind of their thing. They wanted to control the world. And as they're going towards Macedonia, conquering Eastern Europe and things like that, they come up to Philippi and they ran out of salt. And salt was one of the ways they paid the Roman soldiers. And so they ran out of ways to pay the Roman soldiers. So the Roman soldiers kind of almost went on strike, I guess you could call it that. And uh so Philippi said, Well, we kind of want you to come take us because we don't like who's ruling us now. So they, from their own resources, paid the Roman soldiers. They paid Rome to come and conquer them. So they did. And as a result, uh the the emperor was like, hey, thank you. You're now a colony and you're all citizens and the privileges that go with that. So it's kind of amazing, actually. So as a result, Philippi turned into almost like a a a a little Rome, and that was one of its nicknames, little Rome Um a lot of because it was a Roman colony, or a lot of Roman soldiers would retire there, um a lot of Romans would live there. Um Roman culture was adapted, um a and and and things like this, and and it became a little Rome. And so the Philippians almost became kind of arrogant because they were better than everyone else, and they were better off. Because understand everything everyone else that Rome conquered they didn't get the privilege of being a colony. They didn't get the Roman citizenship that went along with it, but Philippi did. So they were kind of better off than everyone else around them. So they paid Rome off, and Rome conquered them and so on, and eventually became known as Little Rome. So in Acts chapter 16 We see this famous passage, or this famous verse, where Paul has what we call the Macedonian call, the Macedonian vision. Verse 9 of Acts 16. It says, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. So while Paul is sleeping, he has a vision, he has a dream, um that he has to go to Macedonia, so that's what he does. This uh church and acts 16 in Philippi was a result of the Macedonian call. So as he goes there, verse 12, we see where he goes into Philippi. And we see his first convert in verse 14. Remember Lydia, the cellar of purple, and a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple of the city of Thyratira, which worshipped God, heard us whose heart the Lord opened, then she attended to things which Paul were spoken of. And in the next verse we see where her household gets saved as well. So this was the first person that Paul reached while he was there. The second person was the damsel that was possessed with the Spirit. In verse 16, she was basically a fortune-teller. And for time's sake, we're just going to kind of speed through this. And then there is the the next convert which was famous in the city of Philippi The Paul and Silas, remember, were in the jail. The reason they were thrown in jail was because of the result of them uh winning this uh damsel possessed with the spirit to the Lord. So they're in jail and they um they sing praises, the remember the shackles fell off and all that kind of stuff. And then the um Philippian jailer He's about to kill himself because he sees the doors open. He thinks everyone's gone. They call out and they stop him. And then verse 31, a very, very famous verse of Acts 16, I believe it's 31. Verse 30. He said it brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? May say believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thine house. So we see that this church here is made up of a very, very diverse group of people already, right at the start. Uh we see uh a businesswoman and her family are saved. We see um a a girl that used to be a fortune teller She was possessed with the Spirit, now she's part of the church. A Roman jailer is now part of the church. It's a very diverse group of people. This is the church that he's writing to, these people. The Philippians And I think this is very interesting. The church is made up of all of this diverse group of people, and that's just like any other churches I mean we could look at each person in here and we're all totally different. We have different uh we have different occupations, we have different hobbies, we have different personalities, we have different backgrounds We're all different. And can I say this way, if it wasn't for Jesus Christ, we probably wouldn't be coming together right now. In fact, I know we wouldn't. So what is the what is this church of Philippi? It's a bunch of different saints from different backgrounds. They get saved, they come together for the purpose of worshiping Christ and re and reaching others. That's what we are. So yes, the book of Philippians was written um 62 or 61, something like that. But it really does apply to us because it's a church just like us. It's a church just like ours made up of a bunch of different people For the same purpose, and that is to glorify God, glorify Christ, and win others for uh for him. We understand this. So I think it's pretty cool that God can take randomness and build structure And that's what he did with Philippi. That's what he did with the church at Philippi, the Philippians. He took randomness and built structure, and that's what he's done here as well. Randomness and built structure. So who wrote it? Apostle Paul. Who was it written to? The church at Philippi, the Philippians. And when was it written? Somewhere between 61-62 A. D. And this is while Paul was in jail. This is near the end of his imprisonment. So think about this. We know who's written this, we know who's writing too, but think about where he is while he's writing this stuff. He's in jail. It wasn't a w Roman jails weren't a walk in the park. Okay? I would not want to be in one. They were not joyous places. They were very dark and not pleasant. I think it'd be hard for me to try to write something like this while I'm there. But you know what Paul did? He overcome his circumstances and served God anyway. And he could have sat in the jail in Salt and said, Oh, woe is me. I was trying to l live for the Lord and here I am. But no, he said, regardless of my circumstances, I'm going to live for the Lord anyway. God used him to write this epistle. This was known as one of the four prison epistles. Named because he wrote them while he was in prison. The others are Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon. And it was thought And I and from everything I read, no one could prove this, but they th th they think that Philippians was the last one penned of those four books. Oftentimes we look at circumstances as an excuse not to serve God, but we really have no excuse when we think of all the work Paul did while he was still in prison. writing um these uh epistles while he's waiting to be executed. So the theme of the book of Philippians is this. Joy. Joy is the overwhelming theme of the book of Philippians. He starts right out with it In verse 4, always in every prayer of mine, for you all making request with joy. Remember, where is he? Roman jail. We can have joy no matter where we're at. Joy is a decision Joy is not based off of circumstances and what happens. Happiness is based off of what happens. Joy is a decision. And he's making the statement, Joy's a decision. Hi Joy. I was going to pick on you at some point this morning. Joy is a decision. And we can choose to have joy or to not have joy. I don't know about you, but I'd rather have the joy of the Lord than be miserable all the time. And the overwhelming theme of this book is the joy that he has. And this when he thinks about this church When he thinks about Lydia, when he thinks about the the girl that used to be possessed, when he thinks about the jailer and so on, he can't help but have joy for these people He has joy for these people. He has joy in the Lord. And one of the more famous verses from this book is towards the end of the book when he's summarizing everything he's written. Verse 4 of chapter 4, he says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say rejoice. All way. He has the attitude that I am going to have joy regardless of the circumstances. Yes, I'm in jail. Yes, I'm in prison. It doesn't look good, but I have joy because I know whom I've believed in. And I'm persuaded he is able to keep that which I've commanded to him against that day. He has joy. And if we're not careful, we'll have mooth swings and our emotions will go up and down all the time because we base our happiness based off of what happens rather than having joy So that is the overwhelming theme of the book. And my prayer is this while I was studying this and preparing My prayer is this: that after we finish going through this book, we can look back and say, Yes, because of Christ I have joy. And if we don't get anything else out of the next three weeks, I pray we get this. You know what? I will rejoice in the Lord. Always. And again, I say I'm going to rejoice. Because we have of all people, we have something to rejoice about. I mean re-rejoice. So that is the theme of the book. Now we're going to get into chapter one. Chapter 1. The overwhelming theme of the book is joy. And in chapter 1, I see confidence. Confidence. You know, because we are confident in what Christ has said, we can have joy. Because we are confident of the fact that if Christ says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and we've called on him, because we are confident of that, we can have joy that we will go to heaven. And so many other applications for that. But the overwhelming um the overwhelming theme of the book is joy, and in chapter one, I see confidence that Paul has. Starts out in verse 6, and this whole chapter just screams confidence. In your homework for this week, is to read chapter 1. Verse 6, he says, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Verse 6 screams confidence. Verse 14. And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold. Again, confidence. Verse 21. For me to live is Christ, for me to die is gain. Confident of these facts. Verse 25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you For your furtherance and joy. And if you just take these four verses, you see the confidence. But if you read the chapter as a whole, you see Paul's got some confidence here He has overwhelming confidence. And understand this: there are a lot of times we will place confidence in someone or something that we probably shouldn't place confidence in. I don't know if you've figured this out yet, but if you place your confidence in a person, they will let you down. I love you guys, and I mean that with all my heart, but I am a human. And if you placed your confidence in me, I will let you down. But if we place our confidence in Christ, He will never let us down. Of all things that we can be confident, my goodness, we can be confident in Christ. And verse 6, we see this overwhelmingly. Verse 6: being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. We can have confidence in Christ today. We can have confidence that he says what he means and he means what he says. Again, many times we'll place our things and place our confidence in things we're not sure of. But if there's one thing we can be sure of, we can be sure of Christ. And his word. If we'll place our confidence in God and in God's book, those that that will not let us down. God will not let us down. He's the only one who will uh never let us down 100% of the time we can trust in Christ. What is he confident in? He's confident that God had started a work. That's salvation. Verse 6: being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you. Alright, let's think here. When did he begin the work in us? When we were saved. When we trusted him as our Savior, he came in and lived inside of us. And he began a work. He's still doing it. He's still working. But I am confident of the fact That he began. He started. I'm confident of the fact that he did save me. Why am I confident of this? Because he said so, and I know I can be a hundred percent confident in him. One of the things we we teach the teens in the Soul Winners Club is the Romans Road. You all are familiar with it. Romans 10:13 says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That word shall is the strongest word in the English dictionary to say that something is so. And if there is anything I am confident of, I am confident of the fact that when I trusted Christ as my Savior, He saved me. And I'm confident of that. And I can be just as confident that he is still working in me. Just like he began a good work, and I'm thankful he did, I am confident of the fact that he is still working. Remember that song, He's Still Working on Me? Make I thought you're still working on me. There's things we struggle with, right? One of mine, I'll just tell you, it's patience. I don't have much. He's still working on me. You know, one day I will be perfectly patient. I am confident of this fact. He started the work. He's still working on me, but he will perform it. And one day I will be perfect. While I'm here, nope. But the idea is that I am becoming more like him because I want him to be working in me And as you let God work in you, you will become more like him, and one day he'll be done when you get to heaven. Are we confident of this? Amen. I love this verse. Verse 6: being confident of this very thing, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it. We'll perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Confident that God started working on us, confident that He's working on us now. He does this many different ways. God will work on us by using his word. This is the primary way. Understand this. If you want God to speak to you, then you read his word. I had someone tell me, well I want to hear God's voice audibly. I want to hear God's word audibly. I said, read the Bible out loud then. Because that is God's word. And He will speak to you as you read it So he'll speak to you through his word. God will work on you via teachers, mentors. He'll use tools like the local church We ought to go to church. I think that's obvious. A lot of times they'll use trials to work on us. He'll allow things to happen to us. Think about Job. Remember him? He said, I look to the left, look to the right, look in front of me, behind me. I'm summarizing it. I know. He says I don't know what's going on, but I know that he knoweth the way that I take, and when he hath tried me I shall come forth as gold. Remember that One of the ways God will work on you, we're like, oh yeah, I'm confident he saved me. I'm confident he's working on me now. One way he'll do that to get you there is allow trials to come. Hard things to come. And then some people will say, oh well, what did you do wrong? Well, maybe nothing. Maybe he's just trying to work on you a little bit. And while he is, we can be confident that he's going to use it. Why are these things happening to me? I don't know. But all things do work together for good. He'll find a way to use what that negative circumstance to make you more like him. Confidence. So, here are three points of application we can draw from this text and everything else we've learned. Think about everything we've looked at this morning. Who wrote the book? Paul, who was it written to, that church at Philippi. That is delicious. Oh. Nothing like cold water. Looking at everything we looked today, there are some things I think you and I can be confident about. First off, because of Paul's confidence. We can be confident that God can save anybody. God can save anybody If God can save Saul, God can save that person you've been praying for. Well there's they're just too far gone. Are they a mass murderer? Like Saul was? God saved him. I mean, we could go on down the list. As long as they are breathing, we should still be praying. As long as they are alive, we should still be witnessing to them. If God can save Saul and make him a Paul, then God can save that family member that you've been wanting to see saved. I've talked to people, we've gone out door knocking in via other places, and I've said I've heard people say, Well that's good and all, but I'm just too far gone. No, you're not. If God can save Saul, he can save anybody. And he made the statement in 1 Timothy where he said that he showed forth a pattern of God's long suffering and mercy. Paul's saying, I'm the example of what God can do in someone's life. So we can be confident that, yes, it God does want to save that person we've been praying for. And he can. And we need to be confident that God can save anybody, but we also need to be confident that God can use anybody. And God wants to use you. A lot of times we think, oh yeah, these young people, they got a life ahead of them. They need to surrender their life to God, and they do, and I agree. But God wants to use more than just young people. Doesn't matter your age, God wants to use you. God has a job he wants you to do. He has a part of the body he wants you to fill. He has a ministry for you to work. If if Saul's a if Paul's an example of anything, it's that God can use anybody, and we can be confident of this. Yeah, he can begin to work, but yeah, he can keep perfor he can perform it. He'll keep working on us. So we can be confident that God can work in our lives, God can change us. We can be confident that that person we've been praying for, that God will change them, but God can change them. And this is one I like. I like all of them, but this one's really cool. We can be confident in the gospel and that it will embolden us to preach God's word without fear. Look at verse in Philippians. Look at verse 13. Remember where Paul is. Remember what he's gone through Verse 13 says, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all place, in all the place, and in all other places. And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold. To speak the word without fear. That word or that phrase, much more bold, who is it that he's talking about? It's not himself, but it's the other Christians. The brother the other brethren. Understand this confidence is contagious. Paul was confident. And it rubbed off on the believers. They saw what he was going through, and they said, Man, if he's that confident of Christ, if he's willing to go through all that, I'm going to be more bold in my witness. Can't it be scary to share the gospel? Yeah, we can be a little intimidated sometime, but can I tell you, we don't have to be When we go to share the gospel with that family member that we've been praying for, we can have confidence In that message we're sharing, understand we are not the ones that are responsible for saving people. Are we responsible to share? Yeah. But where does the power of God come from? From me? No. Romans 1:16: I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. I'm not confident in myself. And one thing we try to uh to teach in the in the soul winning class is we're we are not confident in ourselves But we are confident in Christ and we are confident in the gospel and that is the power of God unto salvation We can have confidence not in ourselves, but in Christ and in the gospel. How did Paul go through what he went through and still preach? Because he was confident in the gospel. How can we handle difficult circumstances that we have? Because we can be confident that God can get us through it. I think everyone knows this. There's a lot of hurting people in our church right now. But we can be confident. In Christ. In his word. And we can be confident that he will get us through this. He's working in us In one day you c I'm confident he'll be done working. So That's kind of the gist of chapter one. Obviously, there is a lot more in it. Verse 21 talks about the conversation as it became of the gospel in Christ, how we ought to live. We ought to live. um in a way that uh lives out the gospel and things like this. And the verse 9 talks about prayer. There's a lot in it, but if there's anything that I gather as a whole from it, is that we can be confident in Christ. I don't know about you, but I want this confidence that Paul's got. I want this boldness that he had and that other people had as a result of the boldness that he had. We can be confident that he which hath begun a good work in us will perform it to the day of Jesus Christ. Heads bowed, eyes closed, and I want to look around for just a moment. If you could stand, please. We could stand to our feet. Again, heads bowed, eyes closed for just a moment, please. One of the first things I mentioned is that we can be confident That he will save us if we call on him. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Say, Pastor Matt, I don't know that I've ever done that. I don't know for sure that I am saved, but I sure would like for you to pray for me. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. But I'd like to know, could you pray for me? If that's you, could you raise your hand? No one's looking. I just want to pray for you. Pastor Man, I'm not sure I'm saved, but I'm concerned about it. Could you raise your hand? Thank you. Now let me ask you this, still no one looking for just a moment. How many of you would say, you know what, to be honest with you, my confidence in Christ has been lacking? And God has spoken to my heart today. And I realize I can be confident in Him. That's you and you say, God spoke to my heart today. Could you just slip your hand up so I can pray for you? Hey, my hand's up. Amen. You may put your hands down. Now, I'm not sure how God spoke to your heart this morning. A little bit of a different message, as in most of it was just kind of laying the overview of the book. But how if God spoke to your heart in any way, when sh when she starts playing the piano, it's a good time to come and do business with God Maybe you want to tell God, you know what? I want this confidence that Paul has. Help me to trust you through circumstances, whatever it might be. God spoke to your heart about anything. When she starts playing, the altar is open.