And uh while you're turning there I'll have my wife stand if she would please I'm delighted to have her with me. The last time I was here, I believe she wasn't able to be here. Neither one of us were able to be here the last time that we were scheduled to be here. But Dee, would you stand please? Uh I'm Dan, that's Dee, and that makes us The dandy couple. I appreciate her and buy what she has to put up with. Psalm chapter 57, David is actually running from Saul, and he finds himself in a cave. And he gives us some of the experiences and enlightens us to some of the feelings that he had while he was in that cave and the trouble that he was faced with. I I couldn't help but think as we sung that song this morning, I am blessed, that some of you really couldn't sing that with a lot of rulebust Some of you couldn't sing that with a lot of enthusiasm. Some of you couldn't sing that this morning with a lot of zeal. You might have lived the words, but you're not living the truth. And do you know why? There's some calamity that is in your way. There's some trial. There's some hurt. There's something in your life that is taking the joy and robbing you of those full and wonderful blessings that God has for you. David makes reference to that in verse number one. Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge. Until these calamities be overpassed. I want to bring a message from this portion of Scripture this morning on conquering calamities. We all have them. We all experience them. We go through those dry and lonely and difficult times in our life when calamities come our way. But What do we do when they get there? How do we handle them? How do we overcome them? What provision has God made that we can literally sing, irregardless of the circumstance, irregardless of the surrounding, irregardless of the trial, irregardless of the trouble we might be in? How can we honestly sing I am blessed and to recognize those blessings that God gives to us? I'm sure that you would agree with me this morning that every day of our lives we are blessed. I feel a shout coming on right now. I mean, we are blessed people. If you're able to breathe this morning, you're blessed. If you're able to see this morning, you are blessed. If you're able to sit up to the table and take nourishment, you are blessed. If you're able to make your way to the house of the Lord and to be among God's people and and you have a friend, a spouse, uh somebody sitting by you. That you know you are blessed. You're blessed. We need to recognize those blessings, but sometimes, just like driving in yesterday. And and the the storms rolling and the fog setting in, things get a little bit blurry, and we fail to see really what God is doing. How do you conquer those times? Let's bow hearts together in prayer. I'll bring the message the Lord has laid upon thy heart. Loving Father, we thank you for this day, this special day, this wonderful day. that you've given to us. And as this Sword of the Lord conference continues this morning and tonight and tomorrow and Tuesday, if you carry your coming, I pray that these will be days that our hearts are stirred. That indeed revival would set into our souls, that we'd be drawn closer to you, and that we'd be more firm in our conviction and uh more steady in our service and more dependable on what we do for you, Lord, that it might be to your honor and to your glory. Lord, you know how frail we are, how weak we are. And I just pray that you would strengthen us by your Spirit, with your Spirit, through your Spirit. That the Lord Jesus would be exalted, and that you would have your will and way in our life. You know the heart of every person sitting in this auditorium this morning You know the the hurts that they have. You know the feelings that have been bruised. You know, dear Lord the trials that they have encountered. You know the calamities that they are faced with And I pray that something would be said today that would clear the flaw fog and remove the mist and let us see the bright and glorious blessings that you have for us. I pray, Lord, that we would rejoice in those blessings and surrender our all to you that we might be effective in your service. Save the lost, I pray Encourage and bless your children, and we'll be careful to thank you and praise you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. David is going through a calamity in his life, running from Saul, away from his comfort zone, away from his kingdom. Away from the people that he loved, away from his family, and here, all alone in a cave in that time of calamity, he begins to write to us and share some of his experience When he refers to a calamity in this passage of scripture, he's talking about a serious event that invades our comfort zones. He's talking about something that comes your way that makes everything kind of cloudy and misty and you can't really clearly see the way things ought to be. We're talking about something that is marked with terrible loss. Something that is lasting and devastating in our life. Something that we really don't with open arms welcome into our lives. A calamity. A calamity. Those of you that are Bible students, and I'm sure that you've heard it in your Bible Institute here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, uh, is the principle of first mention in the scripture And the first time that you find the word calamity in the Bible is in Job chapter 6 and verse number 2, when he talks about these calamities passing by. He was trying to talk to those that were counseling him, and he was referring to these calamities that he had in life. Now, remember, Job was the one that lost everything. Job was the one that heard the devastating news that his sheep were gone, his oxen were gone, his servants were gone, and then his sons and his daughters were gone. And then a wife that stood by them and said, Curse God and die. What a calamitous time it was in the life of Job. And so we get an idea of what this word calamity really means. It means something that is devastating. It means something that is overwhelming in our life, something that burdens us down and breaks our hearts and makes us cloudy in the walk that we have. Something that just because I'm saved, there'll never be a hardship. Am I right? I don't understand this preacher. I'm I'm trying to live for God, I'm trying to serve God, I'm trying to do what's right I I give and I attend and I serve but why why do these bad things happen in my life? And and and those that try to convince us that that life as a Christian has no hazardous times and has no difficult times. They don't know what the Bible really teaches. We're in devil territory. We're in enemy territory, and we are in a war, and there's going to be casualties, and there's going to be wounds, and there's going to be hardships. The Lord Jesus Himself said, In the world, ye shall have tribulation. That's what Jesus said. Not only that, but Paul said, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall not might, could, they shall suffer persecution. Paul in his missionary journeys and early in the book of Acts, the Bible says, continuing in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom. And so there's tragedies that come our way. There's heartaches that come our way. And if if you want the most out of this conference. You want to get the most out of every day. You want the sun to be shining in your life, irregardless of what you might be going through, irregardless of what you might be faced with, then you're going to have to learn how to conquer calamity. Conquer calamities. The first thing that I see in this passage of Scripture is contrition. If you're going to conquer calamities, you're going to have to have contrition. The Bible says in verse number one, be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me. Do you know what David was saying? Lord, I need you to be kind to me. I need you to be gracious to me. I need you to be understanding to me. Did you ever feel like that? The road that you were traveling and the hurt that you were experiencing, the feelings that were bruised, have you ever said and cried out to God, Lord? I need you. I need you to be kind and gracious and merciful to me. Lord, I need your help. I need you to be tender toward me. You know, God always rewards humility. It's the proud and the arrogant and the bolster that God rejects and refuses, but it's the humble that he rewards. I've met some very proud people, have you? I mean it doesn't take long to be around them. You you you you kinda look at the sports world and boy you see real pride there. Uh you you just let them win the Super Bowl and see what happens Or you let them run the the longest touchdown that has ever been scored and look what happens. Uh you see them win the World Series or hit the home run or or be the MVP of the league and And boy, all of a sudden, you've got boastful pride coming forth from their lips. We live in a proud society I listened to some of these politicians. I never heard such pride. You know, I'm going to do this, and I can do this, and I'll do this, and I promise this, and it's nothing but a pack of lies. Pride. Pride. But God rewards humility. In the book of James, chapter four and verse number ten The Bible says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and he shall lift you up. You gotta go down before you can go up. You gotta be in humility before him before he can raise you up. There has to be that contrition before him that we recognize that without him we can do nothing. You can't smile without the help of the Lord. This is a cool and unjust world in which we live, and everybody's looking for some way to kick the cat in your life. But with the help of the Lord, we can put a smile on our face and a song on our lips and we can whistle attend to the glory of God, irregardless of what we might be gone through. Kings chapter 4 and verse 6, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. David was contrite. He was humble. Calamities didn't silence him. Calamities didn't make him bitter. I've never been able to understand how how someone can go through There are clouds of adversity in their life. I don't know how old you boys are, but you're looking awful young to me. You can't be more than twelve I'll put you at about fourteen. The older you get, the younger they look. Is that the way it goes? But there'll be calamities, boys. There'll be hurts that come your way. Don't let those things sidetrack you and divert you away from the church of God. Don't let that happen. I I've never been able to understand when something like that happens, rather than running to the people that love you and to the place that is able to encourage you Why we vacate the pew and stay away from church? I've never been able to understand that. In the darkest, deepest, loneliest hour of our life, we need each other. And here's where we find it, in the house of God. David didn't allow his calamity and his seclusion in a in a cave. To silence him before his God, it didn't make him separate himself from his God, it didn't make him do anything else but go to his God to find the help that he needed. At the moment. That's real contrition. Contrition. We like to pull ourselves up with our bootstraps and say, I can handle this on my own, and you're headed for a terrible fall. The second thing I see in this passage of scripture is not only that we need contrition, but we need confidence. You say, but isn't that a little bit contradictory? Look what the Bible says in verse number one: Be merciful unto me, O God. Be merciful unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee. Now, that's confidence. My soul trusteth in thee. David is saying, I I don't doubt your ability, God. I don't doubt your love, oh God. I don't doubt your power and your presence in my life. I know that you're there. And I trust in you. Do you know Satan works over time to shake our confidence in God? Some of the most devastating news in your life, there's going to be a whisper in your ear and an impression upon your heart by Satan himself that says, you know, if you If you were walking with God and He really loved you, what you're experiencing would never happen. Those promises that you claim in this hour of need and adversity in your life If that was really true, then you wouldn't be experiencing what you are experiencing. He always is looking for an avenue to cast a dark shadow over the Word of God And the work of God and the presence of God and the love of God in your life. Always working to do that. But David Had confidence in his hour of need. Now, I want you to notice that little word, trusteth. I'm not an English major. That's obvious. And the longer you listen, the more it will become evident and will be readily recognized by the astute and understanding of this congregation. I murder the King's English. But I've learned something here. And I want to share with you a tremendous and dynamic truth. Do you notice that word trusteth? That's why I embrace the King James Bible. Just had to throw that in there. If you were probably reading an NIV, what you would hear was trust or something of that nature. But David said And trusteth, he trusteth in the Lord. I trust, not just trust, but trusteth. Do you know what that means? The ETH adds something that it had no beginning and it has no end. It's a continual, constant process in David's life that he's not just simply trusting at the moment He trusteth. An ongoing, continuous process of having faith and confidence in God Almighty. And that's what we need today. Irregardless of what might come our way. And by the way, we we're just getting tuned out for some rough times. You think what has happened so far is hard and difficult? Stick around, baby. There's more to come. There's more to come. We all say, even so come Lord Jesus, but do we really understand that? The closer we get, the harder it becomes The darker it becomes, but the darker it is, the greater the light shines. David was continually, constantly trusting in the Lord, even though in a cave. Even though abandoned by his friends, even though lonely there, he trusteth in the Lord. There's good reason to do that. If I just read one verse of Scripture, Ephesians 3. 20 would be enough. But he's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we could ever ask or think. That's our God. That's the one we love. That's the one we serve. That's the one we're following. And when adversity comes your way, you need to have confidence. In God Almighty. Let me just say this to you this morning, and don't ever forget this. David didn't choose his circumstances, but he chose his response to those circumstances. How do you respond? How do I respond? Woe is me. I've learned If you're in the ministry very long, you learn too. I don't know how long you've been in the ministry. 26 years. How long have you been in the ministry? 25. 47. And I believe by combined understanding on this platform this morning, there are people that you run into that you learn very quickly not to ask them, how are you today? How are you today? And boy, there is a long list of adversities they will pull out That's happened over the last fifty-nine years. I mean boring you to death, my toe aches, my back aches, I had my gallbladder up. You know, some of these senior citizens they get together and they talk about their clips to the pharmacy. They talk about all the age that they have. Now I'm I'm the right age, so You know, hearing aids and canes and all of those things. But but you learn very quickly not to say, How are you? Because they will simply tell you. You need confidence. You need contrition. But there's a third thing. You need a covering. You need a covering. The Bible says, Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge until these calamities be overcast. We need a covering. When the hard times come, the difficult times come, the circumstances are not what we really welcome in our life. We need that covering. And under the shadow of his wings, oh I feel a shock coming on right now. I can find safety and a refuge in the time of storm A covering. A covering. If you know anything about chickens and chicken coops and and places like that, you notice that it uh immediate when the the when the when the old uh hawk begins to squawk, uh the mother will send the alarm and the chickens will come a running, those little peeps will come a running, and under the shadow of mother's wings they find protection. Find protection. That mother will protect her chicks to her dying day because she loves them and cares for them And I believe we need a covering in our time of storm. We need to find refuge in the Lord. We need to run to that place and hide in that place and You know when when you're under the shadow uh of the wings of the Lord, you're near to the heart of God. There's warmth there, there's the warmth of fellowship there. It doesn't have to distract you, it in fact encourages you. Because you feel the very heartbeat of the Lord at a time like that. Oh, He showers us with His love and He protects us with His wings and and there in that covering is a place of safety for God's people. Covering, covering. The third thing you need is crying, or the fourth thing you need is crying. You need confidence. You need contrition. You need a covering. And I also see here you need crying. Notice verse 2. I will cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things for me. Crying. That crying is not the weeping of tears of sorrow and remorse and regret and disappointment. We all are quite capable of doing that, aren't we? But this is a crying to the Lord. This was a weeping before Him. It's lifting up our voice to God Almighty and say, Lord! I love you and I know you understand my need and the frailty of my life. And Lord, I have confidence in you and I'm trusting you and I'm finding shelter and protection under your wings. I just I I just I I'm waving the flag, Lord, here am I. Crying unto the Lord. Not crying in despair. Not not crying in disappointment. Not not crying in fear But uttering our voice to the Lord, to the one that is able to help us. Notice the direction of that cry. It's to God. It's to God. He's listening for our cry. Isn't that encouraging? He's listening to our cry. We face things in life that we don't understand, and we wish they were different. Honestly, if if if I had them away, I'd just as soon have the sun shining and the rain clouds never to come I'd just as soon have it that way. If I had my choice, it would rain between the hours of midnight and seven in the morning. Snowstorms would never happen on Saturday night. It just never would happen. I don't care about Monday. But on Sunday, bright sunshiny days and good crowds in the house of the Lord. But we know those storm clouds come. And our crying is not to be in despair, but our crying is to be to God Almighty, the one that understands and is sympathetic toward the need of our life, the one that is able to help us. He's the most high one, as David describes him here in this passage of Scripture. The Supreme One. The superior one. The one that is able to work and is sufficient for every need that we have. David's focus was on God. in the midst of this storm. Where's your focus? Where's your focus? Can you really sing, I am blessed? I am blessed every day that I live. I am blessed. Even in the midst of adversity and circumstances that are not really welcomed in your life. Lord, praise your precious name. I am blessed. David directed his cry to God Almighty. Notice the declaration of that cry He says in this passage of Scripture, I cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things for me. And boy, I there's a shout There's a shout coming. There's a shout on this way. Do you notice? Here we go again. Performeth. Huh? You remember the lesson on trusteth? It's always working, constantly going. I mean, we're always trusting in the Lord. And here's the good part. God is constantly, continually working on your behalf and on my behalf for our good. For God is able to make all things work together for good to them that love the Lord. He performeth. He constantly, continually is working on your behalf and my behalf. What a blessing Well what a what a blessing to know that he's forced. When God's in your corner, look out. Look out. Nobody can stop him. No one can prevent him. No one can stall him. No one can distract him. No one can detour him. No one is hindering him. When he's in your corner, he performeth all things. Well performance. Performance. There's a fourth thing you need. Not only do you need contrition. And not only do you need confidence, and not only do you need a covering, and not only do you need a cry, but you need composure. Notice what he says in verse number 7: My heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. Now I call that composure. The last thing that comes naturally to us in the midst of adversity is a song. Am I right? I I couldn't help when he was uh singing this morning that operatic song. Those of you that weren't in Sunday school, you missed it. I mean, it was a blessing. And he said he knew somebody that when he would sing like that would make seven and eight thousand dollars a night, then I thought, okay, seven, eight thousand dollars a night if I could get brother Fox to go on the road On behalf of Beacon of Truth and sing like that, and we got seven or eight thousand dollars a night. Think of the Bibles we could produce Think of the impact that we could have. I want to sign a contract with you as soon as the service is over this morning. He has a beautiful operatic voice that I'm sure would earn ten or twelve thousand dollars a night. David knew a little bit about that singing. He said, my heart is fixed. Now that says several things to me. First of all, it's personal. My heart. That's personal. No one else can do this for you. No one else can have these feelings for you. No one else can have this composure for you. No one else can have that confidence for you. My heart is fixed. That's personal. Not only do I see that it's personal, but I see that it's passionate. My heart, that's the very seat of emotion. Not my heart. The very seat of my emotion is fixed on you. That's not only personal, but that's passionate. We need to do things with passion, don't we? Yes When your preacher preaches, he preaches with passion. When this dear man, Brother Fox, sings or plays the piano or leads the choir, he does it with passion. We ought to come into this place with passion. We ought to sing with passion. We ought to serve with passion. There ought to be deep-seated feelings in all that we do for the Savior. And David was saying, my heart My passion is fixed. Not only do I see that it's personal, not only do I see that it's passionate, but I see that it's permanent. Fixed. That means that it's settled. It's firmly positioned. It means that it's stable and constant. It's not wavering. It's not up one minute and down the next. Don't you get sick and tired, preacher, of people that are here and then not here, in and then out, up and then down, smiling and then bruising We need to be fixed. Firmly fixed when it comes to the choir. We need people that are there service after service, practice after practice. They're fixed and they're passionate, and it's personal in what they're doing for the Lord. When you teach Sunday school. You you need to be fixed. You need to be passionate. It needs to be something that is permanent in your life. I get so tired of hearing preachers say You know, I I just had a Sunday school teacher that didn't show up this morning and and didn't even call or have the courtesy to let us know that they weren't going to be there If that's you, shame on you. Our Lord deserves better than that. Better than that. Or church members. But just don't show up. I know, and that's why I'm going to keep you a little bit longer. Some of you won't show up tonight. I'm going to take it out of your hides this morning. I didn't see it written on your face. I'm a one-service Sunday goer. Don't ask me to do anything more. That taxes me. Then how's come you can work five days a week? Hello? How's come you can sit tonight and watch the football game? You don't even have to have a party break. Some of our services are like Grand Central Station, in and out and in and out and in and out. You ought to fix your bladder problem and stay in the services. I know that there's sometimes that that's impossible to do, and God bless you, and the preacher understands that, but what I'm saying is we need some firm. positive, stable, continuing servants that are in the work of God and they are not here and then out. They're not up and they're not down. David was saying that I've got composure in my life. My heart is fixed. Fixed. Fixed. So we have contrition We have covering. We have crying. We have composure. Could I give you another one? Concern. When calamities come, there ought to be concern. Notice what David says in verse number five. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, let thy glory be above all the earth. He didn't say, Oh God, get me out of this mess. Fix this problem. Make it go away. I don't want to face this any longer. Lord, lift the load and give me a better day. No, that's not what David cried. He said, Oh God, Let your name be glorified. Do you know when calamities come our way? Our number one concern ought to be that he gets glorified. Glorified. Glorified. It wasn't saying, Lord, how can I escape? How can I get out of this mess? I'm gonna quit. I'm gonna throw in the towel. I'm gonna leave the church. I'm gonna give up my Sunday school class. I'm gonna. Stop the bus ministry. I'm not going to sing in the choir any longer. I'm not going to do those things. No, David said, Lord, I just want one thing. Let you, your name be glory. Let your name be exalted. Let the people of the earth know who you are and what you can do. Let your name be glorified Calamities. You got one this morning? You got one that's troubling your heart? One that's troubling your soul, one that's weighting you down, take your burden to the Lord and leave it. there something that's making things cloudy something that's dimming the blessing of God in your life Something that's making things blurry and out of focus. No one ever cared for you like Jesus. Take your burden to the Lord. Leave it there. Whatever is hindering you from appreciating the abundant, overwhelming, overflowing, continuous blessing of God in your life needs to be laid on the altar this morning and leave it there. And then you'll be able to sing with robust and zeal and true emotion. I am blessed Blessed. I am blessed. Every day that I live, I am blessed. When I wake up in the morning, when I lay my head to rest, I am blessed. I am blessed. Let's stand with every head bowed and every eye closed. The instruments are going to come and we'll have an invitation in just a moment. I wonder how many in this auditorium this morning can say, Preacher, I know that I'm saved and on my way to heaven. And I know if I were to die today uh that my next stop is heaven itself. Could I see your hand if that's you? I know that I know that I know that I'm saved. God bless you this morning. You can put your hand Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you're really not sure that heaven is your home. I want to pray for you. Not single you out, not embarrass you, but just simply to pray for you. And you'd say, Preacher, here's my hand. I'm being honest with you. I'm being honest with God, I'm being honest with myself. I really do not have that assurance that if I were to die at this moment, that heaven would be my my home. Could I see your hand if that's you, that I might pray for you? Is there someone like that in the auditorium? Someone like that today. Maybe you're here this morning and there is a cloud, there is adversity, there is a trial. There is a calamity in your life that weights you down, that's troubling your soul, that's causing you grief and disappointment. You say, preacher, I I need your prayers. Would you just slip up your hand right where you are that we might pray for you? Yes, God bless you and you and you You and you, yes, God bless you. Hands being raised all across this auditorium this morning. I I don't know what it is. What you're going through, what you're faced with. But I know this that the devil will take every advantage that he can to sour your soul and keep you away from sweet fellowship in the Lord He'll dim your joy, rob you of the blessing, and discard you along the road. Why not bring that knee to the Lord and say, Oh God, here it is. I need your help. Lord, I need you to love me. I need you to be tender toward me. I need you to be merciful. I need your help, dear Lord. My soul is going to trust you. I'm going to trust the God that performeth all things well. And here it is, Lord, I need your help. When we sing that first word of the first stanza. You come. Meet the Lord and lay that upon him. Father, I pray in Jesus' name for your blessing to be upon this invitation. Save the lost. Encourage your children. Help them to come this morning. Father, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.