And uh we are finishing up uh this this chapter of the book. We've been preaching through the book of James. And what I want to do tonight is I want to begin reading in verse number thirteen. Our text is the very last verse But this whole section, verse 13, a little strong there, Dave, this whole uh section, verse 13 down through 19, uh is dealing with uh one subject Uh it's a two-fold subject though. It's dealing with earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom and contrasting the two. And if you'll remember we've been pointing out everybody operates under two, uh everybody lives their life under what I guess I'd call two operating systems Um either Windows or Mac. No, I'm sorry. That's wrong operating systems. Yeah. Uh we operating either under earthly wisdom or we're operating by heavenly wisdom. One of those two is what's controlling the way we think is is the operating system by which we perceive life and the world and God and everything. And James is bringing this out here. And notice in verse 13 he says, Who is a wise man endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. If you remember we pointed out, it's not how wise I say I am that reveals my wisdom, it's how wise I live my life Showing out of uh works, uh showing out of a good conversation is works. That's who that's the testimony of my wisdom. Verse 14. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom Descendeth not from above. In other words, the way of thinking that produces strife and envying is not heavenly wisdom, it descendeth not from above, but is earthly. Sensual, devilish. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion in every evil work. So there he gives us a synopsis, I guess you could say, of earthly wisdom. Then verse 17, but the wisdom that is from above, this heavenly wisdom, is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. Now verse 18 is our text for tonight. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. So verse 18, he kind of brings this thing together and he kind of gives a final statement about what heavenly wisdom is. What I want to look at today is actually the fourth point of the message on this whole passage here, the consequences of heavenly wisdom. If I'm operating and living my life, not by the wisdom of the world, but by heavenly wisdom, what are the results of that? What are the effects on my life? And I believe verse 18 touches on that. So let's pray together and uh we'll we'll look at this. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now again our study in your word. Lord, as I so often realize, God, I acknowledge that I have in and of my own heart and mind, my own wisdom, my own experience. I do not have uh that which we need of any lasting value. So Lord, it has to come from you from above So, God, with that in mind, I present my body anew to you. I yield my will anew. And I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your word through me. And uh help us to grow. I pray for myself and for all of us, God, that we would be wise with heavenly wisdom and that we could show out of a good conversation What it means to live for God and what you can do in the heart and life of a believer who will trust you. And so please help us now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember early on, back when we started this section here, uh we had talked about earthly wisdom versus heavenly wisdom. And I use the illustration, I've used it various times on different messages, but I use the illustration of my grandma making quilts. Now some of you ladies, I don't think it's as popular as it used to be, but some of you ladies maybe make quilts And um you do what I think is cross stitch. I don't know if I know what I'm talking about, but uh there would be a pattern. When grandma would make quilts, there would be a pattern she would make. We have one at the house with huge I mean it's a gigantic quilt. It has huge butterfly and it has a circle with flowers around and butterflies intermingled with the flowers. I mean it is absolutely a work of art And uh when she makes that quilt, you remember we said they would stretch it out on a frame, if I remember correctly, and they'd pull it tight, and then the ladies would gather around. and they would do their stitching and they would work on that thing and uh do that pattern. If you would look at a quilt from underneath from the earth side From Earth's perspective, you look up at that quilt, those those threads, those various color threads were just crossed back and forth. It looked like it would look like there's no pattern, there's no purpose, it's just a mess. It's chaos and uh it looks terrible from the earth's perspective. But if you get up on top and look down on that quilt from heaven's perspective, from above You see, there's a pattern, there's a plan, it's beautiful, it's very pleasurable, it's understandable, and it is a blessing. And that I think is the concept here that James is presenting, God's presenting us through the book of James, is that is we can live through we can go through life and live our lives We're looking and we're operating either by Earth's perspective, what the uh life without God or God's very minimal And our values and the principles we live by, God is excluded. That's the earthly wisdom. He says there is earthly, sensual, devilish. God's out of the picture. Or we go through life looking from heaven's perspective, and we see life the way God sees it, and we live our lives, and we make our decisions, and we establish our values, and we live by the principles that God has established. And when we do that, life makes sense. There's purpose. There's beauty to it. It's pleasurable. And so he's dealing with this here. Now, we're looking at the heavenly wisdom. We want the heavenly wisdom. How do I get that? How do I live life? How do I uh make decisions. How do I have this wisdom that comes from above? Well we said first of all if you remember uh the connection to this wisdom its source it's from above I have to get it from God. No university can teach this to me. No Sunday school teacher can give it to me. No book learning can give it to me. Although God may use some of these things. But ultimately wisdom from above comes from God. We said to to connect to that wisdom, I need to fear God, I need to fervently pursue His wisdom, and I need to faithfully pray. And ask him to give it to us. Then we did the notice the chronology of this wisdom, and I don't want to re preach the message, but I do want to point out verse 17 the wisdom that is from above is first pure And we said that that word first means order in chronology and importance. And there's a very specific order given here. God's wisdom always begins with purity. If uh if the decision I'm making does not begin with purity, holiness, godliness, righteousness, if it doesn't begin with that then it's not heavenly wisdom. Everything we do as a believer is to be pure and righteous and good and holy. Everything we do. No shades there at all. So it's first pure. Then we looked at the characteristics of heavenly wisdom. I want to live my life. in a way that God intends me to. I want God's blessings on my life. I want my life to be uh beautiful in the eyes of God And so I need his wisdom to do that. Now this is the characteristics of the wisdom that comes from above. We've touched on this. I'll just quickly go through it. First, pure, as we said Then we said it's peaceable. Then we use the word patient, all from verse number 17, with a word gentle there. Doesn't react. It operates according to principle, not reacting to my circumstances We said that heavenly wisdom is pliable, it's easy to be entreated, it's willing to yield its way without compromise, uh without compromising anything. We said it's pitiful, full of mercy We said it's profitable, it's impartial, without partiality. Then we ended the eighth characteristic is positive, without hypocrisy. Now we come to verse 18. I said all that because I wanted to tie this all together. So what are the consequences? When I as a Christian say, you know, I'm tired of living the way the world lives, as a Christian, I'm tired of thinking the way the world thinks I don't want to live by the world's values anymore. I don't want to live by the world's principles anymore. I don't want to live by the world's priorities. It's a mess, a it's not working, it's not right I want to live by God's principles. I want to live by the values that God has established, the principles He has given. And we seek that heavenly wisdom. We begin praying. And we fear God and we uh work, study the Bible, as Connie was saying, we read our Bible carefully, and we faithful to church, and we soak it in, and we we get everything we can to learn what it means to be wise from with God's wisdom And we incorporate that into our life, and we start making decisions differently, and our life begins changing. What happens? What are the consequences? Verse 18 says, and the fruit of righteousness Is sown in peace of them that make peace. And be honest with you, I looked at that and said, all right, what is exactly is he saying here? To put it down into a simple statement, he's saying this. To live life from God's perspective is a great blessing. To live life by God's principles is a great blessing. It is a blessing to live life the way God teaches us to live. Now that's a profound statement right there. I did not say it is a bubble. to live by God's principles. In other words, what I mean by that, say, all right, if I start living and incorporating, start being wise with God's wisdom, I start making the right decisions, start living my life The way God instructs and God teaches, oh I live in a bubble, I won't have any heartaches, I won't have any problems, I won't have any needs, I won't have any setbacks I won't have any physical pain. There's a there's an element of these TV preachers that give this idea that if somehow I do everything the way God says I'm gonna be healthy, wealthy, I'm gonna be wise, no problems, everything's good, live in a mansion and everything uh everything will work out just right. The only problem with it is that doesn't fit the Bible or reality. Even if I am living by God's wisdom, wisdom from above, I'm still going to have to deal with realities of life. There's going to be bumps in the road, there's going to be issues, there's going to be physical things, there's going to be setbacks. And so I made this statement. To live by God's principles, God's perspective, it's a great blessing. It's not living in some bubble, but even when the heartache comes, even when the difficulty is there, even when the setback The setbacks come. I can still experience God's blessings in my life. I still have the joy of the Lord Uh living according to heavenly principles, uh heavenly wisdom is a blessing to me, and it's a blessing to others. We'll notice that here in a minute. To live life from Earth's perspective means heartache, means strife Means confusion. We got that in the previous verses. To live, to think the way the world thinks, to value things the way the world values them, exclude God from my life, exclude God's word from my decisions Uh it's going to be heartache, it's going to be strife, there's going to be confusion. And here's what the world thinks. It's the exact opposite of sometimes what we think. We think, well, if I live for God, I have and I'm wise according to God's wisdom. I won't have any problems, I won't have any issues, I won't have any struggles. That's not true. I still have God's presence and peace and blessing through them. Now here's the other side of the thing. The world believes, the world's wisdom says, you know You got heartache, you got strife, you got confusion, which is all the consequences of excluding God from my life, and they think, you know, if I just had a bigger house If I just had a bigger income, if I was just a little more popular, if I looked a little bit better, if I got a nose job and got my ears lowered and lost some weight and got a toupee Well I sense a little sarcasm in these amens here. You know boy, then I'd be happy, and then I wouldn't have all this turmoil in my heart, and there'd be peace in my life if I just had a little more, it was just a little bigger, if it was just a little better. And you know that's just as wrong as thinking if I live for God I won't have any problems. Because living by the world's wisdom and operating by the world's wisdom, the result of that is confusion, strife. Envying in every evil work. And you don't have to look far out in the world and you see it all around. You see it all around. And so it is a blessing. To live according to God's wisdom. It's looking at that looking at life like we look at that quilt. I see it from God's perspective, and I see this this line is broad drawn out in my life and I say, oh, I see God has a plan here. God has a purpose. And uh I see God is putting something together and God uh is doing something and like Elizabeth said I might not see exactly right what this The stitching is God is doing. I might not see exactly what it's working out, but I know I can look at the whole thing and I see there is a pattern here, there is a plan, and I'm trusting God. He knows what he's doing And that's a blessing. That's it's a blessing to know that my life has purpose. It's a blessing to know that God has a plan for me. And the things He's allowing in my life and the things He's taking away from me and the changes He's bringing into my life. If I see it, if I have that heavenly I see and I say, all right, God does have a plan. There is a purpose. God is doing something something in my life. But if I'm looking at it from earth wisdom and I see things being taken from me and things happening to me and changes coming into my life and I look up and I see no planet. It's all confusion and that brings frustration and it brings anger And I think what verse 18 is saying, listen, when we live by God's perspective and we see life from heaven's perspective, and understand what that God is doing and living by how He instructs us. There's peace. It's a blessing in my life. God brings peace to my life. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. It is impossible to live by the world's wisdom, world's values, world's principles, and experience the blessings of God. And that is where so many of us as Christians are frustrated. And that's where so many of us as Christians have little have little or no peace in our hearts, and there's restlessness in our lives. because we're trying to do something impossible. We're trying to enjoy and function and operate in this world the way the world operates and with and that does not bring the blessings of God. That does not bring the peace of God, it brings confusion and envy and strife in every evil work And it is impossible to have the blessings of God and live by worldly wisdom. Now, I tried to outline this. I broke it down into three. I hope it makes sense. And I think it will. Number one What are the consequences of living for God and trusting God and living according to His wisdom? Number one, I put this down, there's a harvest. There's a harvest. Look at verse 18. And the fruit of righteousness. The word fruit is a farm type word and has the idea of harvesting the fruit. Um I put a little garden out every year and I get very little out of it, to be honest with you. But um uh I planted I made uh uh you'll t Uh I plant a bunch of tomatoes. I I plant about five tomato plants. They're about that tall, and I got about five tomatoes. So and they're about the size of golf balls and they're very green. They don't look anything like the ones on the picture of the seeds when I got it. I planted about six, seven peppers plants. We like peppers, bell peppers, uh, and I got about three And they they're not too bad. So I planted a row of green beans. Green beans did great. I got a lot of green beans. Until the zucchini I planted right in front of them grew. And the zucchini took over everything. And I mean it is just half my yard. It's just taking over everything. I never planted zucchini before. I thought a little plot like this, that'd be fine. I got one zucchini off of four plants. I'm trying to think why I'm telling this story. So fruit. Fruit is something I get By investing in something. I invested some zucchini seeds into the soil. I invested some green bean seeds in the soil. I invested some tomato seeds in the soil. I invested some uh um pepper seeds in the soil. Somebody said if you put marigolds across the front that would be good for the uh garden. So I put a bunch of marigolds off the front and I had a row of onions. The zucchinis overgrown my marigolds and my onions. I don't even know where they're at. But the fruit, there was some minimal, I got some fruit from it. So when it says here, the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, that's a harvest type word. And what I'm trying to say is this, and what I believe he's teaching here is this. Heavenly wisdom produces certain results in my life. When I decide I'm going to live life from God's perspective, according to God's principles, there are results in my life. There is fruit that begins to be born in my life. And he says, the fruit of what? Righteousness. Now I thought, I wonder what the fruit of righteousness is. And I I couldn't find, maybe somebody could find it, I couldn't find anywhere in the Bible where it describes what the fruit of righteousness is. But I did find somewhere in the Bible where it talks about the fruit of the Spirit. So take your Bibles with me if you would and go to Galatians chapter 5. I find myself coming back to Galatians 5 more and more and more in my Christian life. Galatians chapter 5. I'll give you a moment to try and get turned there because I want you to see this. In Galatians chapter 5, verse 19 through 21, you have what is referred to a list of works of the flesh. Now remember, this wisdom we're looking at, we have a contrasting wisdom. We have uh wisdom from below, wisdom of the earth, and we have wisdom from above, heavenly wisdom. So we have what we're calling earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom. They're in contrast one to another. They're in conflict with one another. Every one of us we're living by one of these two operating systems The earthly one, frustration, strife, emptiness, restlessness, the heavenly wisdom, pure, peaceable, gentle, easily entreated, and brings peace. Now, in Galatians chapter 5, we have two contrasts. In verse 19 through 21, we have the works of the flesh. I want to suggest to you the works of the flesh correspond to earthly wisdom. A little bit of description we have in James of earthly wisdom, strife, envying, confusion, evil work. You look at the works of the flesh, you have the adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, strife, uh wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like I'm going to suggest to you that the works of the flesh are simply the results, and the works of the flesh and the earthly wisdom are simply one and the same. Living according to this world, it produces the same results. Then I notice in verse 22, we have not the works of the Spirit, but the what? Fruit of the Spirit. This is not something I'm producing. This is something God is producing. Now notice one word that is conspicuously missing from this list. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no such law. It doesn't say anywhere righteousness. It doesn't say that the fruit of the Spirit is righteousness. You know why I believe that's not there? I believe perhaps that's not there because the fruit of righteousness and the fruit of the Spirit is one and the same. When I live with heavenly wisdom and I make my decisions according to the principles of God's word, not by the values of this world The fruit of the Spirit will be borne out in my life. That fruit of righteousness And one of the results, the harvest of living by heavenly wisdom, the harvest of that, I believe, is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there's no law. Did you notice that list there of fruit of the spirit? Did you notice how similar that is to the characteristics of heavenly wisdom? Almost identical. And so you say, preacher, I want uh I want a life that there's a little bit of peacefulness. I want peace of mind. I want, as a Christian, I want some peace of mind. I want uh I want uh I want my life to be good. Well, then I need wisdom from above. I need to seek God's wisdom and live according to God's wisdom and make decisions according to God's instructions, and then I will harvest. That gentleness, that peace, that goodness, that fruit of the Holy Spirit. When I live by heavenly wisdom, my life bears heavenly fruit. The fruit of the Spirit. When the fruit of the Spirit is missing in my life, then I'm not experiencing, I'm not exercising heavenly wisdom. Somebody asked Dr. Lee Robertson, my pastor for years down in Tennessee, somebody asked him one time, he said in a message, somebody asked him, how do you know when you're filled with the Holy Spirit? Good question. He said it's easier to tell when you're not. Because when I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit, I don't have the fruit of the Spirit being born in my life. Good point. And if I don't have the fruit of the Holy Spirit in my life, and I don't have these the this list here in Galatians 5, uh uh uh nineteen down there. Uh uh I don't and I don't have that then I know all right I'm operating by earthly wisdom, not operating by heavenly wisdom. I need to reconsider my decision making. I need to reconsider how I'm living my life. What operating system am I working under? If poison ivy is growing in my garden, I know that I'm not planting petunias. Right? That's profound. If there's thorns coming up, I know I didn't plant corn. And if I'm not having the fruit of the Spirit, if I don't have this fruit of the Spirit being born in my life, then I know I'm not operating by heavenly wisdom. Because the the uh fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. So my point is this When I live by heavenly wisdom, one of the consequences I'm going to have a harvest of heavenly fruit, spiritual fruit. I put in a second one down. Not only is there a harvest, but when I'm living by heavenly wisdom, there's health The fruit of righteousness is shown in what? Peace of them that make peace. It's shown in peace. See if you agree with this. You're going to be so glad you came to church tonight by what you're about to learn. Peace is healthier than war. Isn't that profound? Living by heavenly principles is healthier for me. Spiritually, for my spirit, my body, my soul. Living by heavenly values and heavenly wisdom is healthier for my spirit, my soul, my body. It's healthier. Nobody gets high blood pressure because they have peace of mind. Right? I never heard of it But you have somebody that has all kinds of stress and turmoil in their mind and they're so upset and their mind is racing and they can't sleep at night and they're going over this and they're hashing this and they're going on over. What happens to the old blood pressure? You go to the doctor, doctor takes your blood, boy, your blood pressure is high. Are you under stress? Nobody goes to the doctor. Your blood pressure is high. Do you have peace of mind? No, they tell you you need to relax. Nobody gets ulcers because they're at peace with their spouse. Oh doctor, I got an ulcer. Oh you you and your wife getting along? Yeah, we're getting along great. I got this ulcer. Nah. Doesn't work that way, does it? Um so what I'm saying is this if I live my life By God's operating system, the heavenly wisdom, if I live that way and I'm seeking God and I'm making wise spiritual decisions, and the fruit of the Spirit is I'm harvesting the fruit of the Spirit in my life It's going to be better for me. It doesn't mean I'm never going to get sick. It doesn't mean all my bills are going to be paid. It doesn't mean everything's going to go exactly the way I dreamed it would. But it does mean this. What God does allow into my life, I'll be stronger and healthier going through it than if I didn't live by God's wisdom. So I I put it's hell. One of the consequences of living by God's wisdom is there's a harvest, there is health. I believe Christians living by heavenly wisdom uh are uh are are are uh better off spiritually, their well-being is healthier If they're living by heavenly wisdom. I put this down. Christians living by heavenly wisdom are masters at conflict resolution. Now think about that. A Christian ought to be able to deal with the issue. If I'm living by heavenly wisdom and I'm I'm seeing life from God's perspective and I'm making decisions according to God's principles When conflict comes into my life, when issues come into my life, I should be able to handle them in a peaceful fashion. Notice what he says. The fruit of righteous is sown in peace of them that make peace. We ought to be peacemakers, peace sowers, sown in peace, a a Christian living by God's perspective and God's principles Is a peace shower, not a troublemaker. It's the earthly wisdom that produces troublemakers. Heavenly wisdom produces peacemakers. Remember Beatitudes? Remember, we're studying Matthew chapter 5. We went through the Beatitudes. Remember? Blessed are the peacemakers. Those operating God's operating system, those thinking according and working according to heavenly wisdom. And notice I thought this was interesting. You can maybe do with it what you want, but I thought this was interesting. The fruit of righteousness is sown in peace. Now when I first read that, I looked at that, I thought, you don't sow fruit. What do you sow? When you're going to sow a garden, you sow what? Seeds. And then you anticipate down the road getting some fruit. Sow the seed, get the fruit. But I got looking at this, I got thinking about it, and I may be wrong, correct me if I'm wrong later. But actually the seed is fruit. Ryan, am I right? That apple, that fruit of the apple tree, I picked that apple. That is actually a seed compartment. And so I think what he's telling us here is this: when I live by heavenly wisdom, the effects it has on my life, the fruit of the Spirit, actually becomes seed. That infects others enables them to live by heavenly wisdom. You see what I'm saying? The fruit that that is being born in my life by living for God the way I should be, and thinking the way God created me to think, and living the way God saved me to live. The consequence is the fruit that comes out of that, the pure and peaceable and all that, that actually is being sown in the lives of others, and others will be affected. Remember we said we were preaching uh earlier on anger, and we said that anger is contagious, and I don't know anybody that disputes that I want to suggest to you, though maybe not as visible and maybe not as flammable as what anger's contagiousness is. I'm going to suggest to you, peace and the blessings and the fruit of the Holy Spirit is contagious also. Do you ever, do you ever were you ever in someone's presence? That somebody that is thoroughly right with God and they love God and they're walking with God. And do you ever walk away and say, Boy, you know, I'd like to have the peace of mind they have. I would like to have the joy of the Lord in their life. I would like to see that in my life. You know what that is? That is the fruit of righteousness being sown. The effects of them walking with God and living with God is being shown in my life, and I want that. I talked about my daddy a lot. He's coming down Tuesday. I'll be down for a couple weeks, so I've got to straighten up. My daddy's testimony of all that he went through and the unbelievable heartache and how faithful he was and and and uh his faith in God And as a punk teenager, I mean a a debauched punk. I don't know if debauched is a word And I saw what my daddy had, and I saw the presence of God in my daddy's life, and I thought, I don't want to be what I'm becoming. I want what daddy has. That peace, that stability. That peace of mind, even in the midst of heartache, that was the fruit of righteousness being sown in my life. And so there's a harvest, there is health, affects others. And then I end with this, and if you would turn with me real quickly to Proverbs thirteen. Proverbs three. Uh it's just astounding to me how often we end up in Proverbs when we're studying James Number one, there's a harvest. I'm gonna re- I'm gonna be blessed. There's a blessing that's gonna come from living by God's wisdom, the way living the way God says. The fruit of the Spirit is gonna be harvested in my life. There's gonna be health. I'm going to have peace and that's going to affect others, actually become a seed in their lives, uh, and uh hopefully that they'll run with it and produce their own um uh heavenly wisdom, live by heavenly wisdom. Then the last one I put this down. There's happiness. Proverbs chapter 3 and verse 13. Happy is the man that findeth wisdom and the man that getteth understanding. You know what I've found? I've found that people that live for God for the most part are happier than people that don't. I found that people that are right with the Lord that trust God and obey Him And and live their life according to his teaching and claim his promises and live for the Lord, not for self, not for stuff. I found that for the most part those people are a whole lot happier. I could take you to people, members of this church, I could take you to folks. Who have very meager me uh very meager income, very minimal possessions, and absolutely have the joy of the Lord. Because they're living by heavenly wisdom. And I could also take you to the homes of people that have immaculate homes, are huge, have cars, have everything this world thinks is so precious. And I'll tell you, they're absolutely miserable. Fighting and strife and frustration You know what the difference is? Happy is the man that has wisdom, heavenly wisdom, and understanding. And the one that lives by this earth's wisdom, confusion and strife, and every evil work. I uh read about a Christian high school here in the States. I don't know anything more about them than they were at Christian High School. Apparently they were a pretty large school, pretty uh pretty uh f affluent And they had put together a choir with some instrumentalists and they went on a mission trip. They took this choir, this musical team from the high school. And they went on a mission trip over to Europe and I believe if I remember it correctly I have it right here, but uh they were in London, they were in England somewhere. And they went to a church and they were going to sing and they were out, I guess, giving out tracts or whatever, and they came in and to get people in. They were going to sing and they were kind of an attraction, a little novelty, bring people out. And apparently they did a very good job and people were blessed. And in the congregation there in England, there was a fellow that had just gotten saved, apparently just a few weeks before. He was a new believer, is how he's described. And afterward, he came and he says, I'm very impressed. He says, this is beautiful. Your people conducted themselves tremendously. He said, what a testimony. He says, is this the way your whole school is over there? All your students, is this the way they all are? And the the director said, no, he says, no, we we picked them out and we had qualifications and Uh, you know, they had to meet some standards. It's not just their musical abilities, but they had to have some spiritual maturity and they had to have uh some uh testimony that they loved God. And he made this statement inadvertently without even thinking. He just made this statement. He says, we didn't want to bring any troublemakers with us. And he said the new believer there in England caught his breath. And he said, What do you mean? He said no Christian would be a troublemaker. No Christian would ever be a troublemaker. Wow, a new believer. Surely no Christians living by this world's wisdom. Surely no Christian would want to use the world's values and the world's priorities. I hate to even say this, I hate to even think it, let alone say it, but I'm afraid that new believer was going to learn that, yeah, there are Christians that live by this world's values And they think the way this world thinks, and they make decisions the way the world makes decisions, and they value things the way the world values things. And James, God, through the book of James, is challenging us. Don't operate, don't work on that operating system anymore. Let's seek heavenly wisdom. Let's ask God to give us wisdom from above that is pure and peaceable and gentle and pliable and easily entreated. So that the work fruit of the Holy Spirit can be born in our life. And then others can be affected by that, as that fruit is sown in righteousness. Does that make sense? I want God's wisdom. You know, I told my wife just a couple weeks ago or something. I I read through Proverbs all the time, over and over and over and over and over. Try to read it twelve times a year. I told her we sat down in on rare moments when I'm very candid. I said, you know, I read Proverbs, and I hate to say this. But I feel like a lot of times the description of the fool in Proverbs describes me more than the description of the wise man. Now you all look at me like I don't ever feel that way I'm seeking suspicion, I'm not the only one that feels that way. And I don't want to be foolish. I want to be wise. And there's only one way to get that wisdom, it's from God. I've got to fear him. I've got to seek him. I've got to study and apply myself and say, God, teach me wisdom. Teach me to make right decisions. God teach me to see life and myself in this world. From your perspective. A number of years ago, I went through a horrendous heartache. And I asked God, help me to see what I'm going through from your perspective. I think we need that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you would stir our hearts, that we would seek after heavenly wisdom. And that the fruit of righteousness would be born in our lives. God, we don't want to live the way this world lives. We don't want the fruit that this world produces. God, we want the fruit of the Spirit. And we need you to help us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, doubt in my heart. There is a hunger, there is a thirst for the wisdom from above. That my life can be lived. The way God intends for it to be lived, the way God saved me to live life with heavenly wisdom. Is there any like that, preacher? There is a hunger down inside my heart and soul. God bless you. I trust by the uplifted hand That's a sincere acknowledgement of a genuine hunger in my heart to live by heavenly wisdom. Now here's the thing. We need to get to the point we know what who and what God is and fear him. And apply ourselves to attain that wisdom and pray and pray and pray and pray. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Now let me ask you this. Is there someone here tonight? And this wasn't the message, but would there happen to be someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell? Now that's the beginning of knowing God is by trusting Jesus Christ as my Savior and have my sins forgiven so that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. A lot of hands were raised saying, I want God's wisdom in my life. I want to live according to that. Would there be any here tonight say, Preacher, when you pray for the others, pray for me also? I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die and I don't want to go to hell And I want to know that that's settled in my heart. I need God to help me settle that in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. God bless you. How about it? Any others? How about it? I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I need God to help me settle that in my heart. Any others? Uplifted hand. How about it? How about it? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. A lot of hands went up for various things. And Lord, I ask you'd help us. To trust you and let you lead us and direct us and in faith obey your instructions in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.