Corinthians chapter 5. Our text for this morning is verse number 14. I would like for us to read the verse together, all of it, if you would, read along with me. We're not going to spend any time on the second half of the verse. That will have to be for some other time. But I do want to focus on a phrase in the first part of the verse. And we'll highlight that here in a moment. But if you would read along with me. Verse 14, 2 Corinthians 5. Ready all together. For the love of Christ constraineth us. Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. Like I said, I want to zero into that first phrase there. For the love of Christ constraineth us. My title, my message is Constrained by the Love of Christ. Let's pray and ask the Lord. help us and uh challenge us in our faith. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for a good morning. My heart's been stirred, particularly by the music. The hymns we sang has have helped me, and uh the special by the young people and before by the choir. I'm just so grateful for song and for music that helps us uh focus on you And now, Lord, with our Bibles open, we are asking, I'm asking you, Lord, to speak to our hearts, challenge us. I pray that wherever we may be spiritually, some perhaps need salvation Some others of us maybe we need revival in our heart and life. Maybe some need encouragement, Lord. Some of us perhaps need direction. on uh how to serve and where do we go from here. Whatever the case may be, I'm asking you, Father, that this morning you would speak our hearts from your word and uh help us. I pray you'd hedge the devil out of this. Help us focus. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew as I always do. And again this hour I ask with all my heart, Lord, you fill me with your Spirit and just speak right through me I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Apostle Paul was perhaps one of the most amazing Christians that has ever lived. Um I'm confident that his conversion to Christ was perhaps one of the most dynamic and miraculous transformations Of a person's life, perhaps in all of church history. Now there's been a lot of amazing things God has done, a lot of lives uh uh dramatically changed. Um uh and so but Apostle Paul is an amazing man and uh an amazing event took place When he trusted Christ as his Savior. He was a very proud man. If you'll study in your Bible, New Testament, about the Apostle Paul, you'll find he's a very proud man. Thought very highly of himself. Uh he was a very self-righteous man. He was uh tremendously disciplined in the in the religion, and I'm using that word on purpose, in the religion of the Jews of that day. Now let me just stop and pause here for a moment. There's a world of difference between being religious and having relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was a very religious man, very strict in his religion. He kept the rule the laws of that Judaism of his day, he kept the laws flawlessly, as humanly speaking And he was very proud of that, and he was very self-righteous. I found that religion has a tendency to promote self-righteousness. Religion has a tendency to say, well, I'm a church member. I give money to the church. I do this. I do that. I don't do this. I don't do that. I do these things, I don't do these things, therefore I am a very righteous person. And if we're not careful, they'll even get this idea You do things that I don't do. You don't do some of the religious things I do. Therefore, I am more righteous than you. Now what do we call that? There's a phrase we use for that attitude. Holier than thou. I'm holier than you are, because I do these things and don't do these things. That mentality, that phrase, I believe, captures the mindset of the Apostle Paul. The Christ, very self-righteous man, thought very highly himself, very indisciplined man, very intolerant Brother, if you didn't cross your T the way he did, and you didn't dot your eye the way he dotted his eye, he'd look down you. Time for you. Jesus Christ came on the scene, preaching, doing miracles, healing the sick, teaching and preaching from the Old Testament And a gathering started developed around the Lord Jesus Christ, and that gathering grew. And uh Saul, Paul, being one of the Pharisees, although he's not mentioned in the Gospels, there's no doubt he was at least supportive of the decisions that the Pharisees made. to turn on the Lord Jesus Christ and to eliminate the Lord Jesus Christ. He had to be dealt with. He needed to be removed. Jesus Christ was a threat to religion. Let me say this. Jesus Christ is still a threat to religion. We are not, this is not a religion that we are promoting here. This is not a religion that we're about. We're about a relationship, a living, true relationship with a living Savior. Knowing him one-on-one, interacting. So Jesus Christ was a threat to the Jewish religion. Their formalities, their external ordinances and rituals that they kept. They did all these elaborate things. Never cared for the condition of their soul, never concerned about their personal relationship with God, but just putting on a show and looking good. And Jesus Christ was a threat, so they had to take Jesus out He had to be eliminated. And so they stirred up the crowds. They got false accusations. Jesus Christ, as we all know, was crucified. Three days later, he rose from the dead. And now you have the church is being established, and you have this body of believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. are growing and having a significant influence in Jerusalem, in Judea, and again this threat to Judaism, their external superficial religion uh was uh growing. And brother, that Paul hated that. Let me say this. Paul hated Christians. And when I use the term hated, I mean exactly that. He hated Christians. Any followers, this is the term they would use, followers of this way Followers and men of the Lord Jesus Christ. Believers. Paul hated them. He hated them. He makes several references, and for sake of time, we'll not turn to all the references. But he's he mentions throughout the New Testament that he one place he says, he compelled them to blaspheme. In other words, he would get some creative. Now, let me back up here a little bit. Paul, being a Pharisee, that was a leader in the Jewish religion, he had tremendous authority. It was a little different setup than what we're accustomed to in our day. The religious leaders, the Pharisees in particular, the Sadducees, others, the high priests, they had a council. They had tremendous authority in society, in the Jewish society in that day equivalent almost to the government's authority in our day and age. They could arrest people, they could detain people, they could have them put in prison. They had a tremendous amount of authority. They could, in some cases, they could even take the lives of others And so uh the religious leaders had tremendous authority. I got studying that and thinking about that this week. I thought, boy, if I could just have a little bit of that, just a few people I could put in prison, I would sure enjoy having that authority Just a few folks, but uh no, I'm joking, of course, but uh he had tremendous authority And he said that he would compel Christians, followers of Jesus Christ, he would compel them to blaspheme the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, to say horrible things about their Savior, to say blasphemous things about the Lord Jesus Christ and the God whom they loved and served. Now how in the world, now the Bible doesn't tell us, I'm speculating here, but how in the world do you compel someone to blaspheme the Lord Jesus Christ? What would you do to compel them to do that? Well the thing I came up with is uh with threatening, right? You you blaspheme Christ, you take his name in vain, you deny this Jesus Christ. Or I'm going to throw you in prison. I want to suggest to you, I think he went farther than that. I I have I'm pretty confident Paul used torture. I believe he threatened families. We'll throw your wife in prison. We'll do this. And he could compel them. The hatred he had for believers. Knew no limits. He said he would compel them to blaspheme. He said another place that he persecuted both the men and the women. Persecuted them Inflicting pain, inflicting injury upon them for no other reason than the fact that their faith was in the Lord Jesus Christ. They were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. He had Christians imprisoned. He had them punished and killed. Paul hated Christians. He was proud, self-righteous, opinionated, intolerant, and he hated believers. Paul hated churches, not just the individual, but the churches themselves. He wanted to eliminate every He wanted to shut them down. Um in Galatians, if you would, take your Bible, just turn over just quickly, just to get a picture. of this man Paul before he met the Lord Jesus Christ. Come over to Galatians. Just a couple ver pages towards the back of your Bible from where we're at. Galatians and chapter number one. He's kind of giving his testimony here a little bit. And verse number 13 And it says here verse 13, Galatians chapter 1, for ye have heard of my conversation, that means his lifestyle, how he behaved himself. You have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' what? Religion. He was religious. It was all superficial. It didn't meet the needs of his soul. He was empty. He was angry, uh frustrated. Uh there was no personal relationship with God. There was no hope of salvation or forgiveness of sins. It was all a show he put on. It was all external How in time past, you heard my conversation in time past, in the Jews' religion, now look at this, how that beyond measure I persecuted the what? The church of God. And what? Wasted it. Paul's a man of tremendous authority. He has a lot of power. He can come into a community, and if there's a church there meeting in the home as they did back then, or maybe out somewhere, and he'd find out about that, he'd come in there, and he absolutely would wreak havoc On those dear be people, those dear believers, that church. He said he uh he says that a beyond measure, I persecute. That phrase beyond measure is a term we might use it this way. It was over the top. I mean over the top. Whatever however else anyone else was bursing in the church, he went over the top. It was unrelenting. And then he says at the end, it uses an interesting term. He says, I persecuted the church of God and wasted it. The word wasted there means to destroy it or annihilate it. He did not want any church in existence at all, ever, in any way. Truth, Paul hated the church. Did you get that point? He hated Christians. He'd kill them all, destroy every church, shut them all down. I don't want one Christian, one follower of Jesus Christ in existence. Hatred. And at the root of all of that, at the root of all of that, you say, why in the world did he hate these dear people? I mean, they're peaceful, they're gracious, they're kind, they're humble. I think the root of all that wasn't was his hatred for Christians, his hatred for the church was rooted in his hatred for the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what it all boils down to. I'm telling you, we live in a world and and uh I thank God for our country, the freedoms, and for the most part, at least uh over years and through most of my life, uh You know, society has been tolerant of the church and many times the communities have honored churches and had that type of attitude. We see that changing a bit. But um uh I'm telling you, make no mistake, we still live in a world that is anti-Christian. This world is not a friend of grace. This world is not a friend of the church. And so, but Paul absolutely hated this thing. But There came a day. Paul's on his way, filled with rage and hatred, despising the church, to eat up with these believers and try and destroy them. And on his way to a city called Damascus, he has an entourage with him, people with weapons and armed men prepared to take prisoner, believers, prepared to kill them On his way, Jesus Christ revealed himself to him. Everything he knew about Jesus Christ, he got second hand. Everything he knew about Jesus Christ was all through others. But now, on this road to Damascus, he comes face to face, person to person, with the resurrected Jesus Christ. And everything changes. Everything changes. Listen, you might be a religious person. You say, well, I'm religious. I'm not proud. I don't think I'm better than others. I try to be I try to pay my bills, I try to be honest, I try to love my spouse and uh I I uh you know, I wanna uh Be uh respectful to people and obey the laws. I I uh I go to church, I do these things. Listen, that's wonderful, but what you need is you need a personal introduction to Jesus Christ You need to know him personally. And that's what happened to Paul. Jesus Christ appeared to him. And Paul fell down. And uh Paul realized on that Damascus road, when he saw the Lord Jesus Christ, he heard him speak to him directly. And Paul realized that Jesus Christ was exactly who he claimed to be, that this is the Son of God. This man that I was persecuting, these believers that I was imprisoning and trying to eliminate This Jesus is who he claimed to be. He's the Son of God. And I'm here to tell you this morning, Jesus Christ is the Son of God. He's not just a figure in history. He's just not a man that lived years ago. He is God in the flesh. He is the savior of mankind. Paul realized that Jesus Christ was his only hope of escaping hell. He was his only hope of being what God intended for him to be. And pe and and Paul realized, I believe they're on that Damascus Road. It's recorded in Acts chapter 9, you want to read it, but I believe they're on that Damascus Road. Paul realized that God loved him conditionally. Unconditionally, I should say. Jesus Christ loved him and died for him personally. That changed everything. Paul got up off that ground, a changed man. His whole perspective about God, his whole perspective about life. His whole perspective about himself and about believers in this world was absolutely transformed. And Paul went from being a hater of Jesus Christ to a lover and a preacher of the Lord Jesus Christ. Totally transformed. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ changes lives. If you don't get anything else out of this message, I hope you'll get this. Jesus Christ changes lives. Jesus Christ can change an old drunkard into a sober, godly man. Jesus Christ can change an old harlot, loose-living woman and turn her into a pure, godly, sweet lady. Jesus Christ can take the most hateful home and where the most anger and hatred and bitterness is, and Jesus Christ can turn that thing around and make it into a sweet haven of rest for the believer. There is nothing God can't do. There's not a sinner God can't save. There's not a sin that God cannot forgive. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. And God transformed Paul completely, instantly, changed his life. The impact That Jesus Christ had upon the life of the Apostle Paul is amazing, amazing thing. I put this down here. It produced an intense unselfishness. I like that phrase, intense unselfishness. Paul no longer, it was no longer about Paul. It was no longer exalting Paul. It was no longer about how holy Paul was. Suddenly now it was all about the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it was about helping others, reaching others, influencing others. In a selfish world, unselfishness is viewed as insanity Did you ever hear this phrase? It's a dog what? Dog eat dog world. Father, you gotta look out for number one. You gotta you've gotta uh fight your way to the top. You've gotta c cut out the legs of those around you. You've got and suddenly God got a hold of Paul and turned that thing around and he said, It's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. It produced an intense unselfishness. It produced an unrelenting dedication to the Lord Jesus Christ and to the gospel. If you would, turn with me, we'll look at a couple verses here real quick. Turn with me back to the book of Acts. Now if you're in 2 Corinthians and go towards the front of your Bible, you have 1 Corinthians, then you run into Romans, and then you run into Acts. Acts chapter number 21. And Paul makes a statement about his dedication to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, Acts chapter 21. And I'd like for you to note with me verse number 13. And I don't know about you. But as a believer, this verse challenges me. This verse challenges my commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ Uh how many people just uh how many people would say, uh Pastor, I'd like to think, in my mind, I'd like to think I'm dedicated to Jesus Christ. Say amen. If you'd like to think. I'd like to think I am. I want to live for him. Listen to Paul's level of dedication. In Acts chapter 21 and verse number 13. Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine heart? They said, Paul, if you go back down to Jerusalem, they're going to kill you, you're going to get in prison, it's going to be bad. Don't go back to Jerusalem The people that Paul used to run around with, they still hated Christians. And now they hated Paul. And look what he says there in the middle of verse 13. What mean ye to weep and break my heart? Look at this. For I am ready. Not to be bound only, thrown in prison, but also to what? Die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus How many people agree with me? That's pretty intense dedication. You agree with me? I'm willing to die. Years ago, preachers used to use this as an illustration. And I think, if I remember correctly, and I'm not sure of this, but I think there was a church somewhere out west actually acted this out to illustrate something. But the preachers would say something like this Suppose we met tonight for our evening service, as we always do, and 7 o'clock, about 5, 10 after 7, while we're singing. Armed men would come in here, government officials and m military men, they would come in here with their weapons And they would line all of us up along the wall and they would give us the option, you can either walk out of here, deny Christ, and walk out of here and never mention the name of Jesus, never pray Uh never read your Bible. Walk away from your Christian faith, or you can stay here, and if you stay here and retain your faith in Christ, we will execute you one by one down the wall And they would ask this question, I wonder how many of us first, I wonder how many of us would walk out. I wonder how many of us would stand there and say, I'll give up my life before I deny my Savior Man, what a challenge. What a level of commitment that would say, no, I'm going to die before I deny my Savior. You put a bullet through my between my eyes before I'll before I walk away from Christ. Now Paul, now we talk about that and we imagine that. And if you're like me, I would like to think, I don't know, I would like to think that I'd be willing to stay there, that I my level of commitment is that level. I'd like to believe that. But Paul, it was That was reality. In fact, he did give his life for the gospel in the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was in, God changed Paul's life so radically. That he went from a hater of Jesus and the people of Christ to now he is willing, and he did, die. Rather than deny the Lord Jesus Christ, rather than forsake the gospel. Paul lived in a world blinded by sin. Paul lived in a world that was dedicated to the devil's hell. And he was totally committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. that he was willing to do whatever was necessary to point this whole world to the Savior, whatever the cost. And I'm saying to you, we live in a world no different than Paul's day. A world that is blinded by sin. Brother, if you don't believe that, just watch the news for a little bit. Good grief. The perversion and wickedness that is saturating our world. We live in a world blinded by sin. And listen, I don't like to say this. I do not enjoy saying this at all. But it's true. We live in a world that is headed to a devil's hell. And unless people turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, unless people repent and trust Christ as their personal Savior, there is no hope of heaven. There is no hope of eternal life. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but by him. Paul's dedication to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's, I said all that to get to this point. Was it that motivated Paul so intensely? What was it about that encounter along the road where he met the Lord Jesus Christ and he turned to him, trusting him as his personal Savior? What was it about that that motivated Paul to live like this? And by the way, Paul wasn't the only one. The other disciples, the other apostles, every one of them, with perhaps the exception of one, gave their life, were martyred. For their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. What was it that motivated these men to be willing to give their lives? That early church, you read through the book of Acts, they're thrown in prison, they're being killed, they're being executed They're being beheaded. What in the world was it that motivated these early believers to live such a committed life to Christ? That they're willing to forsake all family and friends and finances and give their own lives to advance the cause of Christ. What was it that motivated them And by the way, saints throughout history, read church history, and throughout history, our Christian forefathers gave their lives, burned at the stake, tortured. I was down in Mexico a couple years ago with Brother Humble and a few other preachers, and we were preaching a meeting down there, and they took us on a tour into this town, I think I can say the name of town, Guanguanto. If I didn't say that right, nobody here has any clue how it said, so I was right. But they had there a museum, and Brother Lacey Wheeler, one of our missionaries, he says, I want to take you to the museum It is a museum from back several hundred years ago, the Catholic Church persecuted believers And they preserved this building and this complex where they would torture and kill believers. And it was most one of the most disturbing, most morbid places I've ever been in my life. And they still, many of us still had the exact same contraptions and torture instruments and racks and cages And they went through and they described how they would kill these Christians. Now they did others, political opponents. It was just corrupt as could be. But if somebody was a follower of Jesus Christ and they would not recant their faith, they would bring them in and do some of the most horrific things that you can possibly imagine. uh to these dear believers. Now what in the world? What in the world would motivate someone To be willing to endure that and sacrifice, give up their own life for their faith and the cause of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe, come back to 1 Corinthians. Chapter 2, or 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And I believe verse 14 tells us what that motivation is. 2 Corinthians 5. 14 is perhaps one of, if not the greatest and most simplest explanation. For the motivation of a genuine believer. Look with this with me again, if you would. We read it together here just a few moments ago. I underlined that first phrase in my Bible Look at it. For the love of Christ what constraineth us. The love of Christ Constraineth us. Now we're going to look at that word constraineth there in a little bit. The love of Christ. The love of Christ. Why did Paul be so dedicated? Why was he so dedicated to Christ? Uh to the gospel and to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of the love of Christ. Why did every one of those disciples, apostles, give their lives and travel the world and martyred and executed for their faith in Christ? What motivated them? uh the love of Christ. Our Christian forefathers and and believers before us, what in the world would motivate them to be willing to burn at the stake And you read the history books, some of them rejoicing and singing as they're being burned alive. What would motivate that? The Bible tells us the love of Christ. The love of Christ Now as we look at this, there's two ways to take this. Two ways to uh uh see this, two aspects of this. One view of this is this way, for the love of Christ constraineth us. By love of Christ, some suggest that he's talking about My love for the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, I love Jesus so much, it constrains me. uh to give my life. It constrains me to serve him. It constrains me. It presses me on to uh uh to ignore the abuse and the cussing and names people call me And God, my love for Christ. I don't think that's what he's talking about here. And I'll tell you why I don't think so, because my love for Christ sometimes is awfully weak. My love for Christ sometimes wavers. Can I get a witness? How many people here say, how many Christians here would say, preacher, sometimes I don't love the Lord like I should? I know I don't. Can I get a witness? I know I don't I can't brag about my love for Christ. My love for Christ is so weak, it's so human. And uh I want I do love him, and I want to love him more, and I want to love him with all my heart, and he wants me to love him with all my heart. Sometimes I look at myself and think, my, my love for the Lord isn't what it ought to be. My love for the Lord seems so weak and so unstable. By the way, that's why church is so important. And get around, I don't know about you, but these songs we sang, these hymns, uh boy, that stirred my heart this morning That helped me. It got my mind in focus. I don't know if you all ever do this, but uh uh this morning I got up and I was just a little uh um I don't know what I was in a little funk. Anybody know what I'm talking about Uh that doesn't mean I was jamming to some kind of music. Um uh but uh did anybody know what anybody here know what I'm talking about? Come on, help just act like you know what I'm talking about. Help me Uh I was just out of just something in my spirit. I read my Bible this morning, I prayed a little read a little extra, and I thought, Lord, I just Uh I just something not there. And I'll tell you, we started singing uh when uh what uh the song we sang, the one hymn, and uh the trump uh the Lord shall sound and uh what was the song? Somebody help me It is well with my soul. I tell you, that blessed my heart. And then the choir sang, then these young people singing, bow the knee. I tell you, it almost brings tears to my eyes. And I think, Lord, I don't love you like I should. Lord, my love, sometimes it just seems it's so hot for you, then other times it just gets cold. I Paul is talking about his love for the Lord here. The love of Christ constrains me. I don't think that's what he's talking about. You know what I think he's talking about? I think he's talking about Jesus' love for us. You know what I found out? Jesus' love for me never wavers. It's never hot and cold. It's never on and off and never gets indifferent. He loves me He loves me 100%, holy, completely, every moment of every day, of every week, of every month, of every year for all eternity. The love of Christ constrains me. Not my love for the Lord. If my living for Christ was dependent on my love for the Lord, I'd be a mess. And it's not what it ought to be all the time, but oh, the Lord loves me so much. And he loves you so much. And Paul says this He says, you want to know? This world thinks I'm nuts. If you read the verses before and after, this world thinks I'm a crazy idiot. This world thinks I'm a moron. They think I'm a Uh uh I'm insane. They think I'm nuts because of my how living for Christ and living the way I should. He says, I'll tell you, I don't care what they think, you know why? Because the love of Christ for me My Savior loves me so much. Let me quickly give you some thoughts here on the love of Christ. I put this down. Number one, the love of Christ is incomprehensible. Incomprehensible. Would you write that word down? Incomprehensible. Just spell it the best you can. There's no spelling it isn't on the test. What does it mean to be incomprehensible? If something is incomprehensible, it means it's impossible to fully understand it. It means this. It's beyond the reach of human intellect. Can I use a term that people use today? I think it's kind of weird. I don't usually say it too much sometimes You'll hear hear people say this. If they're talking about something they understand, they'll say this. I just can't wrap my head around that. Anybody ever hear that? How many people think that's a weird thing to say, huh? That seems weird. I wrap my head around it. The love of Christ for you and I is incomprehensible. We will never, I don't believe we will ever, ever fully grasp How much Jesus Christ loves us. If you would turn with me quickly over to Ephesians. Now you're going to the back of the Bible now. You're in 2 Corinthians. You go to Galatians, and then you hit Ephesians chapter 3. Again, this is Paul writing under the inspiration of God, and he makes a he makes an interesting statement here. He's telling the church at Ephesus That's who the Ephesians is, a letter to the church at Ephesus. And he's telling them his prayer for them. He's telling them, I'm praying for you. And he says, This is what I'm praying for. And if you would notice verse number 17. He says that Christ, now this he's telling them how he prays for them, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, and that ye being rooted and grounded in love. Now look at this May be able to what? Comprehend with all saints what is the breadth The length, the depth, the height, and to know the love of Christ Now in Corinthians, he said, that's what constrains me, the love of Christ. I want you to comprehend with all the saints how deep and wide and high and long the love of Christ is for you. Look at verse 19. And to know the love of Christ, which, what's the next two words? Passeth knowledge. Wait a minute. You just said you're praying that we can know the love of Christ, and then the very next breath, you say that love of Christ passeth knowledge. What are you talking about? I think Paul says, oh, I want you to know, like I know, how much Christ loves you. And I want you to understand that. And then he adds tax on, but you know Christ's love for us is so intense, is so deep, is so incomprehensible, we really will never fully grasp How much Christ loves us. I tell you, our understanding of love is so shallow, right or wrong I understand. I love you if you love me. We live in such a superficial love for each other. And oh I loved her yesterday, but not today. Um uh and uh we got this uh you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. Uh I I love uh uh you know somebody touched on this just recently. We'll s we'll come home and the dog will meet us at the door and say, Oh, I just love this dog. I never saw anybody walk home and cat come up and say, Oh, I just love this cat. I never heard anybody say that. But Because the cat don't greach at the door. It's missing somewhere, who knows. But the dog comes, oh I just love this dog. And then we'll sit down. Wife will make spaghetti and meatballs. Oh, I love spaghetti and meatballs. And then later that evening put her arm around the wife, I love you, sweetheart. We love the dog, spaghetti, and the wife all in the same word. I tell you, God's love for us is so deeper and so greater than any love that we could ever express that it is beyond our ability to comprehend. John chapter 3, verse 16. For God loved the world and gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Is that how what the verse says? I left the word out, didn't I? For God so loved the world. Now why would He Tech, that little word so in there, what's that mean? Why didn't he just say, for God loved the world and gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believed in him should not perish forever last night? Why didn't he just say that? Would that be true? God loved the world, sure Would that be true? The loved the world that he gave his son? Sure. Jesus died on that old cross for your sins and my sins was because God loved us. But God's love is incomprehensible. God's love is so overwhelming. Our finite minds can't grasp the depth of the love that God has for us. And so He uses that two-letter word for God. So What does that mean? It means there's no way to express it. Oh, I love you. I love you to infinity. Wow, that's amazing. You love me to infinity. Yes, uh I've told this many times, but when we lived in Colorado, our oldest son, uh Sam, was little and we were out playing ball or something Came in and we were tired. We're sitting on my lap and we're horsing around. And he says, Daddy, he says, Daddy, I love you. And I said, Sam, I love you too. And he said, Oh daddy, I love you from here to the ocean. And uh he never saw the ocean at that point in his life. I said, Wow, that's a lot of love here to the ocean. Goodness And I said, well, I love you here to the ocean too. And he goes, I love you more than that. I said, really? He goes, I love you from here to the moon. I said, the moon. He says, yeah. I said, woo, that's a heap of love right there, here to the moon. And I said, I love you here to the moon too. He goes, I love you more net. You gotta know Sam. I love you, Mornette. I said, Really? He goes, yeah. He says, I love you from here to infinity. He didn't know what infinity was. He heard somebody say that And I said, good heavens, infinity. That's immeasurable. And I said, Sam, I love you from here infinity too. He said, I love you more than that. He said, Daddy, I love you so much. And that's what God's saying. A creator, the God that created us, the God that gave us life. That we've sinned against, and we've taken his name in vain, and we've disobeyed him, we've done these things that grieve his holy heart. God looks down and says, He doesn't say I love you here to the ocean. He didn't say I love you here to the moon or the solar system or infinity. He said, Dennis, I love you so much So much. I can't. God could express it. I could never comprehend. Never comprehend this God how much he loves us. And Paul said, that constrains me. That love that God has for me pushes me on and produces in my heart and so a commitment to him. He loves me so much. I put incomprehensible love of Christ. It's incomprehensible. I put another word down. It's eternal. How do you grasp eternity? Absolutely no beginning. Everything in our life has a beginning and an ending. Everything we have we measure by a beginning and an ending. But God and his love for us is eternal. It has no beginning. It always existed. It has no end. It will always go on beyond time. We can't grasp that. We can't wrap our heads around that. Jeremiah 31, verse 3 says, Yea, God speaking to his people said. I love thee with an everlasting love. Everlasting. No beginning. Before God created any of this. Back before before Genesis 1. 1, before there was anything, God loved you and he loved me God's love, if it's eternal, it's everlasting, it doesn't take any interruptions. Nothing interrupts God's love. You say, preacher, I Ed, you're saying God loves me, but if if you knew what I've done, if you know the things I've said and the things I've done, way in the world God would love me, there's no way in the world God could love me. You know what? God loved you before you ever were even conceived in your mother's womb. He already loved you then. He knew what was coming. He knew what you would say and do. And yet he still loved us. God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Parents, I say this often. Parents, don't ever tell your children, don't ever say this to your children. This is a lie of the devil. Don't ever say to your children, you better be good or Jesus won't love you. That's a lie of the devil. Does he want us to be bad? No. God hates sin. But he loves the sinners. I'm glad, Bay Back on May 7, 1979, a perverse, degenerate teenage boy bowed his knees. And God that created him and everything looked down and said, I love that boy. I love that guy. He's made a mess. He's such an idiot. I love him. When I called out on Jesus Christ, God forgave me all my sin, and He gave me a new life. He loves us. And Paul said, that's what drives me. That's what gets me up on Sunday morning and gets me to church. Alright, here we go with this one. That's what gets me up out of the sofa on Sunday night and gets me back at church. Wednesday. That's what drives me. That's what constrains me, compels me to say, listen If I have to die, I'm not denying Christ. If it costs me my life, I'm committed to Jesus Christ. Why? Well, if Christ constrains me It's incomprehensible. Word down. It's unconditional. The Greek word is agape. We could spend a whole series on that. It means without conditions. The source of God's love for you and me isn't you and me. The source of God's love for you and me is God Himself. God doesn't love us because we're lovely. I've been around some of you long enough. You've been around me long enough. We're not always lovely, are we? We aren't always lovely, are we? I mean how many people would say, Preacher, I'm not always in fact I'm gonna make you do this. How many people say, Preacher, I'm not always lovely? Come on now. Some of y'all weren't lovely right there. We can be ugly sometimes, can't we? But God's love for me isn't conditioned upon me being lovely. God's love for me is conditioned upon the fact that He is love. And He loves us unconditionally. If you don't uh A young dirty, uh wicked young man says to a uh uh a young girl, and he says, If you love me You would let me do this to you, or you'd do this for me, I tell you that ain't love. That's wicked, selfish sinfulness God never says, God never says to you and I, uh if you do this, then I'll love you. No, no, no. His love is what? Unconditional. Unconditional. Unconditional. Agape. Love of God. And so Paul said, that's what drives me. That's compelling. The love of Christ is incomprehensible. I gotta throw these last two out to you real quick. The love of Christ constrains us. That's where he says in 1 Corinthians 5 14, constraineth. That word constraineth means this. To hold into place, to press forward, to keep my keep me where I'm supposed to go. I want to Quickly, where's Xander at? Xander, come on up here. You're my guy to you're my go-to guinea pig. Uh all right. Uh he's you're a Christian. He's sincere, dedicated Christian. He loves the Lord, he wants to live for God. Now why in the world is he Why in the world does he carry his Bible to church and and to school and witness to people, invite folks out? Why in the world does that the love of Christ constrains him? Now, he's here he's the Christian. Here's your Christian life across here. Just do exactly And um here's his Christian life. And I'm gonna uh I'm gonna represent the love of Christ, God's love for Xander so much and and uh overwhelming. And so he's living his life. He's going on just slowly and he's going on there. And suddenly, oh, there's some big lights over here and the world says, Xander, come World come on her and he starts to go over that way and uh but the love of Christ constraints You get right back here and you keep going. And uh and the world starts calling you at a party! Come on over, Xander! And he starts wandering over towards the world. And the love of Christ says, No, no, you don't get back here And it constrains him. And then he starts getting lazy and he stops going to church and he kind of parks it right there. And he's not growing. He's not going on. And the love of Christ says, Come on, man, let's go. Keep going. Keep going. And he goes on her, thank you, Xander. Do you see what I Or? And then uh World gets out there and Sander, we're gonna make fun of you. You're gonna lose all your friends. He's growing, he's going on, and uh we're gonna we're threaten Dave, you come on over here, you be the world And mean and hateful, you're gonna beat 'em up and stay right there. And uh you're threatening them. And uh Xander's thinking, yikes, if I keep living for Christ, I gotta face that guy, they're gonna do that, and he starts hesitating, but the love Strains them. You go on, Xander. You go on. I'll be with you. I don't want to split the church here. You follow what I'm saying? Paul says, man, God's love doesn't let me go off into the world. God's love, God loves me enough. Anybody here ever been in church and you have some preaching? And boy, something down inside your conscience just stings there. You know what I'm talking about? What do we call that? Conviction. Boy, the preacher preaches something. Oh man, you know what that is? That's the love of Christ. constraining us. Did you ever get, I'm talking to Christians now, do you ever get you're living your life and boy there's something there and it just kind of entices you a little bit and you start to and then something inside All of a sudden, sometimes you feel bad and you know I shouldn't be doing this. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's the love of Christ constraining me. I'm not going to let you do that. The love of Christ. Here's what I'm trying to say. God loves us so much that when we start to mess up and we fail and we We we we blow it as a Christian. He loves us so much, He'll chasten us. Despite not thou the chastening of the Lord, for whom He loveth, he chasteneth God corrects us and challenges us and confronts us. Why? Because he loves us. He doesn't leave us alone. And so Paul said, the love of Christ constrains me. It's incomprehensible how much he loves me. But I know this, God's love for me presses me on and keeps me going. And then the love of Christ conforms us. I don't have time. Galatians 2. 20, Paul said, For I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me. He gave himself for me. Paul says, the love of Christ is working in my life and making me like the Lord Jesus. You know what God wants us to be? He wants us to be like the Lord Jesus. Anybody here recognize the name Curta or recognize the name Hudson Taylor? Anyone recognize Missionary to where China, what a tremendous story. I'm reading his autobiography right now. Fascinating. I read it before, I'm reading it again. Absolutely fascinating. A man of tremendous faith. A man of tremendous prayer. Later in his life, he had started the China Inland Mission and he established churches throughout China. This was hundreds of years ago, a couple hundred years ago. And he was back and he was recruiting missionaries to come and help him start churches and and reach the Chinese folk with the gospel. And he was interviewing, had three or four or five there with him And he recorded in his biography, he says, as I was interviewing them, he says, I asked them this question, and why do you wish to go to China to be a foreign missionary. Now back then, you know, just getting there was a danger, and let alone living in this foreign land The first one there, the fellow said, I want to go because Christ has commanded us to go into all the world. Is that correct? Has Christ commanded us to go into all the world? Yes, absolutely. Great commission. He says, I'm going because Christ commanded me to. Alright? And the other one said, I'm going to go because people there are dying without Christ. They go to hell if they don't get saved. And uh I want to go because they're dying going to hell. Another one said, I'm going because I love the Lord and I just want to go and do that. And and finally Curtis uh uh Hudson Taylor said, he said, those are all good reasons. He said, but tell you what. Not one of them is going to keep you there. Not one of them is going to keep you there. He said it's going to get hard. Your life is going to be threatened And your commitment to the Great Commission is going to waver. And your concern for them going to hell is going to become slack when you when you start paying a price. And he says your own love for the Lord and Savior is going to get weak. When you have to go without, he says the only motive that will get you there and keep you there is this: the love of Christ for you. Jesus Christ loves me and He compels me to go. Let me ask you a question. Do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? Have you trusted Him as your Savior? Oh, you might be a good person, humanly speaking. The Bible says we've all sinned against God. We've broken his law. We've taken his name in vain. We've said things that are not true. We've done things that have violated God's holiness. And because of that, God has no choice, but because of his holiness, we're under his judgment. We're under his wrath. And if we die in our sins unforgiven, the Bible is very clear. We are separated from a holy God, the Creator, for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And ultimately the lake of fire. But God loves you and me so much. He said, I'll come down and I'll die for you. I'll suffer that hell in your place. You've broken God's law. You've broken God's holiness. The judgment must be carried out. I don't want you to face that. I don't want you to go to hell. I love you. God commended his love toward us while we were sinners. Christ came down and died for us, suffered hell, was buried, and rose again. And he said, whoever calls on him should, whoever call on him shall be saved, forgiven, given a new life, saved from hell, and have the assurance. Of a home in heaven. If you've never trusted Christ as Savior, my plea is today, get that settled. It's a very simple thing. It's not very always very easy to get over pride and have to exercise that faith to trust Christ. Turn to Him, trust Him. But it's really not complicated. Let me ask you a question. If you've trusted Christ, you've been saved. I want to urge you. To ask the Lord to help you comprehend to some extent how much he loves you and I. And when we get a hold of the fact that God loves me so much, It's not going to be hard to live for him. It's not going to be hard to trust him and obey him. Someone that loves us like that. Am I making sense? making sense and maybe some of us Christians maybe need to find a place at the altar and just say Lord you love me so much maybe maybe right now as I'm speaking God's love is constraining you Something God's speaking in your heart and life. That God says, you know, that's not right. I love you. Don't let that be there. You need to adjust this. You need to change. I love you too much. You need to trust me. God's Holy Spirit speaks to our hearts, the love of Christ. Let's come and let Him have His way. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our imitation. And I pray you'd help us to trust you and be submissive to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But I believe God's working in my heart. God's dealing with me. And I'm not arrived there yet. And there's areas in my life that God's Holy Spirit, God's love constrains me and deals with me And even this morning, is there any like that, preacher? God's Holy Spirit is dealing with me. His love for me is is uh adjusting and bringing attention to things in my heart. God bless you. Many hands. How about it? Others? Yes, the Holy Spirit of God is dealing with my heart. Oh, the love of Christ constrains us. I wonder if this morning someone says, Preacher, I know I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but I'm burdened for somebody that's not saved. I know them. They're dear to me, a friend, a worker, a family member. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that they could understand the gospel, believe, and be saved. Is there any like that? Oh preacher, there's somebody I'm burdened for. I'm concerned about that they be saved. God bless you. And he hands around Let me ask another question. You know for sure you're saved? You have that settled? You know for sure you've trusted Christ as the Bible teaches. That settles. So anyone say, preacher, pray for me. I just, I don't want to have doubts about that. I want that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. And I'll pray with you along with many others. Preacher, I'm not sure about that. I need that settled. How about it? Any, God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need that settled. God bless you. Couple hands around. Any others say, Preacher, I am concerned. I don't want to die and go to hell. I'd like to know that's settled How about it? Any others? We're going to have the piano play in just a moment. We're going to stand and we're going to invite people to come to the altar. Christians are going to come up here and won't be praying for themselves and others. If you raise your hand and you're not sure about your salvation I want to urge you, come on up. We'd like to show you in the Bible how you can get that settled and uh and not have to worry about that anymore. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.