Book of Philippians in the fourth chapter Philippians chapter four. How many of you enjoyed this so far going through Philippians? I'm getting this is fun. I'm enjoying this. This is this is good stuff. Um I'm learning a lot from it, to be honest with you. And again, the overwhelming theme of the book, joy. And more now more than ever. I'm realizing that joy really is up to me, whether or not it's a decision I'm going to have to make. Whether or not I'm going to be happy. Whether or not I'm going to have joy. Remember we talk about happiness. Um is usually based off of what happens, but joy, that's a decision. And um I've really enjoyed um reading this and and studying through Philippians I mentioned this morning um at a slow reading speed if you listen to the the audio reading of it um it takes about fifteen minutes or so. And most of us read uh faster than we read out loud. So you can you can get through this book a couple times in in in a hurry. And you can get a lot out of it each time you read through it. Um I don't know if you've noticed uh but sometimes I I'm sitting up here and I notice Pastor does this too a lot. Um before we get we come up here to to to preach or to speak. We're writing down more things. And what that is, is I'm getting more thoughts from the book of Philippians, reading it again, uh another time. And I'm I'm I don't I just I'm getting a lot out of it. I'm enjoying this. And if nothing else, uh I've had fun doing it. So we're gonna look at the last chapter tonight And then Lord willing, next Sunday night, we'll look at the kind of an overview of the book, I guess you could say. So let's go through the drill. Let's review. Who wrote the book of Philippians? Paul. And uh we mentioned it before, won't spend too much time on it. It's an amazing fact how God can take someone like Saul and use him and make him someone like Paul. So Paul uh was the human author of this. Who was it written to? Philippians, the church at Philippi, a Roman colony. Um, a Roman colony that aided Rome in uh taking over them, basically. They helped Rome take over themselves. Pretty fascinating history there. You should look it up sometime. And um when was this written? 61, 62, somewhere right in there. Um and again, this was written while Paul was where? He was in jail. He was in prison. Um and it wa it wasn't like the one you work at Tom. It wasn't like that prison. Uh that that would look like a nice hotel compared to the prison that Tom's that not Tom, you didn't stay in prison, did you? that uh that Paul stated. Oh man. But um again, this is this is this just goes to show that we can live for Christ despite where we're at. And that's kind of what we're gonna look at tonight um content, whatever our state, I guess you could say. We looked at chapter one in the theme of chapter one. Again, this is just for sake of review. confidence in Christ in the verse six of chapter one being confident in this very thing, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ Because we have confidence in Christ, we can have joy in Christ. And in chapter 2, we saw that kind of the focus there was being like-minded by having the mind of Christ. And then because we think like Christ, we can have joy there. And the main verse we looked at was verse 5 of chapter 2. Let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. This morning we looked at chapter three, and the the theme we saw there was the the conversation of a Christian, the way a Christian should live, opposed to living like the world and the consequences thereof. And how a Christian should live. And as a result of living the way we're supposed to live, joy comes into our life. And we have joy versus destruction, is what we saw this morning. So at the closing of the book, chapter 4, Paul closes out his short letter in encouraging the church at Philippi to be content. And the focus of this chapter is being content in Christ. Can I say it this way? Being satisfied with our Savior. Contentment. And because I can be content in Christ, I can have joy in Christ Understand if there's something that I claim to be happy with and be content with, more than likely I'll have joy as a result. So the overwhelming theme of the book was that of joy, and we looked at uh the the the focuses of each individual chapter. One last thing for way over review. Do you remember who the person was that delivered this book back to the church? It was one of my favorite names. Epaphroditus. I love it. I'm gonna name our firstborn child Epaphroditus. Boy or girl, I like it. I'm just kidding, I'm not gonna do that. Only if it's a boy. No, I'm just kidding. Um But I like him, and he was a servant man, and he basically almost worked himself to death just to serve and minister to Paul. And I can't help but think there's a lot of Christians like that. We don't know we don't know much about them. We don't see their name in the paper. We don't we don't hear them on the radio. But the church would not be what it is without 'em, without the Epaphroditus. That was a long word, apaphroditasis. So anyway, we get to chapter four here, and we see the focus is um being content in Christ. Of all people that would have an excuse to not be content, it would be Paul. So let's read our um some verses here and then we'll we'll jump into it. Uh chapter four, let's look at verse nine. It says those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do. Alright, let's think. Before I read any further, the things we've learned from the last three chapters, let's apply them. Yeah, that's how he's that's what he's saying right here Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do, and the God of peace, I sure want that, shall be with you. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that word rejoice again, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned, and this will be the main focus tonight, in whatsoever state I am. Therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound everywhere and in all things I am instructed. Both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me Now that verse a lot of times is used in the sports world. But the application here, the context that it is in, is learning to be content in what state I'm in. Yes, I can be content in this state. Verse 14, notwithstanding ye have uh well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now you Philippians know also That the in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me concerning giving and receiving, but he only. For even at Thessalonica, you sent once and again unto my necessity. Sounds like the church at Philippi was missions-minded Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Verse 18, but I have all in abound and in full, having received of Epaphroditus, love it, the things which were sent from you. An odor, a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to my God. But my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches and glory, by Christ Jesus. Let's pray and end the message tonight. Real real brief message at this point: contentment in Christ. Contentment in Christ. Heavenly Father, I thank you again for everything you've done for us Lord, help us to understand that we can be content no matter the state we're in. Lord, we love you. And help us just to choose to have this joy regardless of circumstances. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Of all people, like I said, that would have an excuse to not be content, it would be Paul. Again, he is writing this from a Roman prison, from a jail. Hold your place here. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 11. You know, Paul had more trials than just being in jail. You all knew that, right? He had some other bad things happen to him. 2 Corinthians chapter 11 Verse 24, this is him giving an account of some things that have happened to him. Of the Jews, five times received I forty stripes, save one. That is thirty-nine lashings with the whip. That does not sound pleasant. Five times. Five times thirty-nine, that's a lot of lashings. Thrice was I oh by the way, it is said that if you whip someone forty times with a cat of ninetails, it would automatically kill them. So they just did one short, just torture them a little more. That's what that was Verse 25 here, thrice was I beaten with rods. Once was I stoned. Thrice I suffered shipwreck. A night and a day I have been in the deep. And journeying often in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils by my own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils In the wilderness, in perils in the sea, and perils among false brethren, in weariness, in painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger. Thirst and fastings often and cold and nakedness. Do you kind of get the point that he's been through it a little bit Again, of all people that would say, I'm not happy with where I'm at, hello, I would figure he would say it. I don't know anyone that has been through all of that. Not even close But for some reason we're still not satisfied with where we're at. And we look at it, and he's the one that is saying, I have learned. Whatsoever state I'm in, think of all of the states that he had been. No, not the United States. We weren't here yet. But think of all the circumstances that he had been in He learned to be content with 39 lashings five times. He learned to be content stuck underwater in a shipwre Talk about having a hard time being content. I'd have a hard time, brother. He's saying, whatsoever state I'm in there with to be content. I would say that he went through it. And weariness, painfulness, hunger, thirst, cold, nakedness. And he goes on, and if you read this chapter of 2 Corinthians, there's more But he said, I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. And of all people, we're hearing this from Paul. The man that has gone through these things, can I just say this right up front? If he can be content, can't I be? If he can learn to be content with whatever state he's in, can't I learn to be content with just a little bit of difficulty? Just a little bit of what I might call a trial that he wouldn't even probably consider a trial at his point. It is said that um By the time Paul had made it to the end of his life, he was less than five feet tall because of all the beatings he took and his body was completely hunched over. He ended up being very, very short when he used to not be. And he learned to be content. Why is it that someone that goes through that kind of beating can be content? Are they happy and enjoy the beating? No. But their contentment is not found in circumstances. Their contentment is found in Christ. I can be satisfied and content with my Savior despite my circumstance. And again, reading this book and studying this book of Philippians, I have uh I have been assured of this fact that it is my decision To choose to have joy. And that's why he says in chapter 4, rejoice. It's a decision I have to make to stir up my joy again. And if Paul can do it, I can do it. If Paul can do it, you can do it. Well, you just don't understand what I'm going through. I probably don't. I bet you Paul did And just pretend it's him telling you. Whatsoever state you're in, just be content with where God has you Does this mean we're overjoyed and we rejoice when terrible negative things happen? No, but we're okay with it. Because we know God knows what he's doing. Life has ups and downs. Paul knew this. We see it in verse chapter 4. Verse 12, I know both how to be abase and how to abound. He had good times where he was not being beat. He saw great success in his ministry. It was not a constant torture, I guess you could say. But the point is, he was content through both circumstances. He wasn't on a roller coaster of emotion. When things were going great, he was content. When things were going not great, he was content. You know what this tells me about Paul? He was consistent. And this is a consistency that I would like to have. Something I learned from my father, my dad, many times is he would always tell me, we don't let circumstances dictate our actions. And the more I read this, the more true I realize that is. Because yes, we don't let circumstances dictate our joy either We need to make up our minds that we're going to have joy regardless of the service. Life has ups and downs. Times of plenty, times of lacking. There are times when you have plenty of money in the bank There are times when you don't have enough to pay last month's bills. Are we content in both states Not that we rejoice that we're behind, and not that we rejoice that we're lacking, but we're content because we know God's in control. Life has times of certainty where we think we know what will happen and we see it come to pass. Life has times of confusion. We have no idea what's going on. You know what I'm talking about? You ever say where in the world did that come from? Yeah. We don't know what is going to be thrown at us. But if we make up our mind that we're going to be content and rejoice in Christ, No matter what's thrown at us, when something negative is thrown at us, you know what will happen? We'll say, you know what, God, you're in control. I can take this. Not that I'm some superhero, but because my contentment is found in Christ. Again, verse 13, I can do all things through Christ that strengtheneth me, is not referring to winning the football game. It's referring to how can I be content with the state that I am in? Because I'm some super spiritual guy that floats. No. Because I can be content through Christ He gives me the strength to be content. That makes sense? Following me there? Give me like a nod, a thumbs up, to do something? Okay, good. Sometimes life throws us ups and downs, sometimes we're prepared for it, sometimes it comes out of nowhere. But regardless, we can be content, regardless of the circumstances. There is something that we have got to come to grasp with. I taught the youth group this uh last Sunday for Sunday school We must learn to accept circumstances that we can't change. Could Paul change the fact that he was whipped five times? 39 lashes each. Can he go back in time and change that? Nope. Can he go back in time and change the shipwreck? No. It happened. And if we're going to sit here and stew about things that have already happened that we have no control over, or something that's happening right now that we have absolutely no control over My friend, that's not trusting God. We've got to part of trusting God is learning to accept the things that I have no control over. Not accepting it like, oh, we're okay with this, this is cool, but understanding the fact that I can't change this. Understand there are things that we don't have control over, only God does. And part of trusting God is knowing that he is in control, and even though something bad happened, he was aware of it and he let it happen. Why? I don't know, but he does. And I do know that he will use all things together for good to him to them that love God. We have got to understand that there are things we don't have control over. We must understand and trust God that He does have control over these circumstances. And we need to have the integrity to do right regardless of the circumstances. And again, I I I think of Joseph. There were things he had absolutely no control over, bad things that happened to him. Was it right for him? To be thrown in a pit and almost murdered and then they decided not to, but sell him? Was that right for his brothers to do that? No Did God know what was happening? Oh yeah. Did God work those things together for good? Yeah, he did. Was it right for Potiphar's wife to try to seduce him? No Was it wrong for him to run away from her? No. It was right for him to run away from her. Did he get punished for doing right? Yeah. Does he have control over that circumstance? No. Does God? Yes. Part of trusting God is understanding Even though I don't know why this is happening, I know you're allowing it, you're gonna use it, and I'm trusting you. Whatever state I'm in, I have no idea why this might be happening. Why I'm in this state, but I can be content, not that I'm overjoyed that I've been thrown into prison like Joseph or lashed almost to death five times like Paul or so on. But I can understand that I'm okay with this circumstance because God, you're going to use it for something and you're in control I can be okay because I'm trusting in you. Listen, that is trusting in God Part of trusting in God is accepting not only what has happened to you or what has happened in the past that we can't change, but part of trusting God is accepting the position that He's given you. The role that He's given you. Understand this. There are some things that every single one of us have a role. That have the same role. If you're saved, say amen. You have a role as a Christian, and it is your obligation to fulfill that role. Not fulfilling that role is not trusting God. If you're a male, say amen. There are certain roles that you have, and part of trusting God is fulfilling that role. The role of a father, the role of a husband, the role of a son. That is your responsibility to fulfill that role that God gave you. And when you say I don't want to fulfill that role, then that is not trusting God. You're female, say amen. There are certain roles that God has given you. Wife, mother, daughter, Christian. And it is your job to fulfill those roles as Christ has given you. To not fulfill that is to say, God, I'm not trusting you. I'm going to do it my way. That is not trusting God. Before we get to the rest of this uh a passage tonight, before we can be Content with the state we're in, we have got to be able to trust God that He has allowed us to be in the state we're in. And if you're not going to trust God by accepting things you can't change that He can, and if you're not going to trust God by not trusting the role that He's given you, you can't trust God, no contentment's going to be there And when you're not content, there will be no joy. If you want a miserable life, then just don't trust God. If you want a miserable life, just keep trying to fix those circumstances that you can't control. Try to do the impossible. Go ahead. You want a miserable life? Just keep telling God I don't want to fulfill the responsibilities you've given me. Because that's what trusting God is. I understand this is where you have me. You have a reason for this. And then whatever state we're in, whether we're abase or whether we abound, I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me, including being content. So once we accept these things and we're content with our state, we I mean we can be content with our state. Again, not that we're overjoyed when negative things happen, but we're okay with it, because we know God's in control. So we're to be content with our state. We were taking notes, that was the first point. Wherever God has me In and and I was as I was preparing this, I was kind of joking around a little bit. But um even if I'm in Maryland, I can be content with my state. I wish that I could carry preach it. But uh I'm content with my state. God has me here for a reason. Oh, I'm content with Christ. Can I say that? I'm content with Christ. First thing, content with my state. Second thing, content with Christ. Christ is all I need. That needs to be our attitude. Before we can have joy, we've got to be content with Christ. Hey, he was all I needed for salvation, right? I didn't have to do anything to earn my salvation. Aren't you glad you don't have to go to a a priest and tell him every single horrible thing you've ever done and then lose money on top of it? I mean my goodness. I I'm glad that Christ was all I needed for salvation. I'm content with that. I'm content with the fact that I don't have to try to do enough good stuff to get to heaven. Ain't no way I'd ever do that Hey listen, if if Christ was enough for me to be saved, isn't he enough for me to keep living? Can't I be content with him to keep doing the things that he's called me to do? Again, that's part of trusting God. I mean, if Christ was all I needed for salvation, why do I think I need to run everywhere but Christ for everything else? So Christ is all I need for salvation. We don't need to rely on anything else. And Christ is all I need for my day-to-day life. I'm content with that. I don't need a million dollars to make me happy. I don't. I don't need to have great success to make me happy. I don't need to have great popularity to make me content. No, I'm content with Christ. And I hope that can be what we all say tonight. I'm content with Christ. Content with my calling. That's the third thing. Content with my calling. That's where God has placed me. Again, there are some obvious things we don't have to pray about. Whatever your role is, like I mentioned, if you're a father, God's called you to be a father. If you're a husband, God's called you to be a husband. And whatever that role is. You're a Christian. God's called you to live like one. But even beyond that, wherever God has placed you, are you happy? Content with it? I think about some of these missionary biographies that you read, brother. Those missionaries, they were content with where God had put them. I look at some of these guys and think. Whoa! But they say, you know what, if that's where God wants me, I'm okay with that. Wouldn't it be nice if that was the attitude we have? Can I say this? Young people, listen to me for a minute. God's calling you guys to something. And I believe with all my heart a lot of it's a lot of you are probably going to be called to ministry, probably several of you. Hopefully all of you. We need we need people Wherever it is that God calls you, whether it's um What we would call full-time ministry, a layperson in a church, a uh a Sunday school teacher, a bus captain. I could keep going. Can I say, why don't you just be content with where God's called you and try quit trying to do something else God's called you to serve Him. Quit trying to plan your own life. Why don't you just be content with what He's called you to do? Just surrender to it. It's a whole lot easier. Start to have joy. So to sum it to sum up everything, and I'm done here in just a few minutes, just to sum everything up. What I've learned from this book is uh I I I don't have to let circumstances control my attitude I don't have to let circumstances control my attitude, and we've touched on that. I can be content in Christ I can be content in Christ. I don't have to be miserable all the time because I don't have what I want. Like I'm going to throw a fit because I don't have what I want. I don't have to be that way. Because all that I really need, I have. Verse 19, but my God shall supply all your need. And we hear this verse quoted all the time, we always apply this somehow to monet monetarily things, finances. And I believe he will supply our needs there. But again the context is of this. To be able to make it through whatever state we're in. My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Christ Jesus is the supply for your need. Does this make sense? I can be content because I have Christ. Christ will give me strength to be content. A lot of times I hear people say, I can't make it through what I'm going through. You don't understand. I can't do it. I can't be content with the state I'm in. Verse thirteen, yes you can. I can. I can do all things, including Being okay with where God has me. Well, you understand what I'm going through. I don't. But I do understand that you can be content there. If Paul was, you can be. And despite our circumstances, we can still be content, and not only be content. But the next step have joy. You want I want joy. I I and I'm gonna do my best. I just want to have joy. Positive or negative circumstances. May God help us to be content and to have joy. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you again for everything you've done for us. Lord, help us to understand that we can we can be content. And Lord, and it's not that we're saying, oh, everything you're giving us is terrible, but we're going to try to be happy anyway. Lord, the flip side of this, he knew how to be a base, but how to abound. And Lord I think I'm right in saying most of us have abundant lives. And in fact, you said you came not just that we could have life, but that we could have it more abundantly. And so it's not always doom and gloom, Lord, but when the doom and gloom does come, help us to understand that we can be content anyway. Not because we love punishment, but because we understand you're in control and we have faith in you and we are trusting you. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one will look around for just a moment. Again, I I don't want to go a service without throwing this in here, because this is the most important thing. But how many of you here would say, you know, I'm not even sure that I'm saved on my way to heaven? Understand, Christ died for your sins. He loves you. He wants to take you to heaven. If you say, I'm not sure about that, Pastor Matt, but I'm concerned about my salvation, I'm not sure I'm saved. Could you pray for me? Would you just slip your hand up and let me know that you want me to pray for you? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. Could you pray for me You may put your hand down, thank you. Now, for everyone else, I want you to listen to this. God spoke to my heart tonight, and I'm inclined to think that he probably spoke to some others as well. A lot of us are going through horrible things that we have no control over. Why don't we just trust God and accept the fact that He's allowing this to happen? Just like he did Joseph, Job, Paul. Let's trust God tonight. If you're here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, God spoke to my heart about something tonight that I need to get right. Would you raise your hand? God spoke to my heart tonight. Put your hands down, thank you. Tell you what, God spoke to your heart tonight. And let's speak back to him. Let's talk back to him and have a conversation with him about this thing that he's trying to work in our hearts about. And you know what I mean. Let's come up here and tell God. What's on our hearts? I think the word I'm looking for is repent, change our mind from being miserable to making up our mind that we're going to be joyous and content. If you could stand to your feet, please. Again, no one looking around, heads bowed, eyes closed. But if God spoke to your heart tonight, the invitation's open.