Second Timothy chapter three verse number fourteen. You would. Let's read this verse together in unison, if you would. You got it there? Second Timothy three, verse fifteen. All together. Read it with me. 14, verse 14, I'm sorry. Altogether, ready? But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. I like the first statement Paul makes. He's writing under the inspiration of God to this young man, Timothy. He's a pastor of a church, just a young fellow, been serving the Lord faithfully. This guy sold out to Christ. And Paul writes to him, and the first part of verse number 14, he says, continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. Continue. And that's what I want to talk about this morning. Timothy continuing in the things he's learned. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. I thank you that we have the opportunity to assemble together here on a snowy cold day. I'm grateful for everybody that made the effort to be out in the house of God today. I know some drove uh good little ways uh through ugly roads. But Lord, we just love you and we love your people and the body of Christ. And so I ask now that you would meet with us, Lord. I know the weather is no hindrance to your presence I pray that you would manifest your presence here with us this morning, and that you would speak our hearts, the young and old. That you would challenge us in our Christian life, and that we would continue on, stay faithful, just stay at it I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I know that you indwell me. I know you're already present in my body. I ask that you would fill me now as I preach, that I can be fully yielded to you, and Lord, you would just use me as a conduit, speak through me to each of our hearts and lives, your word. So bless now, help us to be trust you, help us to follow your instructions here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In the days of the New Testament Church, back 2,000 years ago, as the church was beginning in its early stages, they didn't have Bible colleges. For folks that maybe felt called to the ministry or wanted to get maybe advanced training in the Word of God and in the things of the Lord. They didn't have Bible college to go off to Uh we have them today. Of course I went to college. I'm very grateful for it. We have some good schools today that folks can go to, get a good Bible college education, get an understanding. They didn't have any of that back then. In fact They didn't even have Bible Institutes in their local churches there, like we have here. We have on Monday nights, we have our Bible Institute. I don't know if you've ever picked this up, but I love our Bible Institute. I wish everybody come out and roll in Bible Institute, go through it, and go through that four years. And not only that, I wish everybody come out, go through the four years of Bible Institute. Then I wish you'd sign up again and do it again I just love it teaching the things. But they didn't have that. Young man like Timothy, God saves them. It stirs his heart. He wants to serve God. He wants to understand the scriptures. They didn't have anything like that. What they did, and this isn't a bad thing, don't misunderstand what I'm saying here But what they would do if there was a young man, for instance, like Timothy, or anybody really, any age That um got saved and they thought, boy, I want to serve God. I just I just want to be everything God wants me to be. I want to be out and out for Christ What they would do is they'd take some maybe older godly man, uh, in the case of ladies, an older godly lady, and they would take them under wing. How many people know what I mean by taking them under wing They bring them in and they would mentor them and they would spend time with them and they would teach them and train them the things of God and the Word of God. And it was more of a personal one-on-one type thing. But I'm telling you, God used that in a great way. And they would instruct them in the Word of God and teach them what the Bible had to say and what it meant They would teach them in the work of God, how to serve God, what it means to be in ministry and give yourself, to bring others to Christ. And then they in turn would train others Paul said earlier, he says, Commit thou to faithful men who will be able to train others. And what he was telling Timothy was, the things I did for you, I took you under wing. I spent time with you and we traveled and we opened the Bible together. I taught you the doctrines of Scripture. I taught you what it means to live for God, how to pray, how to witness. How to serve the Lord. Now, Timothy, I want you to take that. What I've done for you, take that, and bring someone else under your wing And then you teach them and you train them and you mentor them and then you send them out and they'll go do the same thing. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty good setup. I like that I like that. And that's what Paul is writing to Timothy here. And he's reminding him that he had taken him under wing. Timothy heard Paul preaching, and no doubt he would have been captivated by the power of God that was upon the ministry of Paul. And he saw firsthand as he would assist Paul in these missionary journeys and whatever Paul was doing. Timothy was right there for many years. And he would see Paul preach in the power of the Holy Ghost. And people would believe and be saved, and lives would be changed, and whole communities would be impacted by the power of the gospel. And Timothy saw that firsthand. Let me just stop and say here, I long. There is a hunger in my heart and soul to see that power of God that once was upon the churches years ago. I'd like to see that again I'd like to see God send great revivals. And he does it over the years. And I pray, one thing I pray about every day It's God send revival to our church. We want your power. We want our whole community to be impacted by the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we want you to use us And so Timothy saw this. He saw the power of God as Paul preached. He saw lives changed. He saw how Paul interacted with other people, with friends and with foes. He saw Paul persecuted and how Paul would respond when people would make false accusations against him and literally treated him unjustly and violently And pe and and Timothy watched all of that and he saw and he learned. And Paul was training him. Paul was training him. Um In fact, if you look here at verse number 10, Paul lists a series of lessons That he had taught Timothy firsthand. He rehearses them. Look with me if you would at verse number 10. He says, But thou hast fully known Timothy, you've seen this, you've learned this, I've taught you this. And then he comes down this list. And I want us By way of introduction, and by the way, most of my message this morning is introduction. Then at the end, I'll give you three bullet points real quick at the end. But he comes down this list here, and uh he says, verse 10, he says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine. You've been taught this, you've seen it, you've experienced it, you understand these things. And he lists them. And the first one he mentions is his doctrine. Now, sometimes folks are a little afraid of doctrine They say, oh, we don't want doctrine. We just want Jesus. Well, I tell you, if you don't have the right doctrine, you ain't going to have the right Jesus. Doctrine is what teaches us about the biblical Jesus. Biblical doctrine is what keeps us on the straight and narrow way. If we don't have the right doctrine, if we don't have the right teaching, we don't have the right Christianity. And by the way, that's where a lot of churches go bad. They start pushing the Bible away. They start pushing about Bible teaching away. They start minimizing the doctrine or the teaching of Scripture. And next thing you know, they're completely off track, and they've got uh some worldly version of Christianity and not a biblical version. So Paul's writing to Timothy, and he says, Hey, you you know You know the doctrine. I've taught you. I took you under my wing and I taught you what this Bible teaches about sin. How many people agree with me? We need to understand what the Bible teaches about sin. Good heavens. That's the most the greatest threat to mankind is not some virus, it's sin. The greatest threat to mankind is not nuclear weapons, it's sin. And if we don't understand the deadliness of sin, the significance of what the Bible teaches about sin, we're not going to understand what Christianity is all about. Because it deals with sin. So Paul says, I wrote to you. And I taught you my doctrine. Now hast fully known my doctrine. He taught him about sin. He taught him about God Who God is, what he's like, what is God's name? What does God want from me? How does God respond to my actions, the things I do, the things I don't do? How does God respond to that? What does he expect from me? What makes God happy? What displeases God? These are vitally important in life. And Paul says to Timothy, I taught you this, who God is, the doctrine of God. He taught him the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ. uh who Jesus is and no doubt the virgin birth, the deity of Christ. He taught about the Holy Ghost. We're studying the Holy Spirit in our institute class on Monday nights and also in Sunday school a little bit with John the Baptist, the baptism of the Holy Ghost. And Paul taught Timothy doctrine, doctrine, doctrine. By the way, that's why it's so important that we be faithful to church and we get the teaching and the preaching of the Word of God. In the Sunday school hour, church hour. Years ago when I was down in Tennessee, uh the church there, they had what was called Baptist Union. Anybody ever Here a Baptist Union. It used to be a in Sunday evenings. It was like a Sunday night service, Sunday school. Come an hour before and then have a Baptist Union training. And then you'd have the evening service. I liked it But the importance of doctrine. He taught them the doctrine of God, the doctrine of Jesus, the Holy Spirit, what the Bible teaches about the Bible. About man, sin and salvation, heaven and hell. By the way, heaven is still as real today as it was when Paul was teaching Timothy about it. And by the way, hell is just as real today as it was when Paul was teaching Timothy about it. Nothing's changed And he taught him these things. A young man. He taught them about the doctrine of the second coming. Now notice what he says here. Look at verse 10. He says, But thou hast fully known He doesn't say you just know it. He says thou hast fully known. In other words, Paul is saying, I taught you very thoroughly Timothy, you know what the Bible teaches about some of these very, very important things. The coming of Christ. The end of the world, how things are going to develop in the days before Christ comes back. And he says, Timothy, I've taught you these things. And so Paul took Timothy, a young man. He saw some potential there. There was a desire in the heart and soul of Timothy to serve God. To know God and his word. And Paul brings him in and he spends time with them. He takes them on his travels. And he says, Timothy, I've taught you very thoroughly. I've taught you doctrine. But look what else he says here He says, thou fully know my doctrine. Then he says, my manner of life. Now what in the world does he mean that I taught you thoroughly? My manner of life. This is what I think he's saying. He's saying, Timothy, I taught you how to live the Christian life. I taught you how to live the Christian life. My manner of life means my conduct. My behavior. He says, Timothy, you watched me. You saw how I behave as a Christian. And Paul, of course, I think is one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. And Timothy learned from Paul things to do and things not to do, how to react to certain things and how not to react to certain things. How to respond and how to interact with others. Do you know Christianity is more than just having some theological truths up in my head? It's a lifestyle. It's a matter of living. I mentioned this before, but years ago I was in youth evangelism, and there was a church in Tennessee And I'm telling you, doctrine wise, they were as straight as an arrow. And arrows are very straight And this church was straight as, I mean, they had their T's crossed and their I's dotted. They had doctrines downright. But I tell you, the place was dry as dust. And there was no life there, and there was no Christian manner of living. And there was self-righteousness, and there was condemning others, and there was criticizing that. complaining about this and finding fault with that and unhappy with this. And they had all Christianity in their head and they had it on their doctrinal statement But they needed it in their life. They need it in their life. I'm telling you, God's looking for someone not just to know what the Bible teaches, but to live what the Bible teaches. And again, that's what preaching's about. So Paul took Timothy underway. And he says, you saw, I showed you how to live the Christian life. I showed you how to pray. Remember when the disciples came to Jesus, they saw him praying, they came to Jesus and they said, teach us to pray. They saw that. That's the way it was with Timothy He saw Paul witness to others and he learned how to witness others. He learned the Christian light I put this down. Christianity is more than just a doctrine. Christianity is more than just an identification I tack on. Oh, I'm a Christian. It's a whole lot more than that. It's an entire lifestyle. It begins with the teaching of Scripture, it begins with doctrine, but then it produces a lifestyle. We keep talking about the second coming of Christ, and I believe with all my heart Jesus coming back again. And I believe it could be today. And we stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. Listen, we're not going to be judged by how much we know, although that will be a factor, but we're going to be judged by how we lived our lives. Did I live for God? Did I do what God instructed me to do? Did I trust Him and follow His instructions? That's the bottom line. And Paul's teaching Timothy this. I taught you doctrine, what the Bible teaches. I taught you how to live it. My manner of life. You saw that firsthand. Our concern is not to just know what the Bible teaches, but that we do what the Bible teaches. I want to pastor a church that teaches and preaches the Bible. Amen or not? That's what we want. But we want more than that. We want a church that practices what the Bible teaches. And that's what that's important. So he says, you know thoroughly, thou hast fully known my doctrine, my manner of life. Then he gives another one. He says, the purpose of life. Purpose The purpose of the ministry. Let me ask you a question. I would like for you to give me a response here. Last Sunday night we actually preached on this and gave the answer to this question What is the purpose of the Christian life? Ultimately, what's the end and purpose of the Christian life? It is what? Preach the gospel, but there's something beyond that. Glorify God. Whether you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, say it with me, do all to the glory of God. Paul taught Timothy. He says, everything you do, every part of your life, isn't to draw attention to yourself, isn't to exalt yourself, it is to bring glory to God. That's the purpose of our ministry. Hey, this pulpit isn't up here to exalt a man. This pulpit is here to exalt the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The music we have is not to exalt the choir or brother Mark or musicians. It's to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. Our Sunny school teaching that goes on down there is not to exalt the teachers, and I thank God for the teachers. But it's To exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. Our bus ministry isn't out there so everybody thinks, oh, what amazing church. No, no, no. It's so they say, what an amazing Savior we have. That's the purpose of our church. That's the purpose of the ministry. That's the purpose of the Christian life. To exalt the Savior, glorify our God. And Paul taught that to Timothy. And he says, in everything you do, when you're teaching and preaching and helping and visiting or whatever it is, you're just living your life. You do it for God's glory. And so he taught Timothy very thoroughly, very emphatically. I think once we understand our purpose in life, it's going to help us live the Christian life. I get my eyes off myself. I get them on the Lord. It's going to help me live the Christian life. And then he taught him, look what he says here. But thou hast fully known my doctrine My manner of life, how I lived the Christian life, purpose, the purpose in life. Then he says there and faith I taught you how to have faith in God. I'd put it this way. He taught Timothy the importance of faith in God. Without faith, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 says, without faith, it's impossible to please God. Without faith, it's impossible to serve God. Sometimes people come to me, I'll talk to them, you know, I say, boy, you know, I think I'd like to I think maybe you could serve in this capacity and you could here's a ministry that maybe you could be involved in, something you could do. Sometimes people say something like this to me, oh preacher, I don't think I could ever do that Believe it or not, I like to hear that. You know what bothered me? If they came and said, Oh yeah, I could do that. Easy. I got I got a handle on that. You know what? Probably they're going to be doing it in their own power, right? They're probably doing their own thing. But you get someone that says, oh, I don't know if I could do that or not. If I can get them just to trust God And step out, not have much confidence in themselves, but get them to have confidence in God. You know what I found? God does great things. And God will use people who don't think a whole lot, that don't think too highly of themselves. That's who God uses. You say, preacher, are you promoting low self-esteem? No, I'm promoting high Christ esteem High Jesus esteem. Says we have no confidence in ourselves. Our confidence is in Christ. I don't want a church that Pastor Leatherman can produce. I want a church that Jesus can produce. We want bus routes that the bus workers can produce. We want bus routes that the Holy Spirit of God can produce. And Paul says, You saw how I trust God. You saw what God can do when we trust Him. You saw how souls can be saved and lives can be changed and miracles take place. We just have faith in God. And Timothy learned that. And Paul taught him, brought him under wing, and showed him how to live by faith, the importance of living by faith in God. Faith in God. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. Then he gives a fifth lesson he taught him. Doctrine, the importance of doctrine, how to live the Christian life, the purpose in the Christian life Living by faith, how important that is. Then he says long-suffering. I put it this way, the necessity of endurance. That's what long suffering is: persistence, being steadfast, staying at it. I think one of the most important things in the Christian life is just this: just going forward and enduring for Christ. I heard this years ago. I don't know who said this. I shouldn't have said that. You'd have thought I said it because I really like it. But somebody said this. The Christian life is not a microwave, it's a crockpot. Anybody know the difference between a microwave and a crock pot? Just say we got home from the men's getaway and I hit the books and I was finishing up my messages and getting ready for today and um Kathy was la wasn't feeling well she was laying down and uh so I got there and I thought, what am I gonna eat for supper? And uh there's a bunch of stuff in there in the freezer and the fridge and there's a crock pot there and the microwave was there. And I thought, I don't got time for that crock pot, so I got Chinese uh rice and shrimp. You ever eat those little things? Walmart, that little thing. Chinese, you stick it in there for three minutes, it cooks it. And uh man, you got this delicious Chinese meal. And um But anyway, three uh in three minutes I had that ready. Hey, the Christian life is not a three-minute microwave meal. The Christian life is long term. May 7, 1979, God put me in the Holy Ghost crockpot. And all these years he's just been cooking and cooking away at me and cooking away at me and cooking away at me. And one of these days he'll say, Well, he's done. Pull me out of there, take me on home to heaven. And Paul said, Paul took Timothy under wing and he said, Timothy, I taught you that the Christian life is long-term. It's endurance. It is year after year after year after year after year, trusting God, obeying his word, serving him. Letting him have his way, letting him use you. And it's just long term. You know how you do long term? This isn't really my message this morning, but you know how you do long term? Well you do the way you do long term is when you fall, you get back up again. That's probably the biggest lesson in a Christian life. Say, preacher, I'm messed up. All right, join the club. Welcome to the messed up club. But if we're going to be long-term, if we're going to have long suffering, we get back up again. Amen or not? Get back up again. If you leave here today and you don't get anything else out of this message, I hope you get this. Get back up again. And go on. Paul taught Timothy that. And Timothy saw it very thoroughly. The importance, the necessity of endurance. Then look what he says. He says long-suffering. Then he says charity. I put it down this way: Paul taught Timothy the importance of unconditional and active love. That's what charity is. Charity is unconditional love in action. And Paul taught Timothy how important that is. Without charity, our service, our our service to the Lord is empty. I don't have love in my heart for God and for others, and I'm not actively showing and displaying my love for others. If I'm not doing that, then my service is empty. It's selfish. It's shallow. It's ineffective. If you would, keep your place here and turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. 1 Corinthians chapter 13, just uh back towards the front of your Bible a little ways, not far. Yep, 1 Corinthians, go to chapter 13. Chapter 13 is right after chapter 12. Actually, I want you to go to chapter 12, the last verse in chapter 12. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, the very last verse, verse 31. And actually that this verse in 31 runs into chapter 13. Now notice what it says here, verse 31, chapter 12. But covet earnestly the best gifts. Now he'd been talking about different gifts that the Holy Spirit gives, abilities. But he says, covet earnestly the best gift. Now look what he says. Look carefully. And yet show I unto thee a more excellent way. He says, here's something that's above everything else. Here is a way to live the Christian life, to serve God. That is excellent. It's more excellent than anything else I've talked about. And it's introducing verse 13. Look at verse 1 of 13. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. Now he's not talking about some language, he's talking about the ability to speak, as if I can speak as good as an angel speaks. Some people they can sing, it's when they sing, it's like the angels singing. Anybody ever hear anybody sing like that? And you say, oh, that's like the angels singing. When I sing, the angels droop their wings. It's not like the angels singing. And Paul was saying, listen, if I could speak with the like the greatest orator of man, if I could speak the way the angels speak. Look what he says. Yea, though I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and have not what? I don't have charity. Look what he says. I'm not charity, I am become like a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. It's just noise Does no good, has no effect. Look at verse 2. Though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and have all faith, so that I could remove mountains. If I don't have charity, I'm what? What's he say? Nothing. I'm nothing Listen to me. A church that doesn't love God, a church that doesn't love one another, a church that doesn't love the unsaved, the church that doesn't love visitors that come in are a little The different than us A church that doesn't love like God teaches us to love is a church that's nothing. Any ministry that doesn't have a heart for people And isn't actively loving and helping and and uh serving people. That chur that ministry is nothing So if I I could do all the man, I could prophesy, I got the greatest faith in the world, I know that Bible like nobody else loves, but if you don't like nobody else knows, but if you don't got love in your heart, Paul uh Paul said, you're nothing. You're nothing. Can I say this? I think every one of us ought to fall on our faces for God and say, God, teach me to love others. God help me to love my spouse. God help me to love my neighbor. God help me to love that person that's antagonistic and difficult. God, give me love in my heart. Because if I don't have that, I'm nothing. I'm nothing. Paul said to Timothy, I took you underway. I taught you charity. I taught you what it means to love unconditionally. And to display that love, you go there in Corinthians, we don't have time, but chapter 13, you go down through there, every one of those descriptions of charity is an action verb. It's doing something, doing something. And it's all focused on others. I think I mentioned this before, and I don't want to make too big of a deal about this, but God challenged my heart. Back in January, I read Matthew chapter 11. And it says that the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister And to give his life a ransom for many. Everything about the Lord Jesus Christ was giving for others, giving for others, ministering to others. And a God stirred my heart and I said, God help me to follow that example. And I want to live that life. I want to minister and not look and expect and demand that other people serve me. But I just give to others. You know what that is? That's charity. And Paul taught that to Timothy, how important that is, and that without it we're nothing. We have to have that. And then notice he taught here the importance of unconditional love and active love for others. Then come back here to 2 Timothy. Look what he says. He adds another one on there. Charity patience. The importance of patience. How many people here say, preacher, I'm a very patient person? Anyone? No, I didn't think I'd see too many hands on that one. How many people would say, preacher, I could learn to be a little more patient than what I am. My hand's first one to go up. And Paul taught Timothy, says Timothy, and he taught him very thoroughly. Now it's fully known He said, Timothy, you better get a hold of this matter of patience. You better learn to be patient with people and be patient with God. Anybody here ever get impatient with God? Once he's going to answer that prayer, what's God waiting on? Uh better be patient with God. And he taught Timothy very thoroughly how to be patient, the importance of patience. I believe one of the greatest virtues in the Christian life It's learning to be patient, not reacting to things. Anybody here somebody said something said something to you and you reacted to it Without thinking, you just reacted and later on you slap yourself in the head, say, what in the world anybody know? Can I get a witness? Yeah. Paul said taught Timothy, he says, you better learn not to do that. You're going to hurt people. You're going to hurt yourself. You're going to hurt your testimony. You better learn to be patient. Don't react to things. Don't get distracted by stuff. I liked Winston Churchill. I don't believe he was a saved man as far as I know. Uh pretty rough character, but I tell you, uh he ha made some great statements. He says, if you're gonna stop and throw a dog throw a rock at every dog that barks at you, you ain't never gonna get to where you're going I don't know if that's an exact quote, but it's something along those lines. Anybody know what he's talking about? If I'm going to stop and react to every little thing comes along, I'm never going to accomplish my goal. I gotta learn to be patient. Yeah, but they're yapping at me. All right, just keep on going. Don't pay no attention to it. Just going, I've been bit by six dogs since I've been pastor at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That's the truth If I ever say the truth, I'll point it out. That's the truth. And I learned a little bit that I gotta be, if there's a dog there, I just go to the next house, you know. I'll send them a letter or something, you know, try and witness to them. But Paul taught Timothy how to be patient, the importance of patience. Here's the thing. When I become impatient, I lose my focus on Christ. You know what I mean by that? If somebody, if I'm impatient with someone, oh, they're getting under my skin, I'm impatient with them, you know what that tells me? My eyes aren't on the Lord, my eyes are on them. Or that circumstance or that situation. And when I catch myself impatient, I know immediately my focus is off I need to get it back on the Lord. And so Paul taught Timothy the importance of patience. And then there's one more, and I put the two together here. Verse 11. 2 Timothy chapter 3, he said, Persecutions and afflictions which came unto me at Antioch and at Iconium, at Lystra, what persecutions I endured But out of them all, the Lord delivered me. He says, Timothy, I taught you that. Very thoroughly I taught you that. Persecution. Afflictions are going to come. That's part of life. Listen, if you've got in your head that persecution and afflictions uh aren't normal part of life, then you're going to be frustrated and disappointed your whole life because that's the way it is. You can't avoid them And nobody gets through life as a Christian, living for God like we should, without some sort of affliction, without some sort of persecution. Paul taught Timothy how to suffer persecution, how to deal with it, how to react to it. Paul taught Timothy how to deal with suffering and injustice. I think if we're disliked by the world, I I think if we're not disliked by the world to some extent I wonder, are we really living godly lives? Look with me if you would, there at verse number Verse 12. Look at what he says in verse 12. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? How many that live godly are going to suffer persecution? All of them. No exceptions. So here's my question. If I'm not having to deal with persecution to some extent in my life, now we don't know it like much of the world does. But if there's not to some degree opposition to my Christian living by this world, I wonder how much of the Christian living am I really doing? How godly is my life if I can live in an ungodly world. Do you agree with me? We live in an ungodly world. And if I'm living godly in a godly world, if I'm not getting some pushback from this ungodly world, then I have to stop and ask myself, how godly am I really living? I tell you what bothers me? And I used to say young people, but it's not just young people, it's all ages. That tell you what bothers me? Christians that are trying to be cool in the eyes of the world. Christians that are wanting the world to think I'm something, think I'm cool. And talk and conduct themselves in ways, you know, so the world thinks, man, that Christian's really cool. I tell you, we don't win the world to Christ by them thinking we're cool. We win the world to Christ by getting them to see Christ in us. You don't appeal to the world with the world. They've already got that. By the way, and I hope you understand what I'm saying, you and I, Christians, children of God, can never be as cool as the world is cool in the world's definition of cool. That I'm clear as mud, right? But we're never going to be that And we're only fooling ourselves if we think I'm going to live for God and still be cool in the eyes of the world. We're just fooling ourselves. All that live godly in Christ Jesus, we're going to suffer persecution. We're going to suffer. I'm worried about some of these churches. That are appealing to the world so well we just want to appeal to the world. I'm worried about that. I wonder how godly they really are Now we're not out looking for a fight, amen. I got some preacher friend of mine, friends of mine, they love fights, man. Just out looking. If somebody pulls a gun, they'll jump in front of it, you know They they just love it. Not me. Somebody pulls a gun, I'd throw a hymn book at them from underneath the pew. I'm not looking for a fight. I'm not looking for a fuss But if we're going to live for God in a world that hates God, sooner or later, we're going to have to get some pushback. We're going to get a little issue. And so Paul taught Timothy how to deal with that. And he taught him how how the reality of that. If you and I If we're not disliked by the world to some extent, how godly are we really living? Jesus said in Luke chapter 6, verse 26, listen to what Jesus said. He said, Woe unto you when all men speak well of you. He said, this whole world's got you on its shoulders carrying around, for he's a jolly good fellow, for he's a jolly good fellow. If the world's doing that for us, we're doing something wrong. Because all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. We're not looking for persecution. By the way, if people are giving you a hard time at work because you're an arrogant knucklehead, that's not persecution. We're not looking for persecution, but we understand it will come. And by the way, the nearer we get to the tribulation period, the more persecution is gonna we're gonna have to deal with Look at verse 13. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. Anybody see that in our world today? Good heavens. Deceiving and being deceived. So Paul goes down this list. He says, Paul, I took you under wing. Paul says, Timothy, Timothy, I took you under wing. I taught you doctrine. I taught you how to live for God. I taught you how to be patient and to love people. I've taught you how to deal with persecution and how to endure. Timothy, I've taught you all these things thoroughly. I spent years teaching you. Now, if you would, look with me at verse 14. But continue thou in the things that thou hast learned. He says, Timothy, you stay true to what I've taught you. Timothy, you hold fast to what you've learned. Timothy, you press on on these things that I've showed you and I've taught you. You press on. You hold fast to them. You continue. Don't you go by the wayside. Don't you alter course. Don't you change Timothy, don't you change your doctrine I've taught you, you hold to the doctrines of that old book. Don't you go running after every little fad that comes along and every little cool thing that the religious world comes up to. You continue in what I've taught you. You hold true to that. You stay true to that. And I had some forefathers, I've had some men of God in years gone by taught me some things about Christianity and about that book, and I have no right to change what they've taught me from that old book. You continue on in what I've taught you. You hold to the old ways. You hold to the truth of the Word of God. Don't you veer in some other direction. It's one reason I'm not a big on contemporary Christian churches and stuff. Changing and going off in new directions and changing this and changing that. Now I'm not against change, but I'm awfully resistant to it Now that change can't be supported in Scripture, then I want nothing to do with it. I want to continue on the things we've been taught. What God has shown us, what it means to live a Christian life, what it means to be godly, what it means to love people, what it means to be patient. I'm going to continue on in that. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Paul challenged Timothy. Don't you alter course. Don't you drift away. Don't you veer in another direction. I tell you, by God's grace, under my administration at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we're not leaving the old King James Bible. We're not leaving soul winning. We're not leaving standards. Now I maybe um uh I hope you understand what I'm saying, but uh uh I still believe men ought to look like men, ladies ought to look like ladies And I'm not just talking about men in women's sports. I'm talking about men looking like men in church, at home, and in the community. And ladies looking like ladies. I'm talking about continuing on in the things we've been taught. Amen or not? I just I just believed that. We were talking yesterday coming back. I said I'm a little bit old school on some things. I don't know, maybe it's just because my head is thick. But I just I just want to continue on. I saw what I saw what biblical, old time biblical, fundamental Christianity did for Dr. Lee Roberts and Billy Sunday and these preachers of years gone by and what God did. I don't want to move away from that I want to see God do a great work. So if you would look here. Now that was my introduction. Now let me give you three bullet points real quick and we'll go home. How do I continue on? How do I do that? Number one, I've got to have a good foundation. I gotta have a good foundation. Notice what he says here. Let me get back here to my text. He says, continue thou, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. Says Timothy had a good foundation, he had a good training. I thought about back in Mark chapter 4, and we don't have time to turn there, but Jesus gave a parable and he talked about four soils. Anybody remember that? And he said, A sower went out to sow. And he threw, as he broadcast that seed, as they did in the old days, and as he slung that seed out there, some of it fell on the wayside. That was the path where everybody walked. It was all packed down. And he says some of that seed fell on that wayside there, all packed down. What happened? Anybody remember? The birds came They ate it up and it never bore any fruit. Why? Because that wasn't a good foundation for seed. It wasn't good soil for seed. And the devil came, just took it right away. And he said some of it fell upon rocks. And oh, it sprung up for a little while, but it didn't continue. And he said, because the cares and difficulties of this life sprung up and it faded away and didn't produce any food. It didn't fruit. It didn't continue. And he said some of those seeds fell among thorns and weeds and it sprung up But those weeds and those thorns choked it out, and it never produced anything, never amounted to much at all. He said, but some of it fell on what? Good ground. Oh, it took root. And that seed sprung up and grew. And man, it produced wheat and grain a hundredfold. And it fed people and it accomplished the purpose for what it was designed. And I got thinking about that. How do I continue on? That good soil, it continued on. The soil that got cares of this world and The riches and all of that choked it out, didn't continue on. The rocks, hardships came and they took offense and quit. They didn't continue on But the good soil, that's what produced the fruit. And Paul says to Timothy, continue thou The things that thou hast learned. Make sure you got a good foundation, good soil, a heart that's tender to the things of God, a heart that's open to God's instructions, and trust God, and God can use us to bear fruit. So, number one, there needs to be good foundation. Number two, I put this down. If we're going to continue on, there needs to be firm confidence. He says, continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of Timothy, you know this is right. You know these things are true. I'm telling you, we got to get it settled in our hearts and mind. This old book is the Word of God We were talking the other night there uh I g oh uh it was Friday. Um all the young kids At the men's getaway, they all went out four-wheeling and a couple of guys went fishing. And so I stayed back. I had my little computer there. I was going to do some work. And uh Ed and Chester stayed back So uh it was me and Ed and Chester, uh me and the old guys. And so uh they're probably watching. I said I gotta be careful what I say. But uh I was working away, they came over, what are you doing, preacher? I said, they're gonna say we're gonna go out for a little ride. I said, Okay, I'll go ride with you for a while And uh we're up there on the mountain, and about every five minutes they had to stop and uh we'd ride along putt and uh they'd pull over, oh, we gotta stop. All right. So we talk about the Lord a little bit. So you got you got a verse, preacher And so I'd quote a verse about faith in God or something. Then we get back in, we'd ride five minutes, then they'd pull over, stop. Well, uh, let's talk about the Lord a little bit. And we talk about the Lord a little bit. Then we get back in. So we spent more time standing around talking about the Lord. We did four-wheelings. But uh we had a great time. But here was the subject And this was pretty good. Chester brought this up. He said this. He says we got to get to the point where we just accept the fact that the Bible is the Word of God. And that it's true and it's our authority. We were talking about that yesterday. The Bible is our sole authority. And Paul's writing to Timothy, and he says, listen, you've got that settled. That old book's God's word. It's true. It's right. And we have to have that assurance. We have to have that confidence. By the way, we ought to get our salvation settled. We're not going to be able to continue on if we're always doubting whether we're saved or not. We need to get that thing. Just take God at His word. God said, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You call on the name of the Lord, then it's settled. And so Paul's writing to Timothy. He says, number one, you've got to have a good firm, good foundation, good soil. If you're going to continue on number two, you've got to have firm confidence. And last of all, I am with S, you've got to have the right focus. And I like Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. He says, looking unto Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith. And he says before that, he says, run with patience, the race that is set before us. You just keep on running. You just keep on, keep on. You put your eyes on Jesus. And you keep on. Listen, listen. We get our eyes on what's going on in this world, we're going to get discouraged. We get our eyes on ourselves, we're going to get depressed. But we put our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ and we can press on and press on and press on. Amen or not? Let's get our eyes off of this world. Get our eyes off ourselves. Let's say, Lord, I'm going to look to you. I'm going to trust you I'm just going to live for you. I'm just going to keep on living for you and keep on living for you and keep on living for you. I'm going to keep on praying and keep on praying and keep Some prance I'm going to keep on witnessing and keep on witnessing and keep on witnessing. I'm going to keep on doing right and keep on doing right and keep on doing right. I'm going to keep On being patient, keep on loving It says, Timothy, you continue on. Nobody would have blamed Columbus if he'd have turned back, right? He's sailing, trying to sail around the world. He goes months, no land. Nobody would have blamed Columbus for turning back, but nobody would have re would know about Columbus if he turned back Listen, you come up with all the reasons of the world to give up and quit and stop and park along the side. Go ahead. But God says, you keep on. You keep on. You continue on. The margin between success and failure Is often determined by one's decision not to quit. I'm just not gonna quit. I'm gonna continue on and continue on. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. As a church, to continue on in the faith once delivered to us through the Word of God. I pray you'd help us as individuals just keep on. Help husbands, just keep on loving their wives. Help wives, just keep on loving their husbands. Help kids, just keep on obeying their parents. Help us as a church just keep on witnessing and keep on preaching the gospel and keep on doing right. Help us, Lord. Just to continue in the things we've learned. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I need God to help me continue on? I know I've been taught some things. God showed me some things. I'm just going to stay at it. Any like that? I'm just going to stay at it. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've been praying for something a long time. I'm tempted to give up. I'm just going to keep on praying for it. Anyone like that? Salvation of a loved one, a child away from God. I don't know what it may be, a need. I'm just going to keep on praying. Maybe some been witnessing, witnessing, you say, I don't really don't see results like I'd like, but I'm not going to quit witnessing. Any like that? I'm just going to keep on sharing the gospel, keep on giving tracts out, keep on at it. Amen. God bless you. I don't know what the blank may be that you fill in, but continue thou Continue thou in the things that thou hast learned. Would there happen to be somebody this morning say preacher? I don't know. I'm saved. I don't know for sure. My sins forgiven. I'm going to heaven when I die and not to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I need to get that settled. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.