The last chapter, the book of James. James chapter five. And uh I understand I got a good report from Petersburg this morning. Jody and Jan, were you down there? Did you go, Jan? And uh they were down work in the nursery for Brother Prime. Uh Brother Grant preached the uh children's church for them and had a good little crowd going on down there. It's just hard to believe that work is only what, eight weeks old maybe, something like that. And uh what's that? Brandon's. Oh, Brandon went down too? Yeah, good. Good. So um we're glad we can have a part in the work going on there and Want to keep Brother Prime in our prayers. As I said, he's going to be with us this Saturday for our men's prayer breakfast. So uh men we'll say a word about that here in a few minutes. James chapter five, verse number nineteen And verse number twenty, we started last week with this. I want to uh finish this out here this evening. Verse number nineteen says, Brethren If any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him, let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins We're speaking tonight. We began last week. We're speaking on converting sinners. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you again for a good day. Lord, I'm so grateful for folks that come out together on this Sunday evening. Such a blessing being a part of your work and your church here. And we ask now, as we've gotten together now on the close of your day, the Lord's Day, we begin a new week. I ask that you would stir our hearts and challenge us and encourage us where we need encouragement and give us direction and wisdom and help us to grow in our faith. Lord, I can't do that. So I yield myself to you and my body, and I ask again with all my heart that you fill me with your spirit Lord, I pray you'd speak through me and help us in the subjects that's addressed here in this passage of Scripture. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, we're finishing up our journey through the book of James. It's been a number of years, I guess, a couple, two, three years, let me see. We began back in uh 2014 And so here we are finishing up the book of James. James is given to us by God to develop our maturity. Early in the book he uses the term perfect. It may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. The word perfect there has the idea of being mature and uh complete and everything we want to be. If we follow, as Christians, if we follow what the book of James teaches us. And we'll obey his instructions, follow his instructions, obey his commands through the book of James, believe what he says here, practice what he teaches us. We will grow in our faith, there's no doubt about it. Will we become more mature Christians? We will be stronger in our faith. Our witness to this old sinful world will be more effective. If we apply to our lives what we are taught in the book of James. He's closing out the letter here. We mentioned last week, and I want to reiterate it here, it's interesting how he closes so abruptly He's writing to them, and it's just like he makes that final blunt statement about converting a sinner, and then it's done. It's over, he's finished. Unlike Paul, if you remember, we pointed out that Paul will often give a lengthy list of people from the area he's writing to or people that are dear to him, and he'll reference them and give them greetings and different things like that. Not James, he just abruptly ends. Now we pointed out in verse 19 last week. He says, Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him He references brethren erring from the truth, and we pointed out the possibility of defection. It is very real possibility that a saved person can wander from the truth. A saved person can get caught up in false doctrine even, be taught wrong days. Uh for instance, and I just throw this out there, but I believe this possible for a genuinely born-again person trust in Christ, uh they've received Jesus their personal Savior, they could get caught up if they've been given the wrong teaching into thinking they could lose their salvation when they really can't So one of the great things I enjoy in the ministry is to be able to take someone who I believe is genuinely saved, but they've been taught they can lose it, and show them from Scripture that they cannot lose their salvation, they're secure, and have them grasp that and get a hold of that, that's a great blessing. So there's a real possibility of some defecting, not just in their teaching and their doctrine, but in how they're living It's possible. We've all seen it. If we've been saved any length of time, we'll see someone trust Christ. Their life has changed. They have eternal life now and they're living for God. Over a process of time through a little neglect here, a little disobedience there, a little uh indiscretion here, and they begin to wander, and next thing you know, you say, What happened to old so-and-so? And they were living for God, they were active, they were winning souls, they were strong in the Lord, and now we don't see them. Where did they get to They've wandered away. They've erred from the truth. And so that's a real possibility. And as we said, we have to be very, very careful that we not neglect the basics of the Christian life. It's one of the reasons we emphasize so much reading our Bible, being faithful to church. being careful what influences we allow into our eyes and ears influence us and draw us away from the Lord. And so there's a real possibility of defection. Then we noted the instrument of restoration He says, if any of you, brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him, God uses people to bring people to himself. Whether it's an backslidden Christian or somebody that's away, maybe through uh intervention or prayers or talking to them or uh graciously trying to bring them back and God restores them into fellowship with the Lord and with the church. God uses people to reach people. And he says, if any one of you, if he says, and one convert him, God can use just an individual. Doesn't have to be. I I've often said this. I have a message that I preached uh here and I preached it down in New Zealand a good bit because last time I was down there on salt of the earth. It doesn't take a lot of salt to have a tremendous influence When you uh uh cat my wife cooks uh a lot and she'll have uh a pot of beans or something and she'll paste it and she'll be over there taste it away, taste it away. She'll say come here uh Den, uh she calls me Den. And uh she says, Come here, Den. And uh she goes, Taste this. What is this and I'll taste it? And I've learned it's thirty years next February We've been married and I've learned, oh that's wonderful. That is the best soup I've ever tasted in my life. It's amazing. She goes, No, it isn't. What it somet it needs something. And so I'll taste a little bit uh uh I think it needs salt. Ah, that's it, and she'll go. And she don't put equal measure of salt in, you know, the same amount of soup, you put that same amount of salt in. That would be ridiculous. She just puts a what? Just a pinch. Just a little bit. And here's the encouraging thing. He says one convertin, just one person can have a profound effect on a lot of people. We don't have to be the majority of anything We just need to be right with God. We just need to walk with the Lord, and God can use us to influence and bring others to Himself. And so one convert Him, the instrument of restoration. Doesn't have to be a preacher, doesn't have to be anything like that. Just a person, a Christian that loves God, is concerned about others, will give themselves and uh care enough to get involved and and work with somebody, they can bring that person back to Christ to be used of God. Now I want us to look verse 20 very quickly at the blessing of intervention We have the possibility of defection. We see that even a believer can stray from the faith. The instrument of restoration, God uses people to bring people. But now we get to verse 20 And one convert him, verse 19, let him know that he which converted the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. Now I'll be honest with you, verse 20 threw me a little bit. And verse 19, he's obviously talking about saved people, right? He says, brethren. And uh uh brethren, if any uh if any of you he's addressing saved people. So verse 19 is very clearly speaking about a saved person that errs from the truth Now, verse 20 talks about saving a soul from death, uh from death and hiding a multitude of sins. Now what does he mean? It's verse 20 tying into verse 19 and suggesting that that erring brethren is in danger of eternal death. Is that erring brethren under the judgment for his sins? Well, we know that a person who is saved, that is a brother in Christ, that's a child of God, that person is not in danger of eternal death. Jesus said very clearly, I give to them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And so he's not referencing Eternal debt there, and they're not under a multitude of sins. Jesus Christ already paid the set debt for our sins. And when we accept him, our sins are blotted out. They're gone. There's no more payment for sins necessary. Hebrews tells us that. Once for all, Jesus paid it all. And so what is verse 20? I've come to this conclusion. I've studied it. I looked to see what some other guys said, and uh I've come to this conclusion. This is a general statement he's making. Let's look at it again. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him, now I think this next statement is key. Let him know. Now he's just making a general blanket statement, whether it's a saved person, unsaved person, whether it's a Christian that's backslidden or an unbeliever. He that converted the sinner from the air of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. Let him know. Phrase let them know has this idea. Let him be aware of the following truth. In other words, if you're out there and you've invested your time and effort, maybe resources And in bringing people back to Christ, or maybe a particular person, you're trying to get them back in fellowship with the Lord. You're praying for them, you're talking to them, you're inviting them, trying to work with them. He's saying, listen, let that person know. Let them be aware this following statement. This general principle That a person that restores, a person that converted the sinner from the air of his ways shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. I think he's just making a general statement here of what it means to bring someone to Christ and bring them back. I'll put it this way: the greatest experience in life is to win a soul to the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no doubt about that. And equally with that is to restore a backslidden believer. I tell you what, I'm about to stir it. I I love it. I love it, love it, love it. When we have a sermon on Sunday morning or whatever it is, I get an invitation, some folks raise their hand, I need to be saved, I need to be saved. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. And if They walk the aisle and one of our counselors take them, or maybe I'll catch them in the back sometime and take them aside, and one of our counselors take them aside. And they come up to me and they said, Pastor Leatherman, I just accepted Jesus as my Savior. I'm telling you, that makes it all worthwhile. As far as I'm concerned, that's what it's all about. Seeing these little souls saved. Some little kids will come up from downstairs and they'll come, Pastor, I got saved this morning. I'll tell you what, that'll stir your heart. I think that's what it's about. That's what the thousands and thousands of dollars that goes into the buses and the promotion, the advertising, all of that, all the time and effort, knocking on doors, going out, all of that, that's what it's about, seeing people come to Christ See him people. I tell you it was a blessing. Uh I don't see him here. It was a blessing, little Isaac during Bible time. How many people had how many peace folks here during Bible time you had Isaac run up to you and tell you got saved? How many folks here he was going around? Everybody. I tell you what, it was worth every penny we put in the Bible time. It was worth all the blood, sweat, and tears we put in the Bible time. He's saying it's worth it. He's saying the time and the effort you invest into backsliding or unsaved people is absolutely worth it. It is rewarding. I um like many of you I enjoy hunting. And it's coming up on that time of year. I can't believe summer's almost I wish winter went as fast as summer But uh it's coming up on that time of year and I enjoy it, you know, that beer comes in, you're up in the stand or whatever, that beer comes in, you put that bead right the way it's supposed to be, and everything has to be just right and you can make so easily You do everything right and that thing drops, runs off and drops or whatever, and you get that thing, man, it's exhilarating, it's exciting, it's fired up, but it is temporary. That's it. You got a deer, you got a little meat in the freezer, hang it on the wall. Someday it's gonna be end up a cracker barrel somewhere Right? There was a guy we used to watch his videos back uh back years ago when the boys were small, we didn't have tele we didn't have cable or anything like that. So on New Year's Eve, our big guess what we did, the party on New Year's Eve. We get Roger Raglan hunting videos and we rode these hunting videos on New Year's Eve and eat popcorn and and uh shrimp and watch hunting videos. And uh we had a good time. And he had this big wall just covered with these monstrous deer. And one day we were looking at that, and one of my boys says, you know, you come to the end of your life. And all you got is a wall full of deer heads. What's that? What's that? What I'm saying is this, as much as I enjoy that and the excitement of it It's temporary. But I tell you what, if you take that same amount of time, effort, and energy, and you invest that into winning souls to Christ, I tell you what, that is as exciting, but it lasts forever It lasts forever. I'd rather put twenty-five souls in heaven than twenty-five beer heads on the wall. I enjoy fishing. I love it And catch boy you catch a big old bass summertime, bring that top lure, top water lure across coming across that bass. I love it, love it. You know what you do with the bass when you catch it I throw it back. Some of y'all eat it. Some of y'all are cannibals and vicious. Canivorous eat 'em. I throw it back. And you go on, I caught a fish. You outsmarted a critter that has a brain the size of a half a grain of rice. Wow. I love it. But all that time and effort put in to catch a fish, soul, to save a soul from eternal death. To be used of God to have someone have all their sins washed away, forgiven, and made righteous with God. I'm telling you, there's nothing on earth that compares. to winning souls to Christ. Nothing. Nothing. Um winning souls is eternal. It's the most fulfilling thing in the world. Uh he's challenging us. My challenge is let's give our soul ourselves. We come to the end of the book of James. We've learned to endure hardness. We've learned to exercise faith and pray to God for wisdom. We've learned to deal with sin's temptation. We've learned to pray. He's taught us all these things of the Christian life, how to be a strong, mature Christian with strong faith. And then he ends up with this, basically. Now let's go out and win people to Christ. Let's go out, get those who are out of fellowship with the Lord. Let's bring them back. Those that are lost or unsaved. Let's go find them and bring them to Christ and see them get saved. Have their sins forgiven, go to go to heaven. Our Christian ministry, what we are doing here, I'm trying to share my heart tonight. He's touched on a cord that hit He's touched on a cord of my heart. What we are doing here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, this ministry is very serious to God. This is a ministry of seeing people saved from hell and finding eternal life. And having their sins forgiven, their lives changed, I'm telling you, that is serious business with God. This matter of running these buses. And Thursday night, going out visiting. This week at the fair, setting up that booth with gospel literature and engaging people as they come by, a smiling face, a welcome, an invitation. I'm telling you, that might just be a little fine. We might not think much of it, but I'm telling you, as far as God's concerned, that's serious business. It is literally our involvement with the gospel and our effort getting out and finding sinners and bringing them to Christ so that their sins they're saved from death and uh their multitude of sins are covered. That is serious business with God. It is literally the difference between eternal life and eternal death. If we visit someone, if we talk to someone, if we give that tract out, if we make an invitation, if we have that ministry, all of that Is literally the difference between eternal life and eternal death in the lives of many, many people. I think of the 23 years we've been here and the church's been going over 50 now. had a dear lady here this morning attended here forty years ago and uh uh played the piano involved here and afterwards she was looking around taking pictures of everything. And she was so excited. For 50 years, I'm telling you, what this church is doing is so important to God, it is literally the difference between eternal life and eternal death. I was thinking, I was starting to say this the 23 years I've been here. I'm thinking of the people that got saved, who God saved them and changed their life, and they're living for God now and serving them. You know, none of those was pre-planned. Uh Andy and Vicki. I visited them a Thursday night and they trusted Christ. I wasn't sitting before we went out and said, alright, I'm gonna go visit a couple over in Mountain Lake, I'm gonna lead them to the Lord, and they're gonna go on and live for God. and be active, faithful, effective min uh servants uh uh uh position in the church here and see many many other people saved. I didn't plan that. In fact I didn't even want to visit them I told this before. I visited a neighbor, that guy cussed me up one side down the other. Good night. I'm getting in the car. And it's I was by myself and it was I think it was fall or sometime it was already dark and I thought oh I'll go drive around for a little while and I'll go home. I didn't want to visit anybody. I just got read what for by this guy. I'm walking up to the car, look over, and there's their house and the lights on, and the Lord speaks to my heart, go visit that house. And being the mature spiritual great pastor that I am. I said, I ain't visiting nobody tonight. I'm done. I actually was getting in the car. Man, the Lord just impressed. Go back and visit there. All right Um Andy Gum I'm Pastor Leatherman from Atlake I it didn't go exactly this way, but in my mind, you don't want to get saved or come visit our church. Well, actually we'd like to. What? They invited me in, we had a nice visit, they prayed and trusted Christ the Savior. Here we are, what, fourteen, fifteen years later? 1999, 17 years later, their servant God. We didn't plan that. You know what that visit was? That was literally the difference between eternal life and eternal death. On me. And that's everything we do, we don't know when we say, Oh, I'm not going to do that, I'm not going to get involved, I'm not going to be a part of that. We don't know what opportun Now I'm not trying to put any guilt to it on. Listen, I'm I'm just saying this is the way it is But I'm saying this, the ministry of the church, particularly in getting the gospel and reaching sinners and seeing them saved from death and a soul saved from death and multitude of sins covered, that is serious business with God. God, that's the heart of God. Um so uh we we should I believe We should take our ministries, particularly the soul-winning ministries. How many people here ever had surgery? Anybody here ever went under the knife, had surgery in one form or another? That's a vast majority. Had surgery. How many of y'all would like for you the surgeon, when he's doing surgery on you, you want him to take that very seriously? Yeah. How many people want him here just be ah whatever No. I'm of the c I'm of the c conviction that our soul winning burden would be the same as a surgeon. Who's putting someone under under the knife? That's literally our lives are in their hands, right or wrong. Those unsaved people, they might not know it, but to a very true extent Their eternal life is in our hands, whether we witness to them or not. I need to take soul winning as seriously, my ministry of reaching laws as seriously as a surgeon takes his job Uh how many people want when your house is on fire, you want that fireman to take it seriously. That siren goes off, ah man, the pirates are playing tonight. Ah, one fire won't matter. That may be the night. That life be saved if he shows up, be lost if he doesn't. Now again, don't I'm not trying to do anything other here than stress the importance. Of reaching lost people with the gospel. We ought to take it as seriously as a policeman takes his job. We had a guy this past winter, back in January, February, I mean it was bitter cold. About 2 30 in the morning, my wife said, somebody's knocking at the door. And I said, She said it louder, somebody's knocking at the door. I said, Huh? She goes, somebody's knocking at the door. I listened. No, there ain't. She goes, I'm sure there was. I said, ah, you're dreaming. I laid there for a little bit. I thought, what if there really is? So I got up and went out Looked out the window, there wasn't anybody there, but I looked over at my truck. A guy is sitting in my truck trying to start my truck. He's stealing my truck. I said, Hey, you're stealing my truck. What are you doing? Oh, hey, came over, the guy was drunk as could be. Had blood all over his face, down his front shirt, barefoot, I mean it is bitter cold out. Walked, I can see his footprints through the snow. I said, what's going on man? He goes, Oh, I need to get home. I said, Where's home? Elkins, West Virginia. I said, hold on. I got I got off the phone, I called 911. I said I got a fella here, he's covered in blood, he is drunk at his head, I don't know what's going on. And I I said, I need some help. I said, we'll be right there. I got talking to him and I got in a fight and he's all worked up. I thought, I'm not sure I want to bring this guy in the house. We offered him a coat. He didn't want a coat. I was talking to him. I started asking him, where are you from? What's your name? He told me his name. He's from Charleston. He's staying with his cousin in Elkins and they were up here and got in a fight. and uh all this stuff. I said, well uh I said well he I said, uh well what about what if you gotten killed? Where would you go? Heaven or hell? Oh, I don't know, man. I don't think about that. Well here Jesus says and I'm witnessing to him and and uh I'm waiting on the sheriff's department to show up. And I'm thinking, man, this guy could have a gun on him. He might have a knife. And I had a axe handle behind the door and I'm kind of come on man. Come on I wasn't able to leave him the Lord, but I tell ya, I was sure glad when I saw that sheriff's vehicle coming up. I learned a lesson. It took about ten minutes for the Sheriff's Department to get there. That could that guy could have killed me and raped my wife and robbed my home and been gone in ten minutes' time. I think every home ought to have the right to defend itself. with weapons. It's important. But nevertheless, I think we ought to take our soul winning ministries as seriously as we the Sheriff Department takes their responsibility to protect people. I'd want 'em to. Coast Guard. Somebody's out there drowning I don't want the Coast Guard to be indifferent, lax today, uh whatever. I want them somebody out there, that boat's going down, I want them out there, all resources to get it. What we're involved in here, he says, let him know that he which converted the sinner from the air of his ways shall save a soul from death. And hide a multitude of sins. Listen, not like Independent Baptist Church, Pastor Dennis Leatherman and the people that work here. We can be criticized for a lot of things, and sometimes we are, and I am. But one thing I do not want to have legitimate criticism of is that we don't care about lost people dying without Christ. If we have anything we do, if there is anything that we do not neglect, it must not be getting the gospel to lost people here in our community and Kazakhstan around the world. Getting the gospel out. It is vitally important. It's literally the difference between life and death. I say this often. I believe this with all my heart. I think of it often. If there was somebody, let's just take Kazakhstan, in these cities that could speak the language of the people and had a Bible in their language, and right now as I'm standing here I am convinced there are people there that would get saved tonight. They would find sins forgiven. They would find eternal life, and when they die, they'd go to heaven and not to hell. That's serious business. That needs to be taken seriously, our witnessing. One thing we must never be negligent in is doing all we can to reach the lost. And Charlie, I thought of this. Was it last summer maybe there was a fella out towards Krellin you guys were visiting. They asked to visit, he was dying. Do you remember who I'm talking about? Was that Charlie? Were you in on that? This guy was dying. He knew he was dying. He had a limited time to live. Brother Ed and Brother Charlie went out there and visited him. I said, I sent him out there. I guess somebody asked, and they went out to visit. And they poured their hearts out and they did everything they could to share the gospel with this guy and get him saved. Are you listening, fellas? Are you listening, fellas? This is important They did everything they could to share the gospel with this man and lead him to Christ, and he absolutely refused. Would not give them the time of day. And what was it, a week went by? And we got word, week or two, a little bit of time, got word he passed away without Christ. Lost. I'm telling you, we need to take that seriously. That's what it's about. The difference between Eternal life and eternal death. He that converted the sinner from the air of his ways shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. Turn with me if you would. I'm going to end. Turn with me eventually. Turn with me to Romans. Chapter 9. I'm telling you, Paul, the Apostle Paul, I I look forward to meeting Paul. What a man. What a burden. He saw it. Paul saw what this is about. And it stirred him to his very soul. Look in Romans chapter 9, verse number 1. He says, I say the truth in Christ. Now he's emphasizing the burden that he has here. I say the truth in Christ. I lie not. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. He's going to great length to emphasize the fact that what he's about to say is true. Why? Because it seems so incredible. That I have a great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. For I could wish that my look at this, I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ For my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Come over to verse chapter 10. Look at verse 1 of chapter 10. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Saved from eternal death, saved from the judgment of their sins. Now in chapter 9, he says, I wish that myself were accursed from Christ for their sake. Do you catch what he's saying? You understand what he's saying? I am so concerned for their salvation that I would be willing, if possible. To sacrifice my salvation, to give up my salvation and be accursed for all eternity, if that meant they would get saved. How many of us would be willing to go for to hell for all eternity so somebody else would go to heaven? It's a powerful burden. That is a man that grasps the importance of this ministry of reaching others The level of intensity on his heart to reach others. I believe one of the most Christ-like things you and I can do is to seek out the lost. Point them to the Savior, and do all we can to urge them to accept Jesus as their personal Savior. You say, where do you get that's a Christ-like thing? I get it from Luke 19:10. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. In other words, he left his home. He went to where we are. He sought us out so that we can be saved. We leave our home, we go out into the community, into the neighborhood, out to the fair, run that bus out there, go to a more foreign mission field. We find lost people wherever they are, we go to where they are, we seek them, we find out where they are. Do everything we can to get them to put their trust in Christ so they can be saved. You can't get much more Christ-like than that Verse 20 does not say that they will see great honor back in James. Doesn't say, let them know that he which converted a sinner from the air of his ways shall get great honors. Doesn't say that. Doesn't say oh she'll be highly respected and and uh uh highly loved. Everybody's gonna love them because they are reaching the laws. Doesn't say that. There's no guarantee if you and I give our hearts and souls and efforts and lives to reach lost people, there's no promise of God that we're going to be highly honored by men. I've been in churches where the soul winners were criticized. I'm thinking of one church in particular up in Michigan that spent a week of Bible time there and there's about a handful of guys and so burdened for the loss and the leadership of that church just criticized them and found fault and all I could see is they were trying to reach people with the gospel. The pastor set us down. We showed up on Saturday night. Bible comment set us down. He says, Now we're not just pulling anybody off the street and bringing them in here. We're being pretty selective who we bring into our church. I thought that sounds just like Jesus. No, it doesn't. Jesus said go out in the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. Go out after 'em. Now if you have to deal with stuff, then you deal with it, but doesn't say we're going to be highly honored, we're going to be that church didn't highly honor the soul winners. They didn't highly respect People that were trying to reach the loss, in fact, they looked down on them, they criticized them, ostracized them. Now I'm glad that was an exception. I trust that's an exception. But there's no promise. If you and I give ourselves to reach and loss, we're going to get great honors and be highly respected and highly loved. I found that the people you win to the Lord often love and respect you for doing that It's not necessarily the most popular thing, even among Christians. But I do tell I'll tell you what we do find. And by the way, don't worry about not being honored. We're not the ones saving them. Jesus is the one saving them. He's the one that needs to get the honor. He's the one that needs to be loved and respected. It's not me. What did Paul say? We're ministers, underrowers. It's not us I'll tell you what will happen if we invest in winning souls and reaching people for the gospel. I'll tell you what will happen. We'll have the fulfillment of knowing that person was on their way to hell, now they're on their way to heaven. As one of the most fulfilling things in the world, God used me to save a soul from death To find a multitude of sins covered. I'm telling you, you talk about fulfilling. It's a tremendous, tremendous thing. He says, he, he which converteth. Doesn't say the preacher converts him. Doesn't say it the great evangelist converts him. Doesn't say it the missionary converts him All Christians can turn people to Christ if we give ourselves to it. We've had children. Little Joel led one of his buddies to the Lord this past year in school. Remember years ago one of the girls, uh uh one of the Eastman girls came in Sunday morning. She goes, Pastor, on the bus on Friday, I show I read the tract to my friend, and they prayed. Ask Jesus to be their Savior Citizens, uh I tell you we talk about Sue Teagarton. I love Sue Teagarten. Matt Gow at her age and her condition is so concerned About saving a soul from death and hiding a multitude of sins. Children can Give themselves to win souls. Teenagers can give themselves to win souls. I thank God for teens coming out on Wednesday night, going out, trying to save a soul from hell Young couples. Here's a danger with young couples. Sometimes we get so caught up in our home and getting our home and the kids and all that and we forget about there's people dying and going to hell. Middle age. I have yet to figure out what middle age is. Somebody said I was dip middle-aged. I'm 55. That means I lived 110. Yes. I don't know what middle-aged, but middle-aged folks can lead people to the Lord. Senior citizens can lead people to the Lord. Some of our best soul winners, our church are senior citizens. Elderly can lead people to the Lord. He doesn't say the preacher, doesn't say the Bible college graduate. Just he, coal miner, truck driver, secretary, school teacher, homemaker. Student, kid, he that converth A sinner from the air of his ways, shall save a soul from death and hide a multitude of sins. How fulfilling. I've I've told the story a hundred times. I'm going to tell it again primarily because I it but also because it fits in here and illustrates what I'm saying. Chattanooga, I never won a soul to Christ. I had witnessed, I had given out thousands of tracts, I had knocked on doors, but I never had the opportunity to open my Bible and show someone happily saved. Some of y'all have this story memorized, no doubt. We're in southeast Chattanooga. Asian girl was a student there at the school. Jenny was her name. We were paired up and we were going down through the neighborhood one, I think it was Saturday morning. Just nor to door. This man had roses all over. He opened. He's an elderly black man came to the door. He was in a wheelchair. He came up, yes, and it was Jenny's turn to talk and she goes, Oh, we're from Highland Park Baptist Church and she went through the spiel He invite us in, we're standing there, and I'm kind of off on the sign and praying, Lord, had this guy get saved. I never want to soul to Christ Jenny's there going through it and she has her Bible out and she's telling him how to get saved and yes he wants to Mr. Hogue would you be willing to call on the Lord and trust him as your personal Savior? He goes, yes I would. By now he's crying And she goes, okay, well they called me Denny. She says, Denny here, we'll pray with you. I said, Huh? I don't know if you were saying. You've heard it before, but I knelt beside his chair there, and I stumbled through a sinner's prayer And old Mr. Hog prayed, tears streaming down. I still see him there, tears streaming down his cheek. There's a big truck, southeast trucking, I think it's called, this big terminal there, and we're right beside crying Said, Amen. Amen. Says, Mr. Hold, you mean that? He goes, I meant that. We gave him a few verses. He's coming out. He said, thank you so much kids for coming by. Thank you. This means so much. I'm safe. We get out and he had these roses. He had a little table there. He got a scissors. He says, here, cut you off each of a rose. You need a rose. You came by and did so much for me today. As I said, I've I enjoy shooting deer and I enjoy catching fish. There's nothing I've done in life as fulfilling as walking out of there realizing ten minutes ago we knocked on that door. That guy was on his way to hell. Now he's on his way to heaven. Life and death. So James tells us how to live how to be strong, mature Christians, and he ends very abruptly. And he says, listen, he that turns, converts a sinner in the air of his ways, shall save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. When I was done preparing this message, I stopped and bowed my head and I said, I said, God, help me be a better soul winner. God, help me take this more seriously. Let it be part of my life. Pointing people to Christ. Pointing people to Christ. Really doesn't matter how much money we got in the bank when we died. We're going to leave it behind. But if we can have a bunch of souls in heaven, that'll be glory. That'll be glory. So here's my invitation. This is the challenge to all of us tonight. One, if you're not saved, make sure you get saved. This that's starting point. But those of us that know Christ, young and old, teens, senior citizens, us young people, let's make the rest of this, let's make this week. The rest of the summer, rest of our lives, let's give it to pointing people to Christ, getting people saved. If we can't do anything else, let's do that. And try and get as many people saved as we can. I don't know what's going to happen in our country, Helen. I don't know what's going to happen. But I know this: Jesus will save every sinner that trusts him, and he'll take them to heaven when it's all said and done. I know that. The gospel So let's do all we can. Amen? I hope this made sense. It's my heart tonight. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would start us. Help me, Lord, as pastor of the church, to be a better soul winner. Pray you'd stir the hearts of our young people, give them their whole lives ahead of them to give it, to getting the gospel. Those of us that are older, stir our hearts, what we have left, to give it to the gospel. And seeing people saved. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people say, Preacher, you touched on my heart tonight The Spirit of God has touched my heart about this matter of being a witness and bringing people to Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. My heart stirred as yours is My heart's burden as yours is I'm going to be a better soul winner. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, that's what I want. To win souls, see people come to grace. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's sit let's end out the Lord's Day, maybe at an altar Just say, Lord, make me a soul winner, stir me. Give me the boldness. Give me the wisdom. Give me the compassion. Whatever it is. Do what you need to my heart to invest my life in reaching others with the gospel. Father, bless the invitation. I ask in Jesus' name Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, oxyclippers.