James chapter number five. James five. The last two verses of James five, what we're going to look at. And uh while you're getting there, um appreciate so much so many people that do things behind the scenes around here. A lot of hard work goes on keeping the place nice. Uh brother Jerry works the yard there. Faithfully he's out there with a f artificial knee just putting in his body and he's out there running that little uh z Zero turn thing. And uh run over keeping the place looking nice. The Saturday before Bible time there's a team of guys here working on all the flower beds and getting uh uh mulch in there and fixed up out at the playground and uh appreciate that and of course all the folks at work in bible time from the nursery all around everybody just put in hours and worked hard And um and uh Brother Mark on Thursday was here, redid the lights up here on the above the choir. I've been wanting that for years. And uh he was here till late Thursday evening putting that in And so we praise the Lord for that. Just grateful for everybody. It helps things look nice around here and keep things going. James chapter 5, verse number 19 through 20. The last two verses, the Bible says, brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him Let him know that he which converted the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins. I've called them the title I entitled the message, and I think we're going to do two from these verses. I'm going to make it one and kind of decide the last minute to break this up, but uh I've entitled it Converting Sinners Converting sinners. Let's pray. Father, bless now our time in your word. It's been a good day. Lord, uh I like the summertime, hot and all I enjoy it. So I'm grateful at least for it. I pray, Father, that um You would bless this evening now as we finish out your day. We look in your word. We ask you to speak to our hearts. We ask you to challenge us and encourage us. Direct us, Lord, as we go into this new week. Pray that we'd be able to walk with you and be filled with your spirit throughout the week and be a witness in this old sinful world. Lord, I pray that you would uh fill me with your Holy Spirit now as I speak, and that you would be the preacher, that you would speak through my body. and uh to our hearts and minds. So again, fill me, I pray, and uh challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well these are the closing words of the book of James. Our journey through this book has been, what, a couple years now. He's touched on some tremendous subjects through here. And uh now he's winding things down. And as I looked at these last two verses, it kind of it's like the it's like the book just ends abruptly. It doesn't really wind down. He makes these pretty strong statements here. He which converted a sinner from the air of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. He's done. That's the end. Kind of a blunt ending. There's no greetings here You read Paul's letters, of course they're all under the inspiration of God, but you read Paul's letters and he winds them down and then he starts giving these series of greetings and he gives these long lists of names where he's recognizing different saints, particularly the book of Romans, uh chapter sixteen. He goes a lengthy list there and he's recognizing different people and they're contribution to the gospel and the relationship to him and uh he goes on and mentions all these things. James just boop he's done. And uh you just come to this very abrupt ending. Now I think if we go back and look through the book and consider James and his personality maybe or his approach here. Um we might understand this ending like this a little bit. We pick up early on in the book, if you remember, we picked up that these believers, they're scattered abroad James, the servant of God, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, he says in verse 1. Now let me ask you this question. Why were these believers scattered abroad? Persecution was coming. And they were being severely persecuted. And because of that persecution, they would try and flee the persecution and get to other areas and in so doing they were advancing the gospel. They would go into new areas. They were faithful witness. They were faithful and sharing the gospel where they were. More people get saved. And so it was all part of God's plan. However When it when the fire gets hot, when the persecution comes down, there will always be, always has been, will always be a temptation To wander away from that which is bringing the persecution. I preached Friday night on uh in my message, I referenced Elijah. I think it was up there, I don't remember. But Elijah, when Jezebel turned the heat up on Elijah, he got went out into the wilderness. He wandered away. He got out of the will of God And that is a real danger for Christians when when it gets intense, when the opposition picks up. When it let me put it this way, when it starts costing us something to be a good Christian Then there's going to be this danger, this t this temptation to back off and maybe get away from it. Really, in America here for many, many probably you know hundreds of years perhaps It really has cost us nothing to live a Christian life. Right? I mean, come on. Maybe a little hassle at work, maybe cost us a job, you know, but as far as really costing us something to live for God, it has been very, very minimal Not so with these Jewish believers that James is writing to. It cost them their families, it cost them their homes, in some cases, it cost them their lives. To be faithful to God. So if you think about who he's writing to and the situation that they are facing, and he goes to the book, it doesn't surprise me that he ends with this subject. Look with me again at verse number 19, and this is going to be our focus of our message tonight. He says, Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth. And one convert him, let him know that he which converted the sinner from the air of his ways shall save a soul from death, shall hide a multitude of sins. Now, verse 20 is going to require a little explaining. Verse 20 is going to have to give a little thought to that. But as I said, I want to zero in particularly on verse number 19 tonight. And I want us to notice, first of all, the possibility of defection. Now that word defection, I'm using that on purpose. When you hear of a soldier defecting, what is he doing? He's walking away. He's going over to the enemy perhaps. He's leaving his post. He's abandoning his responsibility. He's what's the term? I'm not military guy. What's the term? AWOL? Yeah. I have got a great joke about the Air Force and uh it is good. But um So see me afterward. If you give me a quarter, I'll tell you that joke. And uh it's uh well cover back come back next Sunday and I'll tell you the joke. AWAL. Right? Absent without leave. There's a possibility in the Christian body of Christ of Christians going AWOL. Notice there's three key words here in verse 19 that help us understand what exactly he's addressing, particularly in verse 19. I think verse 20 is a general statement. I think verse 19 is a very specific statement There's three words here that I want to focus on and help us grasp what is he what is he addressing here. The first word is brethren. Now we've noticed this throughout the book. In fact, I took a yellow highlighter and I went through the book of James and highlighted the word brethren every time it's used, just to remind us that who he's addressing And so whenever God refers, or the Bible refers to somebody as brethren, for the most part, with a few rare exceptions, he's referring to who? Christians. We learned that early on in our study of this. So when James says brethren, all of a sudden all the believers' ears perk up. He's not talking to unsaved people at this point. He's talking to brethren. So the term brethren there only refers only to believers. It's actually a term of endearment. It's a very tender term. He said, brethren, he's making some pretty strong statements. He's dealing with an unpleasant subject. to some extent. And so I believe he uses that word on purpose. A very tender term of endearment. I like to refer to a brother a I like to serve another believer as brother. I like that. Especially if you get a new believer, somebody just get saved. I like to m emphasize and go out of my way, say, brother so and so. They're in the family now. The part of the family of God, and referred to them as brother. I remember, I know I make reference to him a lot, but I remember Mike Studler when he first started coming out one day. It was only like his second or third time after he'd been saved, and my wife saw him, she said, Brother Mike! And later he came to me and he says, Your wife referred to me as brother Mike. I said, Yeah, now you're saved. You're spiritual brother. You're in the family of God. We're brothers. He goes, I like that. So Brother Mike. Mike Barden's one of our missionaries we've supported for years out in Utah with the Mormon And uh one time I called him up, it's been a number of years ago, I called him up about something, I guess we're taking a trip out or whatever. And uh I said, Is this brother Mike? He said, depends who I'm talking to. I said, Well this is Brother Leatherman. I says, Oh yes, this is Brother Mike. I said, What's that about? He said, Well the Mormons like to call him brother, and he says, You ain't my brother. So James is referring, he's finishing up the the book, and uh he's addressing the subject and he uses the term brother. Brethren, so it's a term of endearment, a very tender term. To me, it reflects the attitude that we should maintain between believers. I ought to view other believers in Christ, other men who are believers in Christ, I ought to view them as family. I ought to view them as brother. I ought to view ladies that know Jesus Christ as Savior. I ought to view them as sisters. We're a family. That ought to be our attitude towards the people of God. Listen, other believers are not our enemies. And he's trying to establish that here, I think, as he addresses the subject. So brothers And so the term brother, brethren, he notice now he says, brethren, if any of you err from the truth, huh? A Christian, heir from the truth? A brother in Christ, heir from the truth? That's what he's saying. He says, if that happens, so that brings me to the word heir. What does he mean when a brother A fellow believer errs from the truth. How can that be? Well, what does he mean by the word error? The word error is used various ways throughout the Bible. One of the ways is to be deceived. Somebody can err in that somebody has tricked them or deceived them and got them into error. I want to remind you: the devil is a master deceiver. Jesus said that the devil is a liar and the father of it. He is the father of lies. And the devil is able to, if we are not careful, even as believers, he is able to deceive us into getting out of the will of God. I'm telling you, the devil can make that which is right look so wrong. And the devil can take that which is wrong and make it look so right. To me, I think the devil is having a heyday in our country and in our churches. And people that love God and are committed to the Word of God and living by the principles of God's Word are viewed as the enemy We're bigots, we're bad, we're awful. And those that are living the most perverse lifestyles, even in Political parties that I would generally associate with are cheering people who are living perverse lifestyles. The devil can take that which is so wicked. And make it so appealing. And he can take that which is so pure and good and righteous and make it appear so awful. So the word heir here has the idea of being deceived into that which is out of God's will, being deceived into that which is against the Word of God. Listen, don't ever give the devil an inch. He's a liar. He's a liar. But the word heir here also has this idea. It has the idea not so much as being deceived into getting into error or out of the will of God, but the idea of wandering out of the will of God. Drifting, so to speak, out of the will of God. It's not necessarily deliberate. It's not necessarily somebody enticing me to get out of the will of God over here appealing to me. Oh, the world will think you're wonderful. Oh, the world will think you're cool. Oh, the world will and getting enticed over. It's not that idea It's the idea of I'm just going through and maybe through negligence, maybe through carelessness, I tend to drift. And I get farther, farther, and farther from the will of God. The word error here is the same word used in Luke, where Jesus used as an illustration the sheep, the lost sheep, it strayed from the fold. Exact same word. That sheep wasn't lassoed and drugged out away from the thing. It wasn't deceived and tricked. It just was careless. Wasn't paying attention to the shepherd. It wasn't paying attention to where the sheep were gathered and just kind of got out there and wandered away, wandered away. Next thing you know, it's in a mess. Next thing you know, it's in severe danger. So the idea here is to slowly wander off the path Like a ship drifting and just slowly getting off course. Um I mentioned I just finished a really good book, and uh it was back before radar is a ship trying to make it to the north poll and early back before anybody had been there and and anyway um they didn't have radar and all of that stuff so they had to go how did they determine their course back then? By the stars by the stars. And if it was overcast for an extended period of time, they were in a little bit of a fix. And back then, a ship, if it wasn't paying attention, if they were neglecting their instrument and their positioning in the stars or if there was overcast or whatever, it's very, very easy for that ship to ship to drift off course, sometimes significantly And it wouldn't be the there more than once it cost many, many lives. So err from the truth. So he's saying here, brethren, it's possible for a genuine believer, a saved person, a brother in Christ Through perhaps neglect or carelessness or deception to get out and get away from the will of God. And so he uses the term brethren and the term heir. The word heir here, it's not a sudden change of direction. It's not like this guy is in church faithful Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. He's reading his Bible every day. He's trying to be a witness. He's real careful about what he allows with the world. He wants to want to be uh uh he wants to be separate from the world and influence. He's being very, very careful. Then all of a sudden boom he's a way out of out of the world of God. It's not that idea all. The word error means to little defection here, a little neglect there. That is why we emphasize so much here at Mount Lake. We emphasize the basics of the Christian life. Did anybody ever happen to hear me say you ought to read your Bible every day? You say, preacher, I'm sick of hearing that. I've learned this is my experience in 30 years in the ministry, 31 now. My experience is just about, without exception, when somebody gets out of the will of God and messes up, it usually begins with they start neglecting the reading of their Bible They start neglecting their faithfulness to church. They start neglecting their prayer life. They start being careless about the influences they allow. the shows they watch, the music they listen to, those types of things. It's usually small areas of neglect in the basics of Christian living that cause us to drift. Somebody told me this is a number of years ago, somebody I actually went to school with. We were talking about something, there was a few things that bothered me, and I made a statement. They said, Brother Latherman, I changed my convictions. Well, I didn't say this, but my immediate thought was then they weren't convictions. I've changed my convictions, and what they had changed their conviction about really I mean it wasn't the most important thing in the world. I thought it was important, but it wasn't a great fundamental of the faith. But I said, you know, you've got to be careful about that. You gotta be careful about those things. And you know, the one long till that person Had completely messed up. Infelity, horrendous sin, wickedness. They said, I let him and I changed my convictions. Red lights went up all over the place. To err. Genuine believer, just kind of drift away. Now, the other word I want to look at here, brethren, if any of you do, err from the truth. What's he talking about, the truth here? The truth is two aspects of it. One is general scriptural doctrine. The idea it's fundamental teachings of the Word of God. If any of you err, drift away from the doctrines of the Word of God. We hear this a lot in churches today. Oh, we don't emphasize doctrines. Tell you what, when a church gets away from its doctrines, it's getting away from its foundations. It's getting away from its moorings. We are what we are because we believe what we believe. And so it's important we have doctrine, we hold to solid doctrine, but it also has the idea of scriptural living. And it's heir from the truth. In other words, living by the principles and teachings of the Word of God. I found that if a person is negligent in their doctrine, a lot of times it will affect their living. And I found that if a person is negligent in their living, it will affect their doctrine. I had some folks many years ago. They said, well, uh they had some areas that they were changing their mind on different things. I said, listen, this here is going to change. You're going to change your doctrine, you're going to change your Bible versions, you're going to change a whole list of things No no no, it's just this one little area, it's all we worry about. Guess what? I changed everything And so the truth, if any do err, drift, wander away from the truth, it is possible for a genuine believer to wander away from the Word of God. It is possible for a genuine believer to wander away from the will of God Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, from living a godly Christian life to holding to what the Bible teaches is true, they wander away from that. When I was preparing this, you know what song I thought of Come thou fount of every blessing. And I thought of the one uh uh uh refrain down through there, oh who O to grace, how great a debtor Daily I'm constrained to be, let thy goodness, like a fetter, bind my wandering heart to thee. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, Lord, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Now I didn't look up who the author was of that, but whoever it was, they understood that it is a very real possibility for a Christian to wander from the will of God. I've said this for years. A great prayer. I prayed for myself, and a great prayer I recommend people pray. Lord, keep me on a short leash. Don't let me wander away. Lord, when I start getting away, I start getting cold or start drifting, Lord I want you to yank me back. I found we've had dogs over the years when the boys moved out. My wife killed them. But um She did. I'm scared to death every day I wake up, huh? But um I mean she did it in a humane legal way, you know, but they are dead. All three of them. But I found if I have a long lease, particularly remember Faith, if I have a long lease on that dog, it's all over the place. If I keep that sheet leash up tight against me, I can keep her right there, control her a lot better, and it's a whole lot better for all of us. And that's what I want God to do for me. I don't want him to let me get way out there before he has to deal with me. Yay! I want it to be tied up against them where it's just I can be close to the Lord. That's the idea. Prone to wander. Each of us as believers are prone to wander. I want to give you advice. Don't ever make this statement. Don't ever make this statement. Oh, I would never do that. Oh, I would never get messed up like that. The same The same tendencies in their heart that put them in that situation reside in your heart and my heart. And if we are not careful, we are prone to wander. Well, we are prone to wander. If we're not careful, we will wander. We will wander. What's that mean? That means we need to help each other. That means I, Dennis Leatherman, as an individual Christian, I need every single person in this church to help me stay true to God. Now, whether you help me or not, I'm responsible, stay true to God. But that is the purpose of the body of Christ Every aspect of my body helps the other ends of parts of my body to be where they ought to be and doing what they ought to be doing. And so we need to understand every single one of us, every one of us have the exact same propensity to wander from the will of God and mess our lives up bad. Every single one of us. You say, preacher, I've been saved long enough, that would never happen to me. Huh. Don't say that We need each other. We're a family. We need each other's prayers. I'm telling you, the Wednesday night prayer meeting is not just, I don't get paid more for having Wednesday night prayer meetings. We need that. We need each other's prayers. This church needs the prayers of God's people to keep his hand upon us and protect us and help us and empower us. And meet our needs. Because every one of us can mess up bad. How many people here right now you can think of a Christian that messed up really bad is away from God? Can anybody think of one? Sure. Hey, every one of us are prone to do that same thing. So we need God's grace. We need each other. We need to help each other. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, that word if there's is is sobering. It means it's possible for any one of us. We need each other. We need to help each other. We need to exhort each other. What do you mean by that? That means we need to get up in each other and say, listen, hang in there. Stay faithful. Hey, we missed ya. I'm praying for ya. How's it going? I mean just get up there and encourage them and help them. I'm telling you, the most discouraging place in the world is out in the world. And we leave here. Tomorrow we go about our business and some of y'all work out in the world and different things. You have unsafe family members maybe. And you go out there and you're getting beat down and beat down, and that uh this whole world is trying to tell us how stupid we are and how narrow-minded we are and how wrong we are. There ought to be a place that every one of us can go to and people say, hey, we're on the win inside. Stay, hang in there, stay at it, get after this thing We need each other's prayers, we need each other's exhortation, we need each other to be faithful One of the best things you and I can do for the well-being of the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is be faithful to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Tell you what helps other people wander, is when I start being unfaithful, when I'm not in my place, I'm not doing my thing, then others. That begins to affect their thinking. So prone to wander, we have the possibility of defection. I just want to make a last statement, and we're going to look at verse 20 at another message. Then he says this, many of you dare from the truth, and one convert him. Huh, I like that. That's the instrument of restoration. We have the possibility of defection. It's possible to get out of the will of God. But what does God use to get that person back? People. People. The instrument of restoration. One convert. That word convert there. Now when you think of somebody being converted, you're thinking of them being what? Getting saved. These are already saved people. They're not getting resaved. You don't get born again and again and again and again and again. So what does he mean when he says they convert them? The word convert simply means this, to cause to return, to bring back again. The idea is somebody's going this way and you convert them, you get them, and you get them going back this way. God uses people in the conversion of the lost. I'm telling you, every person that gets saved, I am absolutely convinced of this, behind them somewhere is a Christian praying and witnessing. At some point, somewhere, somehow. I got saved by myself in a bedroom, 10 30 at night. Have I ever told you about that? Uh right afterly. I got saved all by myself reading my own Bible. You say, nobody who God didn't use nobody to win you to Christ. I had eight years, a daddy, faithfully witnessing, faithfully living it, faithfully praying. So behind every person that's converted is somebody living faithful for God, witnessing to them and praying for them. I want to suggest to you, for every backslidden Christian that has erred from the truth, that has wandered out of the will of God, That is reclaimed, that is brought back, behind that reclamation is somebody praying, somebody living a faithful testimony, somebody influencing them. God uses people. You and me. God uses their concern. How many folks here are you have somebody you're very concerned for? Hands raised. Maybe unsaved or away from God, concerned for them. That is the kind of person God uses. If you're not concerned about them, probably not going to be used by God to convert them. God uses people who intervene. Step in and say, hey, just come by. I'm concerned for you. Haven't seen you in church for a long time. Just make sure everything's alright intervening. Sometimes it's just a, hey, missed you. Maybe all it takes that God needs to use to bring that person back. Hey, I'm praying for you. Faithful testimony. God uses Christians that have a faithful testimony. God uses prayers. One converts him. If any of you do err from the truth, and one converts him. Notice what it doesn't say. Doesn't say if any of you do err from the truth and the preacher convert him, just says one person. Might be a kid. Brings mommy or daddy back. Might be a spouse. Might be a parent. Might be a child. Might be a neighbor. Might be a friend. Just somebody. Just somebody that's for real. Somebody that cares. And one convert 'em. And one convert 'em. It's a very abrupt ending. He's concerned that because of the persecution, perhaps, folks may be erring from the truth. Oh man, the the the authorities are gonna be at church. I got hurt I heard the authorities are gonna be at church Sunday night. I think I'm staying away. Oh, I I heard they're coming through the neighborhood searching for Bibles and Christians. Uh I'm I'm not going to get around the Christian, I'm going to stay back. This is the way it was. He says, listen, you start drifting away, you get out of the will of God, you get away from the will of God. One convert then come and get you back. He says, that's his concern. That's his concern. To be used of God, I am with this. Let's make we need to make sure of our own salvation. I can't help someone else if I'm not saved. I've got to make sure of my own salvation. Are you sure you're saved? Number two, I put this, you might want to jot these down. Be sure my own salvation. Number two, maintain a pure testimony. My positive influence is going to be very minimal if I don't have a good testimony. Oh yeah, well you're doing this. You're so concerned about me. Why don't you be concerned about yourself? I need to have a good testimony. I need to be faithful in all areas of my Christian life. And this last one probably overrides all of them, except for the salvation. I need to care. I need to care. I need to care. Then you err from the truth, and one convert him, then he goes on and makes these tremendous blessings on being used of God to bring people. So One, let's make sure we don't err from the truth. It's not me negligent, careless in our walk with God. We've got to be very, very vigilant. And number two, we know folks that are drifting maybe, that aren't there where they ought to be, not being judgmental, but in compassion. We pray for them, live for them, and try and do all we can to convert them back into the will of God. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these thoughts tonight and challenge us as individuals in the church That we can be people that you can use to bring people to Christ for salvation and bring those that maybe are away from the Lord very compassionately and graciously, bring them back. I pray you'd stir our hearts. Tonight, how many would say, Preacher, uh God's touched my heart? There's some areas in my walk with God I've been a little careless about, and uh I don't want to worry I don't want to err from the truth You'd say, preacher, pray for me. There are some areas I really need to shore up. I need to give some attention. I need to get them in line. I don't want to be negligent on these areas. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. The Lord has spoken to my heart, some areas like that. Anyone like that by the uplifted hand. That's the Spirit of God speaking to our hearts. Alright, God bless you. Hands around. Let's address them. Let's get them short up. Let's make sure we're not neglecting that. Do what we need to do to get them in place. How many folks say, preacher, I know someone, not being judgmental, but I'm concerned for some that are away from the Lord Maybe they're genuinely saved, but they're out of the will of God. They've erred from the truth. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can be that instrument, maybe, that God could use in reclaiming them. Back into the will of God and living according to the word of God. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I'm thinking of someone specifically. God bless you. My hands raised. And we want God to use us. And change their life. And then of course if there's someone unsaved, the same principle applies. Loving them, reaching them, intervening. Father, you know our hearts, you saw the hands, I saw the hands, so stir us and revive us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Let's