Philippians chapter three. Philippians chapter three I mentioned this uh last week. Um something the Lord kind of laid on my heart to do while uh pastor was gone. I talked with him about it, and he was all for it We're going to do a study study here through the book of Philippians. We started last week. There is four chapters in the book, and while Pastor is out, I'll have uh I'll be preaching uh five main church services. And so my intention is to do one service, one sermon per chapter, and then the last Sunday night to kind of summarize the whole book there And I've really enjoyed it. Um I've really enjoyed the study of Philippians. It's um it's something you can read it very quickly. Um we listened to it um on on C D last night. And sometimes you know those audio Bibles they can be kind of slow when they read. And it took about fifteen minutes to read the whole book. It's a very short letter and oftentimes when we're trying to find uh a passage in the Bible we're trying to turn to we overlook it very quickly. uh but I've really enjoyed this book. And um we're gonna just for sake of uh of review um We're going to look at some of the background factors of the book, and this is a good time for you to respond. Who is it that wrote the book of Philippians? Who's the human author? Paul. Paul. And we talked about that. That's just an amazing thing in and of itself. That's just an amazing thing that God would take someone like Saul. And make him into someone like Paul. God would take, as Paul put in his own words, he persecuted the church. He was injurious. He was a Hebrew of Hebrews. He was a Pharisee. And God would take someone like that. save him and make him a completely different person. And now he's responsible not just for Philippians, uh, but for other scriptures as well, great missionary. Um and and most of us look up to him as probably one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. And it's just amazing how to me I can't get past that fact. God will take someone like Saul and make him someone like Paul. That's just an amazing thing. So um who was it written to? The Philippians. Very good. Yeah, the church at Philippi. We looked about at that a little bit in some of the members of that church, the first members, we might even call them the charter members of that church. Remember there was the girl that was a fortune teller and um they cast out the spirit there and um she was it ended up being a part of the church. There was lit um the seller of purple that was uh Lydia, I believe. And then also the Philippian jailer, remember him, and how God takes just totally different people, totally different personalities. And he makes something organized out of chaos. And we we looked at that and some of the members there. We also noticed that um the town of uh Philippi itself was unique. It was a Roman colony, which means They had Roman citizenship and this was a privilege. And we won't retell the whole story there, but it was it's just neat to see how that all kind of worked out in the history there about how they became a Roman colony And so their identity was caught up in the fact that they were uh Philippians, but also they were caught up in the fact that they were uh Roman citizens. And it's interesting because Paul was as well. But um so when was this written? When was this written? Do you remember? Here's 62, 61, right in there is when we believe that it was written. But it's interesting because it was uh while he was in jail. Paul's given this while he was uh in prison. It's one of the four prison epistles. We saw that. Um uh the the epistles he wrote while he was um in a Roman prison and again this is another amazing fact that I have a hard time getting past. Um most of us if we were in that state, in that prison, we'd have a pretty hard time Living for God. I think that's just reality. Not most of us aren't um as spiritual as Paul is, I think. But um this is just a testimony. Even when we're in the dungeon Oh, we can serve God. We can serve Christ. And I think that's a great example there. A little more background on this. It was delivered, the letter, after Paul wrote it, it was delivered to the church of Philippi by a man by the name of Epaphroditus I like this guy. I just like his name. Epaphroditus. That's a pretty cool name. We have a son. We're going to call him Epaphroditus. I am not serious. I am not serious. Um anyway. That would be interesting. I might think about that. But remember, Paul's in jail. So he can't take the letter there himself. But here's what happened. And we we we don't see him much, even in the book, he's mentioned a couple times here in Philippians. But Epaphroditus was a delegate sent from the church of Philippi to minister to Paul And we see a little bit about that in chapter two, verse twenty-five. Paul says, Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and companion in labor and fellow soldier But your messenger. So the church sent him there as a messenger and that he ministered to my wants Um, it's obvious that the Church of Philippi sent this guy Epaphroditus to minister to Paul while Paul was in prison. We can read in chapter at the end of chapter 4 where he took Paul a monetary gift, but it was also he was there to minister to Paul He was there to work for him, basically, whatever his needs were. And remember, where is Paul at this time? He's in jail. So this guy is continually making daily visits to the jail The Roman prison. And that in and of itself was not an easy task. Um but that's what he was. And um he evidently labored himself to the point where he was sick, even almost died. And we see that in verse 27 of chapter 2, but he made a recovery. Paul sent him back Um that's dedication. Uh we don't we don't hear a whole lot about this guy, uh Paphroditus, but without him we wouldn't have this book. Paul's the human author, we understand that through the inspiration of God, but Epaphroditus was the one that handled it. And a lot of us might not have even ever heard of his name. And I can't help but think there is a lot of faithful Christians that work behind the scenes, I guess you could say, but without them we would not be where we are. This church would not function the way it does if it wasn't for those that work behind the scenes. Now I thought this was interesting. I mean I'm I'm comparing things here. I just we were listening to this last night, me and my wife, and we were listening to the C D and I started laughing here because It y you'll see why. He um Epaphroditus was sent from the church to go minister. While he was there he got sick. And then he's going back. Does this sound uh sounds like our pastor right now, doesn't it? I kinda chuckled. We send him over there and he's over there, he's ministering to the church over there in New Zealand, and he got sick, and uh we're yeah, anyway, never mind. I th I thought it was funnier But it's the same concept. When you travel and you put stress on your body, traveling then was harder than it is now. And you wear yourself down physically for your brothers in Christ. It's an amazing thing. And that's what Ephaphroditus was. A lot of servants, like I said. We don't see, we don't, we might not know their name, we might not know a lot about them, but they are key and essential to God's work. Okay, so anyway, the overwhelming theme of the book was what Joy. Joy. The joy that we find in Christ. The word joy or rejoice is found in the book of Philippians 16 times. And again, in just four short chapters, we see this word sixteen times. Every single chapter might have an individual focus, I guess you could say, and that's what we're doing here, each service. But the overwhelming theme of the book is that of joy. Joy in Christ. And we talked about how we don't have to rely on circumstances for joy. Joy is a decision we make. Happiness basically is based off of what happens. But we can have joy regardless. Um so e each uh chapter has its own focus, but the overwhelming thing of the book is that of joy. Chapter one We last week, last Sunday morning, uh we saw the confidence in Christ, and the main verse for the chapter we saw was verse six, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The first chapter screams confidence. And um we see that we can have joy in Christ because we have confidence in Christ. They go hand in hand, and we saw that. And then the second chapter, we looked at the thinking like Christ, being like-minded by having the mind of Christ. We saw that last Sunday night. Verse 5 of chapter 2 says, Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. If you think like Christ, you'll act like Christ. And that is what a Christian does. They act like Christ. And um when we act the way we're supposed to act, we think the way we're supposed to think, we have joy. So um we're already halfway through the book, chapter three. We find ourselves here. And again, it starts out, finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Verse 1 of chapter 3, again, emphasizing the main theme of his letter. As we go down through the chapter, verses 3 through 6, he talks a little bit about his former life as a Pharisee. And we mentioned this. Paul, before he was saved, he was a rascal And he was he called himself a Hebrew of Hebrews, and if anyone had room to boast, it was him. But we'll see that here in just a second. Verse 7, he says, those things that were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. In verse 10, he talked about how he wants to know Christ more. Verse 12 to 16 explains how he wants to continue to grow in Christ. Famous verse there, verse 14, I press toward the mark of the high calling of God. Verse 14. In verse 14, he was understanding the fact that uh the Christian life is not one of arrival, but it's a continual progression. In verse 12, he says, Not that I desired or not as though I have already attained Either were already perfect, but I follow after, that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Though this entire chapter He describes how he used to live, and then said it was all worthless. Those things were gained to me, I count as loss. And then he describes how he tries to live now. Former life, current life, before salvation, after salvation, and the way he thought, the way he lived The decisions he made, his lifestyle, I guess you could say, before he was saved and after he was saved. And this whole chapter is a contrast between the lifestyle of the lost and the lifestyle of the Christian. And we see the summarization of that in the verses we read for our scripture reading. Verse seventeen uh verse seventeen through twenty. In verses uh nine nineteen and twenty and nineteen, that's it, nineteen We see the conversation of the wicked, the way they live their life, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and so on. And in verse 20, we see the way a Christian lives, their conversation. It says, for our conversation is in heaven, from hence also we look for the Savior of the Lord Jesus Christ. And if there was a theme for chapter three It would be that, the conversation of the wicked versus the conversation of the Christian, or a Christ-like conversation. So, that word conversation, we need to define this. And I like to go to Noah Webster's 1828 dictionary. I like that better than modern dictionaries It's um, by the way, it's also a closer time to when we had our King James Bible. 1611 to 1812, it's a couple hundred year difference. But um I like the 1828 dictionary. A lot of times Noah Webster which cited um Bible verses for his definition as he did here for the word conversation. He cited here in Philippians, and he also cited 1 Peter 115 where it says, Beholding all manner of conversation. So this word conversation is not just limited to audible conversing. Talking back and forth. That is an element of it, an important element of it, but it goes way deeper. This is the definition that Noah Webster had. General course of manners General course of manners, behavior, deportment, especially as it respects as in respects morals. So conversation, the way the word is used here, and the definition of this word is not just Having a conversation with someone, like we would say, although that's part of it, but it is our lifestyle, the way we live, our morals, our behavior. Can I say this? Our maturity level. Does this make sense? So this is the word that's being used here. Conversation. And again, he cited it in 1 Peter 1:15. Be holy in all manner of conversation. The way you live your life ought to be holy. Is what Peter was saying there. Now we we see the conversation of the boss And Paul mentions what his conversation was like, the way he lived his life before he was saved And he talks about that at the beginning of the chapter. And he talks about his conversations, his goals, what drives him, the way he lives his life after he's saved. And we see the contrast. So, real quick, this is what we're going to do this morning for chapter 3. We're going to look at the conversation of the wicked, which is summed up in verse 19. And then we're going to look at the conversation of the Christian or the Christ-like conversation. Again, we must remember, keep in mind that the word conversation has to do with what we live for, how we live. How we interact, our mannerisms, our behavior. So, verse 19, let's look at it. This is the conversation, the lifestyle, what they're living for, the conversation of the lost, of the wicked, okay? Verse 19, whose end is destruction. Right away, we see the outcome of the conversation, the lifestyle of the wicked, and that is that of destruction. And I don't need to spend too much time on this, but we understand sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. Sin brings destruction. Soon as Adam sinned, destruction. Came to earth, came to mankind. And it's no different when we when we live in a sinful lifestyle. Now it brings destruction. I don't need to spend too much time on that. I think we understand. Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly. So what does the conversation of the wicked look like first off their living for self? What is it that the wicked lives for? They live for themselves. God is their belly. The way the wicked lives, it's a way that satisfies their belly, meaning it satisfies whatever it is that they are hungry for Whatever it is that they desire or want. That's the conversation of the wicked. Whatever it is they crave. Understand this. The way a Christian should live is a life that of discipline. Not a life to where we just get whatever we want. Why is it so many people are in so much debt? Because they get whatever they want. Why is it that people's health declines at a very early age? Because they eat whatever they want. They put whatever substance in their body they want. They live to satisfy their cravings. This is not the way the Christians should live. This is the way we would expect maybe the wicked to live That's their conversation, living for themselves. And we see this all over our society. I mean you just look in your neighborhood. Sometimes we just look next door. You know, I don't know But this is what the one of the things the wicked live for, whatever it is they crave. If they want something that's harmful for them, who are we or who is God to say that they can't have it? I want what I want, and I'm going to get what I want. And again, I don't need to elaborate too much on this. We understand the principle. This is one of the things the wicked live for. They live for self. God is their belly, glory is their shame. What does the conversation of the wicked look like? One, they live for self, two, they're living for sin. That was what summarizes this. Glory is their shame. Understand this. Sin is shameful. And it ought to be viewed shamefully. We ought to be ashamed when we sin. We ought to be embarrassed when we see someone else sin. Sin is shameful. And I think that's an element that we have lost in our society. We are not ashamed of sin, no longer able to blush, as the scripture says. We've lost the shame of sin. And what's sad is it's gone a step further. Not only is it whatever But now we see people that glory in their shame. And this blows my mind. Things that we ought to be ashamed of, we glorify. It is a shame to be shacking up. That is something that ought to be embarrassing to you. But we treat it like it's normal and it's glorified. Fornication is shameful and is something that we should be embarrassed if it's found out. We should be embarrassed of ourselves if we get involved in that sin. But we've gotten to the point in high schools and even in middle schools where it's a game, how much, how many times can we fornicate? What was shameful is now glorified, and vice versa. But this is the way, the conversation of the wicked This is not the way we should converse. This is not the way we should live. We understand this. But there are some things we can expect from the wicked. One, they live for self. Two, they live for sin. Sin that used to be shameful is now glorified. Of course, the first one that comes to everyone's mind is sodomy. This blows my mind again. That ought to be the most embarrassing thing. And now we have parades that celebrate it. Blows my mind. Blows my mind. But that is where we have gotten to. Their glory is in their shame. This general course of manners, as Noah Webster described it, behavior, deportment, especially in respect to morals, this is the way the wicked lives. This is their conversation. This is one reason we preach the gospel because that is the remedy to their conversation. And that's one reason that we need to just be as earnest as we can about getting the gospel out. They live for self, they live for sin, and then thirdly, they live for earthly things. Their focus is that on things of earth, not on things above. That's what they live for. To obtain wealth, to obtain possession, to obtain status, to obtain popularity, however you want to put it, this is what they live for And it's sad because so many times this bleeds over, and we see people that should have a Christ-like conversation have this kind of conversation. And it's this is a sad thing. Live for earthly things. In verse 19, glories in their shame, who mind earthly things. You know what's really sad when you spend all your time and investment into putting into purchasing possessions that are just going to be burnt up anyway They're gonna go away. A hundred years from now, what does it how how valuable is your Dodge Viper a hundred years from now? You won't be here Now, if you have one, I'm not preaching against having nice things. In fact, I'd like to go for a ride in it. But if that is your whole focus in life, Your conversation's off. So this is what the the wicked live for. This is their conversation. The one they live for self, two, they live for sin, and three they live for earthly things. This could not not just be Possessions, but positions, uh worldly pleasures, even if you would. Our conversation should not match this. Spend the past few minutes saying what the world and the wicked lives like, we expect that. This is why we need to share the gospel, saturate our community with the gospel. That's what we expect sinners to do. We expect them to sin. This is what's bad. When Christians' conversation matches that of the wicked. That's not the way we should live. That should not be our conversation. Verse 20, for our conversation isn't heaven. This isn't heaven. I'm glad it's not. This isn't heaven. This is not what we live for. Do the things we have to do while we're here? Yeah. Are there earthly possessions that we need to get by? Yeah. Is there anything wrong with having fun along the way? No. But when that becomes our focus and heaven is not our focus, our conversation's off. Our conversation's off. So that was the conversation of The wicked, what does the conversation of the Christian or the Christ-like conversation look like? Verse 20. Our conversation is in heaven. is in heaven. One, we need to live like we are a citizen of heaven. We are. You know this is not home, right? Then why do we put all of our time, money, and effort into a temporary spot? This is not home News flash, we're gonna be in heaven a lot longer than here Our conversation, the way we live our life, should be lived in a way to where we are a citizen of heaven. We invest in heaven. Verse 7 and 8 of this chapter, chapter 3 Paul says, but those things which were gained to me, those I counted loss. All things were gained to me, those I counted as loss. Verse 8, yea, doubtless, I count all things but loss. The excellency of the knowledge of Christ. The things he's talking about are the things he used to live for. Those things, all that stuff. That's a waste of my time. That's what he's saying. Waste of my time. Every earthly thing that we invest in It's not going to last. There are some things that are necessary for us to live here, but that's how it should be viewed. We need to eat. We need a place to sleep. There are some things we need, but that's how it should be viewed. That's how our mindset, our conversation should be. Verse 13 and 14, he talks about forgetting those things which are behind. Now, this was a rough concept to explain to the Philippians. Remember, they were a Roman colony. Their identity was Rome. They had a special privilege because they were citizens of Rome. And now Paul's saying, wait a minute. This is a temporary thing. You're citizens of heaven. This is can I let me let me bring it down to earth? We we're s yes, we are citizens of the United States, and I'm glad we are. Praise the Lord for it. But first and foremost, we're citizens of heaven. This is the way we should live. This is the way our conversation should match that of a citizen of heaven. And this was rough because they identified as Roman citizens. Let me ask you, how do you identify? If I ask you, what are you? What what is it that the first thing you're going to say is? You might say, well, I'm a brother, I'm a father, I'm a son, I'm a preacher, I'm a These things come after Christian. Christians should be first and foremost. That's what he's saying here. I'm a citizen of heaven. I am a Christian before I am anything else. And that's hard for us to do sometimes. Do we live like that? I dare say a lot of us don't. We might say we do, but when it push comes to shove, there's a lot of us that are guilty of this Remember what Jesus said, lay not up for yourself treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thief new uh where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven. Neither moth nor rust off throughout thieves don't break in and steal. It's a shame that when we spend our whole life gathering things for earth and at the end of our life It goes up in smoke. What is it that we're we're living for? How is it that we identify? A Christian will live like a citizen of heaven. A Christian will live like Christ is coming back. Look at verse 20. For our conversation is in heaven from whence we uh from whence also we look for the Savior. How many of us are looking for the Savior? That's how we should be living. We should be living like we are a citizen of heaven, and we are, and we should be looking for the Savior. Looking for the Savior, as it says in verse 20, from whence also we look for the Savior. Let me ask you, if Christ came back right now, would you be ready? I hate to tell you, it doesn't matter if you're ready or not, he's going to come back when he wants. So a Christian should live like he's coming back now, because he might. And how many of us are ready for that? How many of us have a clear conscience with our Lord now? Have our sins confessed, forgiven? How many of us are actively working Doing as much for him as we can while we can't, because we don't know how much time we have left. You know how it is when someone comes over to your house? And they tell you they're coming, you spend the next several hours, days cleaning Because you want them to know how clean your house is. Right? But when someone shows up unannounced, it's it's a little bit of a panic. I do this to people by the way. I show up unannounced all the time and a lot of you already know this. It's uh I apologize. But here's the thing. When when they when when they show up unannounced The house isn't in the state you would like it to be. Can I say it this way? Living in a way And cleaning your house in a way to where someone could come over any minute? Yeah, I guess that's important. I think it is. But how much more important is it to live our lives in a way that Christ could come any minute? Let's keep this house clean. Let's keep our lifestyle, our conversation clean, ready for company Ready for Christ to come any minute. That's how a Christian lives. That's how a Christian thinks. One A Christian lives like they're a citizen of heaven. Two, a Christian lives like Christ is coming back any minute, because remember, no man knoweth when the Son of Man cometh, the hour the Son of Man cometh Be doing all you can be or be doing all you can while you're awaiting, looking. And then three, we live to know him better. How does a Christian live? We live to know him better. Verse 10 of this chapter, Paul says that I may know him. Now let me ask you a question. Had Paul already met Jesus? Yes. He's not saying I've never met the Lord. I want to meet him. I want to know who he is. He's saying, I want to know more. I want to know him better. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection. I want to know more of the power of God. And he sums this up here in the next few verses. Let me ask you, do we live like we want to know Christ more? Do we live like we want to know more about him? Let me ask it this way. Are you content With the current status of your relationship with Christ, or do you want to know him more? One thing that I think we can all agree on in a marriage, husband and wife, we ought to want to get to know each other more. Even the longer we're married, we still want to get to know each other more, and we end up loving each other more. This is the way it should be. It's the same concept. It's not that I just meet the Savior. I know who He is now. We have an official relationship. We didn't ever talk with them. You imagine if I treated my wife that way? Oh my goodness. I'd be a bad husband. If I said, oh yeah, we're married. It's legal. We have a relationship, and then I don't hear from her and I don't talk to her. I'm not getting to know her. My love for her is not growing. It's the same concept. Paul says, I want to know him more. I want to know more about this power that he has. I want to know more about him. I want to know more. I want to love him more. And this is the the attitude, the conversation that we should have. How we live, decisions we make, our behavior, our manners, so on. To know him more, to love him more. How do you know somebody more? You spend time with them. I mentioned if I never talked with my wife, I wouldn't get to know her more. If she never talked to me, I wouldn't get to know her more. Do you let God talk to you? Do you let Christ talk to you? How do you do that? You read his word. Do you talk to him? We have a habit of complaining to every single person that we note before we talk to him. How many of us truly say, Yeah, I want to know him more? And not just say it, but then do it. Read more. Listen more. Pray more. And make choices based off of wanting to know him more. And part of knowing him better is understanding the fact that we have to keep working to know him more. Understand this, we can never exhaust God. We can never know everything about him. When we get to an attitude of spiritual arrival, I know everything I need to know about God. Relationship can get frustrating. Again, what if I told my wife, I think I know everything I need to know about you? I I think I think I've got it all figured out. I think I love you enough now, and I think you love me enough now, so we're good. Let's just keep it right here Yikes. That would be bad. She'd probably say, Excuse me. But again, same concept I need to understand the fact that I can never exhaust how much I know about God, how much I love God. First Corinthians says, The man thinketh he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing, yet as he ought to know. You don't even have a clue. About God yet. That's what that's saying. So we ought to be hungry to learn more. Why? Every turn we'll love him more, and then our conversation will match it. And then the result the result of that is joy. Again, the theme of the book is joy. Understand this: living like Christ brings joy. Living the way a Christian is supposed to live brings joy. Having the conversation of the wicked does not bring joy. It brings, verse 19 says it, destruction. Now, if you had to pick, what do you want? Destruction or do you want joy? We'd say, I want joy. Then that means your conversation has got to match it. The conversation of the wicked matches destruction, and the conversation that Christ wants us to have matches joy. Which one do you want now? Well, so I want joy, then our conversation has got to match it the way we live our life. So how does a uh Christian live? One, they live like a citizen of heaven. Two, they live like they're looking for the savior. Three, they live to know him better. And the fourth one is this. They lived the way Christ lived. How did he live? Chapter 2, verse 8 says it. Being found in fashions, a man he humbled himself and became obedient. This should not be shocking. A Christ-like conversation, the way a Christian should live is a life of obedience to God. God says it, we do it. God says, don't do it, we don't do it. That's the way a Christian is supposed to live. In obedience to God. We live to obey God. We live to glorify God. This is what Jesus did. He humbled himself, became obedient. We saw that last week. This was his mindset, remember? And his mindset resulted in his actions. That's his conversation. So we look at chapter 1 and we say, yes, we can have confidence in Christ, and we look at chapter 2 and we say this is how we're supposed to think. Chapter 3 is the result of that. The conversation we're supposed to have. I don't know about you, but I'm having a fun time going through this book, through these chapters. It's pretty cool to see how it all fits together. But let me just sum everything up here. This would be the conclusion, I guess you could say. As we examine ourselves, as I examine myself, you examine yourself. What does our conversation look like? Not what do we claim, but when people are looking at you, What do they see? What lifestyle do they see? Do they see that conversation of the wicked? Or do they see that Christ-like conversation? When they look at you, do they say, oh yeah, they are living for themselves, they're living for earthly things, they're living for sin, and so on? Or do they say, no, they're living for Jesus, they're living like Jesus is coming back, they're acting like Jesus. Here's a warning. Go to 2 Peter. Again, we see this word conversation. What if you say, you know what? Hey listen, Pastor Matt, I'm saved. I'm confident in Christ like you preached about last week. I know I'm going to heaven. But there's some things I don't really want to let up yet. I'll do this the the I'll do part of this conversation of the of the say, but there's some of this conversation of the wicked I want to still hang on to. There's some things I'm just not completely all in, but I do trust Christ as my Savior. Now let me ask you: is it possible for someone to be saved and still not surrender their entire life to Christ? Yes. Yes. And we're going to see an example of that here. But there's a warning that goes along with that. 2 Peter chapter 2. Verse uh we'll start in verse six here. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example, an example unto those after should live unto those that after should live ungodly. Verse 7, and delivered just Lot Lot was just. And in the next verse it says he was righteous. Lot was a saved man. He was looking for the coming Messiah and he was saved. We'll see him in heaven. But look at the result of this. And delivered just Lot, verse 7, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked Was it just what the wicked were saying to him? No. It was that lifestyle he submersed himself in. He is he went to Sodom, its descent towards Sodom, ended up living in Sodom And we know what was going on there. Silth. And he said, hey, I'm okay with it, just as long as you don't bother me with it, that kind of mentality. And it vexed his soul. The word vex means irritate. You will be irritated if you're a Christian trying to live like you're not. It will irritate you and you will not have joy Vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. What happened to Lot? Remember what happened to his wife? Yep. Remember what happened to his home destroyed. What w what does it say the verse 19 back in um Philippians chapter three, whose end is destruction Law is a perfect example of a believer that tried to have the conversation of the wicked. It vexed him, it irritated him. He had no joy, and it brought destruction. So if you want to make this choice to say, yeah, I'm a Christian, but I just don't want to live like one Don't expect joy. Expect to be miserable. And expect destruction. You can expect it. Wouldn't it be easier? If we just decide to have a Christ-like conversation. Live for Christ. Live like He's coming back. Work for Him while we can. Obey Him. And have joy. I'd rather have joy and not have destruction than have a vexed spirit and have destruction. I wouldn't be a very good preacher if I didn't mention this. But you can't even have this joy or peace without first knowing Christ. You can't live like a Christian without Christ. And if you're here and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you can't have this joy we speak of. You can't have it. You can't have peace outside of Christ. You can't have joy outside of Christ. You can't live a Christ-like life without Him. Good news is, is He died so you could. Suffered our sins for us, God commended love toward us, and that while we were as sinners, Christ died for us. For he hath made him who knew no sin to become sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We can have that conversation only first if we're saved. And if you hear say, Pastor Madame, I'm saved, I know it. But let's just make up our minds our minds we're going to live like we're saved. How about that? And then the result is joy Joy. You can stand to your feet, heads bowed, eyes closed, and don't look around for just a moment. Again, I don't know how God spoke to your heart today. I don't know. But I do know this, like I said at the end, you can't have this peace, this joy without Christ. And if there's someone here Say, Pastor Matt, I don't know Christ as my Savior. I don't know him. I don't know I'm saved. But I'm concerned about that. Could you pray for me? If that's you, could you raise your hand? I just want to pray for you, that's all. Alright, now let me ask you this question. You're a believer. Does your conversation match what you claim? If you say, you know what, there's some areas here that I've struggled with. God spoke to my heart about something. Could you pray for me? Pastor Matt, could you slip your hand up? My hand's up. God spoke to my heart. Now in just a moment, Ms. Jennifer's gonna play the piano. That means the invitation's open. That means you can come up to the altar and get on your knees and say, God, my conversation's not with been not been when it ought to be. So if God's dealt with your heart in any way, please get it get it right with God. Do business with him. The altar's open.