Luke fourteen is where we're at. I'd like for our text this morning is verse number twenty-eight. And I know Pastor Matt just read down through here, but I'd like for us to read that verse twenty-eight together in unison, if you would Luke 14, verse number 28. If you have it there, would you read along with me? Here we go. Which of you intending to build a tower Sitteth not down first and counteth the cost whether he have sufficient to finish it. I underscored in my Bible that little phrase counteth the cost. I want to speak this morning on counting the cost. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to challenge us from His Word. Father in heaven, we bow before you this morning. We're very grateful for the opportunity we have to be a part of the body of Christ, the local church. And I ask now, as we've assembled together, Lord, here in place, those online I ask that you would please speak our hearts from this passage. I pray that you would challenge our faith. I ask, Father in heaven, you would confront us where we're at spiritually. what kind of Christian we are and uh where we need to be and what you would have us to be. So Lord we need your Holy Spirit to do that and so I yield my mind and my will to you. Again, I ask in this hour That your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking, direct the words that I say, that they would be what you would have me to say. I yield my body to you, and I pray with all my heart That you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would be the preacher. You would apply your word as you see fit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think it's very important. I hope you'll get this right here, this first statement in the message. I think it's very important to understand that there is a difference between being a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. A believer, when the Bible uses the term to be a believer or believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, it's more than simply believing a fact. It's more than simply accepting a truth to be true. It means the word believe when Jesus and and Paul and others in the Bible uh use the term believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, they're talking about relying upon Him or depending upon Him. Sometimes we get accused of what folks some folks call easy believism. They say, well, it's easy believism. If by that they mean that somebody somebody simply acknowledges that Jesus lived long ago. By that they simply mean that they accept the facts that Jesus died on a cross, was buried, and rose again. If that's what you mean by easy believism, then yes, I reject easy believism. Just believing the facts about Jesus Christ never saved the soul. When the Lord uses the term believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, he's talking about trusting in, relying upon. depending upon Jesus Christ, who he is and what he did for us for the salvation of my soul. It is much more than simply acknowledging the facts There's a lot of people, and there's going to be a lot of people in hell. There's people there right now that knew all the facts about Jesus Christ and they believed they were true, but they never trusted him as their personal Savior. You follow what I'm saying? And so believing in the Lord Jesus Christ means to depend upon Him to do something for me that I cannot do for myself. To rely upon Him to attain forgiveness of my sins and uh and uh give me eternal life as a uh as a result of trusting and believing on him Believing in the Bible is synonymous with having faith. Believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, having faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh it's kind of like if uh if you had a certain sum of money and you wanted to invest that money in something, you wanted to do something with it, and make some money off of it and you saw an advertisement and the bank said you can t if you'll take this money we'll give you a certain percentage of interest on that money. We'll hold it For a certain period of time, we'll give you an interest. Maybe you buy a C D and uh we'll give you interest on however many months, 12 months that C D, we'll give you that money You believe that what they say is true, and then you trust them with that money, you hand it to them, trusting and depending. that they are going to give you that interest for the period of time you give the money. You follow what I'm saying? It's one thing to read the advertisement in the paper and say, oh yeah, I believe that's true. Look at that. Well and behold, they're given Oh, whatever interest on money. I believe it, it's I accept those facts. But I trust them when I put my Give them my finances. You with me? I'm probably over uh uh belated over uh uh over uh what am I saying Overemphasizing it. But it's important to understand what it means to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I say this? Your eternal destiny depends upon your understanding of what it means to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, well, I believe he's true. I know he existed. That's not going to save your soul. You've got to make a decision to trust him. Put your faith and trust in him. Depend upon him completely. Zach and Kayleana are going to go on vacation over Christmas, we were talking before, and they're going to fly out of BWI And uh so they get down there, and I know talking to them, Zach and Kaliana believe absolutely no, there's no doubt in their mind, that plane is capable of flying them over where are you going, Frankfurt, you said They're able to fly over that plane, can get them over there, the pilot can get them there. They believe those facts, but on Christmas Day, they're going to trust that plane They're going to trust that pilot, and they're going to get on it, and they're going to depend on that plane to get them there. You with me? That's what happens when a person believes in the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe the facts. Yeah, he died for you, he was buried, and rose again He can he's able to forgive my sin, give me eternal life, save me from going to hell, uh change my life, you know, give me a whole new life, make me a new creature. I believe he can do that Then I come to the point say, all right, I'm going to trust him. I'm going to put my faith and trust in him to forgive me and cleanse me of sin. Alright, you with me? Uh belabored is the word I was looking for. I belabored that point there. But that is different than being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said here, if you don't do these certain things, you cannot be my disciple. Nowhere in the world does it say that we have to do certain things to have eternal life. We are told over and over again. And I'm going to touch on this here in a little bit, but in Acts chapter 16, the Philippian jailer The most pointed question in all of Scripture. He came to Paul and he said, What must I do to be saved? And what did Paul answer? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ thou shalt be saved. He didn't say you should uh uh uh you know forsake all you have and take up your cross and do this and do that and do that. And then you have eternal life. Didn't say that at all. But the Lord does say that it's necessary to be a disciple. I looked up the word disciple in my Webster's 1828 dictionary And here's the dictionary definition for a disciple. A disciple, according to Webster, is a learner, somebody that learns things. A follower or a student. The dictionary definition of disciple is this is my Picture I get in my mind, somebody that sits in a classroom, the teacher gives them facts, the teacher gives them some teaching, instruction. They learn it, they memorize it, they get it in their head, and they are, according to the dictionary, a disciple. That is not the biblical definition of a disciple A disciple is much more than a learner. A disciple, according to the Bible, is someone who learns this truth, receives this instruction, and then submits to that instruction. Somebody that yields to that instruction, a disciple, one who submits themselves to the authority of the instructor and the instruction. They follow the example of that one. They are a follower. They are a disciple. They are incorporating into their life, into their behavior, what they are being taught. You with me? It's possible to sit and be a learner and not be a disciple. There's people, there's Christians that have uh learned all the Bible and they can memorize verses and They know what Genesis teaches and they know the songs and maybe they have uh favorite verses. I mean believers, folks that have been saved by believing on Jesus Christ But they have not submitted themselves to the instructions that the Bible gives us. They're not a disciple. It is possible to be a Believer and not be a disciple. I could show you illustrations in the Bible. Folks that were believers were saved. But they were not disciples. They were not following the teachings of the Lord. And we'll look at some of those here in a little bit. It's possible to be a believer and not be a disciple. But it is impossible. To be a disciple and not be a believer. A believer. A disciple is someone who has believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and then made the decision to submit themselves to the teachings and the instructions of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said to believers numerous times he said to believers follow me follow me follow me some people Heeded that call and followed him. Some did not. There were some he said follow me and they said, oh, you know, I got a uh I just got married and I get Uh, I need to go take care of my wife. I can't follow you. Another one he says, follow me is oh I just bought a uh a yoke of oxen and I gotta go check them out and take care of them. Not everybody that Jesus invited to follow him actually followed him. A disciple is somebody that has believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, and then they submit themselves to follow the Lord. Salvation is offered to mankind completely free, and it's received by faith, putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Now, salvation is free for you and I, however, it was very costly to our Savior. Jesus Christ paid a heavy price. suffered the wrath of Almighty God for your sins and my sins, so that I could be forgiven, so that I could have eternal life So that I could be accepted to heaven and escape hell. Jesus Christ did that, paid that price for us so that we could freely receive that gift of God, which is eternal life. And by the way, salvation over and over and over is referred to as a gift. A gift. A gift. You parents, uh Christmas morning, oh the kids will come running out And oh boy they got all these gifts and here's their name on it, little Bobby, and and Mary Sue and Edward and Kamewen and all these little gifts there and all the kids' names are on it and they come up there and say, Oh, and they start up and say, Hold it, wait a minute That gift costs $75. Pay up, kiddo, for you get it. Question, is that a gift? No. You kidding? I worked I work hard to earn the money to buy that gift. That gifts $150 and uh you pay me. I put a lot of time in to get that. You need to pay for that gift. Nobody does that. It wouldn't be a gift. It would be a purchase Well, here's that gift, and uh you that thing cost me $700, that gift. You're gonna work for three weeks straight, no allowance to pay for that. No, that's not a gift You love them, you say here, and all they do is what? Just receive it. They take it to be their own. That's salvation. That's believing. Discipleship, however. Salvation is free for you and I. We come by faith. We humble ourselves before God. We turn to Christ, trust Him to forgive and cleanse our sin. And God freely does that for us as a result of believing, trusting, having faith in Him. Discipleship, on the other hand. It's costly. It's costly for you and I to be a disciple. Discipleship has a price to pay. In fact, the Lord gave some very specific requirements In our passage, Pastor Matt read, he gave us some very specific requirements that are necessary to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Um to be a follower of Jesus Christ is costly. To be a follower of Jesus Christ means that I am going Against the grain of this world's values, I am going against the grain of this world's practices, this world's priorities. I'm a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. What was the world's attitude about Jesus Christ when he was here on earth? Somebody talk to me. What was their attitude towards him? Rejection. In fact, he said numerous times, the world hates me. This world hates me. They accuse them of things. They ended up uh uh crucifying him and uh uh and uh rejecting him, beating him And to be a follower of Jesus Christ means I am going to face the same opposition by the world that Jesus Christ faced. Jesus told his disciples, he says, the world hated me, don't be surprised when it hates you also. Why? Because you're my disciple. You're my disciple. To be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is costly. Um uh uh the world doesn't care if you and I are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. The world doesn't care. You want to believe on Jesus Christ, trust him and Savior, that's wonderful. Just don't live for him. Uh sure, you want to be able to be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ? Just don't uh dedicate your life to live for him. They mocked Jesus. They rejected Jesus. They accused Jesus of awful things. And they will do the same thing to you and I as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people are familiar with Sodom and Gomorrah? Remember, familiar with that account? In the middle of Sodom was a saved man. Peter tells us he had a righteous soul. His name was Lot. Anybody familiar with Lot? He lived smackdab in the middle of Sodom. In fact, The Bible implies that he actually became a leader in the city of Sodom and Gomorrah. He sat in the gate. That was a position of leadership. That was a position of responsibility and influence. And if you'll study Genesis' account of Lot very carefully, the city of Sodom and Gomorrah, as awful as they were. They had no problem with Lot being a believer there in their midst. You find no persecution of him, you find no rejection of him, you find no hatred of him, not until The angel shows up and says, get out of here. And when he started doing what God told him to do, then Sodom and Gomorrah turned on him. I'm telling you, this whole world doesn't bother. You can be a student in the public schools, be a believer in Jesus Christ. They're not going to give you a hard time. They're not going to say anything. But you start living for God in the public schools, and you're going to start taking heat. Amen or not. On the job. They don't care. You're a believer, sure, that's fine. You got that church, whatever. But brother, you start you start living for God. You start being a witness. You start uh following the Lord Jesus Christ, then all of a sudden you start taking heat. Am I right or wrong? Yeah. Yeah. So there's a world of difference between being a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I can believe the church in Corinth They were believers. Paul referred to them repeatedly. Brethren, brethren, brethren, brethren. But brother, they weren't living for the Lord. They were a disaster. Read how they took part in Lord's Supper. Absolutely abominable. Their practices in the Lord's Supper. Paul referred to them as brethren. Paul referred to them as saved people, but not one time does he refer to them as disciples. In fact, he rebuked them sharply. And the whole book of 1 Corinthians is a rebuke of the church at Corinth for their wickedness they were tolerating and their sin they were tolerating. Now, praise the Lord. You read 2 Corinthians, they responded, they humbled themselves, they repented, they made it right. But my point is this, uh, you can be a believer and not be a disciple You can't be a disciple without first being a believer. I'm talking to some folks this morning. I don't know. It's between you and God But I have no doubt, I'm talking to some folks this morning. You're a believer, you're saved, as saved can be, you've trusted Christ sincerely, been born again, but you're not a disciple. You're not living for the Lord as God's called you to. The Lord's saying, follow me, follow me, and you're saying, no, I'm going to do my thing. I'm going to live my way. There's a price to pay for discipleship. Jesus paid the price for my salvation, but if I'm going to take that seriously, I'm going to be a disciple, then I'm going to pay the price. There's going to be a cost to pay. Every one of Jesus' disciples, those first batch of disciples, nearly every one of them died martyrdom. Rejection, not because they were believers, but because they were disciples. They were living for God. They were preaching. They were following Him. They were letting His will be done in their life. Discipleship is the natural outgrowth of believing. God saves us to be disciples. person get saved, trust Christ as Savior. The natural progress, the intention, the plan of God is for that believer. to make a decision. I'm going to be a follower of Christ. I'm going to live for him. I'm going to make my life count for Jesus. I'm going to be what he intends for me to be Discipleship is the natural outgrowth of believing, and it is God's intention for every believer. God wants every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church not just be a believer, but be a disciple of Jesus Christ. God wants these teenagers to be disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm grateful for every young person that trusts Christ as Savior. I'm grateful for every adult that bows their head and calls the Lord, trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Thank God for every soul saved. Then God wants those that are saved, He calls them, all right, now follow me. Now you be, you forsake all and follow me. And we'll look at what the price of discipleship is. We'll look at what the cost is To be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Say, what do I have to pay to get saved? You can't pay anything. It's already been paid. What do I have to do to be saved? You can't do anything. It's already been done. You just believe and receive like a gift by faith. What do I have to do to be a disciple? Oh, that's costly. That's going to cost you something to be a disciple. Forsake all, follow me. It's going to be a price to pay. There's a price to pay. A believer, what you say, well, what happens to a believer who refuses to be a disciple? What about a person that trusts Christ, genuinely born again? They have eternal life. They're secure in Christ. They have a home in heaven. They have no fear of hell. But they say, you know, I'm going to live my life the way I want. I'm not going to submit to the Lord. I want to do what I want to do. I'm going to live my life my way What happens to that person? Years ago, I've told this often over the years because I like the story, but um we had uh one Sunday morning, this was years ago, back in the early days of of my time here And uh uh uh pre Sunday morning, and a young lady was visiting, probably in her twenties I would guess, uh mid-late twenties maybe, and uh she came forward at invitation. One of our ladies took her and And uh she trusted Christ as Savior. I believe that gal was saved. I I I don't doubt my mind. She was sincere. She came out, they were downstairs uh counseling and she came up here after the service and she goes oh pastor letting the greatest things ever happened in my life I trusted Christ I'm saved And she goes, I want to get involved. I'm going to sing in the choir. She was telling me all this. She just got saved. I'm going to sing in the choir. I'm going to work in the Sunday school and I'm going to help in the bus. I just want to do everything. I just uh uh I'm so excited And she came back Sunday night. By the way, I think folks ought to come back Sunday night. Got half the crowd on that one. But she came back Sunday night And uh I preached and I don't remember what I preached. I don't we usually do a series on Sunday nights in the book of the Bible, and uh I was preaching verse by verse. I don't remember what I preached But uh whatever it was, as soon as we said amen, she was sitting right about where Dave was sitting, right around in there. As soon as I said that last amen, up, and she stormed out the back. I mean, zing! She was gone. I thought, all right. So uh we finished out the week's gone by Thursday night, we go out visiting, and uh she was obviously very upset. And um so me being the brave, fearless pastor I am, I asked my wife to go visit her. And um I said, go and visit that gal. She was there. She called on the Lord Sunday morning and and uh so she went and visited him and um they got talking and can't Uh Kathy came back and said, uh, I said, well what's the story there? What's going on? She goes, uh she she told my wife, she goes, that preacher has no right to tell me how to live my life Now I don't know what I said. I'm always nice. I know I just say nice stuff. Something I preached from the Bible and brothers uh that preacher has no right to tell me how to live my life. Listen I say amen to her. I have no right to tell her how to live her life, but God has every right to tell all of us how to live our life. Was she saved? I tend to think she was. I'm all sincere. I'd like to believe she genuinely trusted Christ. Is she a disciple? Not with that attitude. That is not a disciple It's possible to be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and not be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Discipleship is the natural outgrowth. It's what God wants from every believer. To be a disciple, to be his follower, to live for him according to his principles, his values. But not everybody does that. Not all believers do that Now back to our text here. He says there in verse 23, so likewise he be of you that forsaketh and all that he hath. He cannot be my disciple. There's a price to pet to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the context of this passage that we're looking at. Jesus Christ is at the pinnacle of his popularity. I mean, he has never been more popular than he was before. And shortly after this, he'll never be this popular again. Look, come back there if you would. Look with me at verse number 25. This is the context. This is the situation. Look what it says. And there went what? Great multitudes. It doesn't say there went multitudes. There went great multitudes. I mean people are flocking to the Lord Jesus Christ. Crowds in crowds. There's situations where he's in a home uh teaching and uh the people can't even get in where they tear the roof up to try and get a uh paralyzed man in there. I mean he is immensely popular A little time later, you make some statements about the Christian life, about who he is, and people leave him The Bible says all forsook him. And he said to Peter, he says, Peter, are you going to lead me too? He said to the disciples, you guys abandon me also? Peter makes that great statement, where shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Where in the world are we going to go? I find it interesting that when Jesus was popular, he never got too elated. And when everybody forsook him, he never got discouraged. He stayed focused on what his mission was, what his purpose was, was to offer himself a sacrifice for the sins of mankind. And whether everybody was on board or whether nobody was on board, it did not alter his attitude, his spirit. Or uh never got discouraged when the crowds were low, and he never got elated when the crowds were big. And by the way, that wouldn't be bad for us How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Did you know having a packed-out church building has no effect upon the security of my salvation? I can rejoice in the Lord whether everybody thinks I'm great or whether everybody thinks I'm terrible. And I've been on the other end of that on a few occasions But my point is this. When things are going well and everybody thinks you're the greatest thing in the world, don't get too high. And when things are going low and everybody's mad at you and thinks you're a moron, don't get too low. Just stay focused on Christ. Just stay focused on Christ. And so here he is, immensely popular. And it's almost, and I hesitate to say this, but it's almost like he's trying to weed out the crowd Every time he'd get great crowds, he would say, Oh, by the way, if you're going to be my disciple, you have to do this and this and this and this, you've got to be uh deny yourself, take up your cross, you've got to do all these things And it's like he tried to weed it out a little bit. You know what God wants? God wants every believer to become a disciple. God wants every person that trusts Him as Savior to pay the price of what it costs to be a sincere, genuine follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a cost to discipleship. There's a cost to discipleship. And he says in our text that we read there, count the cost. He compares being a disciple to building a tower. And he says, for which of you intending to build a tower by application, he's illustrating here to be a disciple. You want to be my disciple? You want to be a follower of mine? You want to be a uh uh committed to live by my instructions, follow my example? Live for my plans and purposes, adopt my values, adopt my priorities, adopt my principles for your life. If you want to do that, you need to count the cost There's a price to pay to do that. So he's telling them he wasn't seeking crowds, he was looking for disciples. Now, I think we ought to get everybody saved we possibly can. We put a lot of time and effort, we spend a lot of money into trying to get everybody we possibly can to trust Christ as Savior. We spend hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars to get missionaries on the field so that people can hear about Lord Jesus Christ. and believe on him, trust him as their personal Savior. We want to reach everybody we possibly can. We have saturated this community with the gospel in printed form on radio, in the newspapers, with our personal visits. We have saturated this area with the gospel of Jesus Christ, trying to get as many people saved as we possibly can But every person that gets saved, God wants them to go forward and become a disciple and live for him and serve him. And there's a cost to that. There's a cost to that. Here's my three thoughts, real quickly. Number one I want us to consider the characteristics of a disciple. The characteristics of a disciple. What does a disciple look like? What is it Uh that is characteristic of a disciple. Well, number one, and we've already hammered this, but uh a disciple is someone who sa You're here this morning and you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who he is, and what he did for you as your personal Savior, you need to do that Most important issue in life is knowing that my soul's saved. My sins are forgiven. I'm in the family of God. A disciple is first of all saved. Number two, I put this down. A disciple is someone who is surrendered to the Lord. I find eight times where Jesus said to believers, he said, Follow me. Various people, all walks of life, he would say to them, follow me. Follow me, follow me. He said to Matthew, the tax collector, follow me. Said to Peter and the fisherman, follow me. Follow me. A disciple is someone who has surrendered their will over to the will of God. Well, I'm glad Jesus saved me, but there ain't nobody telling me what to do. You need to understand a disciple is someone that says God has every right to tell me what to do, and I submit to his authority, I submit to his instructions to me A disciple is a saved person. A disciple is a surrendered person. Some people that he said follow me too, followed him, some did not. Someone on their way. Look at verse 27. He says, Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me. That means follow me. Stop going their own way. Yield their will, their plans, their hopes, their desires, and you follow me. Their surrender to the Lord. The disciple lives for the Lord. He does not live for himself. So the characteristics of a disciple, one, he's saved. Number two, he's surrendered. Number three, he's steadfast. Steadfast. Come back with me, if you would, to chapter 9 of Luke, just a few pages back. Chapter 9. Again, Jesus is uh addressing this subject and verse number 57. Chapter 9, verse 57. Notice what it says. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Now look at this. Look at the wordy. Lord, I will what? Follow thee whithersoever thou goest. You know what this guy's saying? He says, Yeah, I'll be a disciple. I'll follow you. This is not his salvation. His salvation is believing on the Lord Jesus Christ in Him. And now He says, Lord, I want to follow you. Now look how the Lord responds And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. You want to follow me? You might not have a place to lay your head. You might not have a home to live in. You want to follow me? I don't have one. He goes on. And he said unto another, follow me. And he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. And Jesus said to them, let the dead bury their dead. Go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Follow me, follow me. And another also said, verse 61, Lord, I will follow thee. I'll be your disciple, but Let me first, I circled that, me first. By the way, back in verse 59, suffer me first. Let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home in my house. Jesus said unto him, Now get this No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. You want to be my disciple? It's not you first. It's Jesus first. You want to be my disciple? You might not have a place to lay your head. You want to be my disciple? You might have to lose some relationships. You want to be my disciple? There's a price to pay But a disciple commits and they do not turn back. They do not quit. They live for God. You say, everybody's turned against me, but I'm a disciple. I'm staying following the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 15, 58, Paul put it this way: Be ye therefore steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. So the characteristics of a disciple of Jesus Christ. One, they're safe, two, they're surrender. Number three, they're steadfast. Now, what about the cost of being a disciple? What does it cost? Jesus said there in 1428, he said, count the cost, count the cost. He said, building, being a disciple is like building a tower. Take some effort. You've got to invest in it. It's going to cost you something. Then down there, uh verse down in verse number 31, he says, What king going to make war? He said, being a disciple is like going to war. It's cost. It requires effort. Getting saved is like receiving a gift. Just by faith, receiving the gift. The gift of God is eternal light through Jesus Christ the Lord. As many as received Him. To them gave he power to become the sons of God. Salvation is free on my part. I just simply by faith received the awful price that Christ paid for me. Being a disciple, on the other hand, is I've got to put something into that. I I'm building a tower. I've got to invest time and effort and finances. Going to war. I've got to apply myself and give up comfort and give up security and uh invest in that. It's costly What is the cost of being a disciple? Come here, chapter 14 again, if you would. Look with me at verse 26. It may cost me relationships. Everybody all right out there? Everybody with me? Everybody? How many people would rather be here than sitting out in the barn? Right now. Somebody asked if we have church out in the parking lot. How many people would rather be here in the parking lot? Amen. Me too. What's the cost of being a disciple? Number one, it may cost me relationships Look with me at verse 26, will you? Now listen to what Jesus is saying here. This is a strong statement. This is a hard statement. He says, if any man come to me, look at this. What's that next word? And what? Hate. Hate not his father and his mother and his wife and his children. And his brethren and sisters, yea, his own life also. Look what he says. He what cannot be my disciple. Whoa! You say, is the Lord telling us here that I is the Lord telling me that I have to hate my wife Kathy? I have to hate her? That I have to hate my two boys? Hate them! Hate my mother and my father who's in heaven now. I have to hate them to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I have to hate my sisters. Well the sisters may be on the button I have to hate my I love my sisters. Alright, if y'all are watching girls, I love you. And um What in the world? You say, well, why would Jesus tell us we have to hate them? We're told throughout Scripture, very clearly, we're to love and honor our parents. Right? Paul told the church at Ephesus in chapter 5, he says, husbands, love your wives even as Christ loved the church. The young ladies, the older ladies, are to teach the young ladies to love their husbands. It's natural. That a parent would love their children. So, what in the world is the Lord Jesus Christ talking about when he says we're to hate these family relations? Hate them! Is he contradicting what God tells us to do in other portions of Scripture? No, he's not contradicting at all. You know what he's saying? Sometimes the term hate is used in the Bible as the idea of loving less than. The Bible says that God loved Jacob and hated Esau. Did God hate Esau and want him to go to hell? No, but he loved Jacob for the position he had Jacob. So when God's telling us here, when Jesus says, if you want to be my disciple, You want to be a follower of me? You've got to hate all these family members. He's not saying I'm hell harsh to them and I I dislike them and I reject them. It's not saying that at all. He's saying this that my love for him has to supersede my love for all others. He is saying my love for him has to be paramount, has to be supreme above all other loves. In fact, almost to the point where it looks like my love for the Lord is so great, it looks like I don't love my family like I should. Now let me be quick to throw this out. I'm convinced if a husband loves the Lord like he should, like Jesus talking about, you'll love your wife better than if you don't love the husband the Lord like you should. A wife will love her husband better if she loves the Lord supremely. We had a missionary family years ago, and they came back off the field. I've lost touch with them. This was years ago. And uh just a beautiful family. Handsome man, the wife was beautiful, their kids were beautiful, just a lovely family, had a great job. They were out in the Midwest somewhere and um uh had a good job. God got a hold of them, they got saved. And God got a hold of them and called them, follow me, to go to Africa to be missionaries. And they weren't settled, they weren't satisfied with just being a believer They were determined to be a disciple. And they heard the call of God and they yielded to it. And they submitted to God's call. And that guy The world would say that sorry husband, that sorry father. Took his wife and his kids out of the greatest country in the world in a beautiful home with all their needs met, and went and lived literally And a dirt shack in a village in Kenya, Africa. You know what the world says? That guy hates his wife. He'd treat them like that. He'd do that. He hates them. He hates his kids. I knew him personally. We've interacted a lot. I'm telling you, that guy loved his wife dearly. He loved his kids dearly, but he loved his Lord supremely. And God said, follow me. And he says, I'll follow you. That's discipleship. It may, sometimes discipleship may cost me relationships. If I disobey God To maintain a relationship with a person, I cannot be a disciple. Most important relationship I have in the world is my relationship with the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And if someone comes to me and says, either you forsake the Lord and quit living for God, or we don't have a relationship, I say, I'm staying true to God. You with me? Now that's hard. I could tell you of folks I know personally that got saved. And their family rejected them because they were determined to be follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Husbands rejecting wives, wives rejecting husbands because they were going to live for God. And in every case, the person said The believer said, I'm going to live for God. You do what you need to do. I'm going to live for God. Now that's a hard thing, but there is a cost to discipleship. Sometimes it may cost us relationships. It may cost us our friends in school and at work. It may cost us associates. When I got saved, 19-year-old boy, when I got saved, I'm telling you the truth, I lost every single friend that I had. There was a period of time from when I got saved for about a month or two where I could honestly say I had no friend in this world other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Every one of my associates said, ah, we don't want nothing to do with them. By the way, I didn't leave my friends, they left me. I said, he's weird. Well look out into Leatherman. What's wrong with him? And they were gone. They were gone. Now I could have said, no, I'm not going to live for God. Nope, I'm not going to do it. I'd rather be friends with you guys. I'd rather hang out with you guys. I'd rather go drinking with you guys. I'd rather go partying with you guys, I'd rather go fornicating with you guys than live for God. I could have done that, and I would have maintained those relationships for a while. I didn't want to do that. I wanted to please God with my life. And sometimes being a disciple, the cost is relationships. It may cost us some relationships. It may cost you some friends in school, kids. No, I'm not doing that. Well then you can't be my friend. Well so what? The cost of discipleship. Sometimes it'll cost us relationships. Psalm 27, 10, the psalmist said, When my father, my mother, and my father forsake me, the Lord will take me up. The idea there was this this man gave himself to Christ, gave himself to the Lord. He was living for God. And his mother and father said, nope, we don't want nothing to do with you. When I was in Bible college, there were students there, parents, completely cut them off because they wanted to live for God, serve God. Number one, cost me relations. Number two, it may cost me rejection by the world. Look again at verse number 27. He says, Whosoever doth not bear his cross. What is a cross? The cross is a place of death. A cross is a place of condemnation. It's where criminals were condemned to death, a horrible death. Death was a place of rejection. The world rejected Jesus Christ. And he says, you need to take up a cross. Now, his cross he bore for you and I, so that we could be saved. We bear our cross for his glory. For him to be glorified. The world hated Jesus, as we said, and the world's going to hate his believers, his disciples. Uh the cross. Uh some time ago, it's been several years ago, there was some big uh pro protests going on, and it was uh this pride stuff and just perversion And somebody was holding up a big sign. They were just dressed bizarre. And they were holding up a big sign though and the news were there and taking pictures and video and they held up a big sign. And it says, if Jesus comes back again, we'll crucify him again. I'm here to tell you. The believer says, I'm going to live for Christ, I'm going to be a Christian, I'm going to live for God. I'm telling you the world has that same attitude towards you and I as a disciple. Jesus said, the world hated me, they're going to hate you. So there's rejection by the world. Listen, if you want to be popular in this old Christ-rejecting world, you'll never be able to be a disciple. And if you're going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, you've got to be willing to accept rejection by the world. We are never going to be voted most popular person in the world as a disciple of Jesus Christ. So number one, there's a cost of relationship sometimes. Number two, there's the cost of rejection. particularly by the world. Number three, it may be a cost of my resources. Look at verse 33. So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath all that he possesses, all his material things, all his title and his and his position and his houses and homes Cannot be my disciple. It is possible to be a wealthy disciple of Christ. Nicodemus was, Zacchaeus was. They gave Zacchaeus gave most of his stuff away. But it's possible to be a wealthy disciple. But Jesus said that he has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus said he had no home to live in. Peter in the book of Acts, when they're going up to the temple, there's a beggar there and was begging for some alms. And Peter said, Silver and gold have I known. Be a disciple of Jesus Christ might cost us some resources. God may call us and lead us to forsake material possessions and material wealth. In Mark, Jesus told of seed that was sown. Some of it fell on the pathway, hardened. The birds came and snatched it away. He said that seed was the word of God, the gospel. And the devil came and snatched in those people, never got saved. He said some of it fell among rocks And it sprouted, it grew, there was life. It says they received. And he says, these are people who received the word. But hardships and persecutions came and they never produced fruit. They never became a disciple because it was too hard. It was too much to pay. Some of it fell among thorns and weeds, and it sprung up. And he says, these are people who received the word. They received it, and they grew. But possessions and pleasures and riches choked it out. And they never became a disciple. Never bore fruit for the Lord. Sometimes our wealth, sometimes our possessions, sometimes pleasures and riches will choke out our ability to live for God as a disciple. And sometimes we have to say no. Sometimes it will cost us. I've used this illustration before, and please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to lift me up. I know what I am. I know what I am. I agree with Paul. In me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. I agree with Paul, I'm the least of the apostles. When I was in Bible college, I was just trying to live for God. It was just a natural progression from my salvation into the ministry. It wasn't a big decision I made. It was just natural progression I was in Bible college. I got a job working at the Park Ridge Hospital in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And um I got there and I got hired on into the surgery department. They had nine surge operating rooms. I worked in the surgery department. There we go. I was waiting for that You didn't know you had such an amazing pastor. It was surgery department. I was uh I had a doctorate of garbology, and um my job was to clean the operating rooms. How many people would like to do that? Uh funny thing is before I went to college I worked in a meat pack and plant, and then I went to the operating room. So So my job my job was that when they had surgery, I would come in afterward and I'd clean the whole thing, get rid of all the fluids and body parts and everything. And um That was my job. I enjoyed it. I worked 3 to 11 after class and uh I worked there for four years in the surgery department. About three years into it, and it was going very well. I enjoyed it. They were happy with me. Randy, the fellow that was oversaw the whole housekeeping of the whole hospital. Got a call from headwork headquarters. They wanted him to go down to Atlanta and take a high position in that national company. They wanted him to come down. I don't know exactly what a position was, but it was big. I got a call into his office. Randy brought me in. He said, Dennis, sit down. I sat down. He told me what they had called him to do, what his opportunity. He was going to take it. He said, I'm going to take this. This is the opportunity of a lifetime. I'm not passing this up. I said, okay. He goes, I'd like for you to come with me. He said, I'd like you to come down there and work with me in this position. And he told me. He said, it's going to be money And he told me what it is. And for about five seconds I thought, whoa. And then it came flooding in. I said, Randy, no. No. God's called me to serve him. God's called me to ministry. He goes, listen, this is gonna and he pressed me and pressed me. I said, Randy, no. I know what God's called me to. You know, maybe I've thought about that over the years. There are times you get down, you think, man, I wonder what would have happened. I tell you what would have happened, I would have failed my Lord and Savior. I would have failed my God. Because I know what he called me to. And God has a plan and a purpose for every believer. And He calls us to serve Him. He calls us to live for Him. He calls us to follow Him. Whatever that may be in specifics. It's different for all of us. But I know this, being a follower of Jesus Christ, being a disciple of Jesus Christ, sometimes will cost me friends and relationships. Sometimes. It will cost me resources. Sometimes this whole world's going to turn on me and hate me because I'm trying to be a follower of Jesus Christ But that's the price of discipleship. That's the price of living for the one who died for me and suffered hell for me, and say, Lord, I want to follow you. I want to dedicate my life to live for you. Count the cost. Count the cost. The characteristics of a disciple, they're safe, surrendered to the Lord, steadfast, just stay at it. The cost is relationships sometimes, rejection are resources. And then last of all, I've got to end with this, the consequences. Say, well, what do I get out of it? What what what is uh what is the cost? I'll tell you, the cost of not being a disciple is losing the rewards of God. Is losing the blessings of God. Being disciple of Jesus Christ is costly, but it's worth it. And I just have to throw this out to you. One, it brings confidence to my heart and life. God will use you and I in his own specific way if we will follow him and yield to him. God will take care of us. Paul said, a disciple of Christ, he said, I can do all things through Christ which strengthen me. God will enable us. He said in chapter 4, verse 19 of Philippians, God shall supply all my needs. Jesus said in Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God, his races. All these things will be added unto you. I tell you, I can have confidence That I'm going to be okay. God will take care of me, whatever the circumstance, whatever the situation. Number two, I can add contentment. Paul said that he learned to be content. I tell you, a disciple of Jesus Christ, we don't put any roots down here on earth. We all know in the 19, uh, at the end of the 1920s, when the crash, uh the stock market crashed And there were so many people that invested their whole lives into material, temporal things, and it was all taken. If you read the history books, people were jumping off of bridges and out of buildings because everything they invested their life in was gone. I tell you, you invest your life in following the Jesus Christ, and I tell you, there's great confidence and there's great contentment. I'm going to be okay. I don't know what's going to happen in this world. Good night. We got drones bombing and d I I don't think they're bombing, but um I got my shotgun out just in case they start flying over here. What in the world is going on in this world? I don't know. But if I disciple Jesus Christ, he's going to take care of me. The the consequences. Confidence, contentment, and then last of all I don't have time. Crowns. Crowns. Someday every one of us as believers are going to stand before Jesus Christ as the judgment seat of Christ. Let me ask this: how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. If that's true. Every one of us, we're going to stand before Jesus Christ personally, individually, at the judgment seat of Christ. The Bible is very, very clear. He has five crowns that he gives out to those that live for him, various categories. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, I live for him. God says he has crowns laid up for us. He has crowns, rewards. Now what are we going to do with them? We're going to take them and cast them at Jesus' feet because he's the one that made it possible in the first place. But what I'm saying is this. You say, preacher, I'm glad I got saved, but I ain't living for God. I am not willing to be made a fool of by this world as a disciple of Jesus Christ. I don't want this world to laugh at me. I am not going to live for God. You can do that if you want. I'll tell you what, someday you'll stand at the judgment seat of Christ and there'll be nothing. I'll have nothing. Wood, hay, stubble. Say, preacher, the most important thing in this world is me having friends. And I am not going to forsake my friends for the Lord Jesus for anything. I am not giving up any friends to live for God. You can do that if you want. Someday, judgment seat of Christ stand there and have nothing. Have nothing. Preacher, I want to be rich. I want houses and cars and nice clothes and I want a travel and vacation. I want all that. And if I live for God, like the Bible says, I'm going to have to sacrifice that. I'm not willing to give it up. You can do that if you want. Stand the judgment seat of Christ with nothing. Nothing. Nothing. I graduated from college and May sixth, nineteen eighty-six, big day. My family came down My grandparents were there, family was there, big day. Uh a day or two before they had, I forget what they called it, class day or something, but it was like All the students got together and they gave out different awards. I sat there And they had an award, the J. R. Faulkner Award. He was the assistant pastor. This was for bus ministry, leaders in the bus ministry. J. R. Faulkner Award goes to Dennis Leatherman. So I had to go up in front, 5,000 students go up in front, presented this, thank you. So whoa. Sat down. Then they're going on a little bit. They have this Howard E Step Evangelism Award. And it goes to Dennis Leatherman. Went up there, had a $500 check with it. Woo! Got that. Um and then there was another one I forget. And then graduation day, big place packed. 6,000 seat auditorium packed. They had chairs out in the aisles. They had video in other things. They had all this stuff. And they're going out and they have one new award. We've never done it before Brand new, we're instituting this in the college. The Dr. Lee Robertson Award for outstanding leadership. We're all sitting there just not thinking anything. And they said, Dennis Lee Leatherman. When I gave you that. I'm saying all this so that you were just impressed with what an amazing pastor you have. And I can show they're hanging in my wall in my office. I can show them. But after that was all said and done, I said all that to say this. I I'm not trying to be anything. But I said all that to say this afterward, my daddy was there. Now I grew up in a home, there wasn't a lot of affection shown. You didn't say you love you a whole lot and there wasn't hardly any hugging at all. And so afterward we're taking pictures and I'm in my gown, my graduation gown, and I had all these awards lined up on the front pew there at Highland Park. And everybody's coming by and talking. And it was dying down. We were going to go out to eat afterward with all our family. And my dad came up. My dad had tears in his eyes. And he took me and hugged me and he said, son, I'm so proud of you. I never heard him say that in my whole life. And I'll tell you, that meant more to me than all those awards. And all those rewards to hear my daddy say, son, you did good. You did good. Listen, you give your, dedicate your life to Christ, and you live for God, there's a day coming where we'll stand before Jesus Christ, the creator of this universe, and we'll hear him say, Well done. You did good. You lived for me. You dedicated your life to me. You brought glory to me. Well done. I'd rather hear that than hear this whole world say, oh, he's a wonderful guy. I'd rather hear Jesus say, well done. And that's a consequence of giving my life to live for Jesus Christ. What's it profit a man? He gains the whole world. Then lose your own soul. What's it profit a Christian? You're most popular and you enjoyed all these pleasures here on earth, and then you get to heaven. Nothing. No rewards. I want to hear Jesus say, well done, don't you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I went too long again. Lord, I pray you'd raise up disciples. God, stir our hearts to not just believe on you, but to dedicate our lives to live for you, Lord, that you'd be pleased Lord, disciples are the only ones that are going to make any difference in this world with the gospel. Please raise up disciples. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to really I want to dedicate my life to Christ, to live for Him and Him alone. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I want to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, cost what it may be. I want to live for him and please him. God bless you, hands all around. How about it? Any others? Are there some this morning, say, preacher, I try to live, I want to be a disciple, but there's areas I need to work on There's some areas that need attention in my Christian life. I want them to be, I'm trying to be a disciple, but there's some areas. Is there any like that? Preacher, some areas I really need to work on. God bless you. Hands all around, my hands raised There's some here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I need to make sure I've trusted Christ's Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled Father blessed now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name, Amen