Thank you. Thank you so much. Take your Bible, please. Acts chapter 19 is where I will read tonight. Acts chapter 19. Now, um, those guys can sing. We've had them sing at the National Sword Conference several times, and they're they're quite good. And uh you'll be blessed by them. And I heard there's also some preaching going to be going on too. So Brother Leatherman is uh part of that next week. And just uh give you a little invitation to come to the National Sword Conference come July next year. Uh several of you have been. And uh some of you have been more than once, and we like to urge you to come on back. It's uh it's running red hot. It's it's good. And you're gonna you're gonna like what you get. Uh I mean, the preaching, the uh music and the fellowship and all of the things that go on there. It's just it's just pretty amazing And uh we hope you'll take a week of vacation if you have to, do whatever whatever you need to, and plan to be with us come late July this coming year. And uh you mentioned about the sword, there's a little table sitting right in front of this town booth here where the envelopes are. If you'll take one of those, put your name and address on it, and then put whatever you want to in the envelope. Put whatever you want to an envelope. You d you decide what you pay for it. And we'll send it to you all year. So if you put a little or a lot, whatever you put in, we'll send it to you for a year. We don't want anybody to be left out. And I'm serious. And even if you can't put a thing in it, put your name and address on it, I'll send it to you anyway. I want you to have it. And uh we we think we've got good stuff. I've been you know, I I when I when I travel like on this trip, I have I have four bags that I bring with me. Uh Southwest Airlines lets you bring two, uh, you know, you can check two free. Uh then you can take two two things on with you, like a satchel, you know, a briefcase and And so forth. But I I have four. Two two of them are personal items, clothes, etcetera. The other two are office Because I have to take my office with me everywhere I go. Uh the deadlines for the sword every two weeks, along with conferences we're getting ready and other things we're into, I mean it just it just it just takes it. It's a it's a job. And uh so we're we're pretty excited about it. We're gonna get stuff in there that's gonna help you, be a help to you and your family. And so sign up before you leave tonight. If you don't, you're backslidden. All right How you know that? I just said you were. Anyway. All right. Well, Acts chapter 19 It was my text of choice tonight. And uh I uh I pressed it. Somebody somebody said to me Um somewhere, I don't remember where I even picked this up. But they said to me, they said, You know what the four biggest lies are that you'll ever hear? And I said, I don't have any idea. They said, well, the fourth biggest lie that you'll ever hear, some guy tells you the check is in the mail. And the third biggest lie is: I gave it the office. Second biggest lie is I'm from the federal government and I'm here to help you But the guy looked at me and he said, But the biggest lie I've ever heard is the guy stands up and says, I'm a preacher and I'm just here to say a few words. So I want to say a few words tonight. Now I um you know I I hear some things as I travel across the country that are kind of in that same Well, I mean things that I I actually hear people say, uh, you know, they'll say things like, Oh my, this is the worst place in America for allergies. North, South East and West, I hear it. Th this is the number one worst place in America for allergies And they honestly believe that. I think I don't know how they come up with it. The other thing I hear people saying, uh our our traffic gridlock is uh is uh is third uh worst in the state or third only to New York and LA. They got it figured out some way. It's third or fourth only to something. And uh, you know, but our traffic, oh man, man, our traffic, it's bad. In fact, it is a lot of places it is. Um I I hear people say things like um You know, uh I know I know they I know they have uh great churches down south, but you can't do it here Or you go, you know, some other part of the country, uh go down go down south and they say, Oh, I know, you you travel up, you you went up to the north or you went out west somewhere and They've done great, but you've got to understand this is the Bible belt, man. Man, you can't do it here like you. I mean you hear that all over the place. It's like, you know, I I mean I hear people say, oh, you know, the the the local church is a dinosaur. And we got a lot of people who actually believe that. And other other such things as that. I have had preacher after preacher after preacher saying, now you know soul winning doesn't work anymore. Now I always know, and I'm I try to be nice, I try to be. But when a guy tells me that, he says, so winning doesn't work anymore, I I know what the deal is, he's not working it. I was on an airplane, I don't know it's been 10, 12 years ago now, went back to my seat where I sit on every southwest flight that I'm on, 17C. Then why are you sitting 17C? That's where I want to sit. And uh since I get on the airplane early because I fly with them a lot. Uh I get my seat every time. Well there was a guy in the seat right beside me and when I when I uh uh noticed him, he had he had a he had a big cross hanging around his neck. I mean it was it was probably that long, kind of a gold chain. I was putting my stuff up and I just looked down at him and I said, I said, man, that's beautiful, beautiful cross. Thank you. I said, does it mean anything special to you? He said, oh yes, yes. He said, I'm a Christian. He said, I've been down in the Caribbean on a mission. And I said, uh, down in the Caribbean on a mission. Turns out this guy was a Baptist, by the way. Southern Baptist group. They'd been down to one of the islands in the Caribbean. I said, how long have you been down there? He said, We've been gone two weeks, 14 days. I said, What kind of mission were you on? He said, We were down there sharing Christ. And I said, Well, how many of the people that you shared Christ with, how many of them have received Christ and got saved? He said, Not any that we know of. Now, folks, I've been to those islands, a bunch of them. And if you can't win people to Christ in those islands, you you just don't know what you're doing. Now, I'm not saying it's easy, I'm just saying that you can win people to Christ in those islands. I've been there And in my travels across the country, north, south, east, and west, I had people tell me when I came to Maryland. They said, man, you go up and die, man. You can't build a church up there. Well, so much for that. Now, in the passage that I'm about to read, the Apostle Paul went to Ephesus. Early part of the chapter tells us that. He got things up and running. In fact, verse 8 says that he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for the space of three months, disputing And persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. Say the Apostle Paul Went into a synagogue, a Jewish synagogue, and preached. Yes, but I'm very quick to tell you, this was not an ecumenical meeting. This was not an interdenominational event. In those days, the readers in the synagogues would stand up and read the Torah, the books of the law, first five books of the Old Testament They'd read them. The reader would sit down, then anybody could stand up and comment on them. Paul was not there under the sponsorship of the synagogue. He was not there getting an honorarium from the synagogue. He was not invited to speak. He was just standing up and commenting. on what had been read. In fact, by the time he got done, well, a lot of the times they were they were chasing him out of the synagogues And what he did when he went in there was he did not go in there and try to climatize himself to the synagogue. He went in there instead disputing And persuading out of the Old Testament the things concerning the kingdom of God. And anytime that we encounter uh folks who are not on track, there will of necessity need to be some disputations about where they are by giving them truth To replace the untruths that they've signed on for. That's what Paul did. Verse 10 says this continued by the space of two years, so that uh all they which uh were in Asia, heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. A lot of the folks got saved. And I begin reading now in verse 17. And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks dwelling at Ephesus, and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. And many that believed came and confessed and showed their deeds, many of them also which used curious arts, brought their books together and burned them before all men, and they counted the price of them and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver. So mightily grew the Word of God and prevailed. After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the Spirit when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia. To go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome. So he sent unto Macedonia, two of them that ministered unto him, Dimotheus and Erastus, but he himself stayed in Asia for a season. And the same time, there arose no small stir about that way. And that last verse, verse 23. Is one that I want you to think about for just a little bit. In the same time, there arose no small stir. About that way. Now, twice in this chapter, verse 9 and verse 23, the Christians are identified by that term that way. They are that way. Now, you know it's interesting, people call us things even whenever we don't tell them to call us things. For example, you know, early in the book of Acts, chapter eleven, the Christians, the disciples, Jesus had called them disciples. But in Acts chapter eleven, uh they were called Christians first. I'm not sure that I I don't think that was a a term of endearment. Uh they were uh uh the the critics were looking on they say, well, who are these people? What what are they about? Oh, they're following Christ. You know, they're they're they're little little Christ, little uh little uh followers of Christ, they're Christians. It was kind of a term of derision, I think. I noticed in reading chapter 11 of Acts, the uh the Christians didn't get all torque because somebody called them a name. Now it hasn't been all that many years ago, maybe a hundred or more, when folks began to refer to us as fundamentalists Now, I hear some of my brethren now say, oh, the news media has made such a deal about fundamentalism. You know, they they call everything that's anything a fundamentalist if they don't like it And so some of our brethren they get all upset, and it's like, well, we're going to call ourselves something else. And uh and and you know the same thing with the word Baptist. Uh, you know, I mean we we didn't pick that out. Uh it got it got nailed onto us, tacked onto us. Why? Because we were baptizing everybody in town And so they they nailed it on us and said, Oh, they are baptizers. They're Baptist. So now Whatever people call us, whether they call us Christians or Baptists or fundamentalists, or as in this case, they said that way. Now, you say, well, I don't want to be called that way. Or I don't want to be called fundamentalist. I don't want to be called Christian. Well, uh the fact is uh names do define us. They do define us. And sometimes people will throw things at you, not just to define you, but to defame you Now, you say, well, I don't like any of those names. I'm gonna I'm gonna come up with some other names and we'll call ourselves something else. And I tell you what, you keep doing what you're supposed to do, and they'll be nailing you over the names you pick. You might as well just sign on with something that everybody already knows about and wear it like a badge of honor. Even if they want to smear you, just just let them smear. Because if you pick out some other name, I promise you it won't be any time until they'll be digging at you again. And you won't be anywhere ahead at all. This passage says there was no small stir about that way. Now, no small stir. That's kind of a backhanded way of saying there was a big to-do about that way. There was a fellow named Shakespeare who had a little piece, you know, called Much Ado About Nothing. Well, in this case, we got much ado about something. That's pretty important and pretty special. And the Lord reminded us in another passage in 2 Timothy 1 that we ought to stir up the gift. That he has placed within us. Well, here, these folks got it rolling and they got things stirring. And a part of what we do in a conference like this, listen, we all need to be stirred so we can stir things up. We need to be stirred ourselves if we're going to create a stir. And by the way, Christians do. Just doing what Christians do, just doing what Baptists do. Just doing what fundamentalists do. Just doing what we do normally I mean, nothing abnormal, nothing extreme, just doing what we do. It does create a stir. You say, well, what is it about us that creates such an ado and such an uproar? Well, just consider a few things. Our philosophy Our philosophy creates a story. You see, uh we're we're not evolutionist. We're creationist In fact, we we we're not even going to give evolution a side by side opportunity to do well. Uh brother Allison said something about playing ball and hitting stuff and kicking stuff and pushing stuff and trampling stuff and whatever else it was he said about playing ball. of uh basketball, baseball, football, whatever. I mean when it comes to evolution, I mean we need to kick it. We need to hit it. We need to stop it. We don't need to give it placed side by side. If we're going to tell people that some people believe that, be prepared to point out how foolish, how ridiculous, how stupid, how unscientific, and absolutely moronic That it is. And whenever we I mean I mean they don't really care if we're creationists, but now if we start ticking on their little favorite deal Oh, they're going to be fussy about that. I mean, after all, they they I mean they're not gonna let us have any say at all when it comes to the schoolhouse. And the universities have been hotbeds for generations now, hotbeds of pushing basically what is an anti-God explanation It's all it amounts to. It's not science. The evolutionists are religionists. They had to have some kind of a theory to explain how they got here. And then I'm about to give God place. And whenever you and I stand up and we we preach that God created the heavens and the earth. When you and I get up and start talking about that, oh listen, it creates a stir. It really does. So our philosophy, our worldview, our value system I mean, can you imagine that the Ten Commandments is so despised by so many people in this country? But they are. Oh, you want to hang the Ten Commandments in some public place? Oh, man, that's a no-no. Oh, no, that that violates uh something. And they've invented all kinds of things to uh get in their way. But you and I hang tough on that, and we and we give our position. We have our philosophy and we state our philosophy. Our philosophy creates a spirit. Our position on stuff Our moral positions. You know, you heard what the preacher said a little while ago. I mean, good night. It does not take a rocket scientist To figure out what the Bible's talking about when it says, don't lie, don't steal, don't adulterate, don't be covetous, etc. It doesn't take an elementary school graduate to figure that out And you and I take our stand on that and uh say, man, we got we got, you know, the Politicians getting the in the immorality or priests are getting in the morality. It would be bad if all that stuff went on, and and nobody says we don't care, just just do it No, when somebody violates the moral laws of God, it ought to be news. Our position creates a stir. Our practices create a stir. We published a little booklet for Brother Allison, one he had done a while before, but we picked it up and republished on standards. You know when I when I became an independent Baptist, what's that been? Eight hundred years? No, it's uh No, I bailed out a convention forty forty two years ago. And uh Man, when I looked at the Independent Baptist movement in those days, I mean everybody was packing the King James Bible, running bus routes, talking soul-winning. Guys get in the pulpit, you know, and loosen their tie and preach like a wild man and you know I mean we we told the guys you ought to get haircuts and the Men and the ladies both up you know, looking, acting, smelling like men, smelling like women and you know, all that. I mean i it just I mean we we we we said we were I mean I mean here here we I mean we're in a time now We're we're in a time now where where churches are figuring out, man, we're not going to do church Sunday night. We're I mean we may have a volleyball game on Wednesday night, but but they're doing You know, the Bible says we're to not forsake the assembling of ourselves together, and so much the more as we see the day approaching. But the popular thing now is to do so little the less in all of that. Now, we're continuing to hammer on it. And uh that creates a stir. You're not one of those churches, you are. Yeah, we're that way. And our preaching creates a stir. You know the deal now? The deal now is to be conversational. Be conversational. Don't raise your voice. Don't get too excited. Do something dull. Now we're heaping to see uh we're heaping to ourselves teachers having itching ears. You say, who's got those engineers? The teachers or the listeners? I pro I probably probably both. Yeah We've got all of that going on. But you know, in our independent fundamental, New Testament, die-and-two churches, we still have a preacher who gets up and preaches. And once in a while some young preacher said, he said, I only got about eight or ten folks on Wednesday night. I said, Oh, that's the crowd you want to view. Go in there. Donk, dog, dog, come down off of it. Get up, preach to that crowd. Let them go out and announce to the folks, man, you ought to be there Wednesday night, man. Our preacher was on fire. So often, remember one time long years ago we had a we had a snowstorm on Wednesday night I snow and ice. I went to the church, there's only three people showed up. My song leader was one of them, and he said, a pastor, he said, you know, he said, you want to just Read scripture and how prayer we'll all understand go. I said, are you kidding me? I said, I've been working getting something together, you know, and I cranked it up and preached like I had good sense. I mean Three people sitting there. Two two men and a lady sitting there, and I just I just I guess probably did it just because I could. I don't know. But I yeah, no, we're not backing off. Our our preaching, our preaching creates a stir. Our praying creates a stir. There are religious people all over town who have no idea that you can pray to God and get answers to prayer. For so many of them, prayer is some kind of a mumbo jumbo that they repeat twelve times over. Well they count their beads or something. But you know, some of us took God at His Word. We've prayed little prayers and we've prayed big prayers. And I say in tribute to the great God of heaven, I'm just one little guy, but I've prayed some big prayers and gotten answers. Some of them multimillion dollar prayers. Not for me personally, but for things that were needed for the ministry. Far beyond our reach, far beyond what we felt like we could do. Set out to build buildings, set out to uh undertake certain campaigns and things that we were into. Uh we've we've done some things like that at the sword in the years that I've been at the sword, things that we never could have imagined that we could have done But the Lord came through when we just prayed and asked God, Telp us. We need to do this. We'll use it for your glory. We'll do it to get people to heaven. And the Lord's blessed. We ask him. We get answers spread. That creates a stir. That man said he prayed and God gave it to him. Well, you know, when you pray and ask God for things and it comes, you know where you got it. Our priorities create a stir. And that guy's out in a snowstorm. When I was over here at Westminster, I led more people to Christ during snowstorms. I mean I forgot how many times I knocked on somebody's door when the snow was coming down and I frankly forgive me, Garrett County, but I don't like snow. I never have. I mean, I I know it's some of God's pretty stuff, but I really don't care for it. We didn't get near as much in Carroll County as you have in Garrett County, but I learned. When the snow comes, nobody's mowing their yard. Snow comes, no nobody's out, you know, piddling around doing other things, then they got no time. But every time I go during a snowstorm knock on some unsaved person's door, they open the door and they go, What are you doing here on a night like this? And I said, Well, I came on purpose to talk to you. I led a bunch of people to Christ in snowstorms. You know, and listen, our priority is, I mean, it messes people up. They get all in a stir Because we just don't quit. And all and on the list could go. Listen, Christians do create a stir. In fact, creating a stir, I think, is necessary. Rather than us just blend in with whatever's going on in town. I mean, creating a story. I mean, you you can't carry out the Great Commission going all over town saying, Oh, you know, we're all on the same road. No, we're not all on the same road. You can't carry out the mandates of God saying, oh, you know the God of Islam and the God of the Bible. They're all the same. Well, no, it's not all the same. One's real and the other one's fake. But the status quo always prefers that we not disturb their tranquility. So, whenever we don't come off of it, it creates a stir. Sometimes folks get mad But we get all stirred up. I mean, we're saved. We're heaven bound. We've got the authoritative, inerrant, absolutely, positively uh trustworthy, word of God. We've got every reason to be stirred. We've got every reason to be excited and we maintain that and give I mean if we get stirred up, it'll stir some others up So we find some prototypes like Moses. Could you imagine the day that he went to the Pharaoh and said, Hey dude I don't know. He he might have been a little better than that. He might have said, Hey, king dude. But you can imagine the day that he walked in and said, Look, I'm gathering up the whole Hebrew nation And we're about to be out of here. Can you imagine the stir that that created across Egypt? Can you imagine the day that Nehemiah got back from captivity, found the city of Jerusalem in shambles? And uh he walked around and assessed the situation and began to talk to the people who had come back earlier. And uh and he said, We gotta build a wall, we gotta build a wall, we gotta build the wall, we gotta build the wall. Wow. It's a good idea then, it's a good idea now, amen. Yeah. Yeah. Created a stir then creates a stir now. And some of us need to have enough backbone to stand up and say. Build the world. Everybody else does. It's just America they don't want to have a border. I've traveled I've traveled over a lot of the world. Everybody has got their borders. So don't don't don't give me that. Nehemiah came back, stirred things up. He said, build a wall. Think about Jeremiah. Found his, I mean his nation was in a mess That sliding, but that fire burning down deep in his soul. And he said, I I I can't quit. I cannot. I mean the fire burning in my soul drove him. Imagine Amos. Crying out and saying, can two walk together except they be agreed? Why in this day and time there'd be folks saying, why, he's so narrow-minded, expecting all of us to be on the same page together. Well, it's in the Bible. Can you imagine John the Baptist stirring things up like John the Baptist? You say, yeah, I'm careful about that. It cost him his head. Yeah, I know. And uh, you know, some of us overrisk a little something once in a while. You know, fear, fear, stymies. The work so often, so often things just they just they just coast and drift and and and uh and never I mean never, never, ever a discouraging word is heard John the Baptist came preaching loud and clear. Simon Peter stood up on the day of Pentecost, laid it out, gave the truth. Demanded the folks come to Christ. The Apostle Paul, city after city, not just this one, but city after city. What were they doing? They were creating a stir, stirring it up, stirring it up. Just saying, we're taking it to them. You know, like Brother Allison, I've played sports through the years. And uh can't imagine going out to play baseball Just wondering out there and say, well, you know, it don't matter whether we win or not. Yeah, coach, yeah, you know, if you if you don't need it, I I well I I've sat on the bench. I I don't really won't play tonight. When I was over in Westminster, we had a we had a uh fast pitch softball league I played in all the years I was over there. And in fact, we had five teams in our church, five men's teams. Six other churches in the area had a team apiece. I was the only well, I'm sorry, this uh one other pastor and myself were the only pastors that were playing. And uh, you know I I wasn't the greatest fielder in the world. I handled the bat fairly well. They always wanted me in the lineup to hit. Sometimes I'd go out and whoever was captain of the team that I was on, I'd say, look, I say, uh it looks like you got a good turnout here tonight with the guys. I said, if you don't, if you don't need me I'll do whatever you need me to. I mean, I didn't want them just to put me on the lineup because I was the pastor. But I said, now, but if you need me, if you need me, I mean I I I I'm not all that good at that position. But it but if the third baseman doesn't show up, I'll play the position. I then all I want to know I'd love to get in the game. I want to be in the game Now, it's that way with sports and fishing and hunting. I mean, there's not a there's not a hunter in this crowd that goes out early in the morning. That has all of his tackle and his gear and all that stuff and goes out there and stays for three or four hours and comes back and says to his wife, Well, no, we didn't do anything, but boy, we I mean I just love going out there and doing nothing Hunters don't do that. I tell you how hunters are, they like to get the rabbit and come back and talk about the deer they got. You know, they catch a fish and by the time they get home it's you know You say what what's it uh golfers I I don't golf, so I can preach against today, man. G golfers, man, oh man, you know they They get all excited about it. I've never understood that. I mean, I I tell I tell them all the I tell them all the time, uh y you know, if I hit a ball, I want somebody else to chase it. Listen folks, if if we go fishing, we're going to be excited. I mean we may come back with a little bitty bunch, but we're going to be excited about it. We go hunting, we go golfing, we go play softball, whatever we do. I mean don't don't tell me we're gonna drag through those things that we've signed up for and we bought equipment for and we put our shelter Oh yeah, I'm just going to drag. No, we don't do that. We get stirred up about it. I come back from the softball field, they say, how'd you do tonight? So I had three hits. She says, well, were there singles, doubles, what were there? I'll tell her. She'd bragged on them. I say, hey, you got to come out the next game, I'll do even better. Just stir it up, stirred up about it. Now, folks, listen. There was no small stir in Ephesus because of that way They didn't compromise themselves, they were that way. And that way today If we're going to be that way, we're going to take the Bible seriously. We're going to take it word for word If we're going to take it, if we're going to be that way, we're going to walk the straight and narrow. If we're going to be that way, we're going to stand unapologetically and contend for the faith. If we're going to be that way, I mean, like these folks were that way, we're going to confront the worldly culture with a message of repentance. If we're going to be that way, we're going to preach boldly whether the crowd's large or small. That way takes the heat, takes the pressure, withstands the critics and the cranks. And refuses the cult of compromise. And will continue. I mean, if we're that way, we'll continue faithful summer and winter and fall and spring. If we're that way, we will punt discouragement like a football. If we're that way, That means we can be counted in and counted on, but never counted out. That way, runs the race, sees the goal, carries the baton, and passes the torch. That way, that way, and believe me, if you are that way, there'll be no small stir in your midst. See, why is he called a fundamentalist? Because he's that way. Why is he a Baptist? He's that way. Why is he an independent Baptist? He's that way. Why is the church a soul-winning church? They're that way. Why are they running buses all over town? Oh, they're that way. Why does their preacher cry aloud and spare not? He's that way. Why do they avoid the very appearance of evil? They're that way. Why do they await the second coming of Christ? They're that way. Why do they get together and rejoice in the Lord? They're that way. Why do they live a distinctively separated Christian life? They're that way Why do they expose the false prophets and false teachers of their time? They're that way. Why do they tithe? They're that way. See, that way, that way, is the legacy of those who embrace the way, the truth, and the life That way is the crowd who salutes the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. My favorite quote from Lester Roloff, and Roloff always had things that was quota. My favorite quote from him is the one that said where it when he said The path of man is too dark, the cross of Christ is too glorious, and the heart of God is too grieved for me to turn back now and to quit. The world's not going to love us if we do what we ought to. They'll flush at us, they may even kick on us, they may stick the officials on us, but if you and I are that way We ought to just be pretty excited when things get stirred up. And if you and I will stay stirred up like we ought to stay stirred up, it will create a stir. No small stir. About that way. Let's stand up, please, and we'll pray.