Then go to Deuteronomy chapter 4 so we can redeem the time. And uh I have a lot to share with you tonight But I do want to get you out of a decent hour because I want you to come back tomorrow for the final evening. And I know this, that the heart cannot receive what the posterior cannot endure. So I want to be mindful of the time. Um I want to be sensitive to the time. I know your pastor and your church knows this, that you you just got a cat They they know that, right? Yeah. And well if they don't they they do now. And uh I can remember, you know, of course, and his wife is away and he's watching the cat. And uh it's a kitten actually right right now, right? It's still kind of a kitten. It's playful and stuff, you know. And uh but I I remember I remember a f uh a a uh story of a fella watching his wife's cat And she was on a trip as well, much uh like uh your pastor in the situation that he finds himself in right now. And so the uh the wife calls the husband and says, Um, how are you doing, honey? He said, I'm doing fine. How are you doing? How's the trip? She said, Oh, the trip's going good And they talked a little bit. She said, By the way, how's my cat? And without any hesitation, he said, Your cat's dead. And there was a long pause on the other end of the line. Finally she said You are insensitive. He said, What do you mean? She said, you shouldn't have just blurted that out like that. You should have prepared me. He said, Well, how should I have prepared you? She said, Well you could have told me something like uh your cat's on the roof and uh I tried to get it down and and it fell uh it hurt itself. And then I could have called you the next day and you could have said I think your cat uh is i in some major problem, so I took it to the vet. I could have called you the next day and you could have said, you know, the vet doesn't hold out much hope for your cat, so you might want to prepare for Prepare for the worst and then I could have called you the next day and then you could have told me my cat is dead. You should have been more sensitive. You said, Well I alright honey I'll try to be more sensitive. And so sure enough uh she called him, you know, several days later and they were talking, how's the trip going? Oh the trip's going good and uh how you doing? Oh I'm doing fine and and uh so she finally got a around and she was talking about some different things and she said, By the way, how's your mom doing? And he paused and said, Your mom's on the roof I don't think it quite turned out the way he wanted. But I'll try to be sensitive to the time tonight, okay? I'll use that some of that sensitivity training. But uh one thing that I um that God brought to my mind today. As I was thinking about this subject tonight on the critical race theory, in Exodus 34:14 he says, For thou shalt worship no other God for the Lord. Whose name is jealous is a jealous God. God's a jealous God. He doesn't want our allegiance to anything else. He wants to be first and foremost in our life. I think we need to be jealous as well. I think we need to have an attribute of God in the right way. to be jealous. To be jealous of someone trying to come and take what is ours. If someone comes and is prepared to break into my house at the middle of the night Uh I'm I'm going to be jealous and protecting my wife and protecting the the things that God has bestowed upon me. I'm not one of those guys that if there's a bump that, you know, in the middle of the night that I I I get under the bed and tell my wife to go check it out. I'm not one of those guys I'm one of the guys that you might as well hang a sign on my door saying, forget about the dog, beware the owner. I'm one of those guys, okay? Or a sign that says if you're found here at night unannounced, you will be found here in the morning. I'm one of those guys, okay? And you say, well what if you're not home? Then you better beware of my wife, because she's a pistol packing mama, okay? But what I'm saying is, if there's someone that's going to try to do some harm to my home I'm gonna be jealous. I'm gonna protect it. If someone's trying to do harm to my country to take something away from me Such as a heritage of liberty and a land of freedom I'm going to be jealous about that. And because I believe that God wants us to be, I'm going to be jealous of my time with God. I'm going to guard my time with God. I'm not going to allow anything to interfere with my getting alone with God and praying and and getting into the scriptures. I'm going to be increasingly jealous as I live day by day by day. I think we all should be. Because we woke up in a country today that's a miracle. Most people, when they woke up this morning, didn't think about the fact that millions of people throughout the world would love to be here Millions of people throughout the world would love to have what we have. Would love to be able to go from one state to another without showing papers See, the European mind knows even more than we do how powerful the United States is, because state is just another name for nation or country in the European mind. So when they look at the United States of America, they in their European mindset say that's the United Countries of North America. under one federal government. That that's how powerful we are in their mind. That's why they started uh to try to replicate us with the United Kingdom. That came after we were so amazingly, miraculously successful for so many years, but they left God out. And that's the big problem right there. I mean, that's the same reason why France could never mirror what we did because their revolution was godless And the Marquis that did Lafayette. He came over to the United States. And in fact, in the House of Representatives, there are two paintings on either side of the Speaker's Rostrum. There's George Washington. And his good friend, the Marquis de Lafayette, who came here as a teenager and was so brilliant and so courageous that as a teenager, Washington gave him his own command. And he fought for liberty. Then he went back to France, and when they stormed the Bastille, he sent George Washington a key. The key to the Bastille. But what Washington tried to convey to him, and he wasn't successful at it because again the French just basically threw God out of their culture, even changed their calendar so that it wouldn't represent God. Their revolution failed miserably. They sent a man here by the name of Alexis to Tocqueville. He was a political scientist in the 1830s. after we had continued to go up and France had continued to go down in their culture. And Alexis de Toquel came here and and although he didn't actually say this, this was put it together by several things that he said by Eisenhower President Eisenhower's speech writer. It did sum up several things that Alexis de Tocqueville had seen here in America And he said, here's the basic premise of why America is what it is. He said, I went to the industry of America, great industry, but I didn't find the greatness there. I went to their great resources, but I realized that the great resources didn't make them great. He said, I went to the educational systems And they have tremendous, and we did in those days, tremendous educational systems. And he said, then I went to their churches, and I saw pulpits aflamed with the righteousness of God Almighty. And I realize America is great because America is good. And if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. You know why I'm excited about being here tonight? Because the hope for America, through and by our God, is his people. It's his men leading his people, like your pastor is leading you in a godly way through biblical principles. And you're the reason why, right here. You're some of the very reasons why we still exist. And that God has not brought catastrophic Judgment upon our nation. That's why I'm excited to be here. I'm also excited to be here because I know if I got what I deserved, I'd be in hell. Burning for all of eternity. But I'm not there and I'll never be there because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And the fact that I accepted the gift of eternal life when I was 21 By driving over an hour and forty-five minutes from Maryland to Virginia to the Twin Oaks Baptist Church after hours and met a man who took the Bible and showed me that I was a sinner. Oh, that was easy for me to figure out And because the wages of my sin is death, that I earn the right to die, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And all I had to do was turn from my way to his way. That's repentance. And confess my sin and accept that gift of eternal life. I thought it's too good to be true. It's too simple. He said no It is the simple plan of salvation, as Ford Porter used to say in his tract, simple plan of salvation. Say, Brother Harding, why do you take time to say that? Because that's America. Because that's why God's given us this nation. Not for peace and prosperity. Those are good things, but those are byproducts of the liberty that we share. Civilly, that's a reflection of the spiritual liberty that's in the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, I'm excited. I'm excited to be a Christian. We are walking, talking miracles. I'm excited to the fact that we woke up in a miracle called the United States of America. And we must be jealous. That's why I'm speaking on this subject tonight about the critical race theory, because it's an enemy of our nation. And has nothing to do with race. It is an insidious attack, a devilish doctrine, and one way that we can Keep a hold of our country and protect it from the enemy is knowing about the enemy. And what we can do to defend our nation. So, Deuteronomy chapter 4, are you there? Let's all stand for a minute. I'm going to read a few verses here, and then you can sit back down, okay? It says Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse 5, behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the Lord my God commanded me. That ye should do so in the land whither ye go to possess it. Keep therefore and do them For this is your wisdom and your understanding. Look at this next phrase: in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely This great nation is a wise and understanding people. What nation is there so great who hath God So nigh unto them as the Lord our God is in all things that we call upon him for. And what nation is or so great that has statutes and judgments, so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen Unless they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them, thy sons and thy son's sons. Heavenly Father Oh God, we ask you tonight, right from the onset, forgive us for being forgetful people. Forgive us, Lord, for allowing Our precious eternal truths that you gave to us through your Bible and through your people. The nation of Israel, and how we have forsaken them in so many different ways, and allowed our children to be thrown to the dogs of secular humanism in our public schools And allowed these ideologies set on fire of hell to pervade and to invade our nation And this next generation. Father, help us now to understand that you, because you are miraculous Because you answer prayers in miraculous ways, because you have a vested interest in this nation, that you can turn our country and bring us back to you again, and it can begin right here tonight. So Father, we pray that you would descend upon this service through and by thy holy unction, create and maintain a hedge protection around us Bind off the wicked one and the evil one, anything that would keep us from focusing upon these eternal truths. And O God might the Holy Ghost that you've given us that comforter His presence might be so evident among us. Help our minds and hearts to be open unto him. As Christians, he lives within us. But Father, might he go through this congregation tonight, each and every one of us? And point out things that we must remember, that we must do, that we must hold on to. And Father, we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do. We ask that you would do a miracle in our midst tonight. We pray this by the authority that in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Thank you. May be seated. And what is that nation? What nation is there so great that has statutes and judgments, so righteous as all this law which I set before you this day? Our great republic that we have, our multi-layered representational government called the Republic, fashioned after the nation of Israel. Is profoundly affected by God's influence of His Word. These men that weren't perfect But all agree to some eternal truths, frame them in a document called the United States Constitution Because our national constitution was founded upon eternal truths, it has endured the onslaughts of many generations who would have destroyed it. and brought our nation to its demise. Daniel Webster said from the 1800s something so unique. Knowing and seeing the miracles That God had performed in his lifetime, in his nation, a student of history told us, hold on, my friends, to the Constitution and to the republic for which it stands. Miracles do not cluster. And what happened in six thousand years, one time, may never happen again. Hold on to the Constitution. For if the American Constitution should fail, There would be anarchy throughout the world. What he was saying is we would plunge into darkness, and the whole world would follow us there. We are the last bastion of hope. We are the last bastion of liberty. In this world in which we live, the whole world looks towards us for leadership And we've had our foundations attacked overtly and covertly throughout the spirit of the Antichrist and our history. The former USSR threatened liberty everywhere. We won the Cold War and finalized the victory through President Ronald Reagan. I liked Reagan. I liked him because he had some moxie to him. I can remember when he was in Reykjavik and going in to basically negotiate with Gorbachev over the Star Wars technology that if it continued it would make their Russia's ICBMs, their intercontinental ballistic missiles, obsolete. And everyone was wondering if he was going to put that on the table, if he was going to put Star Wars technology on the table. And when he came out, even some of his cabinet wanted him to do so. When they came out, that was the first question that was asked. Did you put Star Wars on the table? And Reagan said, No, I did not Then he started to talk to Gorbachev, who had come to visit the United States. And he said, look, if you open up The doors of Russia to the Western world and to missionaries from the Western world and to the freedom of the Western world You will be on the Time magazine and you can retire as a multimillionaire anywhere in the world. I know you like luxury. And sure enough, this great communicator called Ronald Reagan stood there in West Berlin. And in that famous speech said, Mr. Gorbachev, tear this wall down. And we saw The Iron Curtain come down. I was given a piece of the Iron Curtain one time by a missionary too over there in in the in the rushes. He gave me a piece of the actual a piece of of the of the wall. I love when you go to the Capitol, the statue of Reagan is standing on a piece of the Berlin Wall. I just kind of like that, amen. Even even in our heritage, we celebrate the fact That this man that was a man that knew how to talk to people about our nation and our freedom and our God and made no bones about it was the one that brought down the USSR and the threat from there. But then the Antichrist pulled his hand back and thrust it to us again through Muslim extremists, through terrorists, and who attacked our nation on September eleventh. President Trump, though, I think it was proven that the war on terrorism could be won. When everyone said ISIS could never be defeated, he defeated them. See, when you put teeth into your policies, it works. Amen. Now the attack on our nation and our constitution is from within. Very great concern. There's one thing that is critical in the spiritual warfare. We must be knowledgeable of our enemy. We must know our enemy. I I I love George Patton. I I you know I I mean he's one of those characters in history like Winston Churchill. I I liked Winston Churchill, the one man that stood up and all of Great Britain stood up with him. When they wanted to negotiate for peace with Hitler through Mussolini and he said we will not negotiate for peace and that famous speech, we will fight on the beaches, we will fight on the on the landing fields, we will never surrender. You know. I just like that about Churchill. I like the fact he had some backbone, amen. And uh I I think I've told this before, but I love the story of the nemesis, Lady Astor, that would tell Winston Churchill when he was outspoken. No, he she didn't like it. She didn't like that he was hawkish, that that he wasn't going to back down for a minute. And she would say, Sir Winston, if you were my husband, I should put poison in your tea. He said, Lady Astor, if you were my wife, I should drink it. Patton was that unique individual as well as Churchill. He was one of the few generals that took his his library of war strategy to the field with him. And Rommel was kicking our can all over the desert theater. But when Patton showed up He told the generals engaging with Rommel, this is how he's going to attack, this is where he's going to attack, this is when he's going to attack. And they started winning. And after several battles of winning, they came back to Pat and they said, How on earth did you know about Rommel's strategy? It was almost like you were in his head. He said, It's very easy, gentlemen. I read his book on strategy that he wrote after World War One. That's how. And we need to know our enemy as well. We need to know our enemy. God says this in 2 Corinthians 2. 11, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. We need to know the devices of Satan. That's why I've given my life to this call, this clarion call, sounding the warning to God's men and God's people that we must be knowledgeable, filtering everything that comes into our world and our culture through the Word of God, becoming informed and involved and in an intercessory prayer for our nation, which God has given us for the freedom of the pulpit, for the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that being said, to fundamentally change any nation And their story, its foundation. One must begin with the distrust in government. And my oh my, they're doing that in a big way, are they not? So in order to begin this distrust of government, the enemy must slander its originators. In our case, our founding fathers. They first started to slander our founding fathers, saying they were immoral. But we American people didn't buy into that because uh our founding fathers, we saw that they were great men of prayer And their own journals and the men that wrote about them, that lived next to them, that watched them also said that these men were exemplary in their life because they were so profoundly influenced by God's word. Then the founding fathers were accused as being atheists. We didn't fall for that either, because we knew that these men were great men of prayer, and these men thought scripturally, recorded again. by themselves and the people that saw them. George Washington was a man of such powerful prayer, and there are people that accuse him of being uh one of the uh masons, but he left the Masonic Lodge early on, knowing it was not a Christian organization. And even wrote a book against the Masonic Logic and other subversive societies. You say, how do you know that? I have a copy of the book. I'm a bocaholic. I have to confess. If there was a Bocaholics Anonymous, I'd have to join My wife says, you don't need any more books. I said, yes, but I want more books. They're like candy, you know. And I've always been that way since I was in elementary school I just order books and order books and hey he you know he'd have you hey did you read all the books? I didn't read all of them, but I had them. Amen And uh and uh hey, you get you need to have at least seven books going on at the same time. But make sure that that you are reading God's word first and foremost. Amen. But what I'm saying is our founding fathers They were men that uh knew what it was to get a hold of God He'd walk in on Washington when he was on his knees. Countless men would say, I didn't want to move, because I felt I'd bump into God His presence was so powerful. Would to God we have some prayer warriors like that once again, these days, that would be in government. Now our societies progressed and become less and less informed about our history and revisionist historians that To store, twist, or even completely eliminate portions of history now, they say that our founding fathers were racists And because America lacks knowledge of our history, because we've continually had the wool pulled over our eyes, there are many that are buying into this latest slanderous accusation against our founders We have not guarded educational systems, instead allowed secular humanism, statism, and even now outright socialism and Marxism to take hold. And because of the decline of the Christian movement of our culture And contribute to lack of leadership and light and salt. The latest polls have said this nationwide. Listen to this, only 9% of Christians read the Bible on a daily basis. Six percent of Christians have a biblical worldview. That means they're victim to the secular worldview. Two out of three Americans say there's no absolute truth. One out of two Christians say there's no absolute truth. Only one in a thousand can name the first five freedoms and the first Bill of Rights. Four out of five millenniums say the same thing. I mean, you think about this. People don't even know what the first five basic freedoms of the first Bill of Rights is. Because our culture is lacking basic undergirding of truth, which is to judge things that we should, as a culture, were wide open to new things. Like the Athenians were in Acts 17 and verse 21. For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent time doing nothing else, and nothing else, either to tell or to hear some new thing. Honest academics and historians, you know what they say? They say who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past. Enter the critical race theory, and with it the 1619 Project, which is a terrible falsified history. purposely flawed, attempting to rewrite our history and our great Christian heritage, and adopted by several states already. It teaches nothing about our founders Nothing about our war for independence. Nothing about the Civil War. Or the First or the Second World War. The project is designed to vilify our heritage. It doesn't talk about Pearl Harbor And the Japanese unprovokingly attacking us. Talks about us dropping the bomb on Hiroshima Nagasaki. And they ignore the fact that knowing the Japanese would have fought to the last man or committed suicide, it saved millions of lives dropping the bomb. Oh, they didn't want to hear that They want to hear the fact that when there was a little island nation that had a horrendous Earthquake in the twenties, and hundreds of thousands of people were at risk of losing their lives. That America with the international Red Cross got all the foodstuffs and all the blankets and all the medical supplies that we could possibly muster and load them on tanks and send them over to this little island nation. that we welcomed other nations to join us. They wouldn't because they said this is just gonna cost too much. We never charged anything for this. So we bought from these other nations unwilling the foodstuffs and the medical supplies and the blankets and even acquired doctors and rented their tankers and sent them over America saved hundreds of thousands of lives from starvation, pestilence, exposure to the elements. And that little island nation in the 1920s said, for what you've done, we'll never forget. I remember a great Scottish preacher by the name of Peter Marshall. Peter Marshall was going to the Naval Academy to preach. He was the chaplain of the United States Senate And he had a raw, raw message that he was just looking so much forward to preaching. And when he started his journey there to Annapolis from Washington DC, the Holy Spirit said, no, I don't want that. I want you to preach just a simple plan of salvation. Peter Marshall actually, in his own words, says, I argued with the Holy Spirit. Yeah, but this this other message is just going to be so good. And the Lord said, no. A simple plan of salvation is what I want. When he got there, he asked the chaplain, he said, Sir, I was going to preach this, but and the chaplain said, Sir, you can preach whatever you want. Pastor Marshall, you just you just you have freedom, you have liberty. So he got the before the cadets, the uh midshipmen as they call them there. And preached a simple salvation message. And many of those young men accepted the Lord as Savior. On his way back to Washington, D. C. , he turned on the radio. And he heard a report coming through. It was December 7th. The Japanese had just attacked Pearl Harbor. And he knew some of those men would never be able to hear again another presentation of salvation before they were swept into eternity, because many of those men left and went straight to battle. See that little island nation of Japan that we saved hundreds of thousands of people to do decades later forgot What they said they would never forget. What am I saying? I'm saying we need to remember. We need to remember that America is an amazing nation We need to guard our country. We cannot allow people to lie about our founding fathers or the great heritage that we have as Christians. Look, we need to understand this project is designed to bring our nation to its end and it is under the ideology of communism and communism you must have two sides. You must divide people. You must find an oppressor and an oppressed There must be division among people where one must begin from a falsified historical premise and this divisive ideology. Has been around for centuries. It was used during the French Revolution, the Bolshevik Revolution, Nazi Germany. And we have examples going back into Centuries and centuries of division. But the critical race theory and saying that you have to choose sides is completely unbiblical Because God says in Mark 3, if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. If Satan rise up against himself and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against, a house falleth. One of our national sayings is united we stand and divided we fall. We cannot allow this to happen. Marxism, which is Critical race theory must divide to conquer. And now they say race is that dividing line. And that creates conflict, if burning of cities, and hatred. And may I say it's unbiblical. Is CRT biblical? No, it's not. It's completely unbiblical. It goes against the attributes of the Bible. So where does CRT originate some? Well some say it was from professors but it goes way, way back into history is basically saying that we are systematically racist, which is just completely nonsense. But it what it is, it's the spirit of the Antichrist. Coming at us again from one of the most insidious ways. And a lot of our brethren won't even talk about it. You know why? Because they're afraid. The fear of man. We need to handle it biblically. We need to handle it from God's Word. And God says, beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits. Whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. There are some independent Baptist churches that have accepted the CRT We cannot allow that to happen. Hereby we know. Hereby know ye, I should say, the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. So again, every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God, and every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ has come to flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of Antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come even now already, is it in the world. So the CRT proponents, they are active in colleges, universities, public policy, and now insinuating itself into our educational, corporate, and military structure. From K To 12th grade, from kindergarten. They're telling young children in kindergarten, you're a racist, you're the oppressor, and others, you are the oppressed. It goes against biblical truth. It says the most important thing about you is your skin, is your race. Your skin is who you are. It says it's not your behavior, not your character, not your value system. They basically are saying it's not your environment, it's your skin And that's just completely contrary to what God says. God says, so God created man his own image. In the image of God created He Him Male and female, that's the delineating factors that God talks about, male and female. And that's even being attacked too. That's for another day. Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus under good works which God hath before ordained, that we should walk in them. So look, you cannot, we cannot be victims of this rigged system. And we have to understand that God calls all men a chosen generation. If they are indeed in Christ. And if they're not, they have the potential of being in Christ. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, and it says that ye should show for the praises Of him who has called you out of darkness into this marvelous light. So they claim racism is embedded in our system. That's nonsense. Look, it demands that uh Americans work to dismantle our laws. Our traditions, our social norms, and even the free market system that gives us the greatest standard of living In the world. CRT is uniquely an American because it rejects the core principles and foundations of the Judeo-Christian values system and every premise. It rejects biblical principles. It says That you are your skin color. Well, wait a minute, wait a minute. A lot of people say it's just a continuation of the Civil Rights Act. No, it's not. It is counteracting the Civil Rights Act. Because I remember a man who stood in front of the Lincoln Memorial. By the name of Martin Luther King Jr. , and said he was looking forward to a day when a man was not judged by the color of his skin, but the content of his character CRT says just the opposite. It says you're not your value system, you're not your character, you are the color of your skin. And it says that that people that are of one color cannot accept someone of another color. That's nonsense. Don't tell me that I cannot look past someone's skin and realize that God says all nations are of one blood. I have good friends, good friends that are black people, good friends that are Hispanic people, good friends that that are Asian people. I have good friends. Hey, our associate pastors a black man. And he has a tremendous Christian family. And I know his dad and his mom. And I've been friends with them, and I've been friends with our associate. Since he was a little boy, little guy. And I love him as I should, like a brother in Christ. And I'll guarantee you, that man is a godly man. I don't look at his skin color. I look at the character of who and what he is by God's grace and for his glory. It's not a continuation Of the civil rights movement. It's a repudiation of it. Constitutional law is the foundation of our nation. And they want that pulled down. They want to dismantle our nation. They want to rip out our foundations. Why? Because it says in Psalm 11 and verse 3, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? What are the foundations? You think CRT has God in it? They don't. The foundations of our nation is faith First and foremost, the faith of our fathers. We sing a song about it. That's what moved them continually forward in a country. The family. The traditional family. That's so attacked these days. Hey, that's another thing to be jealous of, by the way. Family altar. Time with your family. Too many times we were going to lunch the other day and we passed by the one of the gods. of our nation. On Sunday. Everyone filling up a football field just right down here. Right down o over here, I think it was. Over there. And everyone's coming out I and I mean the parking lot was full full. I was saying that's that's how the church parking lot should be. Instead of people and and you know everyone's running every which way, taking kids. Hey, sports is a god. I travel every weekend. And I see on Sundays hotels filled with people and their children taking them to sports activities Yeah, what's that going to do for them in life when they have decisions about morality and about the decisions of eternity? Not going to do nothing for them. What I'm saying is be jealous of your family altar. Guard it. Guard it. Make sure that you don't let anything to include cell phones. Interfere with your family altar. The fabric of our nation. The fabric of our nation again goes against completely against the CRT. Because the fabric of our nation is based upon biblical truth that God says to the nation of Israel, The stranger that dwelleth with you shall be as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself. That's why you can come to America, you become an American. Unless you have the uh a Native American blood, we're all children of immigrants. All of us. But we're all Americans, aren't we? Amen? Italian Americans, Scottish Americans, no, Americans. I I was out in a in a Filipino church in California. I mean all Filipinos, oh, just so wonder they're just such wonderful people, loving people. They drink this uh drink called Halo Halo, which is beans And ice and some sweetener. It's really a strange drink. Holo halo, it's called, but I like it. I like it And uh they had me out there for July the fourth, believe it or not, Brother Weatherman. I said, Really? You want to come out on July the fourth? They said, yeah, we're we we love we love our country I said, okay, I'm there. So I went out there and man we had a wonderful time and they were hooting and hollering and they all gathered around me. And you know what they said? Hey Brother Hardy, we're Filipino Americans. I said, No, you're not I said, yeah, yeah, we're Filipino Americans. We came here legally and we uh went through the constitutional class and held up our hands so we're gonna be, you know, uh defenders of our constitution and we learned English, we're Filipino Americans. I said, no, you're not. They went, no I said, no, you're just Americans. They went, oh yeah. I said, come on, let's go eat some, let's go drink some hollow hollow. They say, okay. What am I saying? I think I've told the story, but I I love the story, so I'm gonna tell it again. An Irish grandmother. She was this tall, Evan. She gave birth to eleven children. Okay? You didn't mess around with my Irish grandmother. Oh no. She wasn't big, but she was tough. And she still spoke with an Irish accent. And I remember one time I was messing around with her and she said, Come here, Billy. Yes, Grandma? If you don't behave yourself, I'm gonna put the come hither on you I didn't know what the come hither was, but it didn't sound good. And she said, uh, do something with yourself, son. Don't be standing around with two arms at one length. Oh, okay. Wait one minute. And she says if you if you if you're smart to me I'm gonna give it to the Sheeny man. Now I didn't know who the Sheeny man was, but she timed it perfectly because here he came through the alleyways, driving this big old draft horse pulling a cart behind him. He was the ugliest man I have ever seen in my life. It looked like God made him as ugly as he could and then scared him really bad, okay? Cool He was he was taking his time coming through and he had a stogie sticking out of his mouth to say what's a stogie unlit cigar and uh he was coming through I'm the sheeting man I'm the sheeting man It was their their first attempt at recycling, I guess, you know. They give him things that didn't work and he'd m melt it down to metal content or fix it in. He'd sharpen scissors. She said, I'm going to give you to him Well what do you want me to do, grandmother? I really got serious then, okay? And she pulled out some change. She called it silver From the old country. She pulled up some change. She said, Here, here, take take some silver and go down to the corner store and buy yourself some penny candy. So okay. She said, but don't be forhulik with your money. I thought, I have no idea what Farhulik means, but Grandma, you keep the money coming, I'll stay out of your way, okay? 'Cause you could buy a lot of penny candy in those days. I came back with a big bag and uh ate it and got the sugar going and got in trouble all over again, amen. But I why'd I say that? I'm not an Irish American That's my heritage, but I'm an American. And that goes against the CRT as well. Because they're trying to divide people. They're trying to pull people apart. If we're going to defend our foundations, we need to know what they are. I have a DVD back there and I'm not trying to uh promote that, but it talks about our faith, our family, the fabric, the framers, who they were, tremendous men. They weren't perfect, but they were tremendously intelligent, godly men. Our federal government in the right way that it should go, the free market system, the fervency of focus, all these things come into being. Look, yes, America was guilty of slavery. But we had the shortest term with slavery of any nation in history And they say, oh, Jefferson, he owned slaves, so uh you go to Monticello now. He owned human beings. Yeah, uh he couldn't get rid he couldn't let his slaves go in Virginia because there was a law that the only way you could let them go is when you died and he put that in his will that they would go free, as did George Washington and the other great Virginians as well. But what a lot of people don't understand that even though I know America was guilty of it It wasn't like the slavery of the Old Testament. We were like the people in the New Testament where it says we were men stealers But what we did do was we took care of it. We corrected it. We corrected it with the loss of over 600,000 people. And even before that Dating all the way back to the 1770s, a legislation was promoted by President Thomas Jefferson, who called for its enactment And then finally by the time 1806, the State of the Union address, he had favored an acting, an issue since the 1770s, and his views reflected a trend towards abolishing the international slave trade which Virginia followed by other states had banned, and even they went to the coast of Africa, who those people were selling their people. Bad and good on both sides of the ocean. He, along with Great Britain Would bring the coast back and forth, protecting anyone from coming in and trying to continue with the slave trade A lot of people don't know that, but that's so true. The matter of thought follows the principle that we need to understand here, and that's they, the CRT people believe that you can only judge people unfavorably and not by who they are, and which is just completely ridiculous. They they say a certain group of people Can't judge a certain group of people by because they're pre-judging a whole group of people? Wait a minute now. Hold hold hold the line What is that when you prejudge a whole group of people? It's prejudice. So what are they doing? You know what they're doing? I the defining of this thought of prejudicial discrimination is against the Civil Rights Act And the critical race theorists say that they are going to fight prejudice discrimination by becoming prejudicial and discriminatory? That's you know what that's called? Hypocritical. So I don't even call it critical race theory. I call it hypocritical race theory. Amen? I'm almost done. You still with me? Everyone know everyone okay? Hey, we need to know this. Because this is something right now that's coming into our military, to our corporations, and to our educational system, starting with the kindergartners. We need to know it. We need to be jealous of these great biblical truths that God has given to us, that we're all of one blood. When they say philosophy, it comes from two Greek words, philo, love, and Sophia, wisdom. There are two sources of wisdom. Number one From Jesus Christ, as it states in Colossians 2. 3, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. The other counterfeit source, the world. That we must guard against. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. So the critical race theory has its roots in the world and can never lead to true racial reconciliation because Grace and forgiveness is the basis for reconciliation. It CRT leads its followers continually finding fault, accusing with a raised fist, dividing people into identity groups who are suspicious of one another. Christianity, on the other hand. Offers us unity through the cross of Christ. Paul, who was Jewish, described that Jesus was the source of peace and reconciliation in his letter to the Ephesians, who were a majority group. You get this now. You understand from biblical terms? So a majority group of the Ephesians, minority the Jews, at this point, and he's giving them a letter, and listen to what it says. At that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, and having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye Who were sometimes we're far off. Ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh through the blood of Christ. You know what's going to bring people together? The blood of Christ. You know what's going to bring people together? You know what's going to heal our nation and unite us people of all colors here in our country? It's not the critical race theory. It's the grace of God. It's the salvation in Jesus Christ. That's why it's so very important for us to be soul winners. That's why it's so important for us to be spreading the good news, which is the gospel. And when I give out tracts today, I tell people and I go to people of all colors. Everywhere I go. Let me give you some good news from a far country. We all need some good news, don't we? And they say, yes we do For he is our peace. God's our peace. Who has made both one. Wow. Not choosing sides. I heard a unique individual, I don't agree with a lot of things he's done, but I heard him say this at the World War II Memorial. His name is Joe Manchin. He's a Democrat. He stood for the filibuster that kept us going at least as a nation. And he said this, don't allow anyone to make you choose sides. We need to be united as Americans. All colors. All ideologies. Our peace, he didn't say this, I'm saying this, is in Jesus Christ, having abolished in his flesh the enity, even now. It says, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances for to make in himself Of twain one new man, so making peace, that he might reconcile both unto God In one body by one cross, having slain the enity thereby, and came and preached peace to you, which were far off. He's talking to the Ephesians, to us Gentiles Who were afar off and to them that were nigh. For through him we both have access by one Spirit into the Father. I don't know about you. I love the unity in Christ. Amen. And we should also have unity as Americans as well. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. So, therefore We need to tell people, you're no more strangers if you know the Lord, and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for the habitation of God through the Spirit. So He's made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on the face of the earth, and has determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation. So how do we stop critical race theory? before it affects our whole nation. We need to first of all get on our face before God and ask Him to give us wisdom. We need to start attending some school boards. and even run for some school board positions. I found uh just recently a 19-year-old right out of high school got on a school board Start attending school boards and saying you're not going to teach this. This is these are our children. And of course the public education, they're going to say statism, no, they're our children, which is a lie of the devil as well. Statism is just another form of communism. They are our children. They're our heritage from the Lord. And they need to understand there's no such thing as one child being oppressor and another child being the oppressed in kindergarten. The only way that is, is if there's a bully on the playground. And you call him out and take care of that. In another way. Amen. Teaching our children this. Kindergartners. I don't know about you. It makes me righteously indignant. I'm jealous of the youth of our country. I'm jealous for the next generation To protect them, to tell them this is a lie out of the pit of hell and has nothing to do with race. It's devilish. It's an ideology. Set on high on set on fire from the devil himself. Refuse to accept it. We as Christians look into the scriptures. As Americans, we look into the Constitution. Don't be intimidated. By self-destructive American hating, unbiblical, and anti-reality reality devilish doctrine. Don't be bullied into thinking Having anyone tell you you're a racist or a bigot? Defend yourself. Stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. We are not to retreat in the spirit of fear, but to advance in the spirit of the Lord, that ye may be blameless And harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom You and I shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life. Be soul winners Get on school boards. Talk to people about this. Let them know it's not constitutional. It is not. an advancement of the civil rights movement. It is completely unbiblical and against everything America stands for. Because if we don't do it, no one else will And we need to understand when we do this, we don't do this in vain. We don't labor in vain. We labor in the Lord. There might be someone you know. Encourage them. Go attend a school board. Say, well, my my children go to public schools. Yeah, but every single Graduate, my child goes to private school, excuse me, I meant to say, but every single graduate of public schools that are indoctrinated with this are going to affect your life and mine. So we need to protect them as well. It's not time to circle the wagons. See, I think we we made some mistakes early on when they took God. And the Ten Commandments and prayer of the public schools. We should have never allowed that to happen. We should have stood against the Supreme Court of the United States and and used the Exceptions Clause, but we don't even know what the Exceptions Clause is. that we've used over 200 times in our nation's history, to get our legislative body that's the only body that has any kind of law passing constitutional responsibilities and except from the Supreme Court. What Madeline Murray O'Hare portrayed upon this country. I know Bill Murray, her son. He's a Baptist preacher. Trying to undo what his mother did. Saved, born-again believer. I could call him up and say, Bill, how you doing? He knows where the fight is. It's spiritual warfare. It's not cultural. It's not political. It's not educational. Bottom line, it's spiritual. And we, in order to protect our next generation, we need to know our enemy. And I know this is a different message from what I've preached. In the previo in previous times, but this is so very needful for us to understand. To understand Critical race theory is one of the most grievous, dangerous attacks upon our nation that we've seen. And you and I can pray and ask God. How can we stand against this the first and foremost is to know what it is and then to tell other people what it is and then to go to school boards and city councils and any other grassroots areas. While I'm doing what I'm doing in Washington, D. C. , to try to change this, by educating people as to how completely unconstitutional, unbiblical And hellacious it is. So, critical race theory. You're jealous tonight? Jealous of what God's given you? I am. I want to hold on to it. And I don't know even what to do, Brother Leatherman, with the invitation. But I do know this. First and foremost, we need to pray and ask God to show us how to proceed. I gave you an overview May you take it and go forward with it. Don't ever run from the enemy today. Heavenly Father. Oh dear God, we pray tonight that you'd help us to be equipped as soldiers of the cross. Help us, Lord, to understand our nation is being weighed in the balance. Tomorrow night, Lord, we're going to go one step further to know exactly what we can do constitutionally for our country. But the Lord help us to be jealous of the things that you've bestowed upon us, about our church services, and about the fact we can read the Bible openly and share the gospel of your precious son, the Lord Jesus Christ, in a in a free country, but there are those that want to take that away from us. There are those that want to label us as haters. And this book that we hold so dear, your Bible, as a hate book. Father, help us, Lord, to do what we can. Give us the wisdom, Father, to stand for you. In these last of the last days. Knowing, dear God, you make the brightest lights for the darkest nights. As all eyes are closed and heads are bowed, one question before I give this to your Pastor Brother Leatherman. I would be remiss if I did not ask if there's one person here that doesn't know for sure. That they have a home in heaven, that that's been decided. Is there anyone that would say, Brother Harding, I hope, I think I'm going to heaven? But I didn't think you could know. Can you know? And yes, you can Is there anyone here tonight, this wasn't a salvation message? But is there anyone here tonight that would say, Brother Harding, I don't know? I don't know that I'm going to heaven, but I'm positive. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me, Brother Harding. Here's my hand. Slip your hand up and let me pray for you. Anyone like that tonight? All right. Hear God bless now, we pray, as Brother Leatherman comes, in Jesus' name.