Read together if you would verse number 20, Galatians chapter 2, and verse number 20. You have it there. Let's read it together. Ready? All together. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I want us to think about that opening statement there. I am crucified with Christ. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, Lord, we just thank you for the opportunity to be in your house with your people on your day And I pray now that you would meet with us as we look at this portion of Scripture. I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be here. And I ask that your Holy Spirit would speak through me to each of our hearts and minds. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew. And you be the preacher this morning, Lord, and help us To be receptive to your word. Lord, those of us that know you as Savior and rejoice in the eternal life that you have given to us, help us, Lord, to be stirred to live for you and uh to glorify you and serve you. Lord, by chance any that would be listening in or under the sound of my voice and do not know the Lord Jesus, Savior I pray that today would be the day they make that most important decision in life. So please meet with us. Let your presence be made known. And again, fill me and speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The New Testament church has never really been appreciated by the world The world will tolerate a Bible, New Testament church. The world will tolerate us and sometimes and depending on the communities are different. Sometimes they'll appre uh to an extent appreciate what a church will do for a community. You understand a good, strong, healthy Bible-preaching church is good for a community. It helps the people, whether they're a part of it or not, just through the influence, and that's another message. But the church, for the most part, even from the early days of the church, you go back and look at the New Testament, you study church history, from its very inception The church has faced tremendous challenges. There were external challenges that the New Testament church faced. There was intense opposition When Jesus Christ gave his final challenge and commission to his disciples, he said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. In Acts chapter 1, moments before he ascended to heaven, he gave one last challenge, one last commission. And he says, Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. And so as the church was initiated there and began to carry out that great commission, as the church began to Uh obey the Lord's instructions and fulfill God's will for them. And they took the gospel into every neighborhood. They filled Jerusalem with their doctrine. description of what the church was doing. And brother, they faced opposition, external opposition, opposition to the preaching of the gospel. First, it was the uh from the religious world, and the Pharisees and the Jewish uh machine, so to speak, came down hard on the church. And they would uh they would uh if as they were out preaching and out advancing the gospel, they would come upon them and imprison them, many times beat them. And instructed them very clearly, without, there was no doubt in anyone's mind, what the Jewish machine wanted the church to do, and it was this: shut up. Do not preach in this man's name. That was their explicit instructions to the church. Do not preach in the name of Jesus Christ. Of course, the church then, as we should now, adopted this policy. It's better to obey God than man. And so the church took intense opposition from the religious leaders of that day as they tried to shut down the message of the Lord Jesus Christ and they tried to contain the advancement of the gospel and the growth of the church. Well, they failed terribly. They did not contain the advancement of the gospel. They did not slow the church, uh the growth of the church. In fact, the more they opposed it, the greater it grew. And they would scatter the believers out. They'd come in and they'd be scattered all around. And all they were doing was spreading the wildfire of the gospel as they would go out, scattered out. Then they would preach the gospel in other areas. Then the government got involved. And the government, the Roman government started coming down on the church because they would not worship Caesar. And they came down in the church. And so there was tremendous opposition uh to the to that early church externally And then you get to Acts chapter 5, and then we find something that is really more dangerous, and that was internal challenges. In Acts chapter 5, you have two key people in that early church there in Jerusalem, and they lied, and they brought absolute perjury before God. I tell you, a dishonest church is an unhealthy church. Dishonesty, lying among the people of God. Will bring the judgment of God upon a church, I believe that. And will hinder its growth and hinder its advancement. And God dealt very sternly with that early That early disruption within the church. And we have that account there in Acts chapter 5. Then you get to Acts chapter 6, and then there's another challenge from within the church. And this is where there's division. among the widows. And there was a little apparently, we're not given all the details, but apparently there was some the um uh discrepancy between how the widows were being taken care of, the Gentiles and the Jews, and of course that was an age-old issue between those two. Paul deals with it in the book of Galatians And so that brought division within the church. And that had to be dealt with, and that had to be addressed. And out of that, we have the office of deacon. one of the two offices in a biblical church. And so there was uh there was challenges to this New Testament church Opposition, which led to violent persecution. The first pastor of the first church there in Jerusalem was beheaded because of his commitment to Jesus Christ. And then within. We come to the book of Galatians this morning, and um uh the book of Galatians was written, was penned by the Apostle Paul. to churches throughout the region called Galatia. There's various churches there. Paul is penning to them. Of course, God is the author. We understand that right. God is the author of Scripture God used men to record his word for us. Anybody here ever say, anybody here you ever try to witness somebody and they say, oh, the Bible's just written by man? Anybody ever hear that? Let me give you a little tip. Agree with them. The Bible is penned, my band, but it's authored by God. And so God authored, God moved on the heart of Paul to pen this letter to these churches in Galatia. And the purpose of the book of Galatia, the book to the Galatians was to address another challenge that had come up within the church. And it wasn't dishonesty, really, exactly. It wasn't division, although it caused that, but it was false teaching, false doctrine. So they had dishonesty was a challenge within the church They had division was a challenge within the church, and they had false doctrine. And people were coming in and they were teaching things contrary to Scripture Listen, our sole authority as a New Testament church is this book right here. The Bible is our authority. If it's not according to the Bible, then it's false doctrine. I knew that was going to come in handy, Brother Wilbur. I like it. We have false teaching, false doctrine in our day and age. Anybody aware of that? False teachers. It's nothing new. False teaching, unscriptural doctrines, unscriptural teaching coming in a church. It's nothing new. It was happening from day one in the New Testament church. They had to deal with it. They had to deal with it. And so it's nothing new. It's been around since the beginning of the church. And Paul pens this letter to the churches throughout Galicia To respond to this false teaching that had come in. You see, he had been on his first missionary journey, had left the church there at Antioch and had God's blessing sent out by that local church sent out on this journey and they went to areas where the gospel was not preached yet. It had not advanced that far out of Jerusalem at this point. And so Paul and Barnabas take this journey and they're heading out into these regions. And they'd show up in a community, a town, a city, and they would uh usually they would initially begin in a synagogue. They meet with the Jews there, God's people, and they declare unto them Jesus Christ. Their reception was varied. In some places, people would readily receive it, and they'd show them from the scriptures how that Jesus is the Christ. And now that he had given himself and died, was buried and rose again, and that whosoever would turn to him and trust and believe in him would be saved. And sometimes people receive that readily. Other times not so much. And they would get opposition. But God blessed their efforts. And throughout that region, numerous churches were started by the Apostle Paul and Barnabas. They didn't have a lot of time to spend in each place, but they'd organize the church and try and get some leadership established there We read in Timothy and Titus, where Paul is giving instructions on how to establish leadership within the church, and they did that, and they had these churches established, and then they came back to their home church to give a report on this trip, this missions trip they had taken. And much like our missionaries do today, we have Brother Florence here with us today. He's coming back. Now we're not his home church But we are a supporting church. He comes back, gives us a report tonight on what God has done these last nine years in Papua New Guinea. That's what Paul and Barnes doing. They got back to their home church in Antioch, and lo and behold, they start getting reports from these churches they had started throughout Galatia, and it wasn't good news. The reports coming back to the Brother Paul and Barnabas was that people had infiltrated the churches and were teaching another gospel than what Paul and Barnabas had established by God. And so he's writing this letter to address this false teaching. If you would, look with me if you have your Bible there. Look with me at chapter 1. And verse number six, just come back to the first chapter there. And we're going to look at our Bibles a good bit this morning, I believe. And chapter 1 and verse number 6, notice what he says. The first few verses, he's kind of introducing himself and laying some groundwork. Then verse 6, he says this: I marvel That ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto what? Another gospel. And Paul is amazed that so quickly they had abandoned the true gospel as established in the Word of God to this gospel that these other guys were bringing in. And we use the term gospel there in quotation marks. In fact, look at the next verse. He says, which is not another And what he's saying here is, the wording there, you have to look at it a little bit, what he's saying is, this other gospel they're bringing in is not another one that's the same. This is another one that's totally different He says they're not preaching the same gospel just in a different format. It's completely different. Which is not another, but there are some that trouble you. Look at this. He uses some strong language here. And would pervert the gospel of Christ. That word pervert means to change, twist, or distort. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be what? A curse. As we said before. Now he told him this when he was there. As we said before, so say now, so say I now again. If any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. That word accursed means cut off. Paul takes a strong stand for the truth of the gospel. I want to suggest to you and I at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church we ought to take a strong stand for the truth of the gospel. There's no other way to be saved. Other than the biblical gospel. There's no other way to have eternal life. There's no other way to find forgiveness of sins. There's no other way to escape the wrath and judgment of God in hell than through the biblical gospel of Jesus Christ. It is vitally important that we defend the gospel And so Paul is doing that. He's writing to the church at Galatians, churches throughout Galatians, and he's taking a strong stand. He says, listen, you cut them off. If you would come over to chapter number two. It was two groups actually that were altering, perverting, twisting the gospel. One was these Jews, or what we would call them Judaizers. In chapter 2 and verse number 16, notice what he says: knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, not by the works of the law. Now look at this last statement. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. There was an element of uh uh some Jewish They would claim to have been believers had gotten into this church and were infiltrating the church, and this was their message. Their message was, oh yes, Jesus is the Messiah Jesus is the Christ. He is the Savior sent from God. But to believe, and you must believe in Him, but to be saved You must believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you must be circumcised. You must follow the ceremonies that God had given to the Jews. And what they were trying to do was incorporate the works from the law into the faith and grace of biblical salvation, and they were trying to mix the two. And I'm here to tell you this morning, the two do not mix. It's either grace or works. You cannot mix the two together. As soon as you inject works into it, it ceases to be grace. I'm going to offer Pastor Matt gifts, let's say I'm going to offer him a gift of a hundred dollar bill. Now this is fictitious story here. But I'm going to offer him a $100 bill. I said, Pastor Matt, this is completely for free. I'm just giving it to you by my wonderful grace. I'm just bestowing this hundred dollars on you. Uh get him a couple gallons of gas, that would help. And um I'm bestow and and and and he's thinking, Oh, our pastor is so wonderful. He says, Give me a hundred bucks for just by grace and for free. And then I say this, but you have to mow my grass five times while I'm gone if you Question, am I giving it to them for free or am I requiring something? See what I'm saying? You can't mix the two. Either you and I are saved by grace or we're saved by works. You can't put the two together. And we know from Scripture, we know from a fact we are not saved by works And Paul's trying to clarify this with the churches there in Galatia. Listen, what these guys are telling you is wrong. This is another gospel. It's not the biblical gospel. We are not saved by works. Look at verse number 21 of chapter 2, if you would. He says, I do not frustrate. The grace of God. That word frustrate means to put aside, disregard, despise. I do not frustrate the grace of God. For if righteousness came by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. Come over, if you would, to chapter 3 and verse number 6. He goes back to the Old Testament. He says, listen, even as Abraham, chapter 3, verse 6, even as Abraham believed God, I circled that word believed. It was counted unto him for righteousness. Not the works of his law, not the works of the law, not Abraham keeping the ordinance of God. It was Abraham's faith in God. That counted to him for righteousness. Let me just throw this out there. Salvation by grace has always been the only way of salvation. People in the Old Testament were not saved by the law, they were saved by grace. People in the New Testament age are not saved by the law. We are saved by God's grace. People in any future time are going to be saved not by the law, but by grace, all through Scripture And so he refers back to Abraham. If you would look there at verse 11 of chapter 3. And I know I'm beating this, I know I'm hounding on this a good bit, and it's necessary. Look at verse 11. But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident. For the just shall live by faith. He's quoting Old Testament here. Verse 12. And the law is not of faith But the man that doeth them shall live in them. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. If you would, look at verse 24, chapter 3. He explains what the purpose of the law is, not to save us. Look at verse 24. Wherefore the law was our what? schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith So Paul's writing to the churches in Galatia and he's confronting this false teaching that, oh yeah, you believe in Jesus, you trust Jesus. But you've got to do this and you've got to keep this part of the law and you have to keep the Sabbath and this and this and this. And Paul's writing and said, that's another gospel That is not the gospel of Christ. That's not the biblical gospel. I was youth pastor in Indianapolis for four years in the south side of the city, Thomson Road Baptist Church. And um well I had did a series with the young people on cults and I just did one on Mormons. And uh I just finished up, I think, if I remember correctly, that Sunday morning at Sunday school I finished the series And so I was all geared up in my head. I don't know how you are. I'll study something, and about a week later I completely forget all of it. But uh it was soon enough and early enough that I still had it in my head So I'm sitting there taking my little Sunday afternoon nap and I happen to look out the front window and here comes these two sharp looking young fellas, white shirt, dark tie, they just little thing on their pocket, and I thought, yes. This is going to be great. And so they came up to the door and I told my wife, I said, the Mormons are here. This is going to be great. She went running back in the bedroom So I met him at the door, stepped out on the front step, and they introduced themselves. We talked a little bit and I played dumb. I said, uh yeah. I said, what exactly do you guys believe? So they told us different things and I said, uh, and so I asked them, you know, do you believe this? Different things about the Mormon uh faith. And and uh, well yeah, we do believe that. And some you know things that were kind of off the wall. Well, yeah, we believe that, but this is our message And so finally I asked him this question. I said, let me ask you a question. If you died right now, would you go to heaven or hell? Where would you where will you spend eternity, heaven or hell? I know they have some different ideas, but I've asked them that. And they kind of looked at each other and, well, you know, uh Well yeah, we'd go to heaven. I said, really? I said that I don't a lot of people don't give that answer. Usually people say I hope so, think so. You're pretty confident. Oh yeah. I said let me ask you this question How do you know? What gives you that confidence that when you die, God has forgiven your sins and that you're accepted into His presence? What gives you that confidence? They were quick to answer that and they said, oh, we've trusted Jesus Christ as our Savior. How many people agree with me? That sounds like a pretty good answer right there. Then I asked this question. I said anything else? You believe Jesus is here, but is there anything else you're trusting in? That makes you confident. They said, oh yeah. I said, well, what is that? They said, well, we've been baptized in the true church. Anything else? Well, we keep the laws of our church. And we went down, they gave me, if I counted correctly, about ten different things, their trusting Christ and their baptism, their this, their that, their that, and a whole list. So I said, basically what you're telling me is your assurance of eternal life is based upon what Christ did and also what you are doing. And I said, yes, absolutely. I said, let me show you what the Bible says. I pulled my Bible out. Anybody want to guess what verses I went to? Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Let me show you this is what God's word says. For by grace are ye saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. I said the only way that anybody can know for sure their sins are again on their way to heaven is through the grace of God by putting our faith and trust in Jesus and Jesus alone. Our works will never save us. I took them back to Isaiah 64, 6. Our works of righteousness are filthy rags in the eyes of God. I said, all these works you're trusting and all these things, they do nothing to merit salvation. You can't earn it. Brother, they got ticked. One guy was a redhead, and you know how redheads are. And they got, man, you mean to tell me That I can believe on Jesus and live however I want and still go to heaven. I said, yes. I said, but God changes what you want. And God does not give us a license to sin. Salvation by grace is not a license to sin. And that leads me to the other false doctrine that was coming into the churches of Galatia. One was from the Jews that said, Oh, you believe in Jesus, but you gotta live it or you don't have it. You gotta keep the law, or you're not saved. That was a false doctrine. That was another gospel. But the Gentiles were bringing in another version, and that was this. You can accept Jesus Christ as Savior and live however you want. It doesn't even matter. If you would, take your Bibles and look. There's some verses where he addresses that. Look with me at chapter 5 and verse 13 of Galatians. Galatians chapter 5 and verse 13. It says, For brethren, we have been called unto what? What they were saying is, oh, I got liberty. I can just live in sin, and there's no consequences, or God doesn't care. I can just live however I want now that I'm saved by grace. He says, God, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Now look what he says. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love to serve one another. Look at verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. This is the sinful nature of mankind. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft Hatred, variance, that would be a form of strife, emulations, that's uh being envious, wrath, strife, seditions Heresy, envyings, murder, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and the such like Of the which I tell you before, they that do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. What is he saying? He's saying, listen, we're saved by grace. Through faith in Jesus Christ. It's a gift that God gives to us when we put our trust, our reliance upon what Jesus Christ has done for us, buried and raised again. But that does not give us the liberty to say, oh good, now I can go out and live however I want. And drunk and carry on and all that. That is not what Christian liberty is Christian liberty is not liberty to live in sin. Christian liberty is the ability to be free from sin. To have victory over sin. I'm so glad when God saved me May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, He set me free from drugs and drunkenness and perversion. He gave me liberty from sin, not liberty to sin. You say, preacher, what happens when a person gets saved and they live in sin? What about a person gets saved and goes out and does these things? If they're a child of God, I wish we had time, we don't. But if they're a child of God, according to Hebrews chapter 12, God will chasten them. God will discipline them. How many parents do we have here? Any parents? Sure, we got two boys, grown, got two grandbabies now. A parent, a good parent, doesn't just let their kids run wild. Discipline them. Now, biblically, they go two extremes But biblically, in love, we discipline them, we chasten them. Anybody here? This is old, this is old school right now. I'm going to tell you right now. This next phrase is old school. How many people like old school? Depends. I don't like old school dentistry. But this is old school. We're gonna take you out to the woodshed. Anyone know what we're talking about? Yeah. You know where? Good parent disciplines, don't just let, hey, our God is a good daddy. He doesn't let his kids just run wild. Read Hebrews chapter 12. He chastens, he disciplines, he convicts Now you and I are not in any position to determine whether someone else is being chastened by God or not. That's between them and God. But I'm telling you, in fact, he uses very, very strong wording. He says if a person claims to be a child of God and they live in sin and there's no chastisement from God, Listen, he uses a strong term. He says they are bastards and not sons. You agree? That's a strong term. That's uncomfortable. And what he's saying is, I can live in sin and claim to be a child of God and there's no conviction, nothing bothers me, I can just do it whatever he's saying. Your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. Are you listening? Your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. And so these Gentiles were coming in, and they were bringing another gospel. And they were saying, oh yeah, you can believe in Jesus and throw off that was not on purpose. Throw off all restraint And uh, excuse me. Just throw off all restraint. You can live however you want, and you can uh uh uh do whatever you want, there's no problems. And Paul says that's not the gospel either Our Bible says if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. He says, God will work in your life, God will change you And so we had these uh problems from within. I got my own problem up here. My lens came out of my glasses here. And uh I'm a one-eyed preacher here this morning So he's writing to these churches in Galatians. Addressing that, and you get to chapter 2 of Galatians, and uh he's saying he's instructing them how we're made right with God. Now he had already taught them this when he was there, he already established this But now he's back and he's writing to reinforce their understanding of how we're right with God. And Galatians chapter 2 verse 20 is a key verse. And understanding our relationship with God, our standing with God. Notice he says, For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth within me. Paul had for years desperately attempted to please God with his good works. He did the best he could to keep the law in every minute detail and to be everything he believed God required of him to be before God would accept him. And you know what he came to? You know the conclusion he came to was this. I can never live good enough to meet the standards of a holy God. Now he no doubt lived much better than people around him, but it was never the perfect, sinless life that a holy God demands. And he fell short, and he fell short, and he fell short. And then he learned the truth of we already read it over in chapter three and verse number twenty-four, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster. To bring us to Christ. And Paul was saying, listen, I realize that the law that God had given was not given to us so that we'd keep it and be set accepted by God. This law was given to us to show us how far short we are, how sinful we really are, and that we need a savior. That we need a savior. Paul finally realized the purpose of the law there in chapter 3 and verse 24, to reveal our need of Christ. And he says that when we trust Christ as our personal Savior, when we trust Christ as our personal Savior, at that very moment, now this is the key to being crucified with Christ. At that very moment that I accept Jesus Christ as my personality, for me, May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, beside my bed or my knees, that moment I called on Christ to be my Savior, that very moment. As far as God was concerned, I was crucified with the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, as far as my standing with God is, now you've got to have your thinking caps on for this. You have to think a little bit. That moment a person trusts Jesus Christ the Savior, as far as the legal record in heaven is concerned, as far as God sees me, my position with Christ. It's as if when Christ was on that cross being crucified, it was me there. And I was being judged for all my sins, past, present, future. When Christ was buried and rose again, it was as if I was in Christ and I was buried and I rose again, justified. He says, I'm crucified with Christ. Positionally, in the eyes of God, in the standing of God, my sins are paid for. The judgment has been carried out on me in the person of Christ. He was in my stead. He was in my place. But as far as God is concerned, it's me that paid that debt for me. You follow what I'm saying? It's like this. Let's suppose this would never happen. But suppose I get a speeding ticket. And let's suppose it's ridiculous. Let's suppose I'm going down to Baltimore and Route 70 hits the by hits the bypass there and the speed limit drops. very rapidly from 70 miles an hour down to about 25 miles an hour. Almost anybody been down there, you know what I'm talking about? You get past that And uh and I keep driving 70 miles an hour and there's a policeman sitting there catching people who keep driving very fast when the uh speed limit goes down. Everybody pictured in your mind? Now I don't know anybody in particular that's ever done this, but uh Um let's just suppose a woman's doing this and um Her husband's on a mission trip. I shouldn't have said that part. But let's suppose the fine is five hundred plus dollars And it's like, man, I don't I don't have 500 bucks. I'm gonna lose my license. That's gonna hinder my ministry. What am I gonna do? And so I got a very wealthy uncle that has far more than $500. And he steps in and says, Dennis, I'll pay that for you. I'll pay that $500 for you. By grace. Just let me do it. I'll do it for you. And he goes and writes the checkout, presents it to the judge, paid in full. And if you would go and look at the record books and the law behind the name Dennis Leatherman, it would say paid. And it would look like, as far as my standing with the court is concerned, I paid that bill. But I didn't. My uncle paid it for me. But standing wise, it's as if I did. Everybody follow what I'm saying? And that is our account with God. The moment I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, my name is written paid in full. Sins are paid in full. Now I didn't pay it I'm crucified with Christ. He paid it. He was buried. He rose again. But I'm in him positionally before God. Everybody follow? I tell you, that's a wonderful truth That means I can never lose my salvation because I've paid for my sins. Not me personally, but in Christ. He did it in my stead. So Paul says, I'm crucified with Christ. It's not keeping the law. And then he says, look, he says, for I'm crucified with Christ, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. It's Him living through me. It's not a liberty to go just live wild in sin And still go to heaven. And it's not a keeping the law and living it or I don't have it. It's not that either. It's me in Christ. He paid the sin and he lives the life for me And I'm in him, and I'm in him. What an amazing thing. Now I'm using me for an example, but it's true to any believer. My standing with God, my positional standing with God right now on June 26, 2022. My positional standing with God is I'm as holy as Jesus Christ, I'm as sinless as Jesus Christ, I'm as pure as Jesus Christ. Now you say, preacher, I know you. There ain't no way you're even close to that. Practically, you're right. But my position in God's eyes. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Now this brings me to my conclusion. How does that affect how I live my life? I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. Because this is true, because my positional standing with God is true Then, me as an individual Christian, I must do this. And you've heard this phrase before, and I'm going to take just a couple moments and try and explain it. I must die to self. My position before God is I've already been died. Old Dennis Sleatherman has died. He was buried and rose again. His sins are paid for. He's accepted by God. Now the now the practical Dennis Leatherman down here. I'm still I'm still kicking. I'm still here. So what I have to do is that old sinful nature, that old what I was, that's still kicking I need to die to that self so that my practical living falls in line with my positional standing. Everybody with me? Die to self. I think one of the most important truths in the Christian living the Christian life is this principle of dying to self. When I was down at Highland Park, Dr. Lee Robertson, I'll bet I I was down there five years. And I'm telling you, I must have heard it 297 times or more. Young people, die to self. As in the preacher boy class, he would tell us, you boys, you young man, you died a self. Die to self. I mean, he drilled it into us. You die to that old sinful nature. You die to that old self-will. Die to self, die to self. Die to your own will. Die to your own will and let the will of God be lived in your life. Die to that old life, that old simple life. Die to that. The Bible says in Colossians, mortify the deeds of the flesh. All through the New Testament, he tells us die to self, die to the sins of the flesh, mortify the deeds of, put off that old man. Don't live the life you were before you came to Christ. Die to that old sinful nature In fact, Jesus told us if we want to be a disciple of Christ, we've got to die to self. He says, if any man in Matthew chapter 16, he said, if any man Follow me. Oh, he said, put it this way, except a man deny himself and take up his cross daily. He cannot be my disciple. Now he doesn't say you can't be saved. I'm not saved by taking up my cross-dying to self. I'm saved by trusting Christ. And then I'm dead. in the eyes of God and buried and rose again. But living the practical life. If I want to be a follower of Christ, if I want to be a disciple of Christ, if I want to live the life that God saved me to live I've got to deny myself and take up my cross. What is a cross? You say, well, it's a beautiful piece of jewelry. Wear around my neck. Oh, it's a beautiful earring that ladies can put in their ears. Oh, it's a nice ornament to put up on the wall. Now, people do all that, and that's fine. I'm not fussing with it. We got one right there. But I'll tell you what a cross is. A cross is an instrument of violent, horrific death. When Jesus says, take up your cross, he's saying you die to yourself. Your self-will, your self-anger, your manipulation to get your way. Your judgment of others, condemning of others, demanding self. Die to all of that. Mortify that. Put that in the grave. That's not what Christ is all about. That's not what living the Christian life is. Living the Christian life is Christ in me. Not living myself, my will, my way. It's Christ's way, His will for my life, His glory. Jesus said, You want to be my disciple, you've got to die to self. Why? Because as far as God's concerned, you've already died, buried, and arose again. That's my position now, practically, live that out. Mortify that old flesh. He said, the Bible tells us that dying to self is necessary if I'm going to be obedient to Christ. We don't have time. Colossians chapter 5, I've referenced it. It says, put off that old man, put off that anger, wrath, fussing and fighting, cheating and lying. Stealing it, carrying on. Died to all of that. There's no place in the Christianity. That needs to be mortified. Put that off. Put on charity. Put on submission, put on purity, goodness, and kindness I need to die to self, I'm going to be a disciple of Christ. I need to die to self, I'm going to be obedient to Christ. And dying to self is necessary if I'm going to bear any spiritual fruit. I love this verse. I wish we had another hour. But we don't. I knew, I know you're all. I I know. But John chapter 12, Jesus made a phenomenal statement, and a lot of people miss it. He said, accept a corn of weed. Fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. If it die, it bringeth forth much fruit That old corn grain, Brother Wilbur, needs to die. It falls in the ground. And there it springs forth and brings new life. If you and I are going to bear any fruit for God, if we're going to win any souls in the week of Bible time, if our witness Is going to bear any fruit. If our preaching of the gospel and our radio broadcasting and our swords and our tracts and our faith promise missions effort, if it's going to bear any fruit We've got to die to self and let Christ work through us and use us and reach others. Amen or not? Die to self, die to self. There is no room in the Christian life for self-will. Not my will, but what? Thy will be done. Die to self. Die to self. George Mueller said, great preacher, he said there was a day. When I died, they asked him how the great ministry had with the orphans. Tens of thousands reached with the gospel. He said, how can this be? What's the secret? He said, it's no secret, there was a day when I died, utterly died, died to George Mueller. His opinions, his preferences, his tastes, his will died to the world and its approval and its censure, died to the approval or blame of even my brethren and friends I died to self. He said that was the key to being used so greatly of God. I don't know if the name James Calvert means anything to you. He was a Methodist preacher out of London back in 18, I think he was 38. He was sent, he was called of God, uh to go down to the South Pacific. And to reach the natives in those islands down there. This is 1838. This is early, early on in the modern missions movement. Packed up their belongings, got support. Of course, it's a several month trip by ship down from London to South Pacific. And as they approached the islands, the Fiji Islands is where they were going. As they approached those islands, the captain of the ship said, I've been here many times. He said, that island is infested with cannibals. Now we joke about cannibals today. We have jokes laugh about it, but it was very real. And as they approached, the captain said to him, he says, listen, I need to tell you, I can't let you off here. If I let you off here and you go on that island, you and your staff and your family will die. And without hesitation, James Calvert looked that ship captain in the eye and he says, We died before we ever got here. What was he saying? We died to self. Whether we live, we're the Lord's, whether we die, we're the Lord's. It's not about us anymore. It's about Christ. About Christ. I tell you, if you're going to be effective missionary, you're going to be used of God in the mission field, you need to die to self. Can I bring it home? If you're going to be an effective Christian, member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we've got to learn to die to self. If I'm going to be an effective pastor, I need to learn to die to self. It's no longer me. My opinion. My will, my way, my praise. Not about any of that. It's about the Lord and His will for my life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. For the Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for salvation. And Lord, I pray you'd help us see the importance of getting ourselves out of this. It's no longer us living, but Christ in us, living through us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I've got that settled, there's no doubt, biblically. But you say, preacher, this matter of dying to self, I really need to give that attention. I need to, I need that. Mary says, any like that by the uplifted hand, I need to learn this matter of dying to self. Not me, but the Lord. How about it? Any others? Any others? I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, this matter of dying to self means I'm going to have to make some decisions that are not easy to make I know there's some actions that need to be taken that are not easy. But you say, preacher, by God's grace, I want the Lord to help me make those hard decisions. Make those changes so it's Christ and Christ alone in his will. Is there any like that? Racher, there are some hard decisions that need to be made. God bless you. Lord never said living the Christian life would be easy. But it is worth it. It is worth it. There's some here this morning who say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I need to get that settled. I need to get that settled. You say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell Say preacher, pray that God will help me settle that. Any at all? Now Father, I ask you to bless our imitation time now and have your way in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand