Chapter number seven, if you would, turn there very quickly. Genesis chapter number seven. And we're just going to read the first six verses. While you're turning there, of course we're week or two I guess. And uh so Emily has her hands full. And uh you know, she's uh single mother taking had these little babies so uh She's got challenges ahead of her and uh we were trying to help and see if there's any way we can help her. You know, it's tough enough uh having your first child raising it, then having twins And then being in her situation, so we want to help her. And uh we asked, what can we do? She goes, I got everything under control, everything under show. She said the only thing that could really help her that she's really being challenged at this point where she could use some outside help is in providing diapers and formula for the little babies. And so uh what I thought we would do is uh whenever we have Lord's Supper we always Always had the deacon's offering afterward and I thought it would be great tonight if when we take that deacon's offering up that could go towards helping her with uh little diapers and I mean there's her little diapers Tiny diapers, you know. And um and uh they're like little kitten diapers, you know, they're little tiny things. And uh and helping her with some formula. So keep that in mind. And uh If the deacons will help me remember afterward to be back there, um that would be a real blessing to the family and a way that we could help her. You know, we don't want to abandon people. Genesis chapter seven, look at verse one through six with me. The Bible says, And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou in all thy house Male and his female. Of fowls also of the air by sevens, male and f and the female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth, for yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him. And Noah was six hundred years old When the flood of the earth was when the flood of waters was upon the earth. I'm entitled the message tonight, Crunch Time. I think I'm am I on My heart's been blessed in serving you today and in fellowshipping with your people and and seeing you work in people's lives and and uh uh working through our church. We give you the glory, Lord. And we pray now as we finish out today in the Word of God and around the Lord's table that you would meet with us in a very special way. Make your presence uh help us to be aware, Lord, in a And I pray we can go into this coming week, filled with your spirit, confident in our walk with you, and Lord, uh uh burden for your will to be a I yield my will and my body to you, and uh speak through me is my prayer in Jesus' name We are studying here, if you give it some thought, this is the great single judgment of God upon earth So far. God is judging the earth in ways he never has. The only except the only judgment coming that would come anywhere close to what God is doing here is going to be during the seven-year tribulation period So this is an incredible event. This uh universal flood is an incredible event. For 120 years, no Has been building this ark. He's been cutting down trees, no doubt. He's been uh uh finishing the wood, bringing it in. I've got it turned on there. All right. Where are you? Tell me to do is what I'll do. Alrighty. I'll bet Noah didn't have sound systems. For 120 years he's been working on this art. Now keep in mind, this is an actual event that took place. Noah was a real person just like you and I. This is a real world. Everything is, you know, it is literal. And so what I like to do, and I think it's good for us, is to put ourselves back in that And try and visualize, picture in our mind and experience to some degree what exactly is happening. For 120 years, that's longer than any of us have been alive. That's even longer than any of us longer than Jesse's been alive. Uh for 120 years. Noah has been building this thing, working, cutting wood, hammering scaffolding no doubt or some sort of thing like that. And he's got this ark built. He's been working at this thing for 120 years. So now, at this point in the story, in the record of this event, the Ark is built But there ain't no water, no rain, no floods, just this big old arc standing there. Uh no doubt braced up somehow. Now we're on this side of the flood. We're looking back. And from our perspective, him building this flood makes sense. Do I have your attention? Him building this flood makes sense. Him building this flood. God told him to build a flood. Didn't you read that in there? Him building this ark makes Total sense. So from our perspective, looking back, yeah, building an arc there, no problem, there's going to be a flood. But look at it from his perspective The only thing Noah knows is that God told him it's going to flood. There's no clouds. Up to this point, there's not been any rain. They've never seen floods before. And so you have the whole community, perhaps a large population. They're coming by and they see this huge ark that Noah built. Well, some of them perhaps, said Linda Hand, and it's just setting there. You imagine working 120 years on a job and there's no indication whatsoever that what you made is not Necessary. So keep that in mind. He has been planning this whole time and putting together the Necessary provisions to live in this thing for a year. Not just him, but all these other animals. And so he's been putting all this and he's got this all stuck. piled up. Now granted, I the Bible doesn't say this, but this is seven days before the flood's going to hit. I would venture to say there's animals, strange sightings of animals all throughout that countryside. These animals are making their way in from all around the known world. Very possible at that point in time all the continents were one. There's perhaps just most likely in my mind there's just one continent So they had land access from all the parts of the dry ground. And so these animals are showing up, and Noah's putting all this together. So he's got an ark, he's got all these provisions. Sign of a flood. Here's something else to consider. He's been preaching for a hundred and twenty years, and nobody has gotten saved. Nobody's signed up to get on this ark other than his immediate family. Nobody's committed. It's him and his wife and his boys and their wives. That's it. Now we're down to the final days. Arts built, no flood. Animals are ascended, are all assembled there, their belongings are packed up. He's preached his last sermon, perhaps. It's crunch time. It's crunch time. First thing I want us to notice is notice that God gives some concluding instructions. Look with me if you would at verse 2. Now we looked at verse 1 last week. Verse 2, of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female. And of the beasts that are not clean, by two, the male and the female. Now he had been told previously about the two by two business. Now God is giving some last-minute instructions And he's saying kind of he doesn't say by the way, but in my mind I see, oh by the way, all those clean beasts, you need seven of those. Now here's the question. Does God mean in verse is something you guys, some trivia you can debate about here a little bit. bit. Well when God says of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and the female, does God mean seven pairs? Seven which would be fourteen animals, seven male, seven female. Does he mean seven pairs? Or does he mean seven individuals? individual animals, which would have to be, if it was seven individual animals, there would have to be an odd man ale. Right? You can't have pairs if there's seven. So somebody either there's a male or a female extra. You follow what I'm saying? And so what's the answer? I don't know. Uh I'll tell you what I think later. You can give me a quarter. I'll tell you what what I think later. But we don't know the answer to that. But regardless of whether it's seven, I tend to think it's seven individual animals, but we don't know Regardless of the fact, this is a pretty large number of animals. Um we're not given the list of what God says is clean and unclean until you get to the law given in Israel. So but there's a lot of animals that are clean. And so he's instructed to bring these seven extra animals in, in addition to the two by two. Now the question is, here's another question. Why would he be instructed to bring seven clean animals? We're a small winter crowd here tonight. Anybody want to take a shot? I think there's two reasons. Alright, one he would need a sacrifice, and the only acceptable sacrifice would be a clean animal. So he's going to need some sacrifices, perhaps, during the trip. We know he needs one when he gets off, because the first thing he does is builds an altar. So sacrifices, I want to suggest to you there's a second reason. Food. Now at this point in time, they're not eating animals. You're aware of that. It's not until they get off the ark that God gives the instructions that now you eat meat. So they don't need these clean animals to they're not having chicken chic fried chicken on the ark. Alright, so the chickens are safe at this point in time. They're eating vegetables, fruits and vegetables. They're vegetarian. at this point. But God is planning ahead. And I think God is preparing him and his family to have provisions that when they get out, it's going to take a period of time for the plants to grow. It's going to take a period of time for fruit to come on the trees. And so they're going to need something to eat when they immediately get out, assuming they ate their uh their uh provisions. And so God's planning ahead and God's taking care of it. So God gives some final uh concluding instructions here. The second thing I notice is uh a countdown begins Again, look with me at verse number four. Yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth, 40 days and 40 nights. So now God's given him a timeline. Now it's not I'm going to flood the earth. I'm going to flood the earth. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. Now God gives him a very specific timeline, and God says, Alright, Noah, it's crunch time. Seven days. Whoa. I knew it was coming. I've known for 120 years this day was that it was coming. Now I'm down to seven days. Now I know exactly When that flood's going to happen and when that's going to take place. Noah had diligently obeyed God for all these years. And I think God's telling him, listen, this is not the time to slack up, Noah. This is not the time to sit back. You've got seven days to bring all this thing together. Now from what I understand of Noah and studying this I think he's doing fine as far as getting the job done. Would you agree with me? I think the art's finished. I don't think he's scrambling around. Oh no, we're behind schedule. I think he's doing good He's already, but God is giving the instructions. Now here's the thing. The closer the judgment of God comes The more urgent it is that Noah does exactly what God says. And I believe that's true for you and I. Do you realize we are one week closer? To the rapture of the church today than we were last Sunday. Think about that? We are a day closer to the second coming of Christ today than we were yesterday at this time. And every day that slips by, I believe the urgency of our ministry for the Lord increases. It is more important, now if you'll bear with me, I believe it's more important this coming week that we be faithful to God and serve Him than it was last week. Does that make sense? Every day that goes by, the urgency increases. The uh diligence on our part becomes more necessary Now God says to Noah, hey Noah, seven days. We're down to crunch time. Don't you slack up? We got to get those clean animals You need to set them apart. You need to have them prepared. It is time to stay at this. Do not slack up. Don't kick back. It's crunch time. When I work with Neighborhood Bible time throughout the year, Bible time's through the summer, of course, as we're aware. Well November uh beginning say September and then through the winter months everything was putting away the old materials and organizing them and putting them up and preparing for the coming year And it was full time. About April, when uh when the schools are winding down, it's time for the evangelists to come out for training. Brother Holmeshare used to say to us all the time, it's crunch time, boys, it's crunch time. To the staff, again, we're in crunch time. And man, we would work ten, fifteen, sometimes sixteen hour days getting ready for them to I believe that's what God's saying here. Now here's the thing. God operates on a schedule. Did you ever notice that? God operates on a schedule. God doesn't wing it. You know what I'm talking about? How many folks here ever wing it? Do you ever wing it? Yeah. Um, you know, preachers wing it sometimes. Uh God doesn't wing it He's got it all planned out. This flood is coming, whether the world's ready for it or not. Seven days, it's happening. I want to suggest to you, when Jesus came to earth at his incarnation, he was coming, whether Israel was ready for him or not. The time was fulfilled for the Son of God to uh take on flesh. And he was coming. Well, Israel was not ready. They weren't watching you. They should have been aware, he says. You should have known what uh what the time was. You should have been aware of uh of what was happening, and you weren't. God says he operates on a Schedule. Uh the rapture is going to take place whether we're ready for it or not. God has a time and place. Did you know there are no prophecies that need to be fulfilled before the rapture of the church? Did you ever know there are no events to take place? The coming the rapture of the church is what's called imminent. It can be at any time. How many folks here ever heard a preacher preach? And I'm not going to take issue with them. Well, there's a certain number of people get saved, and when that last sinner gets saved, then the rapture of the church is going to take place. Anybody ever hear that? I may have preached that. You know what? I don't believe that's true. I believe God has a set time, the rapture is going to take place, whether that sinner gets saved or not. There's no event, there's no certain number of people have to get saved before the rapture. There's no prophecies that need to be fulfilled. There's no political people have to be in place. The rapture's coming back whether Rapture's taking place whether we're ready for it or not. God operates on a timetable. The Bible tells us in Hebrews, it is appointed unto man once to what? That word appointed means a time and place, a very specific date and time. God's laid it got it laid out. Listen, when our appointed time shows up, we're gonna die whether we're ready or not How many folks here ever knew someone that died before they were saved? Were they ready? No, they weren't ready. But that death showed up. God operates On a schedule. And he says to Noah, he says to Noah, you've got seven days. You got seven days. Don't slack up now. Uh countdown's begun. The day after tomorrow you've got six days. The next day you've got five, four, three, two. Next day, floods coming. And so God is operating on a timetable. I believe this. Whatever Noah was going to do in preparation, he's got to do it now. You agree with me? Listen, whatever we're going to do for the Lord, we've got to do it now. People say to me, Preacher, I'm one of these days I'm going to get involved in soul winning. Well, praise the Lord. I'm glad for that. But if you're going to do it, you better do it now We're in crunch time. You agree with me on that? We're in crunch time. Well, preacher, I'm going to get things right with my family, and uh I know there's someone out of whack and one of these days I'm gonna make it right. Listen, if you're gonna do it, you better do it now. Well, preacher, one day someday I'm gonna do this. Someday, someday, a lot of people die and go to hell someday plan on getting saved. So the countdown has begun. Let me give you this last thought Brother, this is the shortest message I've preached in a long time. I felt so bad this morning preaching long that I'm shortening it tonight. And all God's people said, some of them did. Now that this is what I like, this is what I was wanting to get to in this message. Verse 5. Look at this. And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him. Didn't we hear this verse sometime recently? Look back in chapter 6, the last verse of chapter 6. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded. him. I put it this way. First of all, we have the uh concluding instructions by God. Hey Noah, by the way, quickly uh we got to get these seven clean animals together and all that The countdown's begun. Noah, seven days. Seven days from now, one week's all you got. And then he restates Noah's character. He says that almost exact same phrase again that he used in chapter 6 at the end. And then you get later on in the in the chapter 7, and he says about Noah doing what God said. Doing what God said. Why does God keep repeating the fact that Noah did exactly what God told him to do. I believe because it's important to God that we obey him God repeatedly states the fact that Noah was a man of exceptional obedience. He obeyed God. God says it over and over. Noah obeyed me. Noah did everything I told him to do. Noah did exactly what I commanded him. What a testimony. Testimony of Noah. He was a man of exceptional obedience. His obedience was not temporary. It was long-term. We all know folks. Maybe they get saved, join a church, boy they get on fire for God for a couple months, maybe a year or two, and they fade out. You know what I'm talking about? We've all seen that. Pews are empty where they once sat Noah, for 120 years, just kept right on doing what God told him to do, kept right on doing what God told him to do. Serving God, living for God, is not a 50-yard dash. It is a lifetime marathon. And what God is looking for are people who are just going to keep on obeying him year after year after year after year after year. Just staying right at it. Here we have the time, seven days, and the flood begins, and God says, you know, this whole time Noah's been doing exactly what I've told him to do. He's just stayed at it. He's just kept obeying me. Um, Noah's obedience was not temporal, it was not short-term, it was long-term obedience. Now, this is what struck me. In preparing this message. How many folks are still with me? Everybody doing okay? Think about this. Noah's world is about to change in ways he cannot even imagine. He has no idea What he's about to be going into. The people he's working with, his neighbors, the people he does business with, perhaps his cousins. nephews, nieces, aunts and uncles, family, extended family members. In seven days, he's never going to see them again. He knows that. He has no idea what a universal worldwide flood is going to be like. He doesn't know how long it's going to last at this point. Is it going to be years? Is it going to be a decade in this thing? Is it going to be a couple weeks? His world is about to absolutely be turned upside down. What's the world going to be like when he gets off of this flood? It's off of this ark Nobody's going to be alive. God says repeatedly, I'm going to kill every living thing. Everything that breathes air is going to be dead. I imagine going through Noah's mind What in the world? What kind of world am I gonna come out of this ark into? World's about to change beyond his imagination. He's about to lose every friend and acquaintance he's ever had outside of his immediate family. And here Here's the thing. He did not quit obeying God. He just kept right on doing right, right on doing right. Fact of the matter is, none of us know what shape we're going to be in next year this time. You agree with me? Very real possibility some of us will not be here. We'll not be walking on this planet. I'm talking young and old, we have no idea. We have no idea what our financial situations are. going to be in a year from now. We hope, we plan, but we don't know. We don't know what our health is going to be like. It's a very real possibility some of us here next year this time we're going to be eat up with cancer This time we have no idea we have it. Right or wrong. Noah's world's about to be turned upside down But here's the thing. He just kept on trusting God and doing right. And that's what we've got to do We have no idea what we're facing. I don't know what God's countdown holds for you and I. It could be something horrific. It could be something incredible blessing. But I know this, God wants us to just keep on obeying them. Keep on obeying them. Keep on obeying them. Just keep on doing right. Say, preacher, if I do right, it's going to cost me every friend. Then do right. Preacher, if I do right, it's going to cost me my income. Then do right. Preacher, if I do right, it might cost my health. It might, I might lose my life. Hey, that day's coming. Then let's just do right. Noah did all that God commanded him. Say, preacher, what does God want me to do? He wants you to obey him. Wants you to do what he says. What does that involve? Let me throw some suggestions out and I quit. How about reading your Bible every single day? How about being faithful to church? How about keeping that world's influence out and away from us? How about staying close to the Lord? Hey, how about this? How about uh doing all we can to try and win others to Christ? What about trying to help each other? Be a blessing. To lift others up, encourage them, and help them in the Lord. God wants us to obey Him. Crunch time. Won't it be something if the rapture happens this year? Where would we be next year this time? If the rapture happens this year? For saved will be with the Lord in the air. Unsaved, left behind. Let's do right. Father in heaven, I'd pray or I tried to rush through this a little bit maybe, but I pray you'd help us to learn from Noah. She comes down to the last few days before this flood hits the earth. And we find Noah just plugging away, doing the right thing, trusting you and obeying you. And I pray that would be true of me and of all of us Us. As we go into this new year, God, we don't know what this new year holds. But help us just trust you. Just do what you tell us to do. With our heads bowed and eyes closed.