Chapter three, verses seven through thirteen. Okay, we're gonna look at uh Galatians chapter three, verses seven through thirteen. And when we get to verse eleven, we're all gonna read that out loud together in unison. Verse 7 Know ye therefore that they which are of the of faith, the same are the children of Abraham, and the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through through faith preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that continueth, not in all things which are written in the book of the law, to do them. Verse 11. But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident for the just shall live by faith. And the law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them. Verse 13 Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law. Being made of being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, again we uh thank you for today. Uh Father, pray you would speak to our hearts through the message that our pastor has for us. Uh Father, I do pray that you would uh give him complete filling of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Your Bibles turn back to Galatians chapter number three. Galatians chapter three. How many folks feel like you're getting a little old? Anyone feel like you're getting old? Some signs that you're growing old. One is your kids are becoming you and you don't like them, but your grandkids are perfect. Sign you're getting old, going out is good, but coming home is better. Uh you sign you're growing old when people say you look great, then they add for your age. Um when you needed a discount you had to pay full price. Now you get discounts on everything, but you're too tired to use it Uh you forget people's names but they don't mind because they forgot they even knew you. And um Oh, I'm trying to pick out the best ones. None of them are that great to be honest with you. Uh your husband sleeps better on the lounge chair with the TV blaring than he does in bed. And uh that'll that's sufficient for right now. So there's only one option there's only one other option to growing old, you know. So I'll grow old, I don't mind Alright, Galatians chapter 3. If you would notice with me, I just want to read verse number 10. Galatians chapter 3. And verse number ten. The Bible says, For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. I want to talk to you this morning about being cursed. The Bible talks about people being cursed. Let's pray and ask the Lord Father, uh, we're grateful for the services this morning. The Sunday school hour was a blessing, the music has been a blessing, the fellowship. Now, Lord, we look into your word and we're asking that you You would speak to our hearts. God, uh, you are the author of this book, and so we're asking that you would this morning be the teacher and the preacher. I yield myself to you, my will to yours. Present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit, Lord. Speak through me. Open our hearts and minds. Help us to be obedient to uh what you speak to our hearts about. Help us to trust you. Help us to grow in our faith, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Did you ever notice that man has a fascination with curses? A lot of novels are written around that. You've heard uh have you ever heard of the curse of King Tut's tomb? You've heard about that, the people that come in there. There's the uh Hope Diamond Curse is a big thing that um something all about that. The curse of Bambino. How many people ever heard of the curse of Bambino? Who's that about? Babe Ruth and the Boston Red Sox. And uh the idea is when they sold him off they were cursed and all these years of lost. So uh curses. Man is uh is captivated by them These curses that I made reference to, the Bambino and all that stuff, those are nonsense. And they're rooted, and others like them are rooted in superstition. We really don't need to worry about that. I'm not much of a superstitious guy. A black cat goes in front of me, I just speed up, you know? And um so it doesn't bother me too much, things like that But there is a curse that we all must take very seriously, and we need to face very fearfully, I believe Notice our text again with me, verse number 10, Galatians 3. As many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, cursed is everyone That continueth not in all the things that are written in the book of the law to do that. Now Brother Mike read verses 7 through 13. In that passage, the word curse or the word cursed is used five times. I circled them. Verse 10. And then again in verse 13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. As is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Five times God makes reference to someone or something being cursed The word curse is an interesting word as it's used here. It means this: it means to be bound or held under the vengeance of a supernatural power. That's what the word as it's used in the Bible here means. To be bound, tied down, or to be held. Under the vengeance, or another definition, another dictionary had the definition, the wrath of a supernatural being. To be unable to escape the vengeance of God, curse There are two curses mentioned in this portion of Scripture, referred to. The first Is the curse of being under the law of God. And that was verse number 10. If I do not live up to the law that God has given us, the Bible says I am cursed. I have the curse of the law. In other words, I am held under, bound, under the wrath of God. The curse of the law. He's actually, verse 10, he is making reference back to Deuteronomy 27 and verse 26, when God threw Moses. was rehearsing the law and making application and when he was done he set made the statement if you don't if I'm putting my own words here he basically said if you don't live up to what God has say set put here you are under his wrath His curse is on you. And then the second curse referred to here in this passage of scripture is in verse number 13, and that is this: the curse of being hung on a tree Now that sounds strange to you and I, but it's actually a reference of Deuteronomy 21, verse 23, where God said that if a man is hanged on a tree, whether it's by a rope or with nails, If he's hanged by a tree, he is not to be left on that tree overnight, because cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. Now you think, why in the world would God say a person is cursed under God's wrath if they hang on a tree? I believe That in Deuteronomy 21, verse 23, God, when he makes this first statement, when he initiates this curse He is actually pointing to the time when his son would hang on a tree and become a curse for us. You could call this the curse of the cross. So we have presented to us here in Galatians chapter 3, verse 10 and verse 13 in particular, these two curses. The curse of the law. God's wrath on those who do not live up to the law and the curse of the cross. God's wrath on the one that hangs on the cross. Two curses. Now, I want to suggest to you that our understanding of these two curses, our relationship with them, where we're at, As far as these two curses are concerned, determines our relationship with God. Determines our standing with God. Which leads me to this question And by the way, I believe this is the most important question a preacher could ever ask a congregation. I believe this is the most important question a Christian, a person, could ever ask another person. And that is this. Are you right now under the curse of God Take, I believe we need to take this question to heart. Am I under the curse of God's law? Am I right now under the wrath of God for my sin of not living up to God's law? The curse of the law. Look at verse 10 again with me, if you would, please. As many as of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written. Cursed is, what's the next two words? Everyone that continueth not in the things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Now, what's he saying? He's saying any person, it's not that just maybe for a period of time I did what God's law requires. It means continuing in it. Every person who does not live their life continually in total obedience to God's law Is under the curse of that law, under the wrath of Almighty God. So, this is the most important question I could possibly ask. Are you right now under the curse of God's law Now, I want us to first of all realize what the curse of the law is. Now, we're memorizing the Ten Commandments. For the rest of the year. Wrong commandment number two. Now you've noticed I've elaborated, I've taken a fair portion of scripture from the commands. I'm not just pulling the one little phrase out. How many people notice that in our memorization I'm trying to get the whole context of the command. Now, later on, some of the commands are very brief and to the point. But what do we mean by God's law? What are we talking about when we say the curse of the law? What do we mean by the law of God? For the most part, when the Bible makes reference to the law of God, though it includes all the commandments of his word Generally, it is boiled down to the ten commandments that God has given us. The law Now, when we study the Bible and we study what the Bible teaches us about the law, we find that God's law is good. Um 1 Timothy 1 8 says, the law is good. The law that God has given to mankind It's a good law. The Bible also teaches us in Romans chapter 7 and verse 12 that God's law is holy. God's law is holy. Now, God's commandments are not, is not what our problem is. That's not where the problem is. You say, well, if God's law is good and God's law is holy, what's the deal with the curse? Well is there something is there something about it? No, there's nothing wrong with the law of God. The law of God is holy. The law of God is good The law of God is not our problem. God's law, and we touched on this in a message a few weeks ago, God's law is really an expression of His holiness. Now there is one aspect of God that modern Christianity, I believe, has chosen to deliberately disregard. And that is this. Our God is a holy God. Holy God. And the law of God is an expression of that holiness. It is a manifestation of that holiness. It's a result of God's holiness. God has given to man his law because that law is an expression of what he is. Holy. Now, what does it mean to be holy? Somebody says, oh, that's the holy sanctuary. Fact of the matter is, man's definition of holy and understanding of something being holy borders on superstition much of the time. The Bible talks about something being holy. It simply means this. It means that person or that object is separated from all other uses for one particular use. Alright, you follow what I'm saying? I think I have a little too much volume up here, Sam. Just a tad bit. If something is holy, in other words, when we say God is holy, That means everything about God is good and pure and right There is nothing impure about God. In fact, there's nothing even neutral. Are you with me? Nothing even morally neutral. It is 100% pure righteousness when we're talking about God's holiness. And so he gives to man, who is created in his image, who is created for the purpose of having fellowship with God, his holiness It's i out of his holiness comes this law. That man that is that is That is man is obligated to keep if he is going to have a relationship, if he is going to know this holy God. Alright? Is everybody with me? I I know this is a little theological here this morning But this is vitally important. The law of God. God's law is an expression of his holy nature. The curse of the law takes effect when we, as God's creation, violate His holiness. Um when we behave ourselves contrary to God's holy nature. You say, how do I know if I'm acting Contrary to the holiness of God, if I am breaking one of his commands. Alright, are you with me? If I violate his command, then I am behaving, I am contrary to his holiness. And that brings his curse, his wrath upon me. So God's law, we misunderstand what the law is. God's law is an expression of His holiness. It is a requirement For any being to have any interaction with him at all, we must meet up to that holiness. Because God is of purer eyes than the look on anything unholy. God is such a God that sin cannot be in His presence, and thus we have the law. And we violate that law when we do not behave or operate by it. Now, why did God give us the law? Why did God give the Ten Commandments? God never gave the Ten Commandments as a means of salvation. Alright? Are you with me? I know this isn't the most dynamic message I've ever preached, but It is important. We're going somewhere with this. God never gave his law to mankind so that that way man can be saved. It's not a means of earning some merit with God. Um how many guys when you were dating uh years ago, you would do things uh for your wife and you were hoping maybe it would earn you some points. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You'd open the door. Come on. I know you guys did that. You'd buy her flowers. You're trying to earn merit with her. You're trying, tell me if I'm right or wrong, you're trying to gain her favor Right? And you do all these ridiculous things to try and earn merit with her. Listen, God never gave us the law as a means of us earning his favor. God did not give us the law so that we can get merit with him and somehow, oh now God likes me. Uh it's not you know how uh you say your wife, you do something for you, you say, Well how do you like me now You know. It's not we keep the law and uh then we say, Well God, how do you like me now? I didn't kill anybody today. You follow what I'm saying? The law was not given to save us. It was not a means of earning merit or favor with God The law was given on Mount Sinai to Israel and to all of mankind to reveal to mankind the awful holiness of our God. The fearful, awful holiness of the true God. The law was given. To reveal to sinful man, I put it this way, the holy unapproachableness of our God. Now, I am convinced. We've been studying the doctrine of God in Bible Institute on Monday evenings. I am convinced every year I teach that, every year goes by, I am more convinced That man has a fundamental misunderstanding of what our God really is like. We have our own concepts, we have our own ideas. But when you study the Bible and you look at God's interaction with man, particularly in the Old Testament, but doesn't contradict it in the New Testament, we find a God that is fearfully holy. We find a God that is unapproachably holy. And the law is simply an expression of that. The law was given on Mount Sinai to mankind to reveal the awful holiness of our God, to reveal the unapproachableness of our God. And thus to sin against the law. Even slightly is to sin against the awful holiness of God. And thus to bring myself under his judgment, to bring myself under his wrath. To bring myself under the curse of God when I break his law and violate his holiness. Jonathan Edwards preached a message years ago that sparked a powerful revival through New England. And the title of its message itself is a powerful statement. The message was this: Sinners. In the hands of an angry God. Now, I don't see God as being angry. God's anger and the Bible speaks of God's anger. The Bible speaks much of God's wrath God's anger and God's wrath is a response of the holiness of God To man's violation of his holiness. Follow what I'm saying? God's not an angry God just for the sake of being angry You know there's people out there, probably people in here, are angry just because they're angry. That's just the way they are. Anybody ever meet someone like that? They're just angry. It's mad everybody and everything old time. Wives are saying, Yeah, my husband God's not just angry, God is holy. And the violation of his holiness produces. The natural response of holiness to unholiness is wrath. And so, when I sin against God's law, even slightly, what we would consider slightly I am breaking the barrier of God's holiness. I am transgressing. And thus I bring God's wrath on me. Again, look with me at verse 10, Galatians chapter 3. He says, For as many are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, now look, this is God's word. Cursed is everyone that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Bound under the vengeance and wrath of a holy God is every person who does not obey perfectly the law of God, that is a manifestation of his holiness. To sin against the law, even slightly, is to sin against the awful holiness of our God, place ourselves under his curse. Now, what does the Bible teach about this curse of the law? I tried to explain what we mean by that just now. Now what does the Bible Teach about it. Well, there's a number of things that we learn from studying the Bible about this curse of all. And by the way, let me stop and ask this question again Are you now under the curse of God's law? Are you still under that curse? Have you broken God's law at any to any degree? Important question What does the Bible teach about the curse of God's law? Somebody says, Well, preacher, I'm I'm a church member. I couldn't be under the curse of God's law. The Bible says nothing. This passage of red says nothing about church membership. So well I've been baptized. It says nothing about baptism. Well I'm a I sing in a choir. I'm a Sunday school superintendent. I uh I teach Sunday school. I'm this, that, and the other. The Bible says nothing about that. The question is: have I violated God's law at any point? And if I violated God's law, I've placed myself under the curse of that law, the wrath of God for violating that law. Now, what does the Bible teach us about this curse of the law? Well, one thing we notice is that it teaches us that this curse of the law is a universal curse. Now what do we mean by universal? If something's universal, what does it mean? It's everybody, everywhere, the whole universe. So when we say the curse of God's law is universe, what we mean by that, it's on everybody. Um History teaches us that no man has lived throughout his life without violating God's law to some point. Nobody in this auditorium, nobody And this auditorium would have the audacity to stand up and say, Preacher, I have kept the holy law of God without fail my entire life. Nobody would say that. Nobody would be foolish enough. History, you study through history, you study mankind And you find that in regardless of environment, regardless of education, regardless of status in society regardless of color of skin, regardless of nationality, regardless of age, regardless of gender, mankind is lived in sin and disobeyed disobeyed the laws of God. Now we try to excuse that, we try to justify that. We say, well, this is why I you know the fact of the matter is there's no the why is not a factor And the curse of the law of God, the being bound under the wrath of God. History teaches us that, and scripture teaches us that. All through Scripture we find passages. Let me just give a few to you real quickly. I'll just put them in my own words. 1 Kings 8. 46. 1 Kings 8. 46. There is none who do not sin. Now I'm putting these in my own words. Psalms 130, verse 3. If the Lord would keep a record of sin, who could stand? Psalms 143, too. There is no living man righteous before God. Proverbs 20, verse 9. Who can say, I have kept my heart pure, I am clean before the Lord? Ecclesiastes seven twenty There is not a righteous man on earth who does right. Isaiah fifty three and verse six for all we like sheep have gone astray. Romans three hundred ten There is none righteous, no not one. Romans 3. 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Job 9. 2. Job asked the question, How can a mortal man be righteous with God? And the answer is we cannot in and of ourselves. We've broken God's law. We've sinned against God. Somebody says, well, preacher, I'm not that bad. I mean, I'm not perfect, but good night. To be, you're saying I'm accursed of God? I'm bound under the vengeance of God? Come on, I'm not That bad I've never committed murder. I've never committed adultery. I'm a decent honest person Fact of the matter is, God's holiness applies to every area. Regardless of the degree of violation, it's the fact of violation that brings his curse. Study the scriptures. I've made this statement a number of times in the Bible, in sermons and preaching from the Bible, is this. It is not all sin Does not have the same consequences. All sin is not equal in its consequences, but all sin is equal in its condemnation. You see, the Pharisees tried that on Jesus. They said, Well, we uh give to the poor, we do all these things. And Jesus says, you know. The law says you should not commit adultery. Jesus said, But I say unto you That if a man looks on a woman to lust at her, he has already committed adultery where? His heart. Good night. He says uh the law says you should um uh you shouldn't kill another. You should not murder. He said, but I say unto you If you have hatred in your heart towards another, you're a murderer. You see, all sick. Now let me ask you a question. Which would you rather have someone do to you? Would you rather have someone murder you or would you rather have someone hate you in their heart? I'd rather they hate me in the heart. In fact, I've had a lot of people hate me in the heart. Nobody's murdered me yet And I'm glad. Alright? How many pe how many are glad no one's murdered you? So the consequences of hating someone in your heart and murdering them are not the same. Do you agree with me? Yes, it's true. But the law condemns them the same. And so whether I've actually carried it out or not, or whether I've just considered it in my heart, either case, God's holiness has been violated. And I'm guilty. I'm under the curse. The curse of God is universal. Take your Bibles, if you would, real quickly, if you would. Just turn with me to the book of James. This is probably one of the most convicting verses in the Bible. I heard someone say, in that case, I'm not looking it up James chapter two and verse ten. How many people believe the Bible's God's Word? Absolute Word of God. You know what? I am more convinced today than I've ever been in my life that that book is the Word of God. Given to us by God. Absolutely convinced of it. Notice what he says in James chapter 2 and verse 10. For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in what? One point is guilty of what? Oh. You say, how can that be? How can I, alright, when I was 10, I told a lie. How can I be condemned to the law the same as the guy in prison tonight for killing five people? How can we both be guilty? It is not the degree of disobedience, as I said before, it is the fact of violation. God is perfectly holy, and anything other than perfect submission to that holiness brings his wrath. For instance, I've used this illustration before, if I remember correctly, I used Tom before. But I I had him up here, I won't do it now. But suppose we had someone standing here. Suppose I had a VW Bug car. How many people know what I'm talking about? VW peace bug call uh herbie. The love bug. Alright? Everybody know what I'm talking about? How many people know what I'm talking about? Raise your hand. How many people don't know what I'm talking about? Raise your hand How many people aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I ask you to do? Suppose we have a Volkswagen bug setting over top of Tom's head. And there's a chain There's a chain link fence, a chain link chain, holding it to a giant beam up there. And Tom is tied up here, and I have that over. On the one link is adultery, on the next link is blasphemy, on the next link is false worship, on the next link is lying, on the next link is stealing, on the next Think is this on your parents How many of those lengths would I have to break for Tan to be crushed by that Volkswagen bug? Just one. You wouldn't have to break the whole chain If you break one of those links, you're paying the same price as if you broke them all. Are you with me? So what James is talking about here is that God's law, you don't have to break nine of them, or five of them, or two of them, or all ten of them, to become under the curse of God. All you gotta do is violate what? And God's wrath, because he's holy, is upon me. So it's universal. We study the Bible, we find that God's the curse of God's law, yet this is a just curse. I believe, and I said this at the beginning of the message, we grossly underestimate the holiness of God. Satan has convinced man that God's holiness is really not that big of a deal. In fact, the very word holy has become so distorted, so misunderstood And when God says that his wrath, his curse, his vengeance, his judgment is upon the one who violates his law even slightly, hey, that's just and fair. Because of the intense holiness of our God. What we may consider an insignificant sin. Is a violation of God's perfect holiness. What we may consider a civilized sin. Is still a violation of God's holiness. That's why the most upstanding citizen in a community, respected and loved by all And the Wino heroin addict in the street are both equally condemned by God. Because God's holiness, any violation of it. Brings a wrath. God is just. This curse is a just curse. We think, well, it's not that big a deal. We excuse and justify in our minds our disobedience to God. We can come up with every reason in the world why we are okay in not doing what God says. And the fact of the matter is, it's God's holiness that is the issue, not our reasoning. Well, it's just something little. Did you ever think about Adam and Eve? Did you ever read that record in Genesis? Of Eve's disobedience and ate of the forbidden fruit, and then Adam joining in with her? Did you ever read that and think, good night? What's the big deal? All they did was eat a fruit. Anybody ever think that? About three people. I thought that. Sandy never did, but others have What's the big deal? All they I mean it's not like they murdered somebody. It's not like they went and robbed the first Bank of Eton, you know, or Oh it oh it is. Oh it is. Man, how many of us have said that? I don't know what the big deal is. I don't know what the big deal is. All I did was I tell you what the big deal is, it's God's holiness is the big deal. If it wasn't that big a deal, then why did they eat it? Huh? It's just eight of fruit. Well then why why why do you have to eat it so badly? All I did was stay home from church. Then why do you have to if it's just not that big a deal, then why do you have to stay home from church? I didn't think I'd get a whole lot of amens there, but I'm simply saying this. We can excuse and we belittle and we just minimize our disobedience when in reality it is the holiness of God that is at stake. So God's wrath, God's curse, this curse of God's law is a just curse. As I said, not all sin has equal consequences, but all sin has equal condemnation. And so Adam and Eve were banished from the Garden of Eden because they ate of forbidden fruit, just as much as if Eve would have murdered Adam. It was a violation of God's holiness. The curse of God's law is universal, it's just, and it is an overwhelmingly fearful curse. My, how thoughtlessly mankind mocks God. How little we think of the wrath of God upon our disobedience. How insignificant God's word and God's law is to so many people who claim to be Christian And yet God's law is disregarded. And mankind as a whole mocks God, blasphemes God. Lives in direct rebellion against the clear commands of God and gives it no thought. As to what God's response is to that. How little man thinks of the wrath of God. What exactly is the curse of the law that Galatians 3:10 talks about? What is that? What is the wrath of God? I've done what I've wanted. I haven't obeyed God's law and I don't see any wrath on me. I like what the one preacher said. God doesn't always pay his bills on Friday. The curse of God is the eternal Wrath, sorrow, judgment of outer darkness, and eternal separation from God There's various terms used in the Bible to refer to the ultimate end of the wrath and curse of God. Jesus referred to it as a place called hell. The most horrific circumstance a person could ever find themselves in. is in a place called hell. And by the way, I'm of the mind that hell is exactly the way Jesus described it. And how little this world thinks about the afterlife, and how little this world gives consideration about where they're going to spend eternity Never thinking about their disobedience to God, never considering whether they are under the curse and judgment of God or not. Never giving any thought to where they're going to spend eternity. How many times I have knocked on doors in the last seventeen years And I've asked people, do you ever think about where you're going to spend eternity? Do you ever give any mind about heaven and hell? And how many times people have said to me, No, preacher, I don't even think about that The wrath of God, the judgment of God. In that message, sinners in the hands of an angry God. Jonathan Edwards, you took a reference, I believe, from Jeremiah, and he said they are like men walking on slippery rocks. And the very next step could be the fall into an eternal hell. He said, we are like people hanging by a spider's thread. Of a web, the thread of a spider's web. And all it takes is the slightest breeze, the slightest disruption, and we fall into a devil's hell. And the record, the historical record of the night he preached that sermon, tells us that people were in their pews, hanging on the pews, crying out, Oh God, have mercy on me! Oh God, have mercy on me. I believe when we get to the point where we comprehend to some degree what the curse of God is, what the consequences of disobedience to his law is, it becomes a fearful thing. Bob Jones Sr. , the founder of Bob Jones University in North Carolina many, many years ago, he says, there's nothing wrong with the United States of America that six six months of preaching, red-hot preaching on the reality of hell by a bunch of preachers half mad could have solved And I think what we need, not just in our country, in our churches, is a reminder, a renewed recognition of what the wrath of God really is. Curse of God. To die in my sins, to die under the curse of God is the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person. The curse of God is a present curse. God's curse will not someday be upon a man, but it is right now. We see a foreshadow of the coming judgment in our world. We see it in death. We see it in diseases and war. All of these things are consequence of our violation of God's holiness. All of these things are a foreshadow of the coming wrath of God on those who die under the curse. It's a present judgment. John chapter 3 and verse 18 says, He that believeth not is condemned already. Right now. This morning as a sinner, without Christ, you are right now under the curse of God. Not someday, right now. Just waiting for it to be carried out. So we have the curse of God's law. Now here's the question, and I end with this. How do I get that curse removed? He said, This is hopeless. The message to this point has been dark. The message of this point has been good night. By the way, the message of this point has been true. It's been biblical. But how do I remove this curse? How do I get out from under the wrath of God? How do I escape God's judgment on my disobedience to the law? Is there any way? Can anybody be saved? Job said, How can a man be just before God? And the answer is in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 13. And that brings in the curse of the cross. Somebody says, preacher, I'll be honest, I've sinned against God's law. How can I escape this? You know when I'm out visiting, and we've taught this to our soul winners, but when I'm visiting with people or I'm counseling or whatever And I like it when I hear somebody say this. Now bear with me. How many folks are still with me? Everybody okay? I like it when I hear somebody say this. Now this might not make sense at first to you, but I like it when I hear somebody say this. Preacher, I'm too bad to be saved. Ooh. You know what? They're catching a little glimpse of the holiness of God. They're catching a little glimpse of the seriousness of their sin. We knock on doors and say, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? I know I ain't going to heaven. What are they telling me? They're saying I'm a sinner. They're saying I violated God's law. They're saying I can't get out from under the curse of the law. You know what I like to do? I say, ah, you're just the person that God wants to save. You know what Jesus said? I didn't come to call the righteous, but what? Sinners to repentance. How do I get out? I violated God's law. Galatians chapter 3, and I end with this. If you would notice Galatians chapter 3 verse 13. Christ hath, what's that next word? Redeem redeemed, bought us back, brought us out from under. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of law. How did he do that? By being made a what? Curse for us. You know what I wrote in the margin of my Bible? Substitution. He was cursed in our place. Hey, it's not easy to take away the wrath of God off of someone. That's not an easy thing. For someone to be cursed for us is a great price. To somebody to redeem us From the curse of the law, by taking that curse that is upon us and taking it upon themselves. That is not a little thing. That is not some trait thing. That is not just some, oh well that's nice. How cute. It is the Son of God, the pure, sinless, holy Son of God, taking my disobedience. My rebellion, my bad attitude, my blasphemy, my lies, my lustfulness, my uh disobedience to God and taking upon himself and having the wrath and judgment of God poured out on him in my place It's not a light thing, my friends. Now I'm not please don't misunderstand, I'm not saying this is wrong or anything, but we wear crosses on our necklace a little beautiful gold cross and inner earrings, lapel, and all that, and that's fine and dandy. But my friend, that is not what the cross is about. Some decorative ornament. The cross was an awful place where the wrath and curse of God was poured out on Jesus Christ for me and for you. He was made a curse for us. He redeemed us from the curse of the law. Hey, Jesus did not sin for us He was cursed for us. When I accept what Christ has done for me Becoming a curse for me because cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. He took that curse upon himself. That curse that was on me is removed immediately. May 7, 1979, at 1030 at night, I bowed my knees. I called out in Christ for salvation. He became a curse for me. The judgment of God on my sin was immediately transferred to him. At 10:30 at night, the curse was removed from Dennis Leatherman and placed on Jesus Christ. It's an immediate thing. It's not a process. It's removed entirely. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that wrath of God on our disobedience is completely removed, not just some of it on Jesus. All of it on him. He paid it all in full. It is removed irreversibly Jesus Christ suffered the wrath of God, I like this, once for all. Hate it all. Irreversible. Can't ever come back on me. Why did God give us the law? It's an expression of His holiness. It cannot save us. By trying to keep it doesn't earn us merit. By the way, that doesn't mean we should not seek to keep it. It is still an expression of God's holiness. And once the curse is removed from me, I really, out of appro out of love for God and gratitude for what He's done, I ought to see To live in light of the holiness of God. Right? Substitution. Christ took our curse and we're restrictive. We must not take our salvation lately. Years ago, not well, actually not that long ago, in New York City, there's a large church. The preacher's a Bible preaching preacher. He preached the gospel on Easter Sunday morning, some years ago. Huge crowd, they run several thousand. He had preached the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. They had given an invitation, and his story goes like this. He said people had come forward in droves, medium to trust Christ as Savior. He said it was all said and done, there was a handful of people still being counseled at the altar He said he was tired, uh I guess it was the evening service, he was tired, it had been a busy day, he said he pulled his tie back, slung his coat off, and slap sat on the altar just watching and praying as people were being counseled He said about five rows back, a man caught his eye and got up and started coming towards him as people were leaving. He said, right away I could see he was one of the homeless that come by the through our church, he said. He said they come through in droves. They always want money, they need something, they want to go buy more liquor. He said, I stood up and I began thinking, oh brother, a good day, Easter Sunday, great decisions, and here comes somebody, and all they want is money to go out and get drunk again. So the guy started coming towards him, and he said, when he got several steps away, he says the stench was overwhelming. And I have it, his story here. And he says he had to literally turn his head away to breathe and then come back when he talked to him. And he said to the fellows coming up to he says, I need to talk to you. And he says, What's your name? He said, My name's David And uh he said, David, where do you live? Oh, he said, how long have you been living on the streets? He said, six years. He said he looked like he was fifty-some years old. He said, How old are you, David? He said, I'm 32 So he looked like he was late 50s. He said, David, where are you staying at? He said, I'm sleeping in an abandoned truck out by some bridge. He said about that time he started reaching for his wallet and he said our policy is not to give money, he said, but I was tired. He said, I really didn't want to deal with this. This guy was stake. He started reaching his wallet and he started to ask him, How much do you need? And he said, David looked at him in shock. He said, I am not here for your money. He said, I am here for that Jesus you just preached about. He goes, I am not going to make it unless Jesus Christ. comes in my life. The preacher said he immediately began to weep. Not for David. But because he came that close to simply brushing off someone for whom Christ died by giving them a couple bucks And as they talked, he said, his heart the preacher said, My heart became so broken, I began to cry. And he said, David fell into his chest, his dirty, stinky, and he said he fell in him, and they both stood there and sobbed and sobbed and sobbed. He led him to Christ. They said for one year they helped him put him up and he got a job. He said, one year later, he began memorizing that year he began memorizing scripture. He said incredibly, his guy would memorize huge portions of scripture. Scripture. One year later they had him give his testimony in the church. Said he was body was all battered and beaten. They paid, somebody in the church paid to have his teeth fixed. His teeth were all terrible. They fixed his teeth. David said the guy turned out to be a handsome looking man. To make a long story short, David today is the assistant pastor of that large church. He was under the curse of the law. His disobedience had brought him down to the point of desperation. But Christ was made a curse for him. And that curse was removed, and now he has a new life. Now listen, you don't have to live in an abandoned truck under a bridge in New York City to need Christ. All you have to do is be a sinner. Whether you're an outstanding citizen of the community or whether you're just some unheard of person that goes about your business. Until you come to Christ, you're under the curse of the law. But Christ was made a curse for you. I'll throw this out. That's what track month is about. Letting other people know that somebody has taken that curse away. If we'll but trust them. Father, bless us, Lord, help us to rejoice in our salvation. Help us.