Second Kings chapter six. I'm gonna read verses thirteen through fifteen. Uh just to set the stage here, yeah, I think uh Most of us have been following along, it's been a couple weeks now, but uh Elisha finds himself and in the middle of a conflict of nations. His nation, Israel, is being attacked uh in the early stages of an invasion by Ben Hadad, king of Syria. And if you remember Ben Haydad's chief uh military advisor, the captain of his hosts was Namet, the fellow saved uh by Elisha's ministry, uh healed of leprosy and saved. And he's completely out of the picture now for whatever reason And a king of Assyria is coming in to invade Israel, but he has a problem. Every time he sends his troops to a key spot a very strategic area to make the invasion. When he gets there, the Israeli army's already there. And so he tries it again at other spots, super secret. They quietly move on again. They show up there and all the Israeli army is there again And he comes to the conclusion somebody in his innermost circle, his advisors, is actually a double agent for the Israelites. And they are spying and spilling their secrets to the enemy. When in reality we noted that it was actually God telling Elisha what King Ben Hadad was saying in his secret chambers, and God was telling Elisha, Elisha was telling the king of Israel and they would go and head him off. So that's the stage. Let's begin reading in verse 13. And uh this is the this is um the king Ben Hadad speaking. He says, Go and spy where he, Elisha, is, that I may send and fetch him. Question, what do you think he was going to do Elijah when he fetched him? It wasn't going to be pretty Or also there's a suggestion by some that maybe Ben Hadad wanted to get Elisha to kill him perhaps to quit doing this, or Maybe try and get him to return on Israel and tell Ben Hadad Israel's secrets. There's a suggestion there, so we don't know It was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan. Therefore sent he hither horses and chariots and a great host. And they came by night and compassed the city about And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold, a host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? I want to talk to you tonight a little bit about the danger at Dothan. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, again we look into your word. God, we uh readily again acknowledge, Lord, that we have I have nothing in and of myself to offer. Lord, we need you to speak to our hearts your word. We need you to apply the principles in this passage to our lives so that we can be better Christians, so we can be a better witness. We can bring glory to you with our lives. Lord, open our hearts and mind. Make us willing, Lord. I ask that you would help us to be willing, Lord. To make whatever changes in our life are necessary so that your will can be accomplished in our lives. Pray you'd help us put ourselves on the altar and yield our will to your will. And Lord, you can do great things in and through us in our respective areas. Lord, again, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew. In Jesus' name, Amen. There's one mistake that man makes repeatedly. Over and over and over, we mankind makes the same mistake, and that is this: leaving God out of the equation. We make our plans, we do our strategies, we got it all figured out, but we never, somehow, we never learn To recognize the fact that God is over all. If you would, keep your place here. We're going to come back to this, but I want to go to two New Testament passages to set the stage. If you would, turn with me to James. The New Testament book of James, chapter number four. James 4. Now we were in James this morning, and we looked at a very key verse. I want to look at an important passage this evening. In fact, this passage gives us the source of a saying that a lot of Christians use. How many folks here? No doubt you've said it yourself. I'm certain you've heard someone else say it if you've been saved any length of time. Somebody say this. We're going to Morgantown Wednesday morning, Lord willing. Anybody ever hear that? Do you ever wonder where that came from? Look at James chapter 4. Read with follow along with me, verse 13 Go too now, ye that say, Today or to-morrow, we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life that is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, then vanisheth away? Now look at verse 15 For that you ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. What is he telling us here? God is telling us that I like this quote here. God is telling us that we must recognize that God moves and operates Out of the box of our finite world and understanding. In other words, what do we mean by our finite understanding? What do we mean by that? The word finite means what? Limited. We have our finite, our limited understanding. We have our little world. Now, some of us think our world is very big, but the fact of the matter is the world you and I live in, I'm talking about our own little world, is actually very little. And uh we live in our limited little world, our limited view, our limited understanding, and we think that's all there is when in reality we have an infinite God, an unlimited God that operates outside the realm of our understanding. So we think we got it all figured out. We got our money put up, we've got investments made, we got our plans for the next 25 years, we got all our ducks in a row, and then God comes along And sends a flood, and all our ducks float away. Am I right or wrong? And mankind repeatedly makes the mistake of Forgetting or leaving God out of the equation. Another man in the New Testament did this, and it had dire consequences. Turn with me, if you would, to Luke chapter 12. Luke chapter 12 and verse 16. The sooner we can learn that God is in control, the better off we'll be. Luke chapter twelve and verse number sixteen. Luke twelve and verse sixteen Jesus is teaching here, and he's verse 16 says, He spake a parable unto them, saying, Here it is. The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. Question, is there anything wrong with that? No If God blesses you with prosperity, praise the Lord. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing morally wrong with wealth. In and of itself, right? There's nothing spiritually superior with poverty. You know? So God blessed this man. And his ground brought forth plenteously. Now, here's his mistake. And he thought within himself. What's that mean? He's leaning on his own understanding. He's operating within the box of his finite understanding. He thought within himself, saying, hmm, what should I do? I've got all this money. I've got money coming out my ears. I have but no room wherewith to bestow my fruits. I, he said, this will I do I'll pull down my barns and build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods, and I will say to my soul, soul. Thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. You've got it made. But he made a terrible mistake. He left God out of the equation. And look what happens. But God. Here God intervenes. Said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Whose then shall these things be which thou hast provided? You know what his problem was? He built bigger barns. He had plans for many years, but he left God out of his plans. And it cost him eternity in hell. I'm telling you, thou fool, God said. You fool. You plan your life, you make your plans, you've got your uh all laid out, and you don't consider the fact that God has a plan and purpose also. And you completely leave God out of the equation. And God says that's foolish. Now we come back to Ben Hadad. Ben Hadad had tremendous strategies They had brought this thing together. They had it planned out. What they planned, humanly speaking, would work. They had the strategies. They had good strategy. And they executed those strategies, strategies, as far as we can tell, flawlessly. They got to where they needed to be when they needed to be there. But there was one problem. They left God out. And when they showed up, nothing was the way they planned. Because God does not operate in the box of our finite understanding. Are you with me if I know what I'm saying? And so that's the stage. And Ben Hadad is trying to deal with this. He's dealing with the fact that there is a God operating contrary to his plans. And so, first of all, I want us to notice the indifference of Ben Hadad. His indifference. His every attempt to attack Israel was thwarted. By a miraculous event where Israel miraculously knew what they were going to do. Yet he kept persisting in those attempts. He'd go to one place, they were there. How in the world? How do they know we're there? They go to another place, what? They're here again. This is impossible. Somebody must be rattled. Somebody is a double agent. No There's Elisha down there, he's telling him. And so he persists in his attempts to invade Israel, even though it was becoming more and more obvious That this plan was not going to work out in the end. Every effort he made was thwarted. Every strategy he had was countered. Yet he was completely oblivious. He was indifferent to the fact that God was working against his schemes. Now we have the we have the privilege of hindsight, right? Hindsight is always what 2020. You don't always see clearly after it's all over. So we have the privilege of hindsight. Ben Haydat did not have that, but It looks like he maybe should have stopped and said, wait a minute. Maybe we need to rethink this thing through. Every effort we made has miraculously been thwarted. Maybe we just need to stop. I don't like the direction that this whole endeavor is going. You know what's sad? It's sad to see men and women persist in their sin. And seem to be completely indifferent to the obvious working of God in their lives I've been pastor of this church sixteen and a half years now. I've been in the ministry, preaching, and working with people since nineteen eighty-five. That's twenty-five years. Correct? Is that right? Eighty-five, ninety-five, twenty-five years. I've been doing this a long time, but I still haven't learned to add. But anyway, and you know, I look back over the years and I see so many times when somebody was obviously going against the will of God. And as an outsider, as a third party, somebody not involved, I could see God intervening and intervening and intervening and intervening And their every attempt to go against the obvious will of God has fallen short, has been thwarted by God intervening. And yet They seem indifferent to what God is doing, and they press on in their rebellion, they press on in their sin, they press on in their self-will, and it always ends bad. Then hey, that was indifferent. God was intervening here. God was trying to stop this thing. And yet he was completely indifferent to it. How many times I've seen over the years, particularly when I was traveling evangelism with uh with young people, and you would have you would have a crowd of folks and you have an evangelistic meeting And I've seen it here on different services where you have somebody in the service that is obviously unsaved. They admit it, they're open about it, they're not saved. And the gospel is preached. And the plan of salvation is given, and an opportunity to be saved is presented. Yet, in spite of all that God is doing It is so obvious God is dealing with their heart. It is so obvious that it is God making opportunity for them to be saved. Yet they persist in their unbelief. They become indifferent to what God is doing When I was chaplain with hospice for a number of years, there was people who knew they were not going to live very long. It was obvious. And I would share the gospel with them, and sometimes there was family members burdened for them, and we would want to see them saved. And they would persist on in unbelief in spite of the obvious. And they were just indifferent. I've told the story a number of times shortly after we're here. There's a member of the church, and they had their daughter's father-in-law had a heart attack and was not well, he was in the emergen he was in the ICU of the Potomac Hospital down in Kaiser. Is that the name of it? Potomic Hospital? Is that thing still in existence? They build a new one. Good. Um the ICU it was um well we'll just anyway. And I got in there. And the guy had had a heart attack. He wasn't well. He's in the ICU of a hospital. And he was unsaved. And I went through the gospel very kindly, very friendly. I went through the gospel and I said, Sir, you need to be saved. Will you trust Christ now? You know what he told me? He goes, you know, preacher, I'm not quite ready yet Good night. What's gonna happen to have to be ready? People become so indifferent. God is dealing with their heart, God is intervening in their life, and yet they fail to see it. I'll tell you what else is sad. When Christians Decide. As a child of God, I'm not going to follow the scriptural principles. I'm going to do things my way. And God, who is faithful to his word, begins to chase him. And God intervenes and God chastens and chastens and chastens. And rather than humbling themselves and saying, Thank God He loves me He wants to keep me from danger and harm. They harden their heart and they determine, I am gonna have my way. And they become indifferent to God intervening in their life, and they press on, and it is always disastrous results. Disastrous. So we have the indifference of Ben Hadad. Everything he's trying to do is being thwarted by God, yet he presses on. The next thing I noticed in this passage is the integrity of Elisha. Elisha had information given to him from God. And Elisha was faithful to declare that information that God gave him. Now imagine with me. How many folks are with how many folks are glad you came to church? Say amen. Everybody with me? Imagine with me. If Elisha received the information from God, and I don't know how he got it. You know, we have no idea how God communicated to him, but God did. He gets that information and it's like, all right, Ben Hadad's taking his army to such and such a place. Well, you know, if I get involved in this thing, it's gonna really mess my schedule up. You know, if I tell the king of Israel and they're gonna go and it's gonna be a big hassle, you know, I think I I'm just gonna stay home and watch. Now think of the damage. Somebody's under conviction right now. Listen I'm doing the preaching, all right Now we're laughing about it, but this is a very somber point here. Imagine the damage that would have been done to the people of God. If Elisha would have not declared the information God had given him, Ben Hadad would have come in with his armies and he would have slaughtered the Israelites. Mothers would have lost their sons, children would have lost their fathers. No doubt, entire cities would have been invaded, innocent people killed. It would have had horrendous consequences if Elisha would have said, you know, I just don't want to stir up the nest. I really don't want to get involved in this. I really don't want to be the center of this fuss. I know what's going to happen. God is giving me this information, but I just don't want the hassle. It would have been devastating. It would have been devastating. A preacher Who does not declare all of the counsel of God does great damage to his church Huh? God has given us information in his book that can help us, that will protect us in the spiritual wherefore warfare we are involved in. God has given to us strategies. He has told us of the enemy. He has told us of his schemes. He has told us of certain temptations God has given us information in his word. And I, as a preacher, if I would not be faithful to declare the information God has given me in his word, in all of us, it would do great damage. I tell you what's killing our churches. It's not the world. It's not the devil. It's preachers who won't preach the word of God. The world is just as worldly as it's ever been. The devil is just as devilish as it's ever been. What's wrong with our churches? They're not declaring all the counsel of God. We have preachers and teachers who will choose and select the pleasant things, the nice things. I don't want to talk about the spiritual warfare. I don't want to stir the nest up. I don't want to Bother anybody. I don't want to offend anyone. I'm not going to preach that. I'll just stick to the things that I know the people like to hear. And it's killing our churches. God, give us men. Stand up behind the pulpit and we'll preach God's word and preach all of it. Elisha had integrity about him. You know what's killing our country? Hey, I'll be very frank with you, and I'm where you are on all this political stuff, but I'll be honest with you, I don't think Obama is the problem with our country. The people, the country, elected them. There's always been Obama's. There's always been people like we have in leadership. They've always been out there, but now they get elected. It's not a commentary on the individual, it's a commentary on our country and where we're at as a nation. Why is our country the way it is? Can I suggest to you because churches have not declared all the counsel of God into our community. People have not been warned of the judgment of God. People have not been taught The principles of righteousness and godliness. But if people have not been preached to the whole counsel of God, boy, there's a devastating price. The consequences are deadly We have countries now, entire countries, that have no gospel witness. Because the churches and the states won't preach on hell and missions and all of this. God had given Elisha information that was necessary for the safety of God's people, and praise God, Elisha was faithful to pass that information on to those who needed it. And God has given us information about coming judgment, about life after death, about heaven and hell, about the chastisement of God, about the dangers of sin. God give us the integrity. To pass that on and share it with others. So we have the indifference of Ben Habad. We have the integrity of Elisha Oh, by the way, and I I I think I've already touched on this, but you know why our churches is wor our churches are worldly? It's because preachers are not declaring the whole council of God. That's why our churches are worldly. Elisha was very specific in what he declared. Notice, if you would, in verse number Uh verse number section verse eight And the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servant, saying, In such and such a place shall my camp be. And the king of Israel, and the man of God, sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place. Now this is what I got thinking about it. Elisha was very specific in what he said. He didn't go to the king of Israel and say, hey Kingy, Mr. King, sir. The king of Assyria is out there somewhere. I'm not going to be specific, but somewhere out there he is. He's coming in. Would that have helped? No. You know, I think we need to be a little wise about this, but you know sometimes a preacher has to just call sin for what it is. Sometimes you just gotta say, hey, such and such a place is bad. This is wrong. Elisha didn't just say, you know, they're kind of coming in from the north. That's all I'm going to say. I'll let you figure out. No. He said, don't go to that place. We talked about this a couple weeks ago. He was very specific. He did not just give general warnings, he preached of specific dangers. I don't know whether I do this or not, but I feel an obligation to preach against specific sins. I think every preacher ought to do that. Now I don't think we there's a difference between meddling and dealing with sin, right? I try very hard. I don't get in between, you know, meddling people's personal business. But I'll tell you right now, liquor is sin in all shapes and forms. And you can just go down the list. And sometimes you ought to just go down the list. The way I look at it. Now, according to God's word, Elisha didn't add two, he didn't take away, he just was very specific in his preaching. His faithfulness, because of his integrity, his faithfulness to declare God's word, this is interesting, made him public enemy number one to the Syrians. Then Hadad sent his entire army. Did you catch that in verse 15? He sent the entire army. They encompassed the whole city. But they're after one man. He was public enemy number one to the enemy of God's people. Now, I mention this often. And I think we have to be careful about it. We don't, but when we obey God, when we do what God says, we are not going to be a friend of the world. The world's not going to come and say, they're not going to write a big article in the Republican and say, what a wonderful church Mountain Lake Park is because Mountain Lake Baptist Church is because they go out and give out tracts and knock on our doors and tell us if we don't get saved, we're going to hell. I haven't read that article yet, have you? Become enemy I tell you what, we get on fire for God, we start living for God the way we're supposed to, we start doing what God tells us to do, we're gonna have to deal with our enemy the devil He's not going to take it sitting down. So he says, well, the devil's never bothered me. That tells me something about you. You're probably not doing much for God. Huh? Elisha became public enemy. And the sad thing is, the sad thing is, I read ahead here and studied ahead. You know what I found? He don't get much praise even from Israel. Because of his integrity, because of his faithfulness, Israel was safe. And yet Israel expressed little or no appreciation for what Elisha did. You know what I found? You get a person on fire for God, start living for God. A lot of time other Christians really don't appreciate that a whole lot. In fact, you know what happens? They don't say it, but this is what it amounts to. He's making me look bad. We need to take him down. Huh? I've seen it. I've seen it. So we need to obey God. We need to declare the information God has given to us, but we must not do it Expecting the world or even the church to like us a whole lot. I preached, I just thought of this, I just remembered this, but a number of years ago, Mother Mike, Brother Mike Edwards was with us Anybody remember Mike Edwards preached some family conference with us? Good man. He's a good friend of mine. Um I shoot more deer than he does, so I like him. But he was doing a family conference and I was preaching in a preachers fellowship over in West Virginia somewhere. And I don't do a lot I don't go to a lot of them, I don't do a whole lot of them, but they invited me and he was along and I went to introduce him. In fact I wanted him to preach in my place so people could meet him and get to know him. But the preacher said, no, I want you to, so uh he had to sit there. I didn't think anything of it. I got up and I preached on separation We're churches and pastors and individuals, we are to separate not just from the world, the obvious sins of the world, but we are to separate from disobedient brethren. And if there's a church not obeying the word of God, we're not to join up hand in hand. That's scriptural teaching. And I sat down, he said, Boy, you didn't make any friends today. I said, What do you mean? He said, this whole crowd here is running with Southern Baptists and he named a whole bunch of different things. I said, you gotta be kidding me. He said, I'll tell you one thing, you ain't never preaching here again And that was like five, six, seven years ago. Guess what? They never invited me back. And I thought I was being nice. I was fired up. So the fact of the matter is, if we do what God tells us to do, if we teach and preach and live the way God tells us to live, we may not necessarily be the most popular people. But we do those people good. And let me throw this out. It's Ben Hadad Would have heeded what God was trying to do instead of pressing on, he could have saved a lot of the lives of his men. Huh? He could have saved an embarrassing situation that takes place a little later. So we have the integrity of Elisha. Then quickly I want to give you the ignorance of Ben Hadad. Now this becomes pretty obvious. But one thing we see studying life of Hadad, he was a pretty smart man in warfare, but he was pretty ignorant about the things of God. Ben Hadad, now this is what I'm trying to say, Ben Hadad attributed to Elisha what God was doing. Elisha wasn't able to figure out where his armies were going. It was God telling Elisha, but Ben Hadad couldn't figure that out. He why would he should have stopped and thought, wait, how is Elisha getting this information? But he never thought of that. He said, let's just get Elisha. And he was ignorant of the fact that God was doing it, not Elisha. I guess he assumed Elisha was omniscient. But he wasn't. That's stupid. No man is omniscient. By the way, that's stupid. That's in the Hebrew somewhere here. All he saw was the man, not the God using the man. Now, I'm gonna use this illustration. Uh two things I want to say first, one I'm not certainly not trying to blow my own horn, and second of all, I don't think this lady was uh wrong in what she was doing, but she stated it in such a way that it illustrates what I'm trying to sta say here. Lady called me this week. She asked if I would visit someone, a family member. I said I would be glad to She said, You had to visit another family member some time ago, and she made this statement. She said, Pastor Leatherman, because of you, our family member is in heaven today. Now I took that as a compliment. And I know what she was saying. I was able to lead him to the Lord before he died But the fact of the matter is, it wasn't because of me, it was because of God. And I tried to express that to her. I thanked her and I said, well, you know, actually the Lord's the one that saved. God could have used someone else If God wanted to, he could have sent a donkey by and led the God of the Lord, right? And some of you are saying, I think that's what he did. I know this crowd, all right. Yeah, boy, that guy really built that church. Boy, she's really a soul winner. Yeah, and we understand we appreciate it, but let's Let's not forget it's God behind all that. Christ builds the church. Jesus is the Savior. And if God could give that information to Elisha, He could have given it to any number of people. And so Ben Hadad's a bonehead when he thinks that getting Elisha is somehow going to stop God from intervening in his life. And so and I've seen it, I've seen it in churches. Thank God I I don't anticipate it here, don't see see no reason for it to have it here, but I've seen in churches where they get a preacher And he starts preaching the word of God faithfully and straight down the line. And the church says, Oh, we got to get rid of that guy. And they think by getting rid of the man that somehow that's going to shut God up It's not the man, it's God. And Ben Hadad was ignorant of all that. Preacher preaches against sin. They say I have to silence the preacher. Ben Hadad's ignorant reasoning was this: if Elisha is spilling the beans, then Elisha must be eliminated. It never occurred to him that God was doing this. Preacher's warned warns them, they say, well, I'm not gonna listen to that preacher. Well it's not the preacher, it's God My parents are warning me not to do this. I need to do that. I'm not going to listen to my parents. Hey, you ever think maybe God is using your parents in your life? So and Hadad was ignorant. And then last of all, we'll end with this. The importance of Dothan. I got studying this place called Dothan. It says verse 12-13, behold, he is in Dothan. I thought what's the significance of that? Who cares where he is? I mean, what's it matter what town he's in? But God told us what town he was in. I thought, well that God apparently told us that for a reason. I think one thing is we find there is no secrecy about Elijah He was easy to find. He had nothing to hide. Yeah, you want me? Here I am. I'm here in Dauphin. Listen, there's nothing secret about God, about Christianity. I tell you, I have problems with religions that come by and they hide from you what their real doctrines are You've got to do certain listen, somebody shows up here. The police, the FBI, NCIS shows up here. They say, What do you believe? We say, right here it is. We publish it. In fact, we work very hard in declaring what we believe. Dothan was a significant city, and it was in a significant location. Did you know that Gothan was the place where Gideon descended on the Midianites? That was from Dothan. Did you know that Dothan was the place where Joseph found his brothers when he went out looking for them? And they said, here comes that dreamer. And they took him and threw him in a well and s took his coat and sold him. That was in Gulfin. Why would Gideon begin an invasion in and And Dothan. Why would Dothan be the place where Joshua is sold to merchants heading to Egypt? Because Dothan was a very uh T Place. The way I understand it, in Dothan there is a ridge of not really mountains, they're not big enough to be mountains, but hills. And right in Dothan there's like a saddle. Now do you remember a few messages ago we pointed out and we various times we pointed out when Israel is was invaded, they always talked about the nations coming from the north. Do you remember that? Even though they're off to the east, they always came to the north. Because they came north of those ridge of hills and they would come down through Dothan. And they would invade through that saddle. Guess where Elisha just happens to be? In the key defensive position of Israel. If they can block that saddle, they're going to slow the enemy down, and that is where Elisha happens to be. Coincidence? I don't think so. It was a key pass in that ridge of mountains. Now what's the significance of that? The significance of that is that God knows what he's doing. And God had him there. Now notice something here. Look at verse 14, and I'm ending. Therefore sent he hither, this is Ben Hadad, sent he hither horses and chariots and a great host. And they came by what? Night and compassed the city of Baal. Now, this is hard to believe in our day and age, but there was a day when people slept at night. And so Ben Hadad sends his army down to Dothan, this very strategic place, and encompasses at night. implying that the citizens of Dothan had no idea what was happening. And they were in grave danger and never knew it They were to wake up in that morning, but humanly speaking, they were going to wake up to a different world than what they went to bed with Their city was surrounded by the army of the Assyrians, and they were upset. Danger came upon them that night, and they were unaware of it. I got thinking as I was studying this, you know, all around us are people who are asleep spiritually. And they're surrounded by the devil's forces, and they are in grave danger for their soul. And you know what the sad thing is? They don't even know. People dying and going to hell and have never heard the gospel. Never even knew. All around this world. That's the way the citizens of Dothan were. They were endangered and didn't even know it. Humanly speaking, Dothan had no hope There was no escape. Ben-Had, Ben Hada was around him, and he was prepared to kill them all. But the interesting thing is, Elisha comes out in the morning, and look what happens. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, now I think it's interesting, he doesn't refer to the servant's name. Who was Elisha's servant? Who was he? Gehazi. And God always referred to him as Gehazi. But Gehazi was stupid and wanted Naaman's money, and he ended up with the leprosy that Naaman had. You know what? Now Elisha has a new servant, but we're not told his name. When the servant of the Lord, when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, A host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servants said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? And verse 16, which gets into our next message, and he answered, Fear not. For they that are with us, they that be with he was from the south, though they that be with us are more than they that be with them. I see no worry or anxiety on Elisha's part. You know why? Because Elisha was living in the presence of God. Then Hadad's beef was not with the citizens of Dothan, his beef was with Elisha. Hey You go to a door in track month and Pat was it Pat said everybody's so friendly but you know every now and then you come across someone that's very hateful The w this is the way I look at it. Their beef is not with me. They don't even know me. Their beef is with my master, the one that sent me by. Huh? And Hadad's problem wasn't with the citizens of Dothan. He was after Elisha. The devil's problem isn't with you and I. We're just pawns, as far as the devil's concerned. His beef is with the Lord Jesus. And let's never forget that. And so when the Ben Haydens of this world try and circle us, and it looks like we're in danger, don't worry, their beef is not with us, it's with the Lord. And I'll put my money on the Lord every time. Now I'm not advocating gambling there. But Elisha wasn't worried. Elisha wasn't worried. The city was in danger because Elisha was there. But the city was safe because Elisha was there. Right? The city was in danger because Elisha was there, but they were safe You and I, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, that puts us in danger in this whole world, spiritually speaking. But because we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we're saved. This world can't greater is he that is what? In you than he is world. Greater was he that was in Dothan than he that surrounded it Because Elisha was a man of God. And so our problem, the world's problem isn't with Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church People that I get the phone calls. Now don't misunderstand me. If we act stupid, we might as well expect to get resistance, right? I don't think if the world hates us because we're arrogant, then that's another story, right? But if we're doing what God says We're going to be in the crosshairs of the world, but if we're doing what God says, we have the presence of God, and we're not in any danger. And we don't have to worry and we don't have to be anxious. We're in a spiritual warfare. The object of the enemy is Jesus Christ, but we are safe in Christ. And so let's just go about what the Lord has told us to do. Let's not worry. Let's not get anxious. Let's just plug away. Give out those tracks. Pray. Be a witness. Do right. Be honest. Submit to God. Obey the Bible. And just rest in Christ. And just rest in Christ. I spoke to a Christian young man this week. And he's all worked up and all upset and all upset. I said, listen, you need to get you a Bible verse, a Bible promise, and you need to claim that and hang on to that, and God will take care of you Right? Let's pray. Father, bless us, Lord. Help us not to be ignorant of what you're doing in our lives, not to be indifferent. Help us to be men and women of integrity, to trust you and go forward in spite of opposition. With our heads bound and eyes closed, how many would say