In this, Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes. Well, why? Because an excellent spirit was in him And the king thought to set him over the whole realm. Well, so this sermon we've already had one on the church and one on the home. This is on the third divine institution. This is a God and country kind of sermon today. Now The context of Daniel chapter 6, Israel has been taken into slavery. Well, why would God allow his people to be taken into slavery? Because of their disobedience. You study the Bible, you'll find that God judges countries four ways: war, pestilence and disease, natural disasters, and baseless leaders You say, Brother Fox, you think God's judgment is ever going to come on America? It's already here, man. You think about that last one. Baseless leaders, we've got some of the basest people in office I've ever seen in my life. Now praise God we do have a few Christians in office. We worked hard there in Virginia. We got Congressman Bob Good in office, and he loves God. Hallelujah And uh there's about uh I don't know about a hundred members of Congress I believe are saved, but there's ten of them strong enough and courageous enough they'd go out and tell everybody the only way to heaven is through Jesus And the only way to heaven is through Jesus Christ. Amen to that. And we need more politicians who will stand up for Jesus. Amen to that. But in this chapter and in the book of Daniel Some young men have been taken into captivity. Yeah. And these are young men of great talent And great skill, and they begin to rise in leadership. Daniel has risen through his youth and through his age here. He has risen So now he's one of the leaders in the government. Now what kind of country is again? A pagan country What kind of government is he serving in? Corrupt. But I'm going to tell you, it is possible to live clean in a dirty world. Daniel is proof of that. So I've got four little T's for you tonight, this morning, four little T's in the outline to help you. Number one, help you remember. Number one is Daniel's testimony. In verses 1 through 5, we see his testimony. I want you to look at verse 4 with me. This is part of Daniel's testimony. In verse 4, when I pause, I want you to say the next word out loud. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find none occasion, nor Oh, they couldn't find fault. You you mean we've got a man in office in the government that we can't find fault with? I don't know of any politicians like that, do you? Even the best one we can find fault with them. There are no perfect office holders. You know that, don't you? There's no perfect candidates running either. There's one who's perfect, and that's Jesus Christ. Now, Daniel, in this book we we don't find any recorded sin of Daniel. In the Bible, we don't find any recorded sin of Daniel. Which leads me to speculate that maybe he just didn't have a gross pattern of bad and wicked sin. I think he tried to live an exemplary life. And that's what should be our aspiration, to live in such a way that even when your enemies, you see, the enemies of Daniel, they're trying to do harm to the man. They don't like him. He is standing up for God and they don't like it. And they're trying to find fault, and they're looking, and they're looking, but they can find none occasion nor fault. Here's a man faultless in his work. Part of his testimony, he is faultless in his work. He did his task. And he did them well. Christian folk ought to be like that, shouldn't we? On our job sites, showing up on time for work. Doing our task and doing them well. Well, Daniel, he's serving here in this corrupt government, and he is faultless in his work. Ecclesiastes 9:10. Whatsoever thy hand finds to do, do it with thy might. So he's faultless in his work. But I want you to see another word in verse 4. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find none occasion or fault for as much as he was Oh, he's faithful. Not only is he faultless, he's faithful. Now I'll tell you what, we're looking for some faithful people. This country is looking for some faithful citizens. This church needs some faithful members. We need some faithful preachers. Amen. Faithful in his duties. He could be counted on. He could you you could count on him to make his deadlines. Colossians 3. 17 Whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him, faithful in his duties. This is part of his testimony He's faultless in his work. He's faithful in his duties. So the conspirators, these envious men They said, we've got to find some weapon against him. Well, look what they do. Verse 5. Then said these men, these evil, wicked, conspirator men. Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel except We find it against him concerning the law of his God. You see, part of his testimony, he was fervent for God. Everybody knew this man loved God. They knew his allegiance was to the Lord. And so they said, the only thing we're going to be able to get on this man is we're going to pass us a law that he'll have to break our law. We're going to find a way to trap him. Because this man, his testimony, is faultless in his work, he's faithful in his duties, he's fervent for God. In this corrupt government, in this pagan country, he had maintained a strong testimony. How's your testimony doing? Your family really knows you, you know. Your neighbors, they sort of know you. Your co-workers, they know you. How's our testimony doing? Number one, Daniel's testimony. Number two, Daniel's test. Oh yes. Daniel's test. I've got a C D in my car right now. Yeah, I got a car that still has a C D player in it. How many of you still have a C D player in it? Raise your hands. Oh, I like all of you All those CDs back there, I like all of you. Yeah, I like you. I've got a CD in my car right now, Dr. Lee Robertson, uh, teaching on leadership. And I'll tell you He's got me all stirred up. And one thing he said, he said, do not foolishly imagine that you can live righteously without having enemies. That's true. My tires were slit this week. I've had weapons drawn on me. Isn't that ridiculous? Ridiculous. Because I believe marriage went a man and a woman. I didn't design that. God designed that. Amen. We better stick with God. Hallelujah. Oh, yeah, Daniel's test. We're going to have some tests come along the way. This was a test Of Daniel's courage. Well, what takes place? Well, let's look in the Bible, verse 6. Then these presidents and princes, I mean, they're they're wicked people And they're looking for a way to get Daniel. These presidents and princes assembled together to the king and said thus unto him, King Darius live forever. All the presidents of the king The kingdom of the governors and the princes and the counsellors and the captains have consulted together to establish a royal statute and to make a firm decree that whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for Thirty days save of thee, O King, he shall be cast into the den of lions. Now, O King, establish the decree, and sign the re writing, that it be not changed according to the law of the Medes and Persians Which altereth not. Wherefore King Tariah signed the writing and the decree. Right in the middle of verse 7. Establish a royal statute. We're going to pass a statutory law, King. We want you to put your signet on it. We want you to approve this. We're passing a law that no more of this asking petitions of anyone except you, King. Yeah. See, no more praying and asking God for anything. If you want to ask somebody for something, you come to our king, you stop going to any God. Who do they have in mind? Daniel. He's a man of prayer. We want revival? Hello? Well, we better be people of prayer then. Wilt thou not revive us again? That's a prayer. That's a prayer request. We won't revive. We better be people of prayer Old Daniel seemed like he's in a continual state of revival. He's a real believer. And now he's getting tested. Do you know, look this way. Do you know at one time it was against the law to own a Bible in Scotland? Do you know up there in Canada right now it's against the law? To preach against the unmentionable lifestyle. That's one we'll call it It's a crime. Well, what are the Canadian preachers doing? Well, on the on the Sunday, it went in effect on a Sunday, on that Sunday scores. of preachers preached on that sin that day. Well that takes some courage. That'll test your courage right there now. Now I'll tell you, I went out to Portland, Oregon, did a rally out there. In the Oregon Senate, when I was there six or seven weeks ago, in the Oregon State Senate. There's 19 politicians on a particular team that were trying to ram a law through that girls 15 and younger could have an abortion without parental consent. Now, just how wicked is that? Why would you want a law like that? Oregon, why would you want such a wicked law like that? I'm flying to Michigan tomorrow. God willing. There's bills up there in Michigan that are just awful. In Virginia, the Virginia Values Act. What is it? It's the Virginia equivalent of the Equality Act. It's awful. There's all kind of awful bills being passed right now That we stand opposed to. And brother, we better let our little light shine. And I've had people fuss at me, Brother Fox, we don't even think you're an evangelist anymore. What? Just because I've went and prayed with some governors and prayed with some people in Congress, are you kidding me? We're trying to win them to Christ. One man that I led to Christ in Virginia in the House. Just recently in the House, in the House of Virginia, it was uh up for vote. We want to repeal the vote. That it's against the law to commit adultery in Virginia. That archaic law, we want to repeal that law. Nobody's enforcing that law. We're going to just repeal it. It's obsolete. We have a hundred members of the House of Delegates. 99 voted to repeal it. That fellow I got to lead to Christ. He stood up and said, well, I'm going to stand with God on this one He's a Navy SEAL. He does two finger pull-ups. He's a little bit on the fearless side. By the way, he's not missed church since he got saved. Amen to that. And he keeps consulting with his pastor who is an independent Baptist man. Hallelujah. Glory be to God. We better stand up. And you see, if government is a divine institution, then God's people must be involved. Now we don't want to get sidetracked. We're still worshiping God and trying to win souls. Hallelujah! But we must raise the level of righteousness in this country. And so, Daniel, you're having a great big test. It's a test of your courage, Daniel. You got opposition now, just like Pastor, bunch of your men who go work at their job. They may be the only Person at that job who saved. And you have a little mockery at times. I've done that. You know, I one of my first jobs was at Virginia Overpack. I was a senior in high school And I went to summer school, so only went half a day. And so I got me this job at Virginia Overpack. And uh I went over there and uh there's 17 of us working there, 16 ex-felons and me. I'm not kidding as a rough group I was working with. And uh we built uh out out of uh wood materials and stuff, uh different different items, and uh we got us a big job That's a big job to build um wooden crates for refrigerators to ship to Saudi Arabia. And the company that that hired our little company to do it said, if you can get it done by such and such time, we're going to give you bonus money How many of you into into bonus money? I'm into that. Man, we got to working hard, working extra time, and working overtime on Saturdays. Man, we're working, we want that bonus. On the first day of that job I went public. Ebon I 16. Ebonna Pierce Preacher Boy. Y'all know that? Praise God. We need some preacher boys. I I was I was a boy sixteen when I got the job and I told those guys on day one, I said, now I go to Grace Baptist Church over here and I go to Sunday school and I don't know. I thought if I didn't go public on day one that I'd I'd cave in and I'd get in a bunch of sin. All of our flesh is weak. And so I I went public I got me a I got me a nickname on day one. Well and so we're working all this time and we got that project and woo cutting all that all all that uh uh material and nail guns we're just having a good time. Oh, making money and all that. We're trying to make that bonus. And finally we got it done. And the boss man came in and he's got 17 checks. He says, we've done it We've got it done. This was on a Friday afternoon about three o'clock. I'd gotten there, been there about an hour or so or an hour and a half, and he brought those checks and said, We've got it done. Bonuses for everybody. He said, Not only that We're going to have us a party right now. Hey, bring the stuff out. What kind of stuff? All kinds of alcoholic beverage. At this point I'd turn 17. And boss man looked right at me. I can still see him in my mind. He said, hey preacher boy. That's what he called me. They mocked me about being preacher boy. A little bit. All of you gonna have a little mockery, you know what I'm saying? Everybody likes to be liked. How many of you want people to like you? Yes. How many want people to hate you? No. Mock you? No. Some of that's going to happen. Hey preacher boy, boss man said, had them 17 envelopes. Hey preacher boy, we didn't forget about you. Hey, give preacher boy six pack. I got a six-pack just For you. Ah. Yeah, you I got one just for you. Hey guys, we're going to have this a great time. Yeah, Preacher Boy, we'd forget about you. I'm over there trembling I'm a boy. I thought, oh Lord, I can't take some six-pack. Dear God, what do I do? And they brought me my sixth pack of Coca-Cola. Not Diet Coke, brother. High test. High test, man. High test. I said, thank You! He handed me my bonus check. I said, boss, man, I think I need to clock out. He said, Yeah, preacher boy, you probably need to clock out Through the years, two of those fellas have called me a few times, needing prayer, homes in trouble. Look, all of us gonna have some some trouble or some test along the way. Oh Daniel, he he had big big tests come his way as a test of his courage, test of his dedication. What are you gonna do now? God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Amen. Stay with it, Daniel. Well number three, Daniel's trouble. Oh, he got in trouble. That's one thing everybody has in common: trouble. Trouble is part of the journey. I just came through a big storm. Oh, about seventy days ago now, a big storm came. And for sixteen hard days and I I had to get lawyers involved, Christian Law Association, all that kind of stuff. Bad, bad, somebody's doing much harm. But uh God got me through and uh hallelujah been I counted the day, it's been fifty-four days since that ended. Hallelujah. But you know, during the storms you get clarity. You find out what is really important in life. I'm telling you, I'll tell you what's important in life. Getting saved and serving God. That's the necessary and important things in this life. Everything else is secondary. So Daniel's trouble My brethren, count it all, joy, when you fall into divers temptations, divers many, manifold, various. When you fall into divers temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have the perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. I want to make three comments about this trouble. You know what trouble he got in. They caught him praying. You've broken statutory law. Wow. Remember during the pandemic? I had lawyers come out and say, you can't have church. We was having church on parking lots. I went from church to church. on parking lots. I was the only guy outside. I had the FM transmitter thing and all that. You can't do this. Well I carried a Constitution with me. And I read that first amendment to a few people. You know what I'm saying? And got threatened, got cussed, all those kind of things. But you see, we have a divine command. See, God does not give suggestions. I give suggestions. God gives imperatives. Forsake not the assembling. That's not a suggestion. We've been told by God we're to assemble And so we don't put people's safety on the line. If you've got a hundred and seven temperature, go to the hospital, okay? But uh look, um uh lot of folk would like to shut this church down Oh no, oh no, oh no. Uh Daniel, you're in trouble. So, uh three thoughts about this trouble. Number one This trouble was arranged by the devil. These men were not inspired of God to rise up against Daniel and set a trap for him No, the devil had inspired these wicked men to try to injure God's man, Daniel. Be sober. Be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. So this trouble that Daniel finds himself in, it was arranged by the devil. But the second little thought, it was allowed by God. God allowed it. Now the TV preacher, I don't know if he'll fit that into his sermon. But it's here in the Bible. And we find it this way in the Bible. If you're listening, say amen. Second Timothy 3:12, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus Shall suffer persecution. How about this? John 15 and verse 20. Remember the word that I said unto you, Jesus said, The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. Yeah, this trouble that came into Daniel's life, God allowed it. Let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. Could God have stopped the trouble? If you don't know that God could have stopped the trouble, you don't understand God at all. God who spoke this universe into existence, he could have stopped those evil conspirators. He didn't. He allowed a great big storm. Storms come in our lives basically for two reasons. To correct us, Jonah had to be corrected. He's called an enabler. Basically said, God, I'm not going. After he got in that whale a while and got back up on that beach, he said, God, I am going. He got corrected, didn't he? But there's storms of perfection to grow us, to mature us. You ought to be wanting to become a more mature believer every single day. Remaining a s uh uh spiritual baby is not honoring to the Lord. We're to grow, and one way we grow is through these storms Yeah, this storm came in Daniel's life, this great big pile of trouble arranged by the devil, allowed by God, but here's a third thought It was accepted by Daniel. I don't see Daniel protesting. I don't see him having a pity party. I don't see him having a panic attack. I've seen panic attacks. And look, they're bad. I've got a preacher friend who started having panic attacks. He got under so much pressure. And uh praise God, he got rested up and started eating right again and different things and changed the schedule some and uh you know I'm glad he's back in the pulpit, hallelujah, for all that But all of us are weak. All of us get under a certain amount of pressure and you'll fall apart too. But I don't see Daniel falling apart here Let me give you a great verse. Psalm 37, verse 23. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And he delighteth in his ways. So we get to the last T Number one, Daniel's testimony. Number two, Daniel's test. Number three, Daniel's trouble. But number four, Daniel's triumph. We're still talking about. what took place about three thousand years ago. We're still rejoicing at what happened. Yeah, what happened? We verse sixteen. Then the comm king commanded they they caught him praying and the king's now commanded that they Brought Daniel and cast him into the den of lions. Hmm. Brother Fox, how do you want to die? Eaten by lions is not on the list. No Cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Look at what the king said. Thy God, whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee. And a stone was brought and laid upon the mouth of the dead, and the king sealed it with his own signet and with the signet of his lord's, that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel. Then the king went into his palace and passed the night fasting. unto the den of lions. And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel. And the king spake and said to Daniel Oh, Daniel, the servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions. And then said Daniel unto the king. Oh king! Live Forever my God has said his angel and has shut the lions' mouths and they have Not hurt me, for as much as before him innocency was found in me, and also before thee, O King, have I done no hurt. Then was the king exceeding glad for him. Oh Daniel's triumph. We're still talking about it. Yes. Yeah though King, he's been manipulated by these wicked Wicked men and the devil's working trying to stop God's man Daniel and Daniel just seems to be a little pawn in the battle too, all that. But what A victory. I put some of my personality into it. I don't know if Daniel was laughing like that or not, but I would have been laughing And you know I would have. I would have been rejoicing. Look, if God had sent an angel down there to shut the lion's mouth with me in there, I'm going to break out and rejoice. Hallelujah! The Lord knoweth how to deliver. All right, so let's review a moment. Number one, how's our testimony doing? And I'd say this about Daniel. He's a real believer. You know I got out of our little plane, brother Matt, that little Cherokee Six. You know, you crawl out onto the wing. And then you jump off. I don't like any of that stuff, man. I want an escalator, okay? We've landed in some little town and Fellow came out from the airport. I said, my name is Byron Fox. He said, I'm Mark. I said, oh. I said, Mark's my favorite book in the Bible. He said, well, I'm a believer. I said, well tell me about it. He said, well, sir, one time I was at the ballgame and my team was losing and I prayed. I said, God help my team win. And he said, sir, my team won. So put me down. I'm a believer I said, Mark, that's an interesting story. I said, let me tell you what I mean when I say I'm a believer. And I took him back 52 years ago to the Thursday night that I received Christ as my Savior. That I believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. Brother Fox, you're going to heaven? Yes. Well, why do you get to go to heaven? Because I received Christ as my Savior. He forgave me of my sin that night. See, I'm a believer. Daniel was a believer. He actually trusted God. Faith and action, wasn't it? How's our faith doing these days? How's our trust doing? How's our testimony doing? And the storms of life are going to come. You either just came through one or you're in one right now, or one's about to come. Cris happen. All those things. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. During my storm, I decided I normally try to read about 30 chapters of the Bible a day But during that storm I said, I'll I'm gonna have to have more Bible. I'll tell you you need the Bible during storms. You need to surround yourself with some Christians that love God and can give you some sound counsel. I wish I had time to testify about all that. But old Daniel, Daniel chapter 6 helped us today, hasn't it? Let's bow our heads for a moment. Oh Lord. I want all of us in this room to be fully dedicated. I want me to be fully dedicated to you, Lord. We see a man that you use in a great way in a pagan country with a corrupt government, and yet you used him Oh Lord, that all of us in this room and Christians across our country and around the world would be used of you today. May your hand be upon this meeting. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen