Daniel chapter number nine. I don't have my microphone. Daniel nine, I want us to read verse number nineteen. And uh Ask us to read that together in unison. While you're getting there, I got a note this morning from Brother Lewis Howe, our missionary down in New Zealand. He's been down there not quite a year. So we praise the Lord for that. Good missionaries doing a good job on the field. Daniel chapter 9 and verse number 19, if you would read it, read Let's read together in unison. Ready? Oh Lord, hear. Oh Lord, forgive. Oh Lord, hearken and do Deter not for thine own sake, O my God, for thy city and thy people are called by thy name I've entitled the message this morning, Daniel in the Prayer Room. And I'll explain the title here in just a moment, but let's pray together. Father in heaven. We are grateful for the opportunity to be in a nice warm building. We're grateful for the facilities you've blessed this church with. And we ask, Lord, that you would help us to take advantage of the uh comfortable facilities to um take our concerns off of other things and place them on You, dear Lord, and your will for our lives. I'm grateful for the good crowd of young people down in the barn down there and all the special things going on there. We pray you would uh plant your word in the hearts of these young people And they would find your will for their lives and pray you protect our children, our young people from the influence of the world and the flesh. God, hedge them about. Let your perfect will be done in their lives. I pray, Father, that uh again you'd open our hearts and minds as we look in your word. I present my body anew. I ask that you would speak through me to each of us, Lord, and help us to grow in this matter of prayer. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I do want to make a little request right uh at the beginning of the message I've had a few folks uh complaining about young people talking during the service and uh passing around and doing different things. So I just want to ask that all our attention be given up here to the Word of God and what's taking place here. It makes it difficult for other people around to hear what's going on. Daniel, we think of Daniel. You think of Daniel and the what? Lion's Den, that's what comes to mind immediately. We teach our children about Daniel and the Lion's Den. We have the coloring books, we have the little stuffed lions. you know, and and all these things, Daniel and the lion's dead. When you think about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, we think of what? The fiery furnace, and we love that story, and and uh we teach our children that story. But There is an aspect of Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. There's an aspect of their lives that we don't say much about. In fact, we teach our children very little about it. And we give it, I'm afraid, we give it very little thought. And that is this. Daniel and the the other buddies, like the uh I heard the uh black preacher in Philly years ago, uh he preached on Shadrach, Meshach, and one bad Negro. And uh I always think of that every time. And uh but uh one one aspect of these fellas' lives that we say little about, we uh give little thought to is this. They had a powerful, consistent prayer life. In fact, if you read through the book of Daniel, much of the book of Daniel is Daniel praying. Just about all of chapter 9 is a prayer of Daniel's. So there is more to Daniel in the lion's den than just a miracle of God shutting the mouths of the lions and then not being devoured. There's a reason behind that. There were some factors that were put in place, I believe To make that miracle possible. And that was Daniel spending time in the prayer room In fact, Daniel was in the prayer room a whole lot longer than he was in the lion's den. Behind these miracles Shadrach, Meshach, and Bennego had spent far more time in prayer than they did in the fiery furnace. Behind these powerful events in Scripture in the lives of men and women of God, there is a life of prayer. There is a practice of intense, consistent, fervent prayer. And that's what I want us to give our attention to this. morning. In fact, not just Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, but all through scripture. Let me ask you a question. When you think of Moses, what what comes to mind? The Dead Sea, divide parting the Dead Sea. You might think of getting the commandments on Mount Sinai. These various events like that. But if you'll study scriptures very carefully, you know what Moses was? He was a tremendous man of prayer. In Exodus, I believe, chapter 33, verse 11, the Bible says that God spoke with Moses face to face Like a man speaks with his friend. Now think about that. God Almighty had such a relationship with Moses. His prayer life had been developed to the point where it was like two friends sitting down and discussing these things. We wonder how Moses could raise a rod and God depart the s apart a sea. I'll tell you one of the reasons Moses was a man of prayer So we have Moses, and we could go through, pick any number of them. David, what do you think of when you think of David? David and Goliath. This is the big event in David's life. We think of the psalmist of Israel, the king of Israel. And all these things are true. But if you study David's life very carefully, You know what you find out? David was a tremendous man of prayer. In fact, the Psalms that David wrote, the overwhelming majority of them, if not all of them, were simply prayers that David had prayed to God, he recorded down and in his day put to music. Prayer. Powerful prayer. We think of the great prophet Samuel and how God used him to bring prophecy and provide leadership to Israel. But you know what Samuel said? He said, God forbid that I should sin against God in ceasing to pray for you. Samuel had the mentality that the worst thing he could do against the people of God, the children of Israel, was to stop praying for them. Tremendous man of prayer. Moses, David, Samuel. I think of New Testament, the Apostle Paul. There's great missionary journeys. A church planter, extraordinaire. Um nobody, uh I don't know of anyone that is hit the church and been used of God in establishing churches like the great apostle Paul. Do you know what Apostle Paul was? You study his writings, inspired by God, preserved for us. We find that Apostle Paul was a tremendous man of prayer, consistent, powerful. How many times does he say, we cease not to pray for you day and night? Continually in our prayers. We wonder why God used Paul to establish churches and to have such an influence in the world of his day. I'll tell you why. He knew how to get a hold of God in prayer. His life was saturated by prayer. Even the Lord Jesus Christ, think of all his miracles and all that, he said, well, he was a son of God. Yes, he was God in the flesh. If you study the gospels carefully, you know what we find Jesus doing over and over and over and over? Getting alone to pray. withdrawing up to a mountaintop to pray, spending the night in prayer. Greatest event in all of history, perhaps. When Jesus Christ died on that cross for the sins of mankind, what did Jesus do the night before? Spend it in prayer, the Garden of Gethsemane. Prayer. We want the miracles of the Bible. We want the blessings of God we're told about in the scriptures. We want God to meet our needs and give us peace of mind. We want God to direct us in life. We want God to protect us from uh harm and and uh we want God to bless our country. We want God to keep our nation safe. We want God to bless our children and Have them grow up with uh uh successful and and uh knowing the joy of the Lord in their lives. We want our children to have happy Christian hopes. We want all of this But we forget that behind all of that, there must be earnest, diligent prayer. Prayer. Doesn't just happen. Doesn't just somehow these miracles and things take place. We get excited about these miracles we read here. Daniel in the lion's den But we overlook the secret, if you want to use that word. It's not a secret. But the secret of their lives was earnest prayer, fervent prayer. Daniel, I think you'll agree with me on this. Daniel was successful in his business. Would you agree with me? He was successful. You read through the life of Daniel there in Babylon and tremendously successful. He held a powerful position in the government. In fact, you read earlier here in the book of Daniel, and you find that Daniel was number, basically number two in the land. There was the king. There was three princes. Daniel was number one of the three princes. Then there was a whole bunch of other senators and ri representatives and whatnot, whatever they were called. But Daniel was number two in the land, tremendously successful, a foreigner in Babylon Number two in a land. Daniel was successful. Daniel was powerful in his position. Would you agree with me? Someone in Daniel's position position, no doubt, was very, very wealthy. Sure. Daniel, no doubt, was very wealthy. If Daniel wanted to purchase something, I guarantee it, he could have bought it. He could have, if he didn't have, he could have had the latest and newest of whatever Babylon had to offer. Successful, powerful, wealthy. He was very popular, believe it or not. Come with me if you would. Keep your place here. Come back a few chapters to Daniel chapter 6. Let's read the first five verses here and get a little idea of Daniel's standing in society and his success in life. Daniel chapter 6, and look with me at verse number 1. Now Darius is in charge here. And it pleased Darius, verse 1, Daniel 6, to set over the kingdom 120 princes, which should be over the whole kingdom. And over these three presidents, of whom Daniel was what? First. So you agree with me, he's successful. He's the top of the ladder. Of whom Daniel was first, that the princes might give an account unto uh account unto them, and the king should have no damage. So, in other words, he's responsible for this. He's to keep the king reputation and policies and all of that being implemented and all of that. So Dan is very successful, very influential, no doubt very, very wealthy Then this Daniel, verse 3, this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes because an excellent spirit was in him. And the king thought to set him over the whole realm. Not only was he successful, not only was he powerful, not only was he obviously very wealthy, but people liked Daniel. Notice there, verse part, he says he was preferred above the presidents. Everybody liked Daniel. Who do you want to come and speak at the university graduation? Do you want this guy? No, we want Daniel He's very popular. Yet, in spite of his success, in spite of his power, in spite of his wealth, in spite of his popularity, Daniel understood one thing. He never forgot something. And that was this. He desperately needed God. Now let me make a little application to us as a country. God has blessed the United States of America. We're successful. Our form of government has been very successful. Our businesses have been very successful. We are a powerful country in the world. I doubt there's a nation in the world that has not been influenced to some degree by the United States of America. We are incredibly wealthy. The poorest American is as rich, or if not richer, than some of the richest people in countries, in foreign countries. Very popular. I think much of the disgruntleness against America and the world is nothing more than simply envy and jealousy. Very popular. But America has done something that Daniel did not allow to happen. We as a nation have forgot how desperately we need God. We've forgotten that without him, we cannot function. We cannot go forward. We are, as like I said in Sunny School, we are headed for a train wreck. Daniel never forgot, in spite of his wealth, popularity, influence, he never forgot that without God, I'm nothing. Nothing. And so prayer was a powerful factor. Now, come back to chapter nine I just want to give a few thoughts that as I read through this in my devotions some time ago, just a few thoughts on Daniel's prayer life that I want to incorporate into my life as a Christian. Now, understand, this morning I'm speaking to believers. I'm speaking to Christians. If you're here this morning, you've not trusted Christ the Savior. If the things of God mean nothing to you, If the scriptures and God's will for your life and uh your responsibility to God, if that means nothing to you, then this message will mean nothing to you. If you're here this morning and you know Christ as Savior And you have a sincere desire to have God's blessings on your life and God's will to be done in your life. And I believe there's something here that can help everybody. The first thing I notice about Daniel's prayers is first of all they were scripture-based prayers Scripture-based prayers. Come back to chapter 9. Come back to the first couple verses in the chapter, verses 1 and 2. It says in the first year of Darius, the son of Ashurharas, of the seed of Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, okay, Daniel speaking, I, Daniel, understood by what? Books, plural Understood by books the number of the years whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he should accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem. According to what you see there in verse number 2, your conclusion is Daniel did what? Okay, he read. He studied the Word of God. I understood by books that the word of the Lord to Daniel said, we're going to be seventy years in captivity here in this nation in this City in Babylon. Daniel was a student of the Word of God. He studied the Bible. Now, how many folks here would agree with me? How many folks here would say Whenever the preacher preaches, he ought to have Bible-based sermons. How many people agree with that? Amen. I don't want anybody coming in here standing behind this pulpit preaching something other than the Word of God. And God help me, God have mercy on me. If I ever get up and stand behind this pulpit and preach anything other than the Word of God. We want our sermons to be Bible-based. How many people agree with me that the songs that are sung from the choir and specials here, music played at the piano, should be scripturally based music and songs? Amen? And by the way, I'm not just talking about the words, we're talking about the style music also. Scriptural, doctrinally sound, doctrinally, scripturally performed according to principles of scripture and holiness and godliness. We want our sermons to be scripturally based. We want our songs to be scripturally based. I'm saying to you, our prayers ought to be scripturally based. We pray, we need to pray according to Scripture. Daniel was a diligent student of God's Word And when he prayed, his prayers were in line with Scripture. In fact, his prayer, particularly here in chapter 9, was a fruit Of his Bible study. He studied the scriptures. It produced a need for prayer. It prompted him to seek the Lord Now, look at verse number two with me for a moment. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by books. Now, the thing that caught my attention was that the word books is a plural word. He's not studying just one book. Now, what one book, we read a little bit more in the verse there, what one book is he studying? Jeremia Jeremiah, the word of God, Jeremiah. But he's studying books. Now there's several takes on that. It's very possible and very likely. That um uh and we know from history that the Old Testament at this point was not complete. We didn't have the complete Word of God at this point in time. And it was stored not in one volume like we have here in one volume, but it was in many scrolls. Many books. You would have the book of Moses, which was the first five books of the Bible. Genesis, X, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. You had the history books. You had the book of Psalms. Psalms. And so it's very possible, very likely, that he's studying various different books. Of the Word of God. He's comparing scripture with Scripture. He's not taking just one passage out of context. And claim that, but he's saying, all right, this verse here says this. Now I need to compare that with this verse here in these other books, and I need to go to this book and this book, and he's he and I believe he's establishing A systematic study of the Word of God, and he's coming to a prophetic conclusion that they're only going to be in Babylon for 70 years, and God would open up the door of opportunity for them to go back to Jerusalem. He's studying prophecy, comparing scripture with scripture. And the result was a He ended up in prayer. Started praying. So his prayer is scripturally based I want to suggest that when it says he whereof uh he says he understood by books I want to suggest that he no doubt was also including in there perhaps what other great men had said about the Word of God. What may be using what we would call commentaries, perhaps using types of word studies and whatnot. And he's studying the Word of God. He's doing what the Bible tells us in the New Testament, to study to show himself approved unto God. The best thing A Christian can do to establish a consistent and effective prayer life is to become a student of the Word of God. Listen, a sincere, humble study of God's Word will prompt us to pray. Will stir our hearts to know the God of this book, to communicate with Him Effective prayer is not complicated. Effective prayer is not ritualistic. I don't want to have to come through some ritualistic, complicated process to approach God. So effective prayer is not complicated, it's not ritualistic, but effective prayer must be scriptural. By that I mean this. I cannot pray in ways outside of Scripture's instructions. I don't know if I'm making myself clear on this. There's folks on television that will have folks pray unscriptural prayers. There's preachers all around the world that have their people praying unscriptural prayers, claiming promises God never made. There's a movement, I think it's still pretty healthy going on around, I mean in its strength, going around where we can command God to do things. That is unscriptural praying. We are to pray scripturally. We are to pray according to now it doesn't mean it's complicated. You're driving down the road, the roads are snowy and icy, and there's some snow-plow truck coming at you, 90 miles an hour, and you say, Oh God, help me, please. That's a scriptural prayer. Um Our prayers don't have to be complicated, but neither can they be contrary to Scripture. Now let me give you a few principles, and this is just racing through them But if I understand scripture correctly, and I'm uh it's very, very clear in scripture, if I'm going to have an effective prayer life, first of all, I need to be saved. God, the Bible makes no promises of answered prayer to unsaved people. We say it often, the only prayer that God will hear of an unsaved person is, God be merciful to me a son. The cry of salvation, the cry for mercy. The Bible says we are to pray in Jesus' name It is impossible to pray in Jesus' name without having Jesus as Savior I cannot simultaneously reject Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and claim his name in prayer, claim an answer to prayer in his name while I'm rejecting him as my Savior. Cannot happen. You say, well, preacher, I'm not rejecting Jesus. I'm just not ready to accept him. Non-acceptance is rejection. You can try and cut it any way you want. But knowing that I need Jesus Christ as my Savior to forgive my sin, cleanse me from unrighteousness, knowing I need that, the only way I hope to be saved From sin and go to heaven is through Jesus Christ. Knowing that that's the only way and not accepting it is rejecting it. So, how do you have a scripturally based prayer? Number one, I must be saved A second principle in Scripture for having our prayers heard and answered, have an effective prayer life, sin must be forsaken. Now, I want you to turn to this passage with me. Like I said the other night, I hate for you to bring your Bible to church and not use it for very little. And so let's go to Isaiah chapter 59. Isaiah chapter 59. We're talking about Daniel having scripturally based prayers And you and I praying scripturally, having prayers that are scripture-based. Number one, I need to know I'm saved. Number two, sin must be forsaken. Look at Isaiah 59, verse number 1 through 3 Now I had you turn there because I want you to see this. Alright? Are you with me? Everybody listening? Alright. Look what it says. Behold! The Lord's hand is not shortened that it, what's that next word? Cannot save. Save. Neither his ear heavy that it Cannot hear. So in other words, God can save and can hear. Right? There's no problem on God's side. The problem isn't that he cannot save, that he cannot hear. Look at verse 2. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God. And your sins have hid his face from you. That he what will not hear. It's not a matter that he can't. It's a matter that we've allowed ourselves to get into a condition where he won't. Look at verse 3. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken, your tongue hath muttered perverseness. Do you know how we talk affects whether our prayers will be heard or not? We use filthy language, we take God's name in vain, we tell nasty jokes at work. We use this tongue and these lips that God has given to us to be used for His glory, and we use language that is contrary to Scripture, and then we think God is going to answer our prayers. We are wrong! I have never heard as filthy language as I have heard in the last ten years in our country. Unbelievable. Even among Christians anymore. I came across, and I don't even know where I came across a a little Like a little newsletter. It's uh an email newsletter from a preacher down south somewhere. And he's not independent Baptist, but I got this thing and it was really good. He had this little list of things for marriage, was excellent I said, wow. And then um I'd read it somewhere, so I said, I'd like to get I'd like to know what this guy says. He has some good principles here. And it went a couple weeks and they were just good stuff, you know, just basic practical things from passages of scripture. And very helpful, some thoughts I jotted down. Lo and behold, two weeks ago he put a thing on there. I got this thing where his ten favorite posts that he had ever done And I opened that up, and some of that language was absolutely I wouldn't even use it on a men's mountain getaway. Nasty. A pastor of a church, I think they run four or five thousand, publicly publishing filthy language. Listen, God condemns that. He says, your lips have uttered perverse things. and I will not hear you. I'm not going to listen to it. He says, your fingers. Listen, things that we take so lightly, things that some Christians give no thought to, just do it. And man, it cuts off our Prayer life. God says, I'm not listening to that. You don't have my ear. You talk like that, you do not have my ear. You act like that, you do not have my ear. So our prayers, if they're going to be scripturally based, must be s first of all, we need to be saved. Second of all, sin needs to be confused. Forsaken. Listen, if we're serious about God helping us and doing some things in our lives, then we need to get serious about forsaking sin. We can't play one with the other, one with the other. So, number one, saved. Number two, sin forsaken. Number three, selfless. My prayers must be selfless. Now we're not going to take the time to turn there, but James chapter 4, verse 3 and 4, he says, you have not because you ask not. You ask and receive not, because you ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your own lusts. You know why sometimes God doesn't answer our prayers? Because we're just plain old selfish. We want, we want, we want, we want. I learned a hard lesson this week. I told my wife. I called her up right away. And uh I thought I had this. Did you ever have something you thought you learned it a little bit later, you take the test and you fail it again. Anybody know? I'm the only one here that's ever done that. Well Like I said, you I won't hear your prayers if you don't. Anybody here ever pray and ask God uh for financial need situation? Anybody here. About half the crowd. I think there's more than half. Well I've done that over the years. And um I had a person come by the house this week. I could tell they were there, the dog was barking. So I went to the door and um and I know the person and they've attended here on occasion. They don't attend regularly at all, by any stretch of the imagination. They said, Pastor and we know each other very well, and uh they said, Pastor Leatherman, do you have some money that I could buy gift And my first reaction was Now I know you all would never act that way and respond to that type of thing. And um, you know, while this person was talking to me before they finished their sentence, a verse came to my mind, was screaming in my mind. Give to them that ask of you. I hate it when that happens. So I said, yeah, sure, not a problem. Hold on, let me get my wallet. I got my wallet, I opened it up and uh I had a twenty dollar bill. That was all I had I was really rich this week. And um I said, there you go, that'll help you. And so we talked a little bit and I tried to encourage it on some things. And uh I walked in and I was thinking, the nerve. And boy, God's hammer came down. Boom. This is what I learned. God said, God, not audibly, but this is what the Lord spoke to my heart. You have asked me for so much money and financial things over the years. You who I, this is God speaking, who I owe nothing to. I've given you far more than you ever deserve. You come and ask me for finances and somebody that comes by and you bristle at giving them twenty bucks. Boy, God convicted me. I asked God for money. I asked God. I asked God. I asked God. Somebody comes along. Can you help me? What Maybe that's why our prayers aren't answered. We're just selfish. We want, we want, we want, and we want We won and we give so little. So number one, need to be saved. If my prayers are going to be scriptural, I need to know Christ as Savior. Number two Two, I need to have sin out of my life. I've got to deal with it. Put it out. I can't talk that way. I can't act that way. I can't live that way and have God answer my prayers. Number three, I can't be selfish. And number four, I have a fourth principle, and we could spend a whole series on this. But I put this down. We must take our to for our prayers to be scriptural, we must be serious about him. James chapter 5, verse 17 says, the effectual, fervent prayers of a righteous man availeth much. And what caught my attention was that word fervent. You know what that means? That means intense. That means serious about it I've often said it this way. If we don't care about the prayers, then God won't answer. If we're not serious in what we're asking God, then God's not going to be serious about it. It. We need to be fervent. How badly do we really want God? We say, God, just bless me today. What's that mean You really want him to bless you? You know, God's blessing you may mean you have to change some things in your life and get surrender some areas over in your life. We think when we pray, God bless me today, we think, oh good, I'm gonna be really healthy and I'm gonna get lots of money and uh everything is gonna go great at work and at the end of the day, boy, God blessed me today, I didn't have any trials and that might have been God not blessing you. God blessing you may mean we learn to live by prayer. We learn to do without some things So we need to be serious about God. Fervent prayer. Fervent prayer. So number one, uh scriptural Daniel's prayers, if I Study this correctly. It looks to me, uh verse covered, he's studying the word of God, and the study of the word of God is producing this prayer. He has scripturally based prayers. Then something else I noticed, particularly in chapter nine here, he had sincere humility-based prayers. Look at verse number three. I'm going to read an extended portion of scripture here. And I set my face unto the Lord God to seek by prayer and supplication with fasting and sackcloth and ashes He's taking this seriously. And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession. And said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments. Look at this. We have sinned and committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments. Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants, the prophets which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, our fathers, and to all the people of the land. Now stop there for a second. I don't read anywhere in the record of Daniel that he rebelled against God. I don't read anywhere in the scriptural testimony of Daniel that he did wickedly. But he's confessing in verse 5 and 6, he's saying, we've done wickedly, we've rebelled, we haven't listened to the word of God. You know what he's doing? He's including himself in with the people of God. He's saying we're all guilty. One thing I notice in Daniel's prayer, one thing I notice he does not do. He does not stand before God and tell God how great of a guy he is. He doesn't tell God how obedient he's been. He doesn't tell God how faithful he's been. He doesn't tell God how strong he stood for the Lord. He says, God, we're all sinners. We have blown it. I include myself in with the worst of your people. You know what that is? That's humility. Sincere humility. We go down through verse number nine. Look verse seven. O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee But unto us confusion of face as at this day. Look at verse 9. To the Lord our God belong merit mercies and forgiveness, though we have rebelled against him. Come over to verse number 18 O my God, incline thine ear and hear, open thine eyes, and behold our desolations, the city which is called by name. I love this next statement. Listen to this. For we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great mercy. You never find Daniel speaking highly of himself. You never find Daniel thinking highly of himself, especially in his prayers. It is all we always we always pray the best when we're emptied of ourselves. We always pray the best when we're at the end of ourselves. How many people know what I mean by that term, being at the end of yourself? Anyone relate to that? How many folks have ever been there? I'm just at the end of my rope. You say, yeah, every day when my husband and the kids come home, I'm at the end of my rope. That's when we pray the best. When we have no other resources, when we have no other options, if God doesn't come through, that's the end of your rope. And that's when we pray the best. And that's where Daniel was. I have no righteousness to offer. I have no claim to your attention, God. All I'm asking for is mercy. Sincere humility. I got thinking of this. Now again, how many folks you've been at you know where you what I'm talking about, you're at the end of the rope, bottom of the barrel. You're it at the end. Let's get a testimony here. How many? Let's take a poll. All right. Most of us. That attitude we have when we're there There's no self-confidence. There's no self-reliance. I mean, it's gone. We are absolutely nothing left. We are jelly. If we could somehow capture that attitude of dependence on God that we have when we're at that point. And maintain that throughout life without having to go through the horrific things that bring us to that point, how effective our prayers would be. Am I making any sense? If we could maintain that defenselessness, helplessness, emptiness of self, On a consistent basis, and then come to God with that frame of mind We'd have powerful, powerful prayers. That's what I see Daniel. No confidence in self, nothing to lift himself up. The less we think of ourselves, The more effective our prayers become. Listen to Psalm 34, 18. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit, just broken. Nothing in my hand to bring to God. Listen to Psalms 51:17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a contrite heart thou wilt not despise. Isaiah 66 and verse 2, to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word. God says in Isaiah 66 He's saying this, you want to know who I'll hear? You want to know whose prayers I'll listen to? You want to know who has my attention? Person doesn't think too highly of themselves. Person who's broken, has nothing to offer, they tremble at my word. That's the person that I'll listen to their prayers. Sincere humility. Scriptural. I'm running out of time. If you would, please quickly turn with me to Luke chapter 18. I feel like I go to this passage often, but it is so significant. Luke chapter 18. And beginning in verse number nine, I've I've got to bring it start lining up on the runway here to bring this thing down. If not, somebody's gonna shoot the thing down out of the Luke chapter 18, look at verse 9. And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves. But they were righteous and despised others. I've found that people who think they're righteous tend to despise others. Two men went up into the temple to pray. One a Pharisee and the other a publican. The Pharisees stood and prayed thus with themselves. So the subject is prayer, the activity is prayer. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. I think it's interesting he's praying with himself. God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. Extortioners and unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican, I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess Now, the Bible doesn't say this, but I can hear coming from heaven, La Bida. Look at verse thirteen. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house just Rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Sincere humility. To pray effectively, I have to get my focus off of myself and on to God. Proud Christians produce unanswered questions. prayers. And last of all, just real quick, come back to Daniel chapter nine. Look at verse number 19, the verse we read together here a few moments ago. O Lord, here, O Lord. Forgive. O Lord, hearken and defer not for thine own sake. Oh my God. For thy city and thy people are called by thy He had scripturally based prayers. He had sincere humility-based prayers. And the third and last thing, he had strong and intense prayers. Oh Lord, oh Lord, oh Lord, oh my God, you can hear the intensity Men and women throughout Scripture that had powerful answers to prayer were intense in their prayers, were desperate in their prayer. It's interesting. In Exodus 32, 32 you have Moses praying for the nation of Israel. This was after they had put together the golden calf. Remember the story? Moses was up. And it comes down and uh Isaac had gotten all their earrings and everything and and I I uh I I I um not Isaac Aaron. Um Isaac was on the ark, that's right. Um Aaron has got all their things together and uh they throw it and A and Moses comes down and says, What's what in the world? What are you doing praying to this golden calf? What's wrong with you? And Aaron Classic says, uh, we just threw the gold in and this calf came out somehow. And Moses is broken, absolutely shattered You talk about demoralized. Moses is demoralized. And he goes to God in prayer. And he prays this. And it's in I it's in um Exodus 3232. You can read it this afternoon. He goes, God, please forgive their sins. And then the Bible has something that's not found anywhere else in the Bible. It has a little dash. You don't find that anywhere else in the Bible. Oh God, forgive their sin. And the implication is this: there's a moment of silence. Moses is broken. And he says, if not, blot my name out of the book of life. Place their sins on me You talk about intense praying. Moses was burdened, intense intensity In his prayers. Um, remember Hannah had no child. And they would go to the Jerusalem once a year to the sacrifices with her husband, and she would pray and ask God for a child and ask God for a child. And one year she's especially intense, and she goes to the temple and she's praying so intensely that the priest Thinks she's drunk. Now, there's a whole lot we could say about Eli the priest. He had his problems. But it tells me something about the intensity of Hannah's prayer The Bible says she didn't say anything out loud. But picture in my mind a woman pleading and begging God. To give me a child and she her mouth is moving And Eli being the carnal, backslidden priest he is, she's drunk. She wasn't drunk. She was intense. She had to have this from God. Oh God, you've got to hear me. Oh Lord, Daniel said. Oh Lord. Oh Lord. Oh my God. Intensity. Think of Paul's prayer for Israel in Romans chapter 9. He said, My prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. He goes on, I believe it's in verse number three, he says, I would that I was accursed for Israel's sake He's saying, God, I'd be willing to take the judgment of sin. I'd be willing to die and go to hell if that would save Israel. That was his prayer. Intense. If our prayers are unimportant to us, they're unheard by God. If our prayers are not taken seriously by us, they're not going to be taken seriously by God. How badly do we want our children to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior? How badly Do we want countries like Kazakhstan to be reached with the gospel? How badly do we want our family members to be brought into salvation and escape the judgment of God eternity in hell? How badly do we want our testimony To be as such that it has a witness to this world and influences people for the Lord Jesus Christ. Do we care about these things? If we do, it will be reflected in the intensity of our prayers. And it'll get God's attention. I don't have much time for a mother or a father who doesn't take praying for their children seriously. Don't tell me how much you love your kids if you're not praying earnestly, intensely for them. Your spouse, your church, your ministry. George Mueller. How many people recognize the name George Mueller? Hundred? He was born in 1805. Just a few weeks ago, in 1805, September 27, 1805. He was converted to Christ as a young man, and this is what he says. He was impressed with how many times Jesus said for us to ask. For things. So he got saved and began reading the Bible. He was impressed with how often God, Jesus, told us to pray for what we need and what we want. He married his wife. It's always good to marry your wife. And they started out and they determined they were going to do this experiment. Poor word, but for lack of other. First of all, they gave away all of their household goods. Gave it all away. The next step, he refused to take any salary from the mission where he was serving the Lord in. Now I'm not there yet, Deacon, so don't get too excited. He refused to take any regular salary from the mission he was serving in, and he set out to establish a home, an orphanage. to care for the homeless children in England. In April 21st, 1836, they dedicated a rented building. Within a few days, 43 orphans were there. Right at the beginning, he established some guidelines that they would operate by. Number one, they would not ask for any funds. They would never solicit funds from people at all. Number two, they would never take on any debt. Number three, no money that was contributed for a specific purpose would ever be used for anything other than that purpose. Number four, all accounts would be audited annually. Number five, they would not publish any donor's name. Anybody gave something that was all anonymous. They would not go to prominent people to bring them on their boards simply because they had a well-known name. And the success of the orphanage would be measured not by the numbers served or by the amount of money taken in, but by God's blessings on the work, lives changed. Mueller expected God's blessings to be in direct proportion to the time he spent on prayer. They remained true to their convictions. Soon a second building was established. They kept concentrating on prayer. Before too long, five buildings were built: 110 workers, 2,050 orphans. being cared for. For over 60 years, Mueller recorded every specific prayer, answered prayer Everyone. Ultimately, he was responsible for the care of 9,500 orphans during his life. The children never missed one meal. Mueller never asked a person for one dollar. But in answer to prayer directly and prayer alone, $7,500,000 came in in the early 1800s. In answer to George Mueller's prayers. Here is a man that understood the power of biblical, selfless, earnest prayer. Now my question is this as I end. What do you need? What is it that you need God to do in your life? Get scriptural. Get praying. Make sure your prayers are scriptural. Number two, humble yourself before God fully. And number three, take it seriously We've got a lot of young people have decisions in the next few years. The decisions you make as far as occupation, education, all those things are going to affect the rest of your life You desperately need God's leadership and direction. Families, I'm talking to some families, have marital situations that are devastating. Nobody knows about it. It's behind the doors. Some of you need to get a hold of God in prayer. I'm telling you, prayer could change that marriage, turn that thing around. I got a message last night, preacher fellow. I know fairly well, not far from here, in the ministry, 20-some years, left his wife two weeks ago. This morning the church is devastated. Telling you, it didn't have to be. Didn't have to be. Prayer. Prayer. Let's take this seriously. Let's ask God. Let's get a hold of God. of God. See what He can do in our lives, our homes, our churches. See what souls can be saved. Communities turned around, nations reached. We pray. Father, help us. Pray like the disciples prayed. Lord, teach us to pray biblically, humbly, earnestly. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say right now, now this is between you and God, all I'm doing is trying to join you in prayer But it is between you and God, you'd say, preacher, there's a situation, there's an issue, there's a burden on my heart, that I mean God. To intervene. I need God to give direction. I need God to make some changes. I need God to provide. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me as I take this matter. very seriously, and I bombard the gates of heaven with prayer, and I just get a hold of God and not let go. How about it? Any like that by the uplift hand. Very specific situation. Very specific burden. Very specific. God bless you, hands all around. Now how serious is it to us? Young people, you've got incredible decisions to be made. made. Some of them you make them, you can never go back and undo it. You need God's wisdom. You need God's leadership. How many young people would say, Preacher, I'm taking very seriously my need for the Lord's leadership in my life. Step by step guiding me and directing me. How about it? Any young people like that? God bless you, a bunch of young people's hands. Make that a matter of earnest, diligent, scriptural prayer. And all of us joining together. One last question. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure. If I die now, I go to heaven. I'm not saved. I need Christ. Christ save me and give me new life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. Some of us as Christians need to get some sin out of our life. We know what it is. It's not a mystery. We know what it is. We got to deal with it. Let's take this seriously. Father, bless our invitation time. I pray this prayer this invitation time would be a prayer time. Maybe a life-changing, have results years down the road as a consequence. of what decisions are made here this morning. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. Now's the time. This is the time. This is the place now to come to an altar and say, God, teach me to pray. God help me to take this seriously. God help me make whatever changes I need to make. God I need these adjustments. I need you to intervene. I need you to help me. Folks coming for membership, come on down.