Thank you, Tammy. Very excellent. Thank God that He gives us gives us chances over and over and over again. Very good. Thank you, Tammy. If you would turn with me back to Daniel chapter number six. Daniel chapter 6, we have a couple's retreat coming up this Friday and Saturday, and we'll say more about it a little bit later. But it's coming at just the right time. I found out that uh one of our deacons and our wives, uh Ed and Carolyn, are inseparable. I mean you cannot get them apart. In fact last night it took four state police and two s uh police dogs to get them apart. And uh they are absolutely inseparable. I thought that was funnier than the response I got for it, but uh I put that and Robin said Robin said, I don't get it. I don't understand. What does it mean? Yeah. They think it's true. Daniel chapter number six. I just want to read the last phrase of verse 23. Daniel chapter six. The last phrase of verse 23. It says, So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him Because he believed in his God. I want to talk to you, the preacher this morning on the subject, Daniel in the lion's den. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we're grateful for the service. What a blessing it's been to my heart. The music, Lord, the special that Tammy had in the choirs was exceptional today. We just Rejoice in your love for us and how you lead us and give us repeated opportunities to please you with our lives. We're grateful for that. We're humbled, Lord Uh Lord, the fellowship today has been a blessing. And uh just with the weather and all, and just uh it's been a real joy But God, we look into your word now, and I'm asking you to open our hearts and minds. Help us to put aside all the activities going on in our schedule, and help us to be open-minded to your will for our lives. Help us, Lord, even at the beginning of the message, to come into this with a submissive heart, a yielded will And Lord, whatever you speak to us about, whatever you instruct us, God help us to trust you and obey you in that matter. And I pray that for myself also, Lord. Lord, I yield myself to you now, present my body anew Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me to your people in Jesus' name. Amen. Daniel and the Lion's Den, in chapter one. In fact, would you go ahead and come back to Daniel Chapter 1 with me? Just a few pages earlier. And notice verse number three. This is where Daniel as a young man, we don't know his age, probably late teens perhaps in that range there. He is taken, they're taken, him and his buddies are taken captive, and taken to the city of Babylon. And verse 3 it says, And the king spake unto Ashpennez the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel. Now look at this next phrase. And of the king's seed and of the princes Children who with him is no blemish, but well favored. And he goes on and describes them. And lo and behold, we find that Daniel is one of these children of the king's seed. That tells us that Daniel was of royal lineage. So in chapter 1 and verse 3, we're told that Daniel is of Daniel is of royal lineage. But from verse 3 on through the end of the book, we find that Daniel was more than just a man of royal lineage, he was a man of royal character. There was something special about this fellow, Daniel. As I've studied his book over the years and reading it again now, just finished it up this week in my devotions. I see in Daniel, I believe, this is my opinion, my view of it, I see in Daniel one of the strongest Men of character of any other man in the Bible. Daniel. I see in the life of Daniel, the testimony we have of Daniel here, a man of tremendous discipline In fact, again, I suggest to you this is one of the most disciplined men of all the men of God throughout Scripture. Daniel's testimony, he has the uh one of the strongest testimonies. Of any man of God throughout Scripture. Now, the only other one I would put in the same category as what we've just mentioned here would be perhaps Joseph. Joseph was a man of impeccable character, of strong discipline, a man of integrity. You think of other men of God in Scripture. I think of Moses. Would you agree with me? Moses was a great man of God. Perhaps I've often said I believe one of the great One of, if not the greatest leader that has ever lived. But you know, Moses had some flaws in his character. Do you know Moses had a hot temper And it came up over and over and over again. In fact, his temper cost him the opportunity to enter into the promised land. Elisha, Elijah, I mean, Elijah was a great prophet, one of the greatest prophets. But you know, Elijah's character had some flaws. He had a tendency to get very, very discouraged. He had a tendency to look things on the more of the negative side. But when you look at Daniel, you see a man who stands under, who stands true to God. Under pressure in ways that some of God's great servants would never have stood, would have crumbled I thought, what if you would put Moses in Daniel's shoes? I think he'd have lost his cool a few times going through here. And you put others. But Daniel, he stood true to his convictions without fear When he found himself in a situation where his convictions would be compromised or there would be physical harm, he stood to his convictions without a hint of fear. That's not easy to do It takes courage to be a good Christian. Mark it down. A godly, disciplined, effective, influential Christian life. Requires courage. Requires courage. Daniel delivered messages of judgment to kings without hesitation He would interpret a dream of Nebuchadnezzar, and the interpretation of that dream given by God was that Nebuchadnezzar was going to become like a beast. He's gonna eat grass like the oxen, he's gonna his hair's gonna become matted and and uh like uh eagles' wing uh feathers and His fingernails are going to grow like claws. He's going to lose his mind. Daniel just tells him immediately, without hesitation, what the interpretation is. Other men in the Bible. I thought of Samuel as a boy when God told Samuel that Eli was going to be judged and Samuel had to come in and purchase. You know, Samuel balked a little bit there. He wasn't sure, should I say it? Well, I don't know. But Daniel without fear. Without fear. He maintained his fellowship with God at all cost. I've said this many times, I believe with all my heart, it's not easy, but I believe it's right. The most important relationship you and I have is not a relationship with our spouse It's not a relationship with our children. It's not a relationship with our parents. Our most important relationship we have is our relationship with the Lord God Almighty. If that relationship is not right, I cannot maintain the other relationships the way they ought to be. David under Daniel understood that. And Daniel understood that his walk with God was more important than any other relationship he had. Even his position as prime minister of Babylon. He would lose his position before he would violate his relationship and his fellowship with God. What a man. I'm impressed with this man, Daniel. Now here's the thing: these things I just described about Daniel, yet in every case, he does all of this. His convictions, delivering the messages, maintaining his fellowship with the Lord, all is done with incredible tact. He's very gracious. Remember back in chapter 1 when uh he's being prepared? For three years they're preparing him to serve in the king's court. And they want him to eat the king's meat and drink the king's wine. And um uh Daniel refused to. You remember the story But he doesn't come in there charging in and say, I ain't eating that wicked heathen food. Let's God I'm a Jew. He doesn't do that at all. Well he uses tact. He uses graciousness. He says, tell you what, fellas, just test me. Just try it out for a little bit. Let's see if it doesn't work. Let me eat my food that I that uh my convictions allow and uh give it a give it a period of time and let's see how it is. And he used great graciousness, great tact Even throughout, when he confronts the others, he's always very gracious. He's never arrogant. He's never loudmouthed about it. He's just very gracious, very tactful, but very firm. That is a sign of a mature Christian. When I can be strong in my convictions When I can be firm in my walk, in my relationship with God, and not sacrifice that for anything or anyone, and yet be very gracious and very kind It's a mature Christian. I believe Daniel was a great man. I believe him and Joseph had a kindred spirit in many ways. Because of Daniel's integrity, because of his wisdom, God's obvious hand upon his life, Daniel constantly gravitated to leadership positions Constantly. Throughout several administrations. We'll notice here. He ended up in a leadership position. Not that he pursued it, he didn't play politics, he didn't try and pull strings and wheel and deal behind closed doors. It was just the natural thing for Daniel to end up in a leadership position because of his integrity. And because of God's obvious hand on him. Now, I got thinking about that after I finished the message. I was reading back through this week, and I got thinking about that You know, sometimes there are people of great integrity, but for whatever reason, God's hand is not necessarily on them. I mean, as far as having great influence. They're honest, they're true, they're walk with God, they're strong, firm Christians, but for whatever reason, in God's wisdom, he never puts them into a very influential position. And uh uh and we thank God for people like that. Amen Some of the greatest Christians I ever met were just humble, godly people that uh they never got a sermon in the sword, they never stood behind a pulpit But boy, they loved God and they walked with God and they are man or woman of great integrity. You follow what I'm saying? Then for some reason, I found over the years I've been in ministry, there are some people Who God has placed his hand upon them, and they have great influence and they have the ear of many, many people. But you get to know them and you find they don't necessarily have tremendous integrity. They have some flaws. For instance, we talked about some people in the Bible, Moses He murdered a man. He had some flaws in his character, but boy, God sure used them. See what I'm saying? So who God chooses to use, and I'll throw a little plug-in here for tonight's message. God may use some people who would be the last person you and I would use. But here you have in Daniel A man not only of tremendous integrity, of strong character, of spotless testimony, but you also have God's hand on him. And what a powerful combination. This man, Daniel, influenced millions. That lived under him. And we'll see that in a little bit. Daniel, uh, a tremendous man. Um he served In these leadership positions faithfully, blamelessly through various administrations You read through the book of Daniel, chapter 5, you not only have a new administration, you have an entire different country invading Babylon. And now the Medes and Persians have taken over. Darius is now a foreign king who is now the king of Babylon and has this entire empire under his hands. Yet Daniel remains. I thought, how in the world does a completely foreign administration come in And yet they retain Daniel in such a significant position. I can see serving under various administrations within the existing country All right? It would be like somebody holding a uh being like a Secretary of State or something like that under various administrations here in the United States But when you get to chapter 5, it would be like if Holland invaded America That could happen, you never know. Uh Holland invaded America and brought their political system over and their leadership and yet they retained one of the existing leaders uh of our country. Am I making any sense at all? Uh some of y'all are looking at me like um crazy. My wife and I came up with a theory this week I'll just share this with you. You can write it in your Bible if you want. We came up with theory this week. We got we became convinced that the nutty people are the normal people and we're the nutty ones Amen. Thank you, Elizabeth. An entire new administration comes in and how does Daniel End up remaining within the leadership of that administration. And not only that, if you study it carefully, he ends up becoming prime minister. That's number two under the king. How does that happen? I'll tell you, a man of tremendous tremendous integrity, and God's hand is on him. No doubt they had heard, no doubt, and this probably opened the door under God's providence, they had heard how Daniel had interpreted the writing on the wall to Belshazzar And said, Your dead meat, basically, that's in the Hebrew. Um, your dead meat tonight, your kingdom's taken from you, Darius is coming in, and no doubt Darius had heard about that and said Maybe he came to the conclusion, hey, Daniel's on our side. He saw us coming, he saw we're doing. Well, I want that guy on our team. Whatever the case, Daniel ends up as prime minister of the kingdom, the empire, under Darius. And as it always goes The greater our influence, the greater our opposition. Never fails. Daniel's a man of God. The devil knows that. You read in the chapter here, there's a great spiritual warfare going on behind the scenes. And Daniel is, I've been using this term a lot lately, Daniel is smack dab in the middle of it. So the devil knows the influence that this great man, this Daniel, this man of God, the devil knows what influence he has And the greater our influence, mark it down, the greater our influence, the greater the opposition is going to be. I heard it described like this years ago, and I think it's a very accurate description Anytime you or I take a step forward for God, anytime we advance and our testimony is becomes stronger or our influence in this ungodly world becomes more effective, anytime you take a step forward in your Christian life, mark it down, you are going to face opposition The devil is going to fight that, the devil is going to oppose that, he's going to put obstacles up, he's going to bring persecution or ridicule or difficulty or trial, whatever The devil is going to fight you and I making advances in our Christian life. Now it seems like it goes like this You take a step forward, you make a decision for Christ, you decide I'm going to be a better Christian in this area, have a stronger testimony, no influence, whatever, man. It it comes on like a hailstorm. Boom! The devil just fights it every reason. Whatever, whatever. But if you'll stand your ground If you refuse to compromise, if you'll just maintain your integrity, stay true to God, it seems like that opposition kind of fades a little. And then you take another step forward, and there's a whole new torrent. Devil fights, fights, fights, but you maintain your integrity, you hold your convictions, you stay true to God And that fades off. And then you take a step forward. That is the way it is in the Christian life. Sometimes we go like this. God stirs our heart in a message or devotions of Spirit of God's convicting us about something, whatever, and we say, you know, I want to be a better Christian than what I am. I want to have a stronger testimony than I have. I'd like to have a a little more influence in this old sinful world than what I do. So I'm gonna trust God. I'm gonna do what He's dealing with my heart about. Take this step forward, and boy, the the opposition comes. And here's what happens a lot of times for us. We just step back. Mercy. We gotta keep pressing forward. Pressing forward. Pressing forward. Now a lot of times it ends up three steps forward, what? Two steps back. Well, we got to keep pressing forward. That's what happens to Daniel here. He advances in his influence. Daniel at chapter 6, at the beginning of chapter 6, and I would like to have read the whole chapter, but we couldn't for sake of time But in chapter 6, Daniel ends up holding the greatest position he has held in his life. He is prime minister. Of the entire nation under Darius' rule. We're talking about millions of people. We're talking about millions of square miles. This is a huge kingdom. And Daniel's the prime minister. He holds the greatest position of influence he ever holds in his life up to this point. Yet he faces the greatest trial that he's ever faced up to this point. Daniel's success, his His vocational prosperity, I could put it, his success ignites the jealousy of his peers. We see that in the first few verses of chapter 6. Man, they don't like this idea of Daniel holding such an exalted position. Besides, he's not even one of the Medes and Persians. He didn't go through their universities He didn't work up his way up through their system of government. He just steps in. He's not even a Babylonian. He's a Jew of all things. And he is put in the position, and we're down here, and brother jealousy catches on fire. And they immediately, you read the few verses there, they immediately begin plotting his removal. And so what do they do? They need to find a flaw in his character. They need to find somewhere where they can exploit a dishonesty They need to find some lack of integrity in his service to the king that they can magnify and use that against him. And so, and I'm embellishing here a little bit, obviously, so they hire the private investigators. They hire accountants They hire uh uninvestigative reporters in the media and they begin doing their research and they go through David's papers. And they go through his financial transactions, and they go through his diplomatic uh associations, and they go through every area of Daniel's life with a fine-tooth comb And they can find no fault. Brother, you want someone to find fault with you. Let an enemy loose. They'll find fault But these guys can come up with nothing. Now, this isn't just some Yahoos living somewhere. These are powerful men These are men who have the means to find out things. And they can't find anything. Daniel is clean in every way. The only fault they can find, and if you would, look at verse four. Of chapter 6. And the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom. Are you there? Daniel chapter 6, look at verse 4. In the middle of verse 4. But they could find none occasion nor fault. For as much as he was faithful. Neither was there any error or fault found in him. Boy, I wonder how many of us that could be said about. Look at verse 5. Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this, Daniel. That was their conclusion. Investigative reporters came back, the secret um, the Private detectives come back, the Secret Service comes back, the CIA, Chaldean Investigation Authority. I just thought of that. That was pretty good. And they say, you're not gonna find anything on this guy. He's got a how do they say it? He's got a clean wrap. Is that how you say it That sounds cool. You're not going to find anything with this guy. So look at the rest of the verse. We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel except we find it against him concerned. Concerning the law of his God. Ah, we found something. Doesn't violate any of our laws, doesn't violate any ethics But boy, one thing we found out investigating about Daniel, one thing we found out, his relationship with God is unmovable. This guy is devoted to the Lord God Jehovah. Now, if we're going to get him on anything, it's going to have to be that area. We have to challenge and undermine his devotion. Now, I learned something about this That means his enemies. Question. His enemies wanted him out, right? We read it on there. They didn't just want him out of position, they wanted him dead Right? They weren't in a lions dead. They were convinced. Now think about this. Daniel's enemies were convinced That he would die before he would sacrifice his relationship with God. Wasn't his friends said that? His enemies If we want to kill him, then it's going to have to either be his God or death, and he will choose death. Well, I wonder if somebody investigated you and I, everything about us. I wonder if they would come to the conclusion he won't disobey God even if it means dying. Wow. Enemies said that. What a testimony. The only flaw they could find in Daniel was his intense devotion to his Lord and God. His intense devotion to Jehovah. Knowing that Daniel would not forsake his walk with God for any reason, they appeal to King Darius' ego. They said, King Darius, and basically in so many words, there's no one in the world like you. You are king. You are wonderful. You're like a god. In fact, we think so highly of you, we think you are so wonderful and so great that we suggest you pass a law that nobody can pray to any other God or have any devotion of any other God other than you for just 30 days. Let's let the whole world give you the honor and tribute and the worship and the recognition that you deserve. Of course, Darius, being the very humble man that he was, said, sounds good to me. Say what you want to get something from somebody, you appeal to their ego. Kids know that. Dad, you are the strongest man I've ever met. Thanks, son. And you're handsome? Thanks, you're a smart kid. And uh can I have five dollars? Sure, here, you want ten? That's what they're doing. So the appeal to Darius King Darius's ego And they get a law passed. No prayer to anyone but Darius for one month. And if anybody prays to anybody other than Darius during that month, they get thrown into the lion's den. The law's passed. Daniel prays Daniel was arrested. Daniel was sentenced to death by being cast into the lion's den. But Daniel is miraculously delivered God is glorified, and Daniel is honored. I like verse 25. Look at verse 25 with me. Chapter 6. Then King Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth, peace be multiplied unto you. I make a decree. This is after Daniel's out-of-the-line and everything. In every dominion of my kingdom, men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For he, the God of Daniel, is the living God. steadfast forever in his kingdom that uh which shall not be destroyed and his dominion shall be even unto the end. He delivereth and rescueth. He worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth Who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions? So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian. Boy, when it's all said and done, God is glorified, Daniel's honored. Now, I want to take a moment, just two thoughts briefly, from Daniel. First, I want us to consider his testimony. Now relax. The introduction's longer than the message. I could hear it. Sir Look at verse 4, second half. But they could find none occasion nor fault. For as much as he was faithful, neither was there error or fault found in him. Come to verse 16. And the last part, King Darius is speaking, thy God whom thou servest continually. Wow, the king saw that. It's interesting, the king doesn't say, Daniel, that God, your God whom you serve, but he said, the God whom you serve what? What a testimony. I wonder if somebody at I wonder if the folks at your job would say that about you. Well, that guy serves God day in and day out. He lives for God. He's for real. Huh? I wonder if folks in the town would say that about us. What a testimony, Daniel had. Come over to verse number 20. When he came unto the den, the king, he cried. Isn't this descriptive? I mean, this just touches my heart. He cried with a lamentable voice. This king is crushed. Oh, Daniel, look what he says about him. Servant of the living God is thy God whom thou servest continually. What a testimony. David's devotion to the true and living God was obvious to friends and foe alike. Throughout the book, Daniel's circumstances are continually changing, but there is no change in Daniel. He remains committed to Christ. He remains devoted to the Lord. He remains firm in his convictions. He remains true to the principles of Scripture that God has given him. His convictions are unchanging. His conduct is unchanging. His commitment is unchanging. I was reading Charles Spurgeon uh had a associate of his back in England years ago. And the preacher was going to write a book, and I don't know what the subject of the book was, but apparently it was dealing with some controversial issue And he had certain men in his church came to him and they said, Preacher, and I don't know his name, I don't know anything more about him than what I'm telling you. But the men in this church, some of the men in this church came to a very large church in London, came to him and said, preacher, if you publish that book It will cost us members, and it will cost our offerings finances. He said, we will pay a heavy price for you to take this stand. And his response was this, and this is what caught my attention I can afford to be poor, but I cannot afford to violate my convictions and my conscience. Wow. I can afford to be poor, but I cannot afford to violate my convictions in what I'm convinced is true I tell you, we could use a good dose of that. How many times do we violate our convictions, our conscience, so that we don't become poor? How many times do we disobey and violate the principles of Scripture so we can maintain popularity? Daniel refused to do it. His testimony was that he served God continually Regardless of circumstances, regardless of whether it was popular or not, regardless of whether it was a price to pay or not, he served God continually. If our success is achieved by the sacrifice of our integrity, we are poor indeed. It was Daniel's integrity that confirmed his testimony. It was his character. You don't find in here Daniel boasting how good a Christian he is. You don't find him boasting of how great a character he is. He doesn't say a word about himself. He just goes about living for God. What a testimony. And second of all, and last of all, I want us to consider Daniel's triumph. Triumph over the lion's den. As I prepared this and work with this, I believe most of us are very, very familiar with the story. So I gave an overview and this is what happened. But I notice when he comes out, there are some lessons we learned through David's victory over these lions. Look with me at verse 19. Then the king rose very early in the morning and went in haste unto the den of lions. And when he came to the Dan, as we just read a moment ago, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel, and the king spake and said to Daniel, Oh, Daniel! Servant of the living God is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee. Now put yourself in the shoes here. Let's get in the setting. We're outside the city. This is probably some cave that goes down pretty deep. They keep a stone over it. They keep lions down there Imagine the stench and all that goes where they just throw enough food to keep them alive. When someone's to be cast in the lion's den, they withhold food for a few days. The lions are starving And so Daniel's been thrown in there the night before the lid's been on. We've not heard a peep. The kingdom's out at the break of day, no doubt, perhaps even before it's daylight He has it removed, and he makes this lamentable cry, Is I God in thou service able to deliver thee? And I would imagine for a moment there's silence. And I imagine the king's heart sinks. Daniel's dead. And about the time he thinks he's dead, he hears this. O King, live forever. Can you imagine what's taking place in the king's heart? He's alive. He survived that. It's incredible. My God has sent his angel and has shut the lion's mouths, that they have not hurt me For as much as before him innocence he was found in me, and also before thee, O King, I have done no hurt. Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den So Daniel was taken up out of the land. Look at this. And no manner of hurt was found upon him. Apparently they checked him out. Bring the paramedics in. Check him out! Blood pressure, good, heart rate, perfect! No cavities! He's in great shape, no harm whatsoever. That's what it says. I mean the cavity part maybe, but The guy's not hurt at all. Now that last phrase in verse 23 is what caught my attention. That's what this morning is all about. Because he believed in his God. How did Daniel triumph over this death sentence How did he come out of that thing alive? Did he outmaneuver the lions? I mean, was he just running away from them all night long? Hiding behind the rocks? No, he didn't do that. Uh was he was he uh uh did he outwit them? You know, maybe he took his clothes and stuffed straw in them and put them over there. That's the guy over there. No. He didn't outmaneuver them. He didn't try and out. Did he overpower them? Like uh Samson, you know. The lions weren't dead. You know what Daniel did? He didn't do anything. He fell down when they threw him down there, and he laid there, and he simply believed that God would take care of him. The word believe there means to rely upon, to trust in. I like this one definition I came up with that I found studying this word. To be convinced That God is trustworthy. Now, I'm going to put a little conjecture here, a little thinking on my part. Was Daniel convinced that God would deliver him out of the lion's den? Or was he simply convinced that God could? Deliver him out of the lion's den. I don't know that Daniel knew he was coming out of there alive or not. But I know Daniel knew he could if that was God's will. Um He believed because he believed in his God. He trusted in. He relied upon his God. That phrase reminded me of 1 John 5 and verse 4. And for sake of time, don't turn there. It says this: This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. The way we have victory in our Christian lives. And I have no doubt, I'm talking to some Christians this morning, and you have issues that are just beating you. You have spiritual lion's dens, so to speak. There's certain sins that you just cannot conquer, and there's certain weaknesses you just can't get a hold of. And there are certain areas you just constantly set back in. And you're trying to think of ways, if you're a sincere Christian You want to have victory over them, and you're trying to think of ways. How do I beat this thing? How do I strengthen myself here? How do I keep from getting constantly knocked back? How do I get victory over this And you're using your wits, and you're trying to just use your own willpower and force it to happen, and you're failing, and you're failing, and you're failing. The victory is not in our wits. The victory is not in our strength. The victory is not in our clever maneuvers. The victory is trusting God to give the victory He believed his God. That's how he came out of that thing alive. I put this down. Daniel's faith was in a God worthy of his worship. Nothing the world had to offer, nothing this world had to offer could replace what Daniel found in his sincere worship of God. Listen, that king could give him any position he wanted. But it could not do for Daniel what being right with God would do for Daniel. And Daniel would not sacrifice his relationship, his fellowship with God for anything this world had to offer. Not even holding on to the position of prime minister. Daniel believed God. His faith was in a God that could offer more. You know what we've got? We've got churches filled with young people, older people who are running to the world and trying to find from the world the peace, the fulfillment, the purpose. The satisfaction in life that only God can give. And so they run from one thing to another to another and they have this cause and that cause and they've got This involvement and that involvement. And it gets more extreme and more extreme and more extreme. Because they're looking in the wor looking for in the world something that only God can give. Peace in the heart, purpose in life. And Daniel knew that. God could be trusted to do for me what this world cannot do. You know what? One of the great things about being saved isn't just that we go to heaven when we die. It's that we have peace and purpose and life here and now. I think sometimes I'm guilty this is anybody in our soul winning. We emphasize heaven, heaven, heaven, and that's fine. But wait a minute. God's good to us here and now too We find satisfaction. I tell you what, being a Christian has been good for Dennis Leatherman. It's given me purpose and meaning and confidence in my life, fulfillment. Something this world can never give. And Daniel understood that. He believed God. To submit my will and life to God in worship brings peace and fulfillment that nothing in this world can produce. Daniel's faith was in a God who was all powerful. A God who was worthy of his worship And a God who is all powerful. We must never underestimate the power of God Let me say that again, and I'm talking to us as a church. We must never underestimate the power of God. I appreciate so much Brother Peter Elizabeth being here for this month. Come over from Holland to help us and uh get a feel for what we are and who we are and just praying for the Lord's direction. But we ran into some roadblocks and he's learning and he's trying to feel what's going on and trying to accomplish what he can and boy paperwork there's nothing in this world as fun as working with the government What a what a blessing that is. It's kind of like being in a lion's den. And you know, and there's a little bit of time sometimes you get discouraged. You think, man, how do we get beyond this Listen, there's a God in heaven that can do great things. Hey, what was it, a year ago, year and a half ago, we thought we were losing everything. If there's a God in heaven out of the blue, makes a phone call, says, hey, interested in a radio station? Don't tell me God can't turn things around for us Listen, if he shut the mouths of lions, he can open the portals of government to get done what we need done. Amen. So never underestimate the power of God. You say, I've got a loved one, I've got a friend, I've got a child that's away from God, I've got a parent that's lost. I don't see how they could ever get saved. Listen, don't you underestimate the power of God! If he can shut the mouths of the lions, he can open the heart of Lydia in Acts chapter 16 to believe the gospel. He can open your daddy's heart to get saved. He can open your child's heart to come to Christ. He can do the impossible. David believed, Daniel believed God. Never underestimate the power of God. You find no fight from Daniel He doesn't go down there kicking the the lions. Pretty cool, huh? You give me a dollar, I'll show you some other moves later on. He just trusted God. I kind of got ahead of myself a moment ago, but Daniel didn't know that God would deliver him. But Daniel was totally convinced that God could deliver him. It's never the ability of God that's in question. It's always the will of God that is in question. In the Gospels, I think it's in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. I believe it's all three of those Gospels. There's a Incident in the life of the Lord Jesus recorded where a leper, man with leprosy, approached Christ He approached them because he desired to be healed. And the leper made an interesting statement, and that leper comprehended the point I'm trying to make here. He said this to, if thou wilt, thou canst make me whole. I think he used the word clean. If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. What was the leper saying? He's saying, I have no doubt in your ability. You absolutely could make me clean like that And Lord, if it's your will, that's what I would like. That's what I would like. Daniel knew. Daniel knew God could deliver him. But he didn't know if it was his will. And here's the thing. So Daniel simply submitted to the will of God, trusted that God would do whatever is best If it was best for Daniel and for the cause of Jehovah for him to be eaten by those lions, then I believe God. I trust God God. If it's best for the cause of Jehovah and for the testimony of Daniel for him to be delivered, then God can do that. I believe God. I trust God. I put it in his hands. He will bring out the best possible solution. Now, what Daniel did in his situation is what you and I should do in every other situation. Believe with our heart that God can do whatever needs to be done, and then trust him to do what he knows is best. I love Mike Stubler dearly. With all my heart, I love Mike Stubbler like a brother. Mike is cancer. know that. Talk to Mike. We've prayed in my office many times and cried. We both said God could take this away today if he wanted. No doubt in our mind he could take those tumors away. But we don't know if that's God's will. And so we add Ask God. We know you can, Lord. We know you're able to. But God, we trust in you. We're asking to deliver them. Lord, we're asking you to do what's going on. best. You're wise. You're all-knowing. What a way to live. At peace. Whichever way it goes. Listen, there's two extremes. One extreme is, ah, no way, there's no hope, nothing we can do. I don't buy that. As long as God's alive, there's hope. As long as God is what the Bible says he is, then there's hope But the other extreme is, oh yeah, God will do what we want every time, no matter what, if we just have enough faith. That's not biblical either. In fact, it is our faith that submits to the will of God It's not faith demanding that God do what I want. That's selfishness. That's arrogancy. Faith says, God, you are able. There's no doubt about it. God, I just put myself in your hands. I'm trusting you. This is what I would like. I make my requests known unto you. God, I just trust you'll bring the best possible scenario out. What do we? I am a proud pastor, in a positive sense. That sounded bad when I just said that But as I was preparing this message, so many different members came to mind. And I knew of situations. Where there was an opportunity to compromise, where there was an opportunity to violate a conviction or a scriptural principle, and the Christian, the church member stood true. And said, no, I'm going to do right, I'm going to obey God, I'm going to trust God, regardless of what it costs me. Well I tell you, that'll stir a preacher's heart. Have members like that, young people. I'm gonna have a testimony. I don't care what it costs me, I don't care whether I'm popular or not, I want to have a testimony, I want to obey God and trust God. I want to be like Daniel. Dare to be a Daniel. Isn't that a good song? Now I end with S I just want to bring this home. Last Sunday morning, Renetta Field sat right back here. Tuesday, God. Called her home. I don't know why. She'd been growing. She had her ups and downs. Kathy had been meeting with her. Renetta had been growing and her faith had been getting stronger. God called her home. I was with my dad when I got the call. And I told my dad, I said, I can't believe this. She's 48 seven years old she's gone and my dad made this statement I mentioned it at the funeral yesterday my dad said this you never know in the morning when you put Put your shoes on, who's going to take them off that night? Now that sounds simple, but that's profound. We don't have the promise of tomorrow. Who in the world last Sunday would have thought that any one of us would be in glory this Sunday? Now let me ask you this: do you know for sure that if this is your week, that this is your time, that your sins are forgiven, and that you'd end up That's the most important thing in the world. Regardless of your past, regardless of the circumstances you find yourself in, the thing every one of us needs most is to know that we've been born again through trusting Christ our personal Savior. Our sins are forgiven, and we're prepared to meet God. Now, those of us that have that settled, then let's be men and women of integrity. Let's be like Daniel. Let's not compromise anywhere. Let's be true. Let's be gracious and merciful and tactful. Let's be absolutely unmoving. And our commitment. To Christ. And whatever the cost is, God can get us through us. I think there may be some dark days coming to America. Days of personal Persecution, perhaps, even. Trust God. God can keep it from us if he wants. If it's not his will, then he'll carry us through it. Amen? Let's just trust them. Father, bless our invitation. Lord, we need you. We need our faith to be stronger. God, we need our commitment to be stronger. We can't play around. I pray your Holy Spirit would move on our hearts. I wonder how many this morning Christians would say, Preacher, I need to be a stronger Christian. My walk with God, my testimony needs to be stronger. And the Spirit of God has stirred my heart. And I want to be true to my Lord in thick and thin. And in good times, bad times. And the Lord's been dealing with your heart, and you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me in some specific area. To be stronger in my faith, stronger in my testimony. How about it? Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Believe the Spirit of God is dealing with his people. We want to Submit to the Lord, let him have his way. Now the Spirit gets very specific about the areas of our life that we need to deal with, the areas of our life that need rearranging and need attention. Let's be obedient to the Holy Spirit. Are there some of you this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that God has forgiven my sins, that I have a home in heaven? I know you don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need this matter of my salvation settled. I need to have this matter settled. And you'd like to