I don't do this a whole lot anymore. Uh to tell you the truth, I'm as nervous as a cat that got caught right in the middle of a dog show. Okay, and uh and that is that is the truth. Now, I'm going to do some different things tonight. And to start with, I've heard the preacher's testimony, I don't know how many times, maybe sixty or more. And I thought that what I would do, because to many of you I'm still a mystery. I'm a mystery wrapped in an enigma. Okay? So I'm going to give you my testimony tonight for just a few minutes before I get into the scriptures. Most of you know I'm from Massachusetts. That's where I was born. That's where I was raised Northwest of Boston about twelve miles. Okay. If I went up on my uncle's hill, I could look off to the uh southeast and I could see the 52-story prudential building that they were building in Boston. To me it seemed so close at times that I could reach out and touch it I grew up there and I didn't grow up in a Christian home. In fact, I grew up and became a criminal. Uh, police were always familiar with the name Brian Schofield. And this was when I was in elementary school Okay. Uh my father and mother they weren't quite sure. Sometimes dad said, well it's just Youthful exer exuberance. Okay. The youthful exuberant exuberance stopped one day when I was in the seventh grade and I stabbed a kid in my front yard And found out later I came very close to killing him. I had a violent temper I did a lot of bad things that I'm not gonna share with you, but did a lot of bad things. When I when I became thirteen I realized that I was on the wrong path. I was on the wrong path. I mean I was old enough to realize that if I keep going like this, I'm going to end up in jail. I'm going to end up reform school. This was back in the uh early 60s. 1960s, not 1860s. Okay. And so I decided I got I gotta quit this stuff. I had a teacher in the seventh grade, an English teacher, that kind of took me under her wing. And she would, she, I she knew I liked to read. And she would bring in books for me to read. And she would bring in books that she knew I liked. Okay? Uh one of the first the first novel that I ever read w in the seventh grade was Moby Dick, okay? Uh the Tremendous book, okay? And I I love that. But I also liked uh comedy. I also liked a good story with a good ending. And so she she kind of got me straightened out a little bit. And uh and that and I went into high school. I um I didn't have many friends in high school. Those people that weren't afraid of me, and there were many that were not afraid of me. Just didn't want anything to do with me, okay? Because I was still in high school. I was still in trouble, okay And uh I would get called down to the principal's office and one time when I was a sophomore in high school, the assistant principal His daughter, youngest daughter, was in my class and started the first grade with me and was in my class throughout high school. He looked up one day when he told the secretary, send in the next one, and the next one was me, and he looked at me, he says, He was a tall fellow, about six foot four, real thin, and he said, Well, what is it now, Brian? I said, well, I thought to myself, whatever it is, it's got to stop. You know, I can't I can't be doing this. So I just started to immerse myself in my studies at school I had teachers who cooperated fully because they thought I was a smart kid, so they put me in with the top kids in the class. And most nights I would end up with anywhere from four to eight hours of homework every night. Which was it was all right because you see my my classes start at eight o'clock in the morning And at seven minutes after two, I was on my way home. 2. 30, I'd be sitting in the kitchen. So I had I had time on my hands. When I was in the seventh grade, I lived inside a field. I lived in what I found out, we moved there in 1951 on my uncle's farm. He had a couple extra houses that were fa for family members and they died, so mom and dad bought one of their houses. And we lived beside my aunt and uncle. And across the street from his brother, my uncle's brother and his wife. Wonderful people. And enjoyed that very much. But I lived in a child's paradise, a boy's paradise. There were fields, swamps, woods, everywhere. You go there today and all you're going to see is wall-to-wall houses. Where's the woods? Where's the fields? Uh all this stuff is gone now. When we moved to town, town was about eleven and three quarter eight uh square miles. There were only three thousand people in the town. When I left home In 1968, there were 31,000 people in the town. Okay? And I'll mention a little incident later on as a illustration for what I want to talk about, but it it was a boys' paradise. I loved it. It was a big field beside our house and we used that as a ball field And the reason why everybody wanted to use our our neighborhood kids want to use it at a ball field because we had an outside hydrant. So if you wanted to drink of water, you could go over and get a drink of water. So we did that Well, we got upset in the seventh grade because they came in and started digging up the field and they put up a church. Church was about a oh about a hundred and fifty yards from the ha from my front door, which is not very far. And Uh we had a good time and everybody would sit, you know, we try to knock a window out, you know, and we We play baseball. Most of us are no we're not that big a hitters. We had one fellow that played with us but hit the ball over the church, which was out of the out of the ballpark in Yankee Stadium or Fenway Park or anything like that. Okay. But to give you an idea of how I grew up a little bit, uh in Boston In Boston. Boston is called the hub city. The hub city And they started calling it that in the ear in the um early 1800s. They don't call it that. They refer to it that occasionally, you'll see that Hub City in a newspaper article or somebody. Somebody might refer to it. It's not used then, but in the fifties and sixties they still called it the hub. Now what does it mean to be the hub? Let me tell you what New Englanders, people from Massachusetts, tell you about the Hub City. The Hub is the center of the universe. Okay? That's pretty arrogant. But that's how they felt. They felt that Boston was the center of culture, manners, ethics, a way of life And uh that's that's the that's what that's the atmosphere you kind of grew up in, you know, very very proper, okay. But uh in that church, my dad was very my dad was not a Christian until the mid-90s. And but he was instrumental in my salvation. There was a man in that church that kept asking my dad to go to this these men's meetings that they had. Three in the fall. Three in the spring and they had a meal and a guest speaker. Some of these were guest speakers came from all over the country to speak in that church. There would be three hundred three hundred and fifty men or more. uh in the church when when we had a speaker. And he asked my dad to go. My dad would go. A sophomore year of the last meeting that they had, which was uh let me see, February, March, April. April, my dad says, Why don't you go with me? I said, What do you mean? Oh he said, other men take their boys and stuff. And you you know a couple, you know some of 'em. I said, Yeah, I know m some of them. And he said, Why don't you go with me? So I went. I don't remember the man's name, but he played the trombone, and I mean he was professional musician, believe me. And he preached a gospel message which and for the first time in my life I started to understand a little bit about the gospel, what they're talking about. Okay. Well the next fall Dad says to me, how about going back in September? I said, no, I got too much homework. I didn't want to go back. October came, Dad says, I got you a ticket. You're good you're going with me on October. Okay. So the the last Tuesday night in October, I went to that meeting and heard a man. I don't know if this name means anything to you. The man's name was Nelson Blunt Okay. He's the fella that started Steamtown USA, which is now in Wilkesbury, Scranton, Pennsylvania. Uh he was a multimillionaire and he would go around in the fifties and buy up these old steam engines. And he would look for the same model, two or three of the same model, pay a hundred thousand dollars for these old steam engines that are parked on a siding, not in use anymore. And he would take them up to Steam Town so they would have spare parts. And uh they they did that. Nelson Baum was a tremendous speaker, and he really bothered me. I didn't let anybody know we was bothering me. Okay? Because I'm after all I'm I'm a New Englander from Boston. You don't ever let people know how you think or how you feel. Okay? You just didn't do that. But I got a call about the fourth or fifth of November. From this fellow that I knew that went to the church, he says, we got a youth rally in Boston Saturday night. He said, how about coming and go with the youth? And he was talking and talking and he said, Well you've been coming out. Come on, come on, we'll have some fun. I said, it's n yeah I I didn't know what he You rally was. I had no idea. I quit going to to church in Sunday school when I was eleven or twelve years old And um I don't know why, but I said okay. So we went to Boston, a fellow by the name of Jack Wartzon from Word of Life, New York. He worked with a lot of inner city kids. That was his ministry. They had a big camp in Scroon Lake, New York, up in the Adirondacks, and he was preaching. He preached this gospel message. And at the end of the gospel message, he asked if anybody wanted Christ as Savior, and I raised my hand. That was okay. But when he asked us all to stand and said, now you that raised your hand come forward, I said, whoa, wait a minute, I'm not going forward, not me. I can't do that. I'm I can't do that. I I don't know what's going on here. I I you know I don't even know what's going on. I said, yeah, I'd love to have Christ in my life. How does that happen? I said, finally I said, Lord, this is my first prayer. Lord, how are you going to help me to go forward? A couple people away from me. This fellow comes up, gets, cuts in front of somebody, and comes up to me. He says, if you want to go forward, I'll go with you. I said, let's go. I went forward and had the Bible explained to me and accepted Christ as my Savior. That was on the ninth of November. Thirteen days later, John Kennedy was assassinated. That I just threw that in there. But I knew it was I knew that my salvation experience was real. I got home that night and I said, What am I going to tell Dad? Well I told mom and dad. They were it was about ten We got home and I went up and told him, uh things were not very good. And uh he said, Well, you will he said, I'll talk to you about this in the morning. Go to bed. So I went in my room and closed the door. They gave me a Pocket Testament League, which was Gospel of John, which was red at the time, had a red cover. So I read half the Gospel of John that night. And I started praying. I prayed for some couple of very specific things. And I prayed for that, prayed for that, prayed for that specific thing. For years. God answered, I tell you what, God did answer my prayer. Okay But I went to bed that night and got up the next morning. My dad said at breakfast, if you think you're going to church over there, he said, you can just forget it. He said, you're not going. Whether you agree with this or not, it is up to you. I went upstairs and said, you know, if if if I want to be a Christian I've got to learn about the Christian life. And if I don't go to church, how am I going to learn? So I decided I'm going to get dressed. And at ten thirty, they had qu service started at quarter eleven. About ten thirty or so I walked out of the house. But when I walked out of the house I knew there was a good chance I may never walk back into that house. That's the kind of person my dad was. Okay. He might not let me back in. I said, well, whatever. I said, but I'm going to church. So I went to church. That day at dinner time I was nervous. I was shaking a little bit. I was wondering what Dad was gonna say. Here I am, sixteen years old, but Dad never said a word to me. I think mom said, now Warren, she said, that's my dad's name. Warren, you wanted the boy to straighten out. Maybe this is the way he gets straightened out. So my dad listened to my mother and never said a word to me. But he kept his eye on me all the time. He was watching. all the time. I didn't find this out until my dad a month before my dad passed away in nineteen ninety six. So I went to church. Later on I enrolled at Northeastern University because I had advanced classes in high school. They put me in a class. Pre-med. Okay? That was a little over my head. I hated that. Okay, advanced chemistry, advanced biology, advanced French, advanced English, everything advanced. You know, started me right out with a lot of calculus. But I didn't like it at all. And in December I talked to one of the fellows that got home from Bible college. I said, you know what? I really got to go to Bible college. He said, Why? You why why now? I said, because I can't stand where I was going. Northeastern University is where I enrolled. And stand that place. So they said, okay. I didn't know I was accepted until two days before I had to leave in January. Second semester. Thankfully, one of the fellows in the church who went to Boston University, and he had two and a half years in it at Boston University He decided he was going to Bible college. So his parents picked us up one night and took us to the bus station. Just outside of Boston and we got on the bus and bus took us to DC and went to Bible College. Okay Um, my dad came out on the front porch with me, told my mother, you stay inside. He said, You're leaving and you're going on your own. He says, as far as I'm concerned, don't come back. I said, Okay, that's fine. That's fine. So I said I had all that semester I've made plans to stay in Washington, D. C. I had everything lined up. I had jobs lined up for the summer. I had been working at uh Safeway, which I would have continued in the summer, and I had a couple other jobs lined up as well. So I went to Bible college. I like Bible college I like studying the Bible. It was challenging, believe me. If you think it's anything like the way we study the Bible, Get that out of your head. When you go to Bible college, it's intense. I don't mean canvas tense. I mean it is stressful. Okay It can be very stressful. So I went there, had a good semester. Uh a week before the semester ended They came up and he said, hey, there's somebody on the phone who wants to talk to you. I said, what? They said, I think it's your father. Dad says, your mother wants you to come home this summer. Can you come home this summer? I said, what do you want? He said, I want your home this summer. I said, okay. So I left my jobs and went home for the summer. Okay, my parents just kind of wanted it that way. Part of the reason they wanted it that way is they thought that they could make me Such a way that I wouldn't go back. That was out of it. So I went back in the fall of 1966. It was real strange. There was this girl. That I mean she was the most cocky, arrogant girl that I could ever have met. And I didn't want, I wouldn't have anything to do with her. In fact, I dated other girls. I, you know, this and that. But long about March of 1967 I said, well, maybe I'll give her a call. So I gave her a call And our first date, which was, you've heard this from me before, which was tremendously apropos, our first date was April 1st, April Fool's Day of nineteen sixty-seven. And I always thought over the years, uh even as the years gone by, I thought that was particularly appropriate, April Fool's Day. So yes. Really? Oh well it wasn't a fool's day for you then, was it? No So I started with this girl and I s in the summer we started writing to each other and and that she she took me home to this place called Garrett County. I said, Garrett County, I said, where do you live in Garrett County? I live in Swanton. Well, how big is Swanton? I said, what is it? A couple thousand people? Oh no, it's not a couple thousand people. I said, well, how big is Swanton? She said, she sat there and started doing this She said maybe about seventy-five to a hundred people in the in the town, swan. Really? That's not a town. That's not even a village. That's just a a whistle stop for the train was it when it went through So she brought me home, got to meet her mom and dad. Her mom, like all mothers do, with their daughters, when the boyfriend comes around, she gave me the She gave me the eye. Her dad welcomed me like I was a long-lost member of the family, but I wasn't a member of the family yet. But her dad was really, really nice. Her mother was very nice too. Sandy's mom was very nice. We went back to Baba College in 1968. I took a year off, pastored to Swanton Church for a year, and we got married in November. And uh We've been together ever since, right? I just I don't want to say that and have her contradicting me later on We've been we've we've been married. It's been it has truly been fifty-one wonderful years. The story with my dad's an odd over. My dad contracted um prostate cancer in nineteen eighty nine. He was under treatment for that. But uh in nineteen ninety five He decided he was coming to my youngest daughter's graduation. He said I'll be flying down. I said, Mom coming with you? Nope, she won't go. But I'm coming. I said Okay. I expected to get a phone call when he flew into Pittsburgh. Expected to get a phone call that he wasn't on the plane. My mother was a very persuasive woman. In fact, my mother told me, I can't believe that he got on that plane and flew down there. But when my dad got off the plane, we uh we didn't walk very far to the car before I, boy, there's something different about dad. There's really something different about dad. So I I said, Dad, how are you feeling? Oh, I'm feeling good. And that so I I wanted to ask him. But I knew it probably wasn't right to ask him then. We came down, we we had a great visit with him when he was down here for, I don't know, three, four, five days. And took them back to Pittsburgh. The following year, my mother calls me at work in June and said, Your dad's heart stopped beating. And I called the rescue squad and two guys from the rescue squad happened to be just going by the house at the time. They thought came in a resuscitated dad. I said, Mom, why are you calling me? I'm 650 miles away. By the time I got there, the funeral will be over. She said, I didn't know who else to call, Brian. So I so she called me and told me. I said, we'll be up in a week. I went up And dad became, he was bedridden, he wasn't in any pain. He had tumors on his spine, and that cut off any pain that he had from his cancer. That was a blessing for dad. I told dad, I said, we'll be back in July. I went we went back up in July. Dad dad was uh bed bedridden then. We didn't we talk some. The morning we got ready to leave, I hope I can tell you this. My dad said, Brian, I've watched you for years. I've watched your marriage. I've watched what you've done with the kids and how you raise your kids. I've watched what you're doing. And he said, I wanted to tell you something. Before I came down for Alita's graduation in 95, this was 96 He said I got saved. Uh my mouth probably fell open. I couldn't believe it, but it was Most wonderful news. Then he gave me the greatest compliment I ever have gotten from any human being on this earth. He said, you know, he said, if it wasn't for you I'll I'll I'll give you what it was, because it truly means something to me and I'll share it with you. Yeah, I said, if it wasn't for you I would have never become a Christian. You don't know how much that means to me. Dad passed away in August. We went up to the funeral. And I look at my dad now. I don't care whether he got saved two years before he died or forty years before he died. He's still my dad and I love him. And I'm just glad he got saved. My mother made a profession of faith. But truly I'm not sure about my mother when she passed away. I think she was a Christian, but I couldn't say for sure like I could with my dad But that that's that's my testimony. I can give you a lot of I can give you a lot of details, I can tell you some funny stories um and that, but I'm not going to do that, but that's my testimony The pastor's given his, I'm giving mine, you probably will never hear this from me again, okay? Because one, I might not have the opportunity, and if I do, I'll probably speak on something else because it's just not that important. Now, tonight, if you have your Bibles, turn with me to 1 Samuel chapter 18. First Samuel chapter eighteen. Pastor asked me to speak on a subject. He doesn't usually do this with people, but he knew I had spoken on this before. So he asked me if I would do it here. So I'm going to do it here. The title of what I speak on today is Dare to Be a Jonathan. I'm going to challenge you. Would you dare to be a Jonathan? We know so little about Jonathan, and yet we know a lot more than what most people realized. Here in 1 Samuel 18, verse 1, I'm going to go over some of the history here. And it came to pass when Saul had made an end of speaking unto Saul when when When he made an end of speaking unto Saul that that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Verse three. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. Now Jonathan was older than David. How much older? I'm not really sure because we're not given ages. But he was older than from David. He had served Saul from the very beginning. At the time as king, Saul put him in charge. They had a standing army in Israel of 3,000 men. And Saul took, told Jonathan, you take the thousand that you want, and that will be your command. You're going to command that part of the army. And Jonathan did. And he was very, very aggressive against the Philistines in particular. When Goliath shows up, nobody wants to take him on. Jonathan wouldn't want to take him on. Nobody wanted to take him on. Saul wouldn't take him on. What are we going to do? David shows up and said, I'll take him on. Yeah, right, kid. You take him on. Okay, so they Anyway, David takes his sling, takes some rocks, and goes over there, and he throws a rock at Goliath. Okay. Okay, he throws a rocket Goliath, hits him in the forehead and uh might have killed him there. If it didn't kill him it sure did knock him Knock him out. So David went up, cut his head off, raised his head up, and the Israelites cheered, and they all went forward. And they caused the Philistines to retreat. Now, Jonathan and his thousand men were one of the groups that went after the Philistines, along with David, his brothers, and some other people that Be c followed David probably because David had killed Goliath. So they followed the Philistines and it said they they they wrought a great slaughter on the Philistines Coming back, coming back to Israel from defeating the Philistines, Jonathan and David had spoken. Okay. They had spoken. And it says here when they got back, the soul of Jonathan, they just didn't know each other. But when they did, it didn't take very long, where Jonathan's soul was knit with David. And Jonathan wanted to make a covenant. He's covenant is agreement. Okay? Make a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. He considered David to be His best friends. So I don't know what they talked about. We're not told. But it was something very significant. Okay? Jonathan David became friends. And just after he killed Goliath and made a covenant. In Samuel 20, a couple pages in verse 4. Verse 4. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee. Now have you ever had a friend that said I will do anything for you. And you say, really? Yeah, but And sometimes the butts are a long list, things that I won't do. Okay? Jonathan didn't do that. I will do anything. I will do anything to you. That was a great encouragement To David. He'd do anything for David. Let's get down to chapter 20. Flip the page if you're in a Schofield Bible. Go to verse 17. Verse 17. Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul. I don't know anybody that doesn't love their self and try to protect their self, try to keep their self. Jonathan loved David as his own soul. Okay. Now go to verse 42, near the end of the chapter. Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for as much as we have swore both of us in the s n in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed forever. And he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city. This is when Saul was trying to kill David. We've gone through some of this, so I'm just rehashing it a little bit. He tried to kill David. And when Jonathan saw that, and he knew his father was displeased with him because he supported David. He told David, I'll go out in the field, I'll shoot an arrow. If I tell the boy to chase in the arrows, hey, it's I shot it beyond that, that means you'll leave. If I say, oh no, come back, it's closer, it means it's okay And the word came that, hey, go go further away, look for that arrow. He sent the boy back into the city with his bow. And his arrows. And when the two of them were alone, they met in the middle of the field. It says they they embraced and wept. Okay. Jonathan didn't know if he was going to get to see his friend again. David didn't know either. But behind all of what's going on, Jonathan Knew about Samuel's anointing of David as king, which happened before he killed Goliath. Jonathan was well aware of this. Now Even today, okay, uh you follow any kind of news if you're interested, I hope some of you are not even interested, in the royal family in England, you know, there is a succession to Queen Elizabeth. She took she took the throne In England she's still on the throne, been my whole lifetime. But she's getting old and you have a succession. This guy is going to replace her. He doesn't want her it's this, it's this, it's this, it's this, it's this this but it stays in the family. It was the same back then. It was supposed to stay in the family Jonathan was supposed to be the next ruler of Israel, but he told David, no, you've been anointed king. And you will be king, and I will stand at your side and serve you. Huh. That's interesting. Could you do that? Could you do that? It takes a s it takes a a special person. That can do that. Set aside your own needs, wants, your own opportunities, and your own rights We we knew we know so little about the life of Jonathan. Jonathan knew he would not be king. He knew. He said, no, David, when you're king, I will serve you. I will serve you. Jonathan agreed to serve David when he became king. You know what Jonathan was? You know what Jonathan was? He was a servant. Jonathan. was a servant. Okay. Now we don't place a lot of emphasis on that today, but I have been I I worked on this sermon for forty years. No now forty years. Maybe fifteen years before I gave it and I've had it ever since and I've used it one other time and I it's still it's still apropos today. Jonathan's pride was set aside, and instead he took upon himself the form of a servant and the humility that a servant should have. I wonder how many of us do that today. You know, today in our culture. We think we're so great in America. We really do. We think we're so great. We're the world's leader. We have the strongest economy. We can lead the whole world in that. Do you realize how fast that can go? It can go in a moment of a twinkling an eye. But unfortunately, that attitude on the part of a lot of people in Washington and our government filters down to us. Sometimes We think we're pretty hot stuff. Hey, you're not going to tread on my rights. I have my rights. This is, you know, okay. Um I won't say this. I had another illustration I was going to use, but I'm not going to use that illustration because that makes somebody mad here, and I don't want to make anybody mad tonight. Okay? But sometimes we say, no, this is mine. It's not yours. You can't have it. This is mine. Do you understand what a servant really is? I don't think we do, because those New Testament gospel verses that deal with a servant We never spend any time talking about the servants. We always have another lesson. We don't want to talk about the servants. Okay? We don't want to talk about the servants. Turn with me to the New Testament, Matthew chapter 23. Matthew chapter twenty three I didn't mark it because I wanted to give you plenty of time to get it. And I knew if I gave you plenty of time, I'd have some time. Chapter 23, verses 11 and 12. 11 and 12. These are the words of Jesus. But he that is greatest among you. Now he's talking to his disciples. He's not including himself. Talking about his disciples, his followers. This includes the followers of John the Baptist and the hangers-on in the group, Mary and Martha and Lazarus, and who knows how many more. Okay? Whosoever shall uh but he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. Now, what does the servant do? He serves, yeah. He takes care of everybody else, even before himself That's what a servant did. Took care of everybody else before he took care of himself. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that That he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. So do you you get the idea that as a servant you have to be humble, you have to have humility? Okay You have to serve everybody else. I'm telling you, that is not easy. I'll be the first one to admit that This came clear in my mind in the 1970s. And so I started praying, Lord, make me a servant. Lord, make me a servant. Whatever you want me to do, make me a servant. He made me a servant In some very strange ways. Which we can get into maybe another time. Matthew 23. Now let's go to Luke 10:33. Luke, Chapter Ten, and Verse thirty three It's a parable of the Good Samaritan. Very, very interesting. We don't really spend a whole lot of time because we think we understand everything about the Good Samaritan This guy was probably an important man because he was traveling in the daytime. Okay? He was traveling, which means he probably had business. So he's probably some kind of a businessman or somebody that was he was someone with some importance. Okay But in verse 33, verse 33, but a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion on him. He was the only one that went by. Jesus talks about two other people that might have been more. Jesus mentions two. He was the only one that had any kind of compassion on him Now I ask you something now. I'm going to take this down where the rubber meets the road. Ever seen anybody with a flat tire on the highway? You stop for them? Most of us, well I'm busy, we gotta get where we're going. Oh, they'll get somebody, you know. I'm inclined, I have always been inclined to stop for anybody that I recognized as senior, not recognized by name, but recognized as a senior citizen. Because I knew they were having problems. Okay? He's the one. He's the one. He had compassion on the man. That's very, very interesting. In verse 37, Jesus sums up the parable of the Good Samaritan and he said, He they says he says, butcha, which of these he said in the previous verse Now which now of These three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves. And the dis and he said, he that showed Mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto the man, Go and do thou likewise. When Jesus says, Go and do those likewise do thou likewise, it's written in the Bible. You know what it means when it's written in the Bible? That's for you and me. Go and do likewise. Go and do likewise. As you can tell, I'm getting a little wound up, and I do get wound up because Sometimes we get so involved in ourselves that we can't do anything for anybody else, so we don't think of it. Sometimes I don't think of it. Okay? Sometimes Sandy and I together don't think of it. Okay? But it's important that we show compassion, that we show mercy. In Luke chapter 12, let me tell you now, this really gets down to it. Luke chapter 12, verses 42. The 48. And I will read those verses for you. Blessed is he that Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. But and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming And he shall begin to beat the men's servants and the maidens, and to eat and drink, and be drunken, the Lord of that servant. Will come in a day when he looketh not for him, at an hour when he is not aware And will and will cut him asunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers And that servant, which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes But he that knew not and did not and did commit these things worthy of stripes shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whosoever this is this is key Okay, we talk about Christian reward. Here's your Christian reward. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required. and to whom men have committed much of him they will ask the more. Now it's true we're the richest country in the world. Most of us when we were working had a 40-hour week. Sometimes I have worked 80, 80 hours in a week. That's no fund. I know that from personal experience. But who much is given? We have so much of God's blessing that He has given us. How much have you given back? I'm not talking money I'm talking not just money, time, compassion, love Peace. Patience. You know, how many times have I heard people say, I haven't got the patience to do this? I haven't got the patience to do this. Well you better start praying to God to give you the patience. Because if God doesn't give you the patience and you don't want the patience, guess what? God's not going to be very patient with you. You're going to stand before we when we give an accounting before God, I believe there's going to be a lot of tears when God points out to us what we could have done and what we didn't do. And that's that's biblical. That's biblical. In Luke 22, there is a couple more verses here. In Luke chapter 22, we can go to verse 6, and I consider this a key verse. And he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence Of the multitude. Jesus, that's Judas. And he promised and sought opportunity. Jesus said, go prepare the Passover. And in John 12, 26 I was raised in my Christian life on the Gospel of John, and yet Uh we don't do a whole lot with the Gospel of John anymore. Some people think it's redundant. I I don't think it is. If any man serve me, Let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve him, him will my father honor. And we talk about serving God, and we usually use that in terms of witnessing. But I'm going to tell you what, as a servant, there's a lot more than just witnessing. Okay. Giving. Giving to people helping helping people out of their situations. I just want you to think about this tonight Because we have a tendency to go beyond this. In nineteen fifty seven, my father went to a town meeting Town meeting in Massachusetts was very interesting. They held it in a high school auditorium. Sometimes a thousand or more people would be there, and they would decide the matters of the town, and the people that were there would vote. And they were discussing building a new high school. Mom said when when dad left about 6. 30, she said it's going to be a log meeting. The meeting started at 7. That said, yeah, it'll probably be long. He said, don't wait up. Okay. Nine o'clock. Here comes my dad. back from the meeting. And he gave me he's he's my mother says, Warren, what are you doing home so early? I thought they were going to talk about the school. Oh, he said they're still talking about it. She said, What's wrong? My dad didn't give her an answer. She said, Warren, now you need to tell me what's wrong. My dad gave This these words. You know what was wrong, according to my dad? Too many chiefs, not enough Indians. Everybody wants to be in charge. Nobody wants to do the work. That night they called my dad at midnight, said, Will you serve on the building committee for the new high school? My dad said He was uh eminently qualified to do that because of his work. And they built a new high school in town which I went to my started going to my freshman year in high school. It was beautiful school. Seventy classrooms, shops, and cafeteria, and auditorium, and gymnasium, and locker rooms, and all this stuff Which was very lacking in the previous high school. And after I graduated in 1965, in 1968 they had to build a new high school. Even bigger. They made the high school I went to a junior high. And they built another junior high. As I said, there was an explosion of people that lived in the town. That said, too many chiefs and not enough Indians. Boy, I'll tell you what, if if we don't see that today All you have to do is turn on Fox News. If you can stand it. Okay, I can stand it for about a half an hour and then that's it. And there has to be certain people on there. But if you can stand it, turn on Fox News and you'll find out exactly what I mean. In our country today, we have too many chiefs Not enough Indians. What we're saying is, too many people want to be in charge. Nobody wants to do the work. How about you, Christian? Want to do the work? It can be anybody. It can be helping somebody out the door. Okay? You don't know how much I'm thankful for the men that come out when it's snowing or it's raining Um he's not here tonight, so I'm gonna mention Dave Dave Wagner, who's usually at the front door. He comes out with the umbrella, opens the door for Sandy. I said, I I kid I give him a hard time. I said, you know, I can take care of my wife. He says, where's your umbrella? In the car. She does need an umbrella. Yes, she does. So he takes her in with an umbrella. And he does that with many of the ladies. Okay? He takes it upon himself. He's not too proud to be a servant. It's it's so small And yet it is so significant. If you think, didn't God say that a sparrow wouldn't fall that I don't take notice of? Do you think God doesn't notice that? Of course he does. Of course he does. The question for us here tonight is: how much of a servant are we? How much of a servant are we? I am uh particularly impressed with the servant service with the service of the ladies in making blankets. I know this is basically for retired people, but not only am I Uh you know, I said, How many do you have today, Sandy? She s she'll go she'll go out, she said, Well, it's c it's kinda rainy and nasty out, she said if we if we had Eight or ten people will be enough. How many people do you have today? We had fifteen. That's impressive. That's impressive. Uh John, I hope you don't mind me saying this, but Terry was one of those impressive ladies. Penta blankets for babies. I mean she did a lot of a lot of stuff. And she did a lot of stuff for people in the church. Uh one of the things that I like about ladies, okay Okay, I have I have about four ladies in this church. When I have a physical problem, I want to let those four ladies know I have a physical problem because I know they're gonna pray Not just, Lord, take care of Brian. Goodbye. They don't pray like that. They will pray specifically and lengthy for me. And I appreciate that. If some of you don't have somebody to pray for you when you need it, Better ask around, look around, see if there's somebody that will take some time in prayer. Being a servant takes time. Inner servant takes time. Now for a number of years, most of you know I worked for the Board of Education and I worked as a plumber. And uh I was known as that dirty old plumber. Dirty old stinking plumber. Okay, that's what they call me. The dirty old stinkin' plumber That's alright. I never minded it. I love that. I love the work. I love the work. Okay? And a lot of times I just laugh. Okay? And I got to thinking. In the 80s, you know what I want to do when I get to heaven? I want to clean the sinks and the toilets in the New Jerusalem. Well, I don't think there's going to be toilets. There might be sinks. But I'd I'd love to do that I'll do that custodian work. No problem at all. I'll do it for eternity. I don't care God has something else He wants me to do. He'll tell me. Okay. But we need to take upon ourselves the role of servants. If we're going to live the Christian life successfully, we're going to take the outside Of this church building, I've had the opportunity to do many jobs with people in this church in Puerto Rico. And uh Ed and I went down the last trip and before that there was a whole bunch Ronnie Brandt and and uh I forget who else. Me and Ed and Ronnie Brandt and anybody else go on that trip I'm not sh I'm not sure what's that? Oh yeah. We had a whole bunch of guys. And I was just absolutely amazed men that would be willing to give of their time to do a task that other people probably could have done okay and they went ahead and did it and went to Puerto Rico and did it. I always thought, Jimmy, after Ed and I went, it was about three months after we got back, that I got a call from Jimmy Shelton. He said, we got a problem with the plumbing in the building. I said, what's the problem? He said the one drain won't drain and it gurgles. I said, okay. I said, where? In the shower room? He said, yeah, how did you know? I said, because I just knew. I said, are you under the he said I can go under the building. I said, well go under the building and go over to where that drain is And so he said he do he would. I said, this is how you fix it. I said, go about four inches from the elbow. and cut the pipe and put in a T, a reducing T, and you'll need a four by four by two inch line coming off And then hook that two-inch line into the two-inch line you see about three and a half feet from there. That's the vent. I said, nobody vented that, and it hasn't been vented. I said, I saw it, but they have these Nasty caterpillar crawlers in Puerto Rico that I really didn't like. So Jimmy said, I can do that. He said, is that all? I said, that's all. Just hook it up, make sure you you clean the pipe and glue it and put it back together again. He called me an hour later and I said, Do you have a problem? He said, no, it's done. I said, you know, Jim, from now on, I'm going to do plumbing by phone. You know, plumbing by phone. If I could get somebody to work, I can do plumbing by phone. Okay? But getting back to my conclusion tonight, what kind of a servant? Ask yourself tonight before you go to bed, what kind of a servant am I? And what kind of a servant do I want to be? Okay. Let's bow in a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we pray, Lord, that you be with us and guide us this evening. Speak to us through your word. Help us, Father, to be the kind of Christians that we ought to be. Humble, servant, not be afraid to do any task, how humble it would be, for the service of God. Help us to get out of the attitude that only the important things are important to you, and that's not true, Lord. Everything is important. Might we have that attitude in our life? And might we be found faithful as servants? In your name we pray. Amen.