2 Samuel chapter 5, and I want to begin reading in verse 11. Now we started this two weeks ago, this section here. And I have about, oh, five segments. I've broken this whole section down into. We looked at one or two. Two weeks ago. I want to look at another one or two tonight, and we'll work our way through this passage. This is a very significant time in the nation of Israel, Israel, and the hist and in the life of David David is anointed king, and we've been looking at this in detail. He's been anointed king of Israel just as God had promised and anointed him to be king. Approximately 15 years before this as a young man. And uh now he is the king, the nation is united behind him, all the tribes are together finally. Uh seven and a half years of civil war He's the king. They've got the capital, so to speak, set up in Jerusalem. He's the city of David. I mean everything is looking good. It's kind of like uh you almost breathe a sigh of relief, I would think, David, after all that he's been through, running from Saul, and then the Civil War, and and so finally everything's come together. And like usual, when everything comes together, then the old Philistines show up. So let's look at this. Verse 11, I'm going to begin reading. We'll read down through here. And Hiram, king of Tyre, sent messengers to David and cedar trees and carpenters and masons, and they built David a house. Boy, that would be encouraging, wouldn't it? It's just a neighboring king. He says, I'm going to go build a house for David. And he sends all the materials and all the men. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel And that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake. That's where he's breathing a sigh of relief. Finally. Now look at this. And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he was come from Hebron. And there were yet sons and daughters born to David. And these be the names of those that were born unto him in Jerusalem. Shamuel And Shobab, Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg and Jephiah. An Elishama, an Eliada, and E Philet But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David. And he heard of it and went down to the halt. And the Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. I'm going to stop there. We'll see how that pans out. But that's what we're going to look at up to tonight. So let's pray together and look at David and the Philistines. Father, I ask you to bless our study of David's life now. that uh you your Holy Spirit would take some principles here, some truths that we'll see and apply them to our lives, that uh our Christian lives would be stronger, our faith would be stronger. And Lord, we want our witness to this old sinful world to be effective. And so we need your Holy Spirit to help us. And I yield my will to you. I present my body anew and pray that you Would be the preacher, speak to our hearts, your word through me, and uh help us to be responsive, to um uh to be obedient to whatever you address in our lives, just to trust you and and follow your leadership. So bless now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, things come together. You would imagine David is breathing a sigh of relief. But one thing David has found, and he's going to continue to see this, and many of us understand this, that whenever we are going forward with the Lord Whenever we're growing in our faith, whenever we are developing as a disciple of Christ, getting stronger, getting closer to the Lord. Maybe we could say being more obedient to the Lord, living for Him more confidently, you mark it down, there's going to be opposition. How many people found that true in your life? I I found I try I've illustrated this way. It's like your here's your Christian life. You get saved, you begin growing one day, and the Lord will come back or we'll be called to heaven And I'm going through my life and I'm growing. I'm getting stronger in my faith. I'm falling in love with the Lord more and more. But it's like you take a step forward, you make a little progress, and it is like Satan opens all his uh devils against you and it is just uh you get a barrage of the devil just fighting you and tempting you and boom boom boom but I think that we stand our ground and just trust the Lord and give it And then that kind of dies down. Then you make a little more progress. And man, the devil unleashes everything. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And sometimes we make a few steps forward, and then we what One or two back. We get knocked back a little bit. But then we press forward. So we've been seeing that in the life of David here. He makes some progress. He's now king. God's promises have been fulfilled Uh the the country is united behind him. Uh it's just right the way you would want as a king. He's got his new new uh capital and they're building that and fortifying that And then these Philistines show up. So I put down, this is what we're looking at, lessons from David's first days. as King of Israel. I see five lessons here in the Philistines and in these first days of David's reign as King of Israel. Number one, we looked at this two weeks ago He needed some assurance. He needed some assurance that God's going to see him through. And I tell you, one of the most encouraging things in the world One of the most encouraging things in the world is a good friend that supports you in the Lord. Amen or not. Wow, if you could if you and I can have someone in our life That supports us and encourages us in the things of the Lord. And just like Hiram showed up and said, hey I want to be a blessing to you. I want to be a help to you. I want to be an encouragement to you. I tell you that goes a long way. That goes a long way And here's the thing I want to challenge us, and I already preached on that, but here's the thing I want to challenge us. Let's try, rather than looking for high-runs in our life How about let's try and be a hiram in somebody's life? I don't know what I'm saying? Oh, I don't have anybody, encourage me. I don't have any, and and you know we need that But I found that if uh if I'm gonna have friends, I need to show myself, what, friendly I found if I want people to be a blessing to me, it helps a lot if I seek to be what? A blessing to others. If I want people in my life that encouraged me, I found a good way to establish that is set myself out to be an encouragement to others. And God sends them by. So David needs some assurance. He's a new king. He's got the responsibility. He doesn't know exactly what lies ahead, perhaps. And so God sends a good friend by uh to encourage him, uh Hiram. Uh but then also he uh uh David sees that God's hand is on him. Look there at verse number 12. David perceived the Lord had established him I think what he's saying here, David look back over his life up to this point, and say, yeah, God's been working. God's been leading me. And uh there's nothing There's nothing greater than knowing I am exactly in the will of God for my life. I tell you, that is a great thing. I'm doing what God created me to do. I'm doing it where He intends for me to do it, whether it's teaching a Sunday school class, raising kids, working a job in the will of God, just knowing I'm in God's will, following him. And David perceived. David looked and said, You know what? God's led me to this point. God has been working in my life. And what an assurance he had. Then we noted very quickly. Actually, that's where we ended last time. Here's the second thought I have from David's experience here. Number two, if you're taking notes, jot this down. Avoid carelessness. When we get in the will of God, when God starts blessing, we start having some victories in our life, we see the Lord working and things are coming together. And uh maybe we've been through and it's been a rough road, you finally come out, I tell you one thing we've got to watch out for is carelessness If you would notice with me, verse number 13. Now, when I first started looking at this, I thought, well, this is an odd place to put these verses in here, in the narrative. But I think God's trying to teach us something. Verse 13. Verse 12, David perceived the Lord had established them, that he had exalted his kingdom for his people, Hirams, building them a house. Man, what a great situation. I think David got a little careless. And look what it says. And David took him more what? Concubines and wives. Uh-oh. And uh after out of Jerusalem after he was come from Hebron, and there were yet sons and daughters born to David, and then he goes down and gives the names. God has kept his promise to David. God has blessed David, as I've been saying. He's got a unified nation. He's got a city named after him, the city of David. He is the support of his neighbors, building them a palace And here's what happens. And tell me if this tell me if we can't relate to this. Everything seems to be going good, and David gets careless. David gets careless. I've found, now I'm jumping way ahead of myself here, but I've found that if I'm not careful, when when the storms subside, And the breezes are filling my sails, so to speak, to go in the right direction. And everything seems to be just fine. I found that sometimes we let our guard down Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, when the enemy has us surrounded and those storms are blasting, we're hanging on the Bible. We're checking our life out, making sure every area of my life is just right And oh, I need God to help me. I need God to help me, and I want to make sure I'm doing. And then God helps me and I come out of that. And what do we do? We get a little careless. And I think that's what's happening here with David. I think it's typical of God's people that when trials subside And the blessings and victory come, we get careless. If you'd study, go through Joshua or go through Judges. And the different king, the different judges that God would raise up over Israel, this is before they had a king. And Israel would get right with God, and God would bless them and meet their needs, and then they start getting careless. And their worship of God got sloppy. And they start getting involved in idolatry and start uh uh intermingling with folks they had no business and countries they had no business intermingling with, then God would send chastisement. And oh, it was terrible, and everything was going wrong, and they're under the chastisement of God, and they'd humble themselves and say, God, we sinned, we sinned, they'd repent, they'd come back, and they were so careful to make everything right, and God would raise up a judge and deliver them. And what would happen? That cycle would go right back over again. Anybody ever read through the book of Judges and notice that? And that is so typical of the Christian life. I don't know about you, but I say this occasionally, you know, we'll have uh we'll have a revival meeting. And uh I'm so looking forward, we can get a good I'm working on getting a good old-fashioned revival meeting going again. And we'll have a revival meeting and God will stir our hearts and we'll get convicted Be at that altar, maybe every night we're making things right, we're humbling ourselves before the Lord. And man, God starts blessing, then we get out A couple days, a couple weeks, a month or two go by, and what happens? We drift right back to where we were before. Am I right or wrong? And uh that's that's so typical of God's people. And David, things are going well. Uh God's blessing is everything is really, as far as what we're told, is the way you would want it to be if you're a new king. And David gets a little careless here with these women. The word careless, I used that word on purpose. I looked it up, it means this: to take insufficient care of. Listen to this definition. To lack forethought or thoughtfulness. Careless. Anybody here ever say uh ever think this? Well I wish I'd have thought that through a little bit first before I dove into that That's carelessness. Oh, I wish I'd have thought that through. A lack of forethought. A lack of uh thoughtfulness A lack of concern. Someone's careless. They don't have much concern. This is the conclusion I came to on the definition of the word careless. It's pretty much the opposite of wisdom Wisdom is thinking things through. Wisdom is getting the information and correctly applying it to my life or my situation. Carelessness is I don't even pay an attention to that. I don't even think about it Did you ever do this? What in the world was I thinking? Whenever we say that, what was I thinking? What we're admitting is that we really weren't what? We really weren't thinking. We were being careless. What in the world? What was I thinking? I think David's being careless here. Now, very seldom, I believe very seldom, is carelessness deliberate. Nobody, I can't imagine, I guess it's possible, I guess it happens maybe, but I don't think many folks are deliberately careless We just kind of drift into it. We let our guard down things. The enemy isn't knocking at my door. The storms aren't blowing, and so I get careless. I get negligent. I let my guard down, and we drift into this negligence, whether it's reading our Bible Um, boy, you go to the doctor and the doctor says, I don't know, something showed up on that X-ray. There's a spot there. And uh we're gonna have to do more tests and then th then they schedule like six months later. It's like, are you kidding me? I gotta wait all this time And so what do we do? Man, we get in our Bibles and we read and we pray and we're in every church service, you know, and we're giving out tra we're doing everything we can because I want God And God gets us through there and they come through and says, oh no, we just forgot to clean the lenses. A little dust was on there. It's nothing. Oh, praise the Lord. And what happens? Bible sets on the counter. Start missing church. Tracks pile up on the in the card dashboard or whatever. You follow what I'm saying? I think that's where David's at personally when I start reading what takes place here. One of the easiest and most common failures among Christians, I believe. Is that carelessness? Just getting careless. Seems like the greater the blessings are that God pours on us, sometimes the more careless we get. And here's what I found. Here's what I found. I found that when a Christian gets careless in their walk with God and their Christian responsibilities And just the basics of living a Christian life. We get careless in that. You know what happens? That opens the door to further sin. That opens the door. Whereas maybe if I was reading my Bible daily like I should, God might have dealt with some things, but I let that slip, and my mind begins to wonder. I get thinking next thing I know I've opened the door for further sin. And in any area of the Christian life, I believe it carelessness is often the key that opens the door to further sin. So we look at verse 13 here And it says David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem. I put down, I wrote this down. This is very disappointing. I'm studying the life of David, and we notice he's not perfect, and we notice he's still human and he did some things. When I read verse 13, I tell you, in my heart, I have such admiration In my heart for this man David. And I have such high esteem for King David, studying his life. And then I read this. And I feel so disappointed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? David, what? He takes more wives and concubines in Jerusalem. Now, don't misunderstand. When we read this in verse 13, don't misunderstand. This is not putting a stamp of approval upon David's actions. It's simply an accurate record of what took place. It's simply a statement of fact God is telling us in the inspired historical record of David's life. He's simply telling us, this is what David did. Listen, don't ever let anyone convince you that God in the Old Testament approved of or put the stamp of approval upon polygamy. And never had it happened. God recorded it. Some of God's greatest men got involved in this. But God never, ever approves of this. And so, like I said, this to me is very disappointing. What David is doing by taking multiple wives and multiple concubines, he already has more than he should. Now he takes more. One thing he's doing, he's distorting God's design for the home and for marriage We talked about this on Sunday nights the last couple weeks, studying in 1 Peter the role of the wife and the role of the husband. And God very clearly, God very clearly establishes in His Word what marriage is. And you go back to the original when God designed it. It's one man with one woman for a lifetime. That is God's design. That is the structure of marriage. A husband and a wife, male and female. It boggles my mind. We don't have to say that. But God's design is very, very clear. And it wasn't, God took one rib and created one woman for Adam, not multiple. So David's distorting. David is distorting God's design for marriage and home, which is very clear in Scripture The second thing David is doing by taking multiple wives and concubines, he's disobeying God's clear command. Now keep your place here. I want to show you something. And God actually singles out kings in this matter of taking multiple wives. Go back with me, if you would, real quickly, to Deuteronomy chapter number 17. Deuteronomy is primarily where Moses is rehearsing Israel's history. Just a brief rehearsal of their history coming out of Egypt. And also a summary of the laws that God had given to Israel. It's his swan song, you might say. He's going to pass away at the end of Deuteronomy. And so it's his final message to Israel. He's rehearsing their history. He's reviewing the laws that God has given. In verse numbers. In chapter number 17 and in verse number 14, he addresses the responsibilities of the kings that will one day rule over Israel. Look at verse 14. When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, and shalt possess it And shalt dwell therein, and shalt say, I will set a king over me like as all the nations that are about me. Now who does that make you think of? Makes me think of King Saul. Because that's what Israel said. They told Samuel, we want a king just like everybody else. We want to be like the rest of the world. I don't know about you, that sounds like modern Christianity to me. We want to sound like the world. We want to look like the world. We want a king just like the world. And God, hundreds of years before said, hey, this is what you're going to do. Look what he says, verse 15 Thou shalt in any wise, and shalt say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are about me. Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee whom the Lord thy God shall choose. Alright, you're going to do this, but let me choose someone. Let me choose them. And God chose David. One from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee. Thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother. Now look at verse 16. He makes a very clear command I'm sorry, verse 16, we'll get to verse 17. But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses For as much as the Lord has said unto you, ye shall henceforth return no more that way. Now look at verse 17. That's what I'm wanting to get to. Neither shall he multiply what? Wives to himself. How many people have a hard time understanding what exactly does God mean by that? Yeah. It's like, man, I wonder what God really means It's pretty clear. Anybody agree with me? It's pretty clear. That doesn't need a lot of explanation. You don't really have to look up a lot of words here. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself. Why not? That his heart turn not away. Neither shall he multiply, greatly multiply to himself silver and gold. I'll read down verse 18. It says, And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of the kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of the of this law in a book, out of which be out of that which is before the priests and the Levites So he's saying, Listen, you make sure he writes this down. He keeps it right in front of him. And it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life. That he may learn to fear the Lord his God and to what? Keep all the words of this law and these statutes to do them. That his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to the right hand or to the left, to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children in the midst of Israel. How many people think with me, how many people think David was aware of that passage? Yes, he was. David was a lover of the law of God. Read Psalms. David knew that passage was there. So now he's come to a conflict. Right at the beginning of his reign as king, he finds himself in a situation. Here he has some wives and some concubines that he really wants to take to himself. He wants more wives, he wants more concubines. And over here, he has the law of God that forbids it. So what's he going to do? What's he going to do? Is he going to obey God? Very clear instruction Or is he going to do what he wants and gratify his passion and what his desires were? See, that's pretty much what the Christian life comes down to, isn't it? I have a sinful nature in me that wants to lean on its own understanding and wants to pursue its own, but then I have the Word of God and God's will and God's instructions to me And so I have to make these decisions. Am I going to trust and obey God? Or am I going to pursue my own desires? when there's a conflict. Now ideally we want our own desires to be yielded to the will and word of God, right? That's the ideal. But we don't, we're not in the ideal yet. And we're still struggling. And I think, this is my opinion, I think David just got careless. He knew what the Bible said. He knew what God's instructions were for a king. But he let down his guard and that desire, and that uh he pursued his own desire over the will of God. He is directly disobeying the clear command of God How many people join with me saying this is really disappointing in the life of David? David And then the third thing I put down that David is doing here, one, he's distorting God's design for the marriage at home. And he already began this earlier with his previous multiple wives, but he's taken it another level. He's disobeying the Lord's clear command, which you'll never convince me David was not thoroughly aware of. And here's the third thing I put down: he's damaging future generations. He's damaging future generations. By not following God's design And not following God's instructions for him as a husband and him as a king, by not following that and pursuing his own will, he does grave, grave damage to the following generations. Anybody here ever hear somebody say, ah, kids these days, they're a mess. Anybody ever hear say that? Let me ask you a question. Are kids today born more sinners, more sinful than they were a hundred years ago? They're just as sinful a hundred years ago as they were now. So if the difference in previous generations and this generation is not the condition that the children are born with This nature, if that's still the same, what has changed? The homes have changed. You go back and I'm convinced as you follow the rate of the breakdown of the home and marriage And the delinquency of children, I'll guarantee you you'll find a corresponding graph. And you see that in David's life. Now, thank God we have the Holy Spirit, we have the power of God, and even somebody can come from a broken home and still turn out for God. I'd hope I'd like to think I turned out something for God. Thank God my parents, my mom got saved eventually, and uh what I came out of. But the point I'm trying to make is David hurt his children and his children's children. David had a slew of kids. In fact, we don't even know how many children he had. We we give a number of names, but there's more. He had more than what are listed in the Bible. We know that. Can you uh think of some of his children that we know of that David that turned out troubled, dysfunctional? Absalom, he's the first one that comes to mind. He rebelled against his father. But there's actually a couple of others. Can you think of any others? What was it? Yeah, I'm not sure. Yeah. Could be I was thinking of Amnon. Familiar with Amnon, raped his half-sister. And then Absalom went nuts, killed Amnon, and rebelled against that. But he had another one, a very well-known son, that messed up pretty bad. Solomon. Where do you think Solomon, now I know it's our simple nature, but where do you think Solomon got his hankering for women from? He's got a he's got a pattern here. He's got a pattern here. Here's the problem He did not leave his children any kind of model to follow, at least in the marriage and home. They had nothing to go by. They had nothing. And it produced dysfunction. Now, I want to, real quickly, I want to add in here before you think, oh, it's hopeless. No, it isn't. We have the power of God. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit. Kids can still turn out for God regardless. So it's not a hopeless thing. But I'm telling you, anytime we distort God's plan, anytime we violate God's plan and instruction, there's going to be fallout from that. There's going to be fallout. And so David, and again I'm I'm using that term careless, I don't think, I don't think David thought to himself, yeah, I want to mess my kids up bad. Nobody says that. I don't think he was, yeah, I'm going to deliberately rebel against God and just pursue. No, I think it just got careless. He wasn't thinking. And he just, things were going well, and you know, his nation's at peace, and everybody's supporting him. Hiram's building him a palace. And all of a sudden it's like, huh, you know, it'd be nice. If one's good, twenty-five is better And so he gets careless and he disobeys God. Now, I want to look at this here, real quickly also. Come back here to Samuel, 2 Samuel. And he gives the Bible gives the list of these fellows. These be the names of those who were born unto him in Jerusalem. And again, I can't answer why God specifically named all these fellows here. What was just to give us information, I'm sure there's some purpose to it. But there are two names in that list that stand out. In my mind anyway. So I'm looking down through that list and these fellas, and two of them stand out to me. Anybody pick, uh, see if you can pick the two that I picked Solomon would be one of them. And Nathan. Nathan, Solomon and Nathan. They're both born to Bathsheba. And it's interesting, and for sake of time, we'll not do it. But if you go to Luke chapter 3 and verse number 31, where God gives us the genealogy of Mary, the mother of Jesus. Nathan shows up in that list in verse number 31, Luke 3. 31. Nathan's there. Huh? And then if you go to Matthew's genealogy of Joseph, chapter 1 and verse 6, anybody want to guess who else shows up? Solomon. So these two guys that are sons of an illegitimate marriage between David and Bathsheba, I mean he committed adultery with her, killed her husband. And these are the offspring from that relationship, and yet they make it into the genealogy of Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but to me that's that's amazing. Here's what I'm trying to say. A person can mess up pretty bad. This is serious. This is serious on David's part. But God, in His mercy and grace and wisdom, can take our messes and bring something good out of it to the glory of God. I don't know about you, but I find encouragement in that. Now I'm sure none of you have, but I've made my share of messes. And I'm glad That God is able to take something even to this extent and say, you know, he says, don't do this, you're you're it's and it hurt a bunch of his kids But God in his mercy and grace says, I'm going to use these two to be part of the line of the Savior coming into the world. You know what that tells me God uses sinners. And if he didn't use sinners, then he wouldn't have anybody to use. And so I see these two guys here, Nathan and Solomon, and I find them In the genealogies of the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this down. Out of blantant sin, God is able to advance his kingdom. I look at our world. We're in a society that is saturated in sin. I mean, of the most perverse level. We're we're I think most of us here are on the upper side of life that we've passed the midpoint probably uh some of I think I'm about mid-age right now, but um But I don't think many of us would have ever dreamed we'd see a society as perverse as what we're living in now. Right or wrong? But you know what I get out of this? God is still able to do a work. God still can advance his kingdom even when it's as messed up as what it really is. So David got careless. Here's what I want to leave us with that. And I wanted to get to the next one, but we're not going to. Here's what I want to leave us tonight. Let's not be careless. Let's not be careless about our walk with God. You say, well, things are going pretty good. Good. Keep your guard up. Stay close to the Lord. Stay in the Word of God. Stay disciplined in prayer life. Keep your guard up, your standards high, your separation from the world. Keep it up. Don't let it get careless because I tell you, a little carelessness can open the door to a lot of sin. We've got to be careful. I was reading about in Chicago um U. S. News and World Report, I think it was US News and World Report in April of 1992 did a had an article on the cost of carelessness. And they said in the 1980s in Chicago they have this loop in the downtown business district of Chicago. And I've been there many times, but I'm not real familiar with this area. And uh they had a bunch of budget crises going on. Can you imagine that? Chicago having a budget crisis? Wow, that's shocking. But they had a budget crisis and they, unbeknownst to the auditors and different people, they had been skimping on different areas. And underneath the downtown area of Chicago, as this article says, there are tunnels underneath there for transporting stuff, like a subway system of sorts, is what it seems to me And they knew that there had been a failure in some of the sides of these tunnel systems, but it costs a lot of money and they were trying to save money. And they didn't address it, and it began leaking. And listen to this figure. It turned out a quarter billion gallons of murky Chicago River water gushed into the 60-mile network of turn of the century freight tunnels under this business area and brought all the businesses to a soggy halt. They'd investigated, they found out a top city official knew about the leak But acting for a cash-strapped government delayed the repairs. The repairs would have cost $50,000. The damage cost over a billion To the district. Now that's Chicago and that's the businesses. Now here's what I'm trying to say is a little carelessness can cost us Dearly, dearly. We've got to be faithful. We've got to be diligent. We've got to be aware. We've got to be persistent. And don't let the lack of storms. Produce a careless attitude in my walk with God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from David, and Lord help us to Be cautious, be careful, be alert, and keep that close walk with you. Our spiritual well-being, help us to keep it strong. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if any would say, Preacher, I catch myself getting a little careless. Maybe my personal walk with God, maybe in my service to the Lord, maybe in my separation from the world. I don't know. But maybe the Spirit of God's touched on some areas, and you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I've got to be careful. I know some areas I've got to be careful. Anybody like that, uplifted hand, got to be careful. That Bible reading, our responsibilities in the home The church, with the Lord, any others, preacher, I I gotta be careful. I gotta be careful. God bless you. Now maybe if an old-fashioned altar would be a good place, just kneel and say, Lord, help me keep my guard up. Holy Spirit, remind me, provoke me. Keep me on keep me on the edge here and not to sit back and get careless. Father, bless our meditation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.