First Chronicles chapter twenty-eight, the last two verses, twenty and twenty-one Verse 20. And David said to Solomon his son, now let me just stop there. For those maybe were in master clubs or whatever, haven't been up the speed where we're at with uh Our study in the life of David. David is, we're coming down to the last days of David's life. He is in the midst, we are in the midst of a challenge that David is giving to his son Solomon. He is, so to speak, handing the paton of the leadership of Israel, the throne of Israel. He's handing it off to his son Solomon, whom God ordained, God had chosen to be the next king of Israel. And so he's giving this challenge. And we noted several things. I broke it down into three points. The first one was The first point he gave to uh uh Solomon was he's he challenged him to do what's right. Your king of Israel, do what's right And uh he gave a good strong challenge there. We looked at that. Then his the second point that I pull out of this challenge between the two passages that it's recorded is uh he's to carry on David conveyed to Solomon the instructions on building the temple, the plan, the pattern that God had given him. He's passing it on to Solomon. He's saying, listen, see this thing through. You make sure this thing gets built. You what what God has started previously in Israel, you carry that thing on. And I got thinking that earlier this week. I was just kind of looking over my notes again And I got thinking about that is pretty much what he was doing is this. He says, God has already given us our instructions concerning this temple. Now you take and go on. You don't redesign the temple You don't come up with your own layout. You don't say, well, that was a previous generation. I know God gave it, but this is a new generation, and this is a new age that we're in, so we've got to make it differently, make it more modern David says, no, you keep that thing exactly the way it was given. And I know I'm getting off track here a little bit, but I think our responsibility, I don't think, I know, our responsibility as church isn't to change what the church is. were to take the church as it was given to us by God in the book of Acts and the Word of God and carry that thing forward. And we don't change it. I got a I had um It's been some time ago now, maybe a year or two or three, maybe. It's been a little while, but I got this elaborate brochure for a conference, and the title of the conference was Rethinking the Church. Now I'm not real big on rethinking something that God very clearly told us how and what we're supposed to do. And so that's what David's challenge is, you carry this thing on. God gave it to us, this pattern was given by the Lord. Now you take and see that thing through. Now tonight, these two verses here, I'll finish reading here in a minute. Then he's challenging Solomon uh to have faith. You just trust God. So let's look at what he says here. David said to Solomon, his son Be strong and have a good courage, and do it. Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord God, even my God, will be with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord. And behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, even they shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God, and there shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship, every willing, skilful man For any manner of service also the princes, and all the people will be holy at thy command. So he's telling them Listen, you trust God in this matter. Let's pray together, and we'll look at our thoughts here this evening. Father in heaven, I ask you bless now As we finish up this challenge that David gave to Solomon, Lord, I asked that we could have some practical application to take away from this. Your Holy Spirit would help us incorporate into our lives some principles given here that we can live stronger for you and be maybe more bold in our witness and Lord more confident. In our walk with you. So please meet with us. Fill me with your spirit, I ask, dear Lord. Speak through me. Help us be stronger. Go forward and do what you've called and instructed us to do. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He says, he's telling, I think my impression of what I'm studying these two verses here is David is challenging Solomon to have faith in God. Listen, you have faith. Do what's right Take what's been given with you, run with it, do what God's instructed us to do, and then you trust God through that whole thing. Now, I don't know about you, when I'm reading, particularly verse 20 here Well, 21 also, but I'm reading this, and I'm getting the impression that David senses, perhaps In the heart and mind of Solomon, a little bit of uncertainty. I'm wondering if David isn't looking in the eyes of his son, and he sees in those eyes Maybe a hint of fear, what he's about to embark on, the responsibility that's being put in his hands. And maybe there's some uncertainty, maybe there's a little bit of fear there. Maybe Solomon is a little bit overwhelmed with the idea of him being the king sitting in the throne of David And being king of the people of God. I put myself in his shoes and I'm overwhelmed. Anyone here you think that might be a little bit intimidating, that responsibility? Yeah And I just, as the things David is saying, some of the way he words this, uh in fact look there right in the middle of verse 20, he says, fear not, nor be dismayed. Now I'm wondering why would he say that? Probably because Solomon what? Was fearful. David, being his father, no doubt, could sense that, see that. And so he's challenged him. I believe one of the great challenges in the Christian life is this matter of fear. In Christian ministry. Sometimes, you know, over the years we've asked somebody, we have a need in a certain place, maybe a classroom needs a teacher, or a bus route needs a worker, or some area. That needs some leadership or some work in it. And often it's not unusual, I maybe should put it this way, it's not unusual for somebody to make a statement somewhere along these lines. Well, I'm just afraid I couldn't do that. I'm just afraid that I don't have what would be needed to provide leadership for that. And I'm convinced one of the biggest hindrances to ministry is simply people are afraid To step out on a limb, to go step out and stand up in front of somebody, teach a class, or take a responsibility. I'm just fearful. I know, there's no doubt in my mind, one of the biggest hindrances the soul winning, personal soul winning is fear. Afraid of what people will say. I'm afraid of rejection. I'm afraid to approach them. And it's very real. It's part of Christian life. It's part of Christian uh ministry. I've said this numerous times before, but I genuinely believe when I was a younger preacher that by the time I got to this point in my life in ministry Fear would be something of the hiss of in the past. The fact of the matter is, fear is something we have to deal with our entire lives. And so David is, I believe, senses in in the in in in Solomon an uneasiness An uncertainty, a fearfulness. Maybe he sees it in his eyes. And so he addresses this. By the way, fear has been true throughout the history of mankind. All the way back in Genesis 15, 1, God confronts Abraham as he is uh challenging Abraham to go forward. And he makes this statement, fear not, Abraham, I am thy shield. Now my question is, why would God say to Abraham, fear not? Because Abraham was what? He was afraid. You say not Abraham, the father of the faithful The father of Israel, this great and prophet and man of God, this great patriarch of the faith, he would be fearful? Yeah In fact, he messed up because of fear. Remember, he went down to Egypt. He was afraid that Pharaoh would take his wife. And so he compromised his integrity. And lied. And said, Oh, she's my sister. Don't tell them. Fear will make us say things we wouldn't normally say, make us do things we wouldn't normally do. Hagar, little maid, has baby, goes out, she thinks she's baby's gonna die, and God approaches Hagar, this Egyptian woman that just was forced into an adulterous relationship with a man of God of all things. And he approaches her and he says, Fear not, fear not. And on and on and on through the Old Testament. into the New Testament. Paul wrote to Timothy and he told him in Timothy he says, God has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. So apparently Timothy was dealing with fear. Paul, under the inspiration of God, is trying to help him and challenge him. I found 62 times in the Bible where that little phrase, fear not, is used. The overwhelming majority of the times that that phrase is in the Bible, it is God speaking to one of his people, or Israel as a nation, either an individual or the nation of Israel. Fear not, fear not, fear not. Solomon's been given, as I said, an overwhelming responsibility. He's going to be the king of Israel. He is in line for the millennial reign of Jesus Christ on that throne. He's part of that line from David to Jesus Christ. He's second after David. What an awesome responsibility. What a tremendous privilege, but an overwhelming responsibility. He's going to build the Temple of Jehovah. For hundreds of years, the people of God are going to come to this building, this structure They're going to worship the God of creation. They're going to offer up sacrifices for Jehovah God for the forgiveness and cleansing and the covering of Israel's sins Every part of that is pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. Every ceremony, every piece of furniture is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ and who and what He does for us. And Solomon's the one responsible for putting that together. What an overwhelming task Solomon has been given. And so David is encouraging him. David is telling him, listen, and I'm uh he doesn't use this phrase, I'm use, I'm injecting this phrase, but he's saying to him, I believe, and In so many words, have faith, Solomon, have faith. I see, I only say a few words about the faith that David is challenging Solomon to have. Number one He's challenging Solomon, number one, to have a personal faith in God. A personal faith in God. Now I go back to verse 9 for that, if you would. Come back, look at verse 9 with me, the first part He says, Thou Solomon, my son, what's that next word? Know thou the God of thy father. Then he goes on, serve him with a perfect heart. He says, do right. But he says, you've got to know the God that I knew. David is challenging Solomon. Make sure you have a relationship with the God that I have known for over 40 years. I've walked with him. I've served him. I've fought for him. I've praised him. I've failed him. And David is saying to Solomon, I want you to know the God that your daddy knew. I want you to worship the God that your daddy worshiped. I want you to trust the God that your daddy trusts. And he's urging Solomon to have a personal relationship with Jehovah. Personal relationship with Jehovah. And the difference between Christianity, in in this case Judaism, and Chris difference between Christianity in our day and the rest of the religions of the world Christianity is a relationship with a living God, a living Savior. It is not a religion based on the teachings of a man. Every other religion follows the teachings or the doctrines or the creeds of some religious leader, biblical Christianity is not a religion, it's a personal relationship with a living Savior I came to meet him on May 7, 1979, in a very real, personal, intimate way. I talked to him. He heard me. He answered me. I called on him. He saved me. And all here. Many, if not most, if not all of us, could testify. I know Jesus Christ, not just in a doctrinal way, not just in a theological way, not just in a in uh into uh uh uh an intellectual way, but I know him personally. And that's what Dav that's what David is challenging Solomon. I think in so many words he's saying, listen, just having the Jewish religion is not going to see you through it. You've got to have a personal relationship. You know, you can be a member of a church and still not know Jesus Christ in a personal way. You can be baptized, you can memorize verses, you can be very, very religious, you can sing great songs. But if you don't know Jesus Christ in a personal way, you don't know Jesus Christ. And that's what he's saying. Know thou the God of your Father. He's talking about Himself. I worship God. I saw him. I sang to him. I prayed to him. He answered me. And so he's challenging his son to have a Personal faith. I put this down. The faith that overcomes fear is a personal faith and a personal God that results in a personal relationship. I can't help but think of the song. I come to the garden alone. And he walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me I am his own. I tell you, one encouraging thing when you and I face a fearful situation or we're in a fearful circumstance and say, you know, Jesus Christ is with me. And I'm his own. I can talk to him and I come to his word. He speaks to me and he directs me and he helps me, he strengthens me. He's challenging Solomon to have a personal faith. Number two, I put this down. He's challenging Solomon to have a deliberate faith. Now come back to verse 20 for this. And notice the wording here. And David said unto Solomon his son, Be strong and of a good courage, and do it. Fear not nor be dismayed. He's giving them instruction. The implication here is, David is saying to him, David is saying to him, be strong. So the implication is it's possible for Solomon to what? Be weak. He says be strong and of good courage. So it's possible for him to not have courage. It's possible for him not to do it. It's possible for him to fear and be dismayed. Who's responsible for whether he is fearful or not? Solomon is. He's instructing him. Look at it again. He says, be strong. All right, Solomon, it's up to you whether you're going to be strong or not. Be of good courage. It's up to you if you're going to be of good courage or not. Do it! You're the one that's going to have to decide whether you're going to do it or not. This has to be a deliberate faith. Listen, Solomon must choose whether he's going to trust God or not. He's going to have to decide Am I going to trust God through this thing or not? It's a decided faith. Faith is not a feeling that just comes over us. Reminded me, uh we were down in Chattanooga years ago I had the bus route and we'd visit every Saturday and knock on doors and uh and uh this lady one time, Randy Miller, my best friend in the world, uh came and uh We knocked at this lady's door, I believe it was Randy who was with me, and uh she invited us in, we're talking there a little bit, and we asked her, do you know for sure if you die now, you go to heaven, not to hell? She goes, oh yeah. We said, how do you know? What makes you sure? And she did this, and I'm not exaggerating here. She says, it started right here in the back of my head. We're like, okay. And it went down my neck, down my spine, my legs, down into my feet, and ooh. We weren't really sure what she was talking about So we pressed her a little bit and her faith was in this feeling she got in some s thing they were doing, some church service or something, she got this feeling and this emotional experience she had And she was she was she was equating that with having faith in Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you, faith is a decision. I decide whether I'm going to trust or not. I decide whether I'm going to trust the Lord with all my heart or I'm going to lean on my own understanding. And that's what David is telling to his son Solomon. Listen, you decide to be strong. You decide to do it. You decide not to fear. You decide to be of good courage. Hey, but what if I'm afraid? Well, you do it anyway. You decide. Faith is not a feeling. We decide whether we're going to have fear, or we're going to live in fear, or we're going to live in faith. I decide whether I'm going to lean on my own understanding or am I going to take God at His Word. I got to decide. I don't, I don't, God just doesn't make sense. There's going to be times in Solomon's administration where he's not going to know what to do. He's it's not going to make any sense to him. And he can try and work that out himself or he can come and trust God. What does God say about it? Go to his prophets that they had at that time. I need information from God. It's up to him to decide. You read through the history of the kings and you find kings on both sides of this. Some will decide to trust and have faith in God, others will decide to do it their own way. I've seen it in the ministry. People make a decision. Am I going to do what God says or am I going to lean on my own understanding? It's a decision. I decide whether I'm going to trust God or not. We had a fellow years ago, and I've mentioned this various times over the years, but early on, or time here. There was a fella that came on Sunday nights. There was a young lady he'd come with. And um fine fellow, intelligent in a lot of ways. He'd come, I'd preach my heart out Sunday nights, unsaved, and we knew he was. Just I if I remember correctly, just about every time I gave the invitation on Sunday nights, he would raise his hand for salvation and he would come forward. One of our men would take him and they'd go in that very room right there. And sometimes they were in there for a little brief time, and then there was other Sunday nights they'd be in there. Church is gone, I'm waiting in the back for them to come out, they come out. And finally, after about three, four weeks of that, month or so, every Sunday night, every go-forward wouldn't get saved, wouldn't get saved, wouldn't get saved, come out, and Mormons say, no, then get saved, he won't get saved. Wouldn't trust Christ, he wouldn't do it Finally, after a while, I just stopped him in the back, about everybody's gone. I said, listen, what's the hang-up here? What are you struggling with? He says, I just don't have faith. I just don't have faith. I said, I don't believe you. That's not true. You do have faith I said, do you have any money in a bank anywhere? I said, I don't know how much. I'm just trying to illustrate something. Do you have any money in a bank? He says, oh yeah. I said, so you do have faith. You are trusting them. You have faith that they're going to secure your money, and when you come to get it, they're going to give it back to you. You have faith in the bank. Well, that's different. I said, uh, did you drive a car here? He says, yeah. I said, before you got in the car, did you get out and check all the brake lines? Pull the wheels off, check the brakes and everything, make sure it's all working, or did you just hop in and drive here and when you got to a stop sign hit the brakes and just trusted they would work? He goes, well, I just I said, don't tell me you don't have faith. You do have faith. I said, the decision is up to you whether you're going to take your faith and put it in Christ for the salvation of your soul or not. It's a decision. Get these crazy ideas in our heads. And I think, to be honest with you, I think he was just waiting for some sort of feeling had to come over him or something. Faith is not a feeling, it's a decision. I decide whether I'm going to trust God, whether I'm going to follow his instructions. I'm going to obey his word. Obedience is an act of faith. I'm trusting that God knows what he's talking about, that God knows what's best for me, and he cares what's best for me. And if I trust him and do what he says, even if it doesn't make sense to me, I'm trusting him. It's a decision I made. So David is challenging Solomon here to have a deliberate faith. And then thirdly, I put this down, he's challenging him to have an active faith. Again, I pointed this out. These are all action things. Be strong, all right? You're going to decide. You've got to act on this. Just wait around for something to happen. Faith is more than just acknowledging facts. Faith is more than just saying, oh yeah, I believe. Faith is acting on what I say I believe James 2, verse 18, he's writing to scattered Jews, similar to 1 Peter. They've been run out of their homes or scattered all across the region there. And in chapter 2, verse 18, he makes this statement to him. He says, I will show thee my faith by my works. And for sake of time, we won't turn here, you can spend a whole series on that passage. But he says to him, Listen, you can say that you have faith all day long. Just live, oh yeah, I believe. Oh yeah, I believe In fact, a little later on he says, the devils believe and tremble. It's not just having facts, knowing facts. Faith is a decision that I'm going to trust God and then I'm going to act upon what God says. For instance, is it possible for a person to believe that Jesus is the only way to heaven without actually trusting him as their own personal way to heaven Sure. People all around the world. I say this often. I use this stupid illustration often. We go down here longbramps, sit, s slide up to the bar, sit up next to somebody sitting there. I guarantee you, I don't know this from experience, but a couple of the deacons told me. No, I'm kidding. I don't know this from experience, but I have I guarantee told you And we could sit down there, find someone sitting at that bar, and have them quote to us John 3. 16. Somebody tell us that you need to be, oh yeah, you need to trust. Jesus the Savior. Oh yeah. But listen, just having that mental knowledge doesn't save anybody, so you've got to act on that. And make the decision to trust Christ as Savior. Make sense. I got on my knees. Now you don't have to get on the knees, but I got on my knees And I called on the Lord to save me. So he's saying, listen, it's got to be active, Solomon. You've got to live out your faith. You've got to be strong. You've got to be courageous. And you get in situations that are scary. And you're not sure, but God says, do this. And you make a decision, I'm going to trust God, and then you act on it. You do what needs to be done. You say what needs to be said. You build what needs to be built. And you stand where you need to stand. Faith is an active faith. Courage is faith in action. Fearful, I don't know, but I'm going to do it. Courage is not the absence of fear. Courage is fear, is faith in action, in spite of fear. Number four, I put this down. He's challenging Solomon to have a legitimate faith. Legitimate faith. Look with me if you would at verse 20 again. David said to Solomon, his son. Now pay close attention to the next few statements. Be strong and have a good courage and do it Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord God, even my God, will be with thee He will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Do those words sound even vaguely familiar to anybody? Yeah, keep your place here if you would. Come with me back to Deuteronomy, fifth book of the Old Testament. And verse number chapter number 31. Deuteronomy chapter 31. We actually memorized this verse here about two years ago. And the reason I one of the reasons I remember it, because I review it about every other morning, but another reason I remember it is because Mildred Harvey was in the hospital when we introduced this verse to be our memory verse and I went up the visitor. And she said, Will you write down the memory verse? I think it was December or something, November, December when she was in. Will you write down that memory verse for me? So I wrote it down. I came back the next day. She had that thing just about memorized In the hospital overnight, just scratched out on a piece of scrap paper. Deuteronomy chapter 31, look at verse 6. Now remember what we just read that David said to Solomon Look at verse 6. Be strong and of a good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them. For the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee, he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Sound similar at all? Almost verbatim. You know what David is doing? He is quoting to his son a passage of the Word of God. He's quoting to his son a passage from the law. This was Moses giving to Israel the word of God directly by God through him. And David's taking that statement that God had given to his people, and now he's saying, Solomon, you do it. In other words, this is what I'm getting at. He was telling Solomon, your faith in God is not a blind faith, but it is based upon the solid word of God. Anybody here, you ever try to talk to somebody about the Lord or you get talking about your faith and they accuse you, oh you guys, just blind faith. Anybody ever hear that say, oh, just blind faith Our faith, if it's genuine, is not blind faith. Our faith is based upon the Word of God, and there's nothing more sure than the Word of God. And so he's telling his son, son, this isn't just pie in the sky, hope so, think so, maybe fairy tale, faith. This is grounded. You have the promises of God. You have the direct statement of Almighty God behind you. And so it's a legitimate faith. David is challenging his son. You take God at his word. And that's what faith is. Come with me if you would before we get back there to 2 Kings. Come with me to Joshua, just a few pages over there here in Deuteronomy. One of my favorite passages here, Joshua chapter one, very similar situation. Moses passed away. Joshua is now, not didn't have a throne, but Joshua is now in the position of responsibility and leadership, authority. And he's scared to death. You know how I know Joshua is scared to death? Because God says to him about five times in one chapter: be not afraid, be not afraid, don't be discouraged. Look at chapter 1, and if you would, come over there to verse number 6. Or let's go up to verse 5. There shall not any man, this is God speaking to Joshua, there shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Be strong and have a good courage For unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance for the land which I swear unto their fathers and give them. In a context of Solomon, you could say, you've been given the temple. You're going to build the temple They both had a tremendous responsibility. And God says, Don't be afraid, I'm not going to fail you. Be strong. Look down at verse 7. Only be thou strong and what? Very courageous. That thou mayest observe to do according to the law, all the law, Moses my servant. And he goes on and tells him he needs to meditate in the Word of God. Look at verse 9. Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage, be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Listen, our faith in God and the reason we don't have to fear is not just some fanciful myth. But we have the words of Almighty God behind us. You and I do not need to fear And it's not just, as I said, just wishful thinking. We have a foundation for our faith. And this whole world can mock us, this whole world can ridicule us, this world can threaten us. And sometimes, I'll tell you firsthand experience, it's scary. We've got the Word of God behind us, and we've got the promises. Let me answer this: can God lie? No. So if he says it, it's so. And that's what David is assuring his son of. You trust God. It's legit. God's legit. Last two, real quickly, he challenges them to have a persistent faith. Come back there to Chronicles, if you would. And David said to Solomon, Be strong, of good courage, and do it. Fear not, nor be dismayed. For the Lord God, even my God, shall be with thee, will not fear thee, nor forsake thee. Look at this last statement. Until thou hast finished all the work. For the service of the house of the Lord. In other words, you keep trusting God, don't you quit. You stay at it. Finish the job. Finish the job. Get it done You just keep trusting God. He's challenging them to have a faith that will not quit, a persistent quit faith. I thank God for young people that come to faith in Jesus Christ. Emphasize that Sunday. I thank God for children and teenagers who trust the Lord Jesus. And then seek to live a life of faith to the Lord. I thank God for that. But you know what else I thank God for? I thank God for folks that have been living in faith for 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 years and continue to have faith in God. They didn't quit on their faith. They didn't walk away from God's Word. They didn't walk away from the Lord's will and purpose for their life. They stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. I couldn't help but think of old Jesse Harsh. He'd come in here and um he was just when he first started coming, he'd show up Sunday nights And he come, he was going to another church in the mornings, and after a while he he kind of got the opinion that we believe the Bible. He kind of picked that up somewhere along the way. And he'd say to me, he says, one time he pulled me aside, he said, um, you believe the first six chapters of Genesis are literal history, or are they just an allegory, just some fairy tale? I said, no, if God said it, God meant it. I said, it's true. It's actually the way it says. Because that's what I thought too. Later I thought, why do you ask me that? A couple weeks went by, he came in Sunday night, he said, do you believe that the book of Jonah is just a story and it's not, didn't really literally happen I said, no, it literally happened. Jesus said it did. It's God's word. Yeah, it literally happened just the way it says. Because that's what I thought too. And he started doing this. So he said, do you believe the miracles or maybe some of them aren't just stories? No, they're right exactly what it says. He goes, that's what I thought. Finally one time he came and he said, Do you uh he goes, what do you think about uh somebody that says this in the Bible isn't true? I said, this is what I think. I said, I think you need to get out of that church and start going to church that believes the Bible for a change. He says that's what I thought. He came, got baptized, eighty-some years old, became a member of the church. Isn't that something? I tell you, my hat's off to that type of faith My hat's off to somebody. Thank God for the young people. Man, we've got to reach this next generation. But thank God for a generation that didn't walk away from their faith. Stayed true. I tell you there's on every hand there's people falling away. And David is challenging Solomon. You stay, you finish a job, you see this thing through. Faith that won't quit in spite of adversity, faith that won't quit in spite of prosperity. Now Solomon dropped the ball there, but he got back up Faith in God in spite of uncertainty? You know who I thought of when I was thinking about persistent faith Faith that won't quit, faith that won't let go, faith that won't give up no matter how much is against them. You know who I thought of? Joseph. You talk about a testimony of persistent faith. The Bible says God was with them, and God was with them, and God was with them. You know why God was with them? Because God honors faith. And Joseph believed God. And then last of all, I've got to end with this. He challenged Solomon to have faith in God, and I believe he challenged him to have what I'm calling a partnered faith. And if you would, look at verse 21, is where I get that thought. And behold, the courses or the positions, the different positions, the courses of the priests And the Levites, look at this next statement, even they shall be what? They're going to be with you. Solomon, they're going to be with you. All the priests, all the Levites. The whole rank of them, all from top to bottom, big shots to little shots. They're all going to be with you. For the service of the house of God, and there shall be with thee For all manner of workmanship, every willing, skillful man. For any manner of service. He's saying, Solomon, listen, there's a whole army of workers out there. There's a whole army of skilled men And they can build and they can make things and they can design things and they can do everything that needs to be done. There's a whole slew of them That are with you. They're with you. Then look what he says. So also the princes and all the people, look at this, will be holy at thy commandment. He says, you've got the people behind you. You've got the religious leadership, the spiritual leaders. They're with you, Solomon. You've got all the tradesmen and all the skilled laborers there with you, Solomon. And the entire population, they're with you. You're not alone You're not doing this by yourself. God brings people into your administration that will do what needs to be done. And our faith in God, we're not alone. And God brings people into our lives. And God brings people into our church. That make it possible for us to do what God has instructed us to do. We have a partnered faith. You with me? We're not alone in our faith. Elijah got messed up. And Elijah got afraid. And Elijah got discouraged, even to the point he told God, I wish my life was over. And you know what part of his problem was? He says, I'm the only one. All this is on my shoulders. I'm the only one that's trying to be a testimony. I'm the only one that's trying to be a light I'm the only one. I'm the only one. I'm the only one. And God says, in so many words, hush! You're not the only one. There's 7,000 other people that are with you, Elijah. They haven't bowed the knee. They're faithful like you are. I tell you, when we get out and consider ourselves a lone ranger, and I don't need the church and I don't need the other people, I can sit at home and watch it on TV. I don't need to get together with the people. I tell you, we're setting ourselves up for failure. God did not design the church to be a TV show. It's assembled together. And we need each other. And God brings into our lives the people that can help us. To grow and be what God intends for us to be and to serve Him. Just like He did these fellows, Solomon, you're not alone. We got God's giving you everybody, bringing them into your life that you need to do what you need to do I think I mentioned them recently, I don't know why, they've been on my mind recently, but two fellows when I first got saved, Arden and Terry Man, they took me under wing. I thank God sent I thank God that he sent those fellows into my life. And they have no idea, I'm sure, of the impact they had on that young pre young uh Punk that got saved. I thank God for him. And over the years. And we had people come by and visit our church and they say, Oh, I heard about your church. You all have such a great church here, and I believe that with all my heart. But I'm telling you, it's because God has given us people that can and do do what needs to be done to make this thing be what God intends for it to be. It's not a preacher in the world that can be everything the church needs. Not a deacon in the world that can do that. It takes a body Of active believers who have faith in God are involved. I thank God for that. So David's looking at Solomon, and I think he sees in his eyes a glimmer of fear. And I think he senses in his son apprehension and uncertainty. He says, Solomon, you be strong. You have faith in God. He's promised this. You've got people. You do it. You do it. You do it. I was reading recently about See if anybody recognizes this name. Nikita Khrushchev. Older folks remember that name. Leader in Russia. And uh at the was it uh the United Nations, he took his shoe off, pounded the podium, we will crush you. Anyone remember that? I was young. He actually, I was reading about him, he actually early on opposed Stalin. And he actually spoke out vocally against Stalin and the atrocities he did. You think Khrushchev was bad. Stalin was horrific. He killed millions and millions. Hitler has nothing on Stalin. And he would speak out. But Khrushchev only spoke out against the crimes and atrocities of Stalin after Stalin was dead. And he was giving a speech one time and he was bashing Stalin, so to speak. He was saying all this stuff that he did that was atrocious. Now that's like the pot calling the kettle black, but Nevertheless, he was doing it. And somebody in the crowd yelled out, Well, you were his assistant. You were close to him. Why didn't you stop it? Why didn't you speak up? And Khrushchev stuff. Who said that? And the place went silent. And it was silent for a long time. He said, that's why I didn't speak up. He was afraid. They were afraid to say, hey, I'm the one that said it. And he said, that's why I didn't speak of the Khrushchev. I was afraid. And I tell you, we live in a world today that needs God's people to speak up, to stand up To be active, serving God involved, not disobedient, not compromising Scripture, not fudging here and there and laying back and sitting in But up and at it. I tell you what, it's going to take faith. It's going to take some courage. It's going to take what David is challenging Solomon to do. Do you trust God and you do what's right and you see it through