2 Samuel chapter 3. And David, uh just uh briefly catch everybody up to what's going on here in David's life. For Saul has been killed in battle, his son Jonathan, the previous king, the first kings of Israel, and uh they've been killed in battle. God had previously anointed David to be king of Israel. And um after Saul's death, uh David, I believe, very wisely waits on the Lord, trusts the Lord and God's timing, and God gets him in there. And the nation of Judah Or nation, not the nation, the tribe of Judah, they recognize God's anointing on David. And they anoint him. Now this is important to get this as David's Ascending to the throne, one tribe of the twelve, tribe of Judah, they recognize God's anointing on David, that he is God's choice. They anoint him publicly and recognize him as king. The rest of the eleven others do not under the influence of a fellow named Abner. Abner leads these other eleven tribes to put one of Saul's son, Ishbasheth, put him in as king. to counter David's. It's just rebellion against God, and uh it's just uh sin on Abner's part, there's no doubt about that. Well that produces a civil war for seven and a half years. There's this conflict going back and forth between the eleven tribes. And then the tribe of Judah they're fighting seven and a half years. Now, this is going to come up here a little bit later in the message, but let me ask this question. Just think, um, how many people would be killed in a seven and a half year war? How many people would die? Probably many, right? More than a few. So there's it there's no doubt quite a few people have been killed in this seven and a half war. Now I think that's an issue. We're going to see that here in a little bit So nevertheless, Abner, the ch the captain of Saul's host, King Saul's host, before Saul was killed He he uh gets Ishbazeth in position. So anyway, the seven half year war goes on. Finally him and Ishbazeth have a falling out. He defects over to David. He says, David Listen, I can bring these eleven tribes back, have a unified nation again, have all the tribes recognize you're God's man that God chose you. How many people agree with me? That's a good thing to have a unified country. It's a good thing to have a unified country. Especially under God's leadership. And so David accepts that offer, and um Abner, David's Captain of hosts, Captain of David's hosts, his military. He's not in on this meeting, this league that Abner and David make. He finds out about it later, and man, he goes off. We looked at this last week And Abner's going, he goes, pursues Abner, deceitfully draws him out of the city of refuge, and he kills him. Now David has found out about that. So that's where we pick up in our reading tonight. That's where we're at. Abner has been killed by Joab, and David finds out in verse number 28. 2 Samuel 3, verse 28. And afterward, when David heard of it, Abner's murder, really, when he heard of it, he said, now notice the first thing he says. I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever, from the blood of Abner, the son of Nur. Very first words out of his mouth. Let it rest on the head of Joab and on all of his father's house, and let there not fail from the house of Joab One that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread. Wow, that's a strong statement there So Joab and Ishbah and Joab and Abasha Abishei, his brother, slew Abner. Because he had slain their brother A-Eshelon at Gibeon in the battle And David said to Joab and to all the people that were with him, Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And King David himself followed the beer. And they buried Abner in Hebron, and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept. And the king lamented over Abner and said, Died, Abner, as a fool diet. My hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters, as a man that as a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou And all the people wept again over him. And when all the people came to cause David to eat meat while it was yet day, David swore, saying, God, so do God to me and more also. If I taste bread or aught else till the sun be down. And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them. And whatso as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people. For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner the son of Nur. And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel? And I I am this day weak, though anointed king, and these men, the sons of Zariah, be too hard for me. The Lord shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness. I've entitled the message tonight, David's Response to Abner's Death. Let's pray. And let's look at this a little bit. Father in heaven. Again, we're grateful for the Word of God and these events from many, many years ago, how they just apply to our lives today so many principles and lessons to be learned. So I pray as we look at this passage here, your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds to what this event has to do with us, and how the lessons here would apply to our lives. And our faith would be stronger and our Christian life would be victorious. And so I ask, Lord, again, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body as just a tool, an instrument in your hands to speak through me and to build your people and your church I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. It's interesting. I don't know if you noticed this, but to me it looked Interesting that David's response to Abner's death, who was the chief of the hosts of Saul's army, David's response to Abner's death is similar in many ways to his response to King Saul's death Now, both of these men, you could say rightly so, without exaggerating at all, both of these men were adversaries of David's Saul hounded him for years all through the wilderness trying to murder David. And then of course Abner is captain of Saul's host. He's of course, he's leading the military uh under King Saul to pursue David. And yet David response to both of these fellows very, very similar. Just a couple, by way of introduction, before we break this down, just a few observations about David's response here to Abner. And in similarity to King Saul, first of all, I've noticed that I think David is very sincere in his grief over Abner's death Now, as I said, Abner had been seven and a half years. Abner was fighting against David. Abner's trying to overthrow him. And uh but yet when Abner is killed, David grieves over him very sincerely. Um I don't know, without uh it might be a little stretch, but it kind of reminds me a bit of when the Lord told his disciples that if you want to be a disciple, bless them that curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you And I see David here responding in a very gracious, very sincere, it sounds to me, he's sincerely brokenhearted Over the death of Abner. Now Abner had made this league with him, that may have been a factor, but I think it was just over the man himself And so we learn a lot about David in his response here to the death of an adversary of his and how he responded. So he responded very sincerely, but I think this one here is, uh let me get this mic on, Jamie. I'm gonna w wander. Uh I'm prone to wander. And um so uh Lord I feel it. Um I ought to write a poem about that, but uh This, I think, this factor here, I think this next statement, this observation, is a key factor in David's future. David responds to Abner's death with sincere grief, sincere sorrow. You can't help but see that he go through here. But there's another aspect to it. I think his response to Abner's death was diplomatic. Now think about this with me, and we're gonna elaborate on this as we go through. Abner is representing eleven tribes that have been in rebellion against David's kingdom. Abner now has come and he says, I'm going to make a league. I can bring them in together, these eleven tribes who have been fighting against you for seven and a half years. I can bring them in and get them to be loyal to you. I can unite them. And we can put this behind us and go forward as a united nation under the God's anointed king. And now, right after he makes that league, I mean perhaps the same day or within days after that agreement is made, after these 11 tribes agree, yes, we'll come in under David. And then the man that made it happen, that represented him, is murdered. Um that whole that whole agreement, that whole uh league could fall apart very easily. You see what I'm saying here? So, how David responds to Abner's death is very, very important in the well-being of this nation. If he rejoices in the death of his adversary If he praises Joab and says, yes, this man's caused me headaches for years and years and years. He sought my own death for years and years and years. He's tried to overthrow my throne for seven and a half years. Good, he got what he deserved. If David would have responded that way, I'd venture to say that union of the nation would have fallen apart. So I think David's sincere. I'm not trying to take away from the sincerity of David. I've read this over and over and over. You can't help but see that David is very, very sincere about this. However He's very, very gracious and he's very wise in responding the way he does. And I'll try and highlight this as we go through here. I look at David's response to the death of Abner, and I see the actions of a very mature gracious and compassionate man, but a man that has tremendous wisdom and tremendous discernment. Um, he is placing, now uh maybe I'm reading too much into this, and I think sometimes I tend to do that, but he's placing, I hope you get this He's placing the well-being of God's people and the nation of Israel over any personal animosity he might have. He's willing to lay aside, die to self, so to speak, his own feelings maybe that Abner may have provoked over all these years of ad being adversary. He lays all that aside. Now, the union of the nation, the well-being of God's people, is far more important than any personal revenge or personal hurt I have. That's a tremendous lesson to learn. Now, I've broken this down here in a number of sections here, a number of points. My first one is this: I want us to notice David's disclaimer. Look with me again at verse 28, 29, and 30. He finds out Abner has been killed. And afterward, when David heard it about Abner's death, he said, the very first thing he says, now this is a public statement. It's not him talking in his inner chamber. This is a public statement for all the world. I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever from the blood of Abner the son of Nur. He puts immediately, he gets this disclaimer out there. Now, the thing I notice about this, this is a public disclaimer. He wants everybody to know I am guiltless. He wants all these eleven nations. He wants the tribe of Judah. He wants everybody to know myself and my administration We did not do this. We were not behind this. This is not part of our doing. The word guiltless there means this. Basically, this is my definition. Means this. Our hands are innocent. Our hands are clean. We had nothing to do with this. That's not unusual for a nation to do. If you'll pay attention to the news sometimes, some event will happen somewhere And another nation, maybe that's trying to uh that's uh an adversary some right away they'll make a public statement. We had nothing to do with that. A nuclear power plant in Iran blows up. America Rights says, Oh no, we don't have nothing to do with that. You know. And so it's not unusual what he's doing. He's being diplomatic here in a sense in that he does not want to he does not want to risk The reunion of the nations here. He says, I am my kingdom. That's a diplomatic statement. Our administration, we're not behind us. We have nothing to do with the murder of Abner He's not just David is not just a spiritual man. He's not just a compassionate man, and he is. He's weeping over this fellow But he has some tremendous discernment. Now here's a lesson I want to try and pull from this. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Here's a lesson I want to try and pull from this. He sees that however he responds to the death of this man, a very significant man, a key player in trying to get this nation together, however, he responds to this is going to have ramifications There's going to be consequences to how he responds. And so he right away puts this disclaimer out. I want you to come to two verses in the book of Proverbs. Now stay here. We're going to get back here. But go to Proverbs chapter 22. And I want you to notice with me verse 3, and then we're going to go over to chapter 27, verse 12. I read this verse in my Bible reading this morning. And when I read it, I thought of David in this situation here. Proverbs 22. 3 is the first one we'll look at. And notice what it says. If you're in the habit of underscoring verse in your Bible, this is a good one. I refer to this verse a lot. A prudent man, what's the next word? Foresee it. I circle that in my Bible. What is the word foresee something? What does that mean? You foresee it. You see it ahead of time. Did you ever make this statement? Well, I see where this is heading I know where this is going to end up. That's foresight. So a prudent man, a man with some wisdom, some discernment, he foreseeth the what? The evil, and what's he do? He hides himself, he responds accordingly. In other words, a man with discernment, a man that's prudent, a man with some foresight. He is able to say, you know, if I act this way, I can see exactly what the consequences are going to be. If I make this statement, I can see exactly what how that's going to work out I'm going to adjust my actions, hide it themselves. I'm going to adjust my actions to avoid the evil consequences of what's I can see is going to come if I go that way. You follow what I'm saying? That's what he's saying. A wise man, a prudent man, is able to see what my actions today, what how that's going to affect the results tomorrow. Wisdom. Go over to chapter 27. Actually, we wouldn't even have to go over to chapter 27 because chapter 27 and verse 12 is the exact same statement, verbatim, again. Proverbs 27 and verse 12. A prudent man foreseeth the evil. He sees where this is going to go. If I do this, if I take this action, if I make this statement, I can see right exactly where it's going to go. I can see what the consequences will be. And he hideth himself. He doesn't go down that way. Now notice the last part of the verse. I didn't mention this in back in 22. Notice the last part of the verse. But the simple does what? He just goes right on. And what happens? He's punished. There's terrible consequences. He pays the price for it. You know what I found out? You know what I learned? I've learned a few things in life. One thing I learned in life is that what I sow today, I'm going to reap tomorrow. And I've got to have this discernment. I've got to be prudent enough. I need it, need to have enough discernment and wisdom and foresight To determine what am I going to plant because I'm going to have to reap it tomorrow The consequences of today's actions are going to show up tomorrow in the future. And I want to be able to anticipate and foresee what those consequences are. I'm telling you, we could save ourselves so much heartache and so much trouble and so much difficulty if we would just have some foresight. Just exercise a little bit of prudence and say, no, if I do that, man, I can see what's going to happen. And the helpful thing is, God's given us a whole Bible to tell us what the consequences are of various actions. So I see tremendous prudence in David's party being diplomatic, but he's very wise And that right away, listen, I am not willing to sacrifice this the union of God's people. I know that I've got to respond in a very specific way or this is going to be detrimental. So the first thing I notice under his disclaimer, it's a public disclaimer, but then he also does something else here. He points to the culprit Look at verse number, let's get back here. Uh look at verse number twenty nine We're guiltless before the Lord, my kingdom, forever, from the blood of Abner, the son of where he didn't kill him. We're guiltless, our hands are not on this. Let it rest on the head of Joab And on all then he he really goes off on Joab here. I got look at this good night. Let it rest on the head of Joab and all his father's house. And let there not fail from the house of Job one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leans on a stab, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread Man, he is pronouncing awful judgment on Joab. Look what he says. He says, uh, not one fail, one that hath an issue. May the uh there there'll never be anyone in Joab's house that isn't sick in one way or another. Or a leper. He'll always have a leper. Someone in his family is going to be a leper Or leans on a staff, they're going to be crippled, they have to have a staff. Or they fall on the sword, they kill themselves or get killed, or lack spread, they're going to be in poverty. Good heavens I wonder how Joab felt about that. Now, David, I don't think he's prophesying that this is going to happen. We have no record that any of this actually took place. But David is responding very, very strongly to Joab, and uh to use a political term, he is distancing himself from Joab's actions. He goes, no way, we had nothing to do with this. It's Joab's fault. And man, I hope he suffers deeply for it. And so he exposes Joab publicly. He extends this severe judgment on him. And by the way, it kind of implies there a little bit that a parent's actions affect their family. He's saying, listen, Joab did this. Man, the rest of his family are going to be affected by this. And I tell you, this is a lesson learned too late for a lot of people, but our actions in the home affect our families. And so we have to be very, very careful. So number one, I see David's disclaimer. Number two, very quickly, I notice David's directive. He gives some instructions in verse 31. And David said to who? Now Joab, Joab just killed Abner. David says, I have nothing to do with that. In fact, Joab did it. He lets the whole world know Joab did it and all these terrible things I want to happen to Joab. Now look what he tells Joab. And David said to Joab and to all the people that were with him, ring your clothes and gird you with sackcloth and mourn before Abner. Although, wow, that's interesting. Number one, there's to be public mourning. And he specifically points out Joab with these instructions. to put on mourning clothes, uh sackcloth, and uh you're gonna go out and mourn the death of this guy you just killed I was looking all over, I wish so badly that we had record of what how Joab responded to that I wouldn't be, if I was Joab, I wouldn't be real thrilled about having to put on sackcloth and ashes and mourn the guy I just killed. But as far as we can tell, Joab complies Joab's a tremendously loyal to David, even though I don't think they're on the same page sometimes. But he's tremendously loyal. Again, I think they again I think there's a little diplomacy in this, and David is uh very being deliberate and very uh diplomatic and saying, All right, I want the whole world to see you, Joab, this whole world's gonna see you mourning this. The whole the whole nation of Israel, they're gonna see you. You be out there, you be in those great those uh funeral clothes. So there's a public mourning and then there's a public funeral, verse 32. And they buried Abner in Hebron, and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept I think we see David's sincerity here. I don't think this is just a show. So one, we have David's disclaimer, then David's directive. Then here's a word you don't use too much. I notice David's dirge Anybody know what a dirge is? What is it? Funeral song, yes We don't use it too much. And actually got that word from the word lament. Notice there in verse number uh verse thirty three. And the king lamented over Abner. I looked up the word lament, how it's used And it said it is a dirge. A funeral song, sometimes it's a song, sometimes it's a speech The best I can tell in in looking at it, it's kind of like a eulogy. How many people know what a eulogy is? Everybody? Everybody with me A eulogy, except it's very, very sad. A lot of times eulogy, you'll talk about all the great things the person did. This one's where it's just expressing sorrow and grief and sadness So we have David's dirge here. He's lamenting, sorrowful. He's lamenting this death. It's very emotional, but notice it's also very influential. David's sorrow causes others to sorrow. They see David weeping and then they start weeping. Did you ever see a little video or you get around somebody and they're just laughing and laughing and laughing, and before you know it, what are you doing? You're laughing along with them. They make you smile. Or little babies. You ever see a little baby just laugh? And then you can't help but you laugh. Or do you ever see a thing I'm what made me think of I saw a video one time This little child, this little girl, she must have been three or so, but she's watching some cartoon about a dinosaur that fell out of a boat or whatever, and it just showed her face. Anybody see that video? And she's just sad and she's crying. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, you did. You're just not admitting it. And uh she's there just and I every time I see it I I start crying. That poor little girl's so sad. And um I think that's a little bit of it with David Everybody sees David as just so broken and so sad, then everybody starts crying. And so it's very influential. I think we see the sincerity here. And then uh I think there's a part here where David is acknowledging Abner's role. Abner was key in bringing this thing back together. So it's not a show, I don't think he's putting on here. But notice in verse 33, there's an interesting statement, and this is where I got hung up a little bit studying this. And the king lamented over Abner, verse 33, and said, Died Abner as a fool dieth. Now that's an interesting thing you say at a funeral. He's sobbing, he's broken, and in his his In this dirge, in this sorrow he's expressing, he says, did Abner die as a fool diet? And then he kind of elaborates on that in the next verse. Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters. As a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou. All the people wept again over him. I'm not exactly sure what David's getting at when he makes that statement. Maybe he's acknowledging Abner's role in his murder, if you remember, we touched on this earlier. Abner was actually in Hebron. Hebron was a city of refuge. Abner had killed Joab's brother earlier And he goes to that city of refuge, and Abner can't get them. They're safe from revenge in the city of refuge. That's a whole nother study. But Abner came out of that city. And I don't know if Joab lured him out. It seems like he did. He lured him back out. And as soon as he's outside of those city walls, he's open game for Joab to kill him. And I'm wondering if David isn't saying, you know, Abner, you were foolish. Nobody went in and drugged you out. They didn't tie you up and bind you and drug you out. You went outside the city and you made yourself vulnerable and they came on you and killed you and murdered you. And I don't know if that's what David's saying there or not, but that would that is what happened A fool dieth. He wasn't careful. He wasn't paying attention. He got distracted and let his guard down. Now, I want to give you a reminder here. Joab, David's awfully strong in his condemnation of Joab for killing Abner. I mean, he is pouring it on. And he's weeping over Abner. But I want to remind you a little bit about Abner. This goes back to my opening statement. A seven and a half year war. How many people die in a seven and a half year war? And these wars are brutal. Abner is single-handedly responsible For that whole war, and I believe the blood of all those people killed are on the hands of Abner. He'd have simply submitted, he had plenty of influence, he could have submitted, and later on he did. And bring that whole thing together, that war could have been avoided, and there'd be a whole lot of sons of mothers would still be alive. There'd be a whole lot of husbands still alive If Abner would have simply just obeyed God and trusted God. And so I think there's blood on Abner's hands. He didn't die an innocent man. He got an assense, he got what he was coming, what was coming to him. Now, let me quickly finish this up. I notice verse 35 through 37 I notice the people's discernment. Look at verse thirty five. And when all the people came to cause David to eat meat while it was yet day, David swears, saying, God's uh so do God to me, and more also if I taste bread or aught else until the sun be down Well, apparently the funeral was in the morning, and David said, I'm not going to eat the rest of the day till the sun goes down. The people try and get him to eat. He won't do it. Verse 36, and all the people took notice of it And they plea and it pleased them as and as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people. Would you agree with me? He won them over. He won him over. They're saying, boy, whatever the his sorrow he showed here, his reactions, he won the people over. And they said, whatever he does, man, we're just pleased with it. Can you imagine having a president that everything they did you were pleased with? Um in your dreams, I'm telling you that right now. But the people said, man, whatever David does, they're pleased with it. At this point in time anyway. And all the people took notice it. Look verse 37. For all the people and all Israel Ah, here's the diplomacy, the effect of his diplomacy. Understood that day, look at this, that it was not of the king to slay Abner, the son of Nur His actions for the right results. Everybody said, nope, this wasn't David, and that just brought them together. That just congealed those twelve tribes under David's leadership. So we have the people's discernment. I put this down. Our conduct in a time of crises Has a profound influence. We've got to be wise. We've got to be prudent in our reactions because it affects people. Then, last of all, real quickly, let me give you this. I noticed David's discouragement. Look at verse 38. And the king said to his servants, now I think he's speaking privately here. This isn't a public statement. He's got his Post folks around. He gets them around. The funeral's over. It's the end of the day. Everybody's pretty much going home. He's got his his servants around him. And look what he says to them Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel? He's pouring his heart out here This this now he I notice it doesn't he doesn't really praise his morals, but he's a prince. He was this he was akin to King Saul. He's a great man, very influential. He had tremendous influence He's highlighting the positive aspects of Abner. He's not dwelling on the negatives. And notice what he says. This gets said. And I am this day weak. The anointed king. I'm king, but I sure don't feel like a king. Uh I'm the king, but I am weak. This is this is This is overwhelming. This is overwhelming. And these men, the sons of Zariah, that would be Joab and his boy, his brothers They'd be too hard for me. You know what Dave was saying? This is not the way this should have been handled. These guys are too rough. These guys are too hard. That's not the way I do it. And David's discouraged. This is not how he wanted things to pan out. And then he says this, and the Lord shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness. And that's a true statement. I underlined that in my Bible. Now, what do we take away from this? I thought, all right, what's the lesson learned here? I put down two things to take away from this whole event. Number one, I put this down. I must be able to discern the consequences of my actions. We've got to be able to do that. We must be prudent. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. We have got to be able to see how our words and how our deeds are going to affect other people. David saw that. Now stop and think. Anybody here ever say something you wish you'd go back? You hadn't said that? Can we, can we, is it possible to get to the point where before I say it, I can see. The grief it's going to cause, I can see the harm it's going to do and catch myself and hide myself from saying that. Is that possible? Sometimes I wonder But a prudent man, man, if I do uh I know we've done things. Yes or no? We've done things and afterwards say, boy, if I'd go back in, I wouldn't have done that If we could have the foresight, if we could say, foresee that and hide myself from it, so I don't end up in that evil, man, we'll be so much better off. That's called wisdom. It's called discernment And we need that from the Lord. I put this down. What I sow today has a profound impact on what I'm going to reap tomorrow. I've got to be able to see that, both positive and negative. So the first lesson is discern the consequences of our actions. Number two, second lesson I take away from this, is see that the cause of Christ is greater than. Than any personal hurts or injustices I experience. In other words, David, man, Abner had hurt him. Abner tried to kill him for years. But David realized the union of the nation of Israel, the the the peace of the nation of Israel coming together under the God's anointed king was more important than any revenge he might have in his heart or any animosity, personal animosity had towards that. And I'll tell you, there's been a lot of ministries destroyed and damaged because somebody let something get under their skin and that became more important to them than the cause of Christ overall The fact of the matter is the cause of Christ and the body of Christ is far more important than any personal feelings Pastor Leatherman might have, or any somebody says or does something and it hurts me. I thought about um anybody here remember Bill Barron's? I love Bill Barons. I don't think hardly a week goes by. I don't think of him and miss him. He was one of my dearest friends in the world. And uh when he he was a Marine and uh uh drill instructor for years, you know, he was uh something else And uh the night he got saved, when he got saved, now God used this to bring him to Christ, but the church he got saved at, the first time he visited, Marley, his girlfriend at the time, his wife Now, uh uh she said she would the only time she'd go out with him is he came to church. So they came to church. She said he sat down around the front here, and at the end of the service, the pastor was getting letters during the week from somebody in the church writing mean letters to him. And so the pastor would at the end of the service, he said, would get the letter out and read it to the church, and he would say, All right, whoever wrote this, I'll meet you out back in the parking lot and deal with it, because nobody they wouldn't sign it. How many people agree that's probably not the best way to deal with that? That doesn't produce good, strong, healthy churches. Well Bill Barons loved it. He was lost. He goes, yes, there's gonna be a fist fight. I'm coming back. He said he kept coming back because he thought was in waiting for this fist fight. Well he ended up getting saved. But um The point I'm trying to make is this, and I learned from David's actions, is the well-being of the church is more important than any personal animosity or hurts that the individual has. The cause is greater than any personal feelings I might have. And what we need to learn to do, and that's true, the church or the family, the home, whatever. What we need to learn to do is just those simple little words that Dr. Robertson used to tell us all the time, die to self. Just died a self. David didn't let years of animosity affect him. The union of the nation was far more important than that. So he died to self. He mourned over this guy, and I think sincerely And God used it to bring that nation together. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to learn from David here. Help me. And Lord help us to have discernment, be able to see that our actions today will affect our happiness and success tomorrow in many ways. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us to see that your cause, the gospel, getting into all the world, is bigger and more important than any self-will or any s uh personal animosity I might have or injustice somebody does to me. Help us just die to self. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people like me would say, preacher, I need better discernment. Be able to see ahead a little bit foresight there. I think probably all of us would say, yeah, I could use a heap more of that. Well let's ask the Lord for it. Let's ask God for wisdom I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I need to learn to die to self and me getting my way or me getting revenge or me being hurt, my feelings Cannot be more important than the cause of Christ. I need to be able to die to self and just give God the glory and let Him deal with it. Any like that, I'm with my hands raised. I don't want My own personal hurts to hurt the cause of Christ. I want the cause of Christ to go on. Father, I ask you to bless. Now our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.