Chapter eleven, verse one, let's get started here. Got things in place, we're turned on, and uh we're ready to roll. Verse one it says and it came to pass after the year was expired At the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, And it destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rebba. So Joab and the troops of Israel did their job. They went out to battle. They defeated the enemies. But, the end of verse 1, David tarried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in an evening tide that David arose from off his bed, walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? As I said last week, I underlined that statement. That's significant. They said that on purpose. And David sent messengers, disregarded what they said. David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned to unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with Giles. David's darkest hour, verse 1 is the introduction to this Horrid event uh how David ended up in this situation. The kings went for it's a time when kings go forth to battle. David sat back idly, sat uh sat around in Jerusalem, he tarried in Jerusalem. And then there's three stages, three decisions David made that ended up in total disaster. Total disaster. Nothing is ever the same. From this point on, and we said that. So tonight I want to give this third decision David made that that crosses the line I want to kind of recap and I want to show you something that I wanted to get to from the beginning of studying this event, from the first verse one. We first looked at verse one. What I'll share tonight is what I wanted to get to And so I think it'll help us. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, we're sorry to read in your word of these great men. People of God, people of faith, and to see that human nature, that sinful nature, get the best And Lord, we think of our own lives and how many times our own sinful nature has got the best of us. We let our guard down, make some foolish decisions, and next thing we know, uh we're in a mess So I pray we can learn from David, Lord, those of us here, the folks online, folks that will listen later on recordings, that maybe you could use these thoughts tonight as a precaution, as a warning. And protect from ruined lives and ruined testimonies. So I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit I pray that you would speak through me as I yield my will, present my body anew, Lord. I pray it would not just be a message tonight, but it would be something you could use to To uh protect testimonies and lies, as we said. So help us, Lord, meet with us, teach us. In Jesus' name, amen Well, this is the most famous sin in all of history, probably in the Bible with the exception of maybe Adam and Eve. Psalm 51 is David's prayer of confession, and I think we're going to look at that at some point. It's down the road a little ways. Uh it's actually a year off in the timing of the event here till David actually addresses his sin. He covers it up for a year. And then he eventually is confronted and he pens under the inspiration of God that great prayer, Psalm fifty one So we'll look at that at some point. So you have uh perhaps one of the most famous sins ever committed, and you have one of the most famous confessions. of sin, well-known confessions of sin ever committed. And it all begins, as we said, and tonight's going to be a bit of a recap, but it all begins, as we said, when David stayed back at Jerusalem That, I believe, was the initial mistake that David had. He was not where he was supposed to be. And as we said, how many times have good people, good Christians messed up and made irreparable decisions because they were not where they were supposed to be. We had um Uh we had some the other night a week or so ago uh we had some young people about th 2. 30 in the morning back in the parking lot. I got a call from the alarm company and they said uh the alarm's off Um uh is everything okay? It's 2 30 in the morning. I just woke up. I said, huh? You know. Said, is everything okay? So I checked the cameras, lo and behold, there's two sheriff's cars in the back of the parking lot And so I quickly threw some clothes on, come running over, and there was about eight or nine uh young people on bicycles back here, and they weren't doing any harm. They were just hanging out and and uh the sheriffs uh th knew they were here, came in and um you know, talked to them, made sure they went home and got a hold of their parents and stuff. And and um the reason the alarm went off is uh Uh the policeman was going around checking the doors and set the alarm off. So if somebody's going to set our alarm off, it'll I'd rather it be the sheriff But the point I'm trying to get to is when you have young peop I I my per my personal opinion, my old school, old-fashioned opinion is kids ought not to be out at 2 30 in the morning. They were somewhere they ought not to be. And how many times have young people got themselves in big trouble because they were out somewhere they ought not to be, right? And it's no different for you and I. It's no different for David. Say, here's a man after God's own heart. He can tarry at Jerusalem. He won't mess up. Ha! David has the same sinful nature you and I had the same sinful nature you and I have. It's no different than anyone else, and we're no different than anyone else. I was talking to Dr. Pattreed today. And I thought he always he often says when he's here, he's going to be preaching this Sunday. He often says when he's here, we all put our pants on the same way And so David uh was somewhere he ought not to be. Now we've noted in verse number two that he gave his attention to something that he should not have given his attention to. Then we noted in verse number three that he desired, because he gave his attention to something he ought not to have given his attention to, then that caused him to desire something He should not have desired. And I get that from the word in verse 3. David sent and inquired after the woman. There's desire there. He's pursuing this. And then tonight, what I want us to look at Is verse number four, and we looked at this a little bit before, but I want to zero in on it. Verse number four: David sent messengers and took her. And this is my third decision he made, the third point of the message, David took something that he should not have taken. David took something that he should not have taken. He took her. He sent messengers and took her. Unrestrained desire Can overpower our reasoning, the convictions we have in place, and even our own self-control. If we do not keep desire in check, if we're unable to control our desires Then we are headed for trouble. The Bible has a term, it's a very large word, and we don't really use it at all, but it's licentiousness. And it simply means this uncontrolled, unrestrained desire. Just pursuing things, disregarding the law, disregarding morals. disregarding uh standards of right and wrong and I just I want what I want and I'm going after it. And I tell you, desire is a powerful thing And David's desire for Bathsheba has taken over his control of himself. It is desire at this point that is driving David. And he ends up taking something he should not take. I referenced this verse last week. I want to look at it again. If you would, go to me to Proverbs chapter 18 And I recommend you underscore this verse, become familiar with this verse. Proverbs chapter 18 and verse number one This hit me when I was in college for whatever reason. I don't remember the circumstances, but I saw this verse, and man, it struck home. And I memorized this years and years ago. Proverbs 18. 1. Through desire, a man having separated himself seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom. Now we looked at that. And what he's saying here is: if I don't control my desire, if my desires take over, the desires of the flesh, the desires of the old nature, be they what they may, or whatever they may be I'm going to intermeddle with all wisdom. In other words, I'm going to be foolish. I'm going to act foolish. And that's exactly what's happening to David here. That word desire in in uh chat verse 1 there, Proverbs 18, 1, through desire. It means lust, greed, or covetousness. When I get something, I have to have that No matter what, the desire for that object, whatever it may be, how many people have ruined themselves financially Because they saw something and they had to have it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And for years and years they're in debt. They can't they can't serve God. there because they had to have that thing. I had a roommate in college years ago and uh he got he was about his sop junior year, I guess it was sophomore junior year. He met a gal, they got married, it was fine But here is the problem. They had to have the house and the furniture and the vehicles that were equivalent to what their parents had. Anybody see a problem with that? Their parents didn't start out there. And rather than being content with just what they could afford and what they get by, they had to have everything their parents had. And you know that guy, this we're talking the early 1980s And they were literally hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt before they ever started. And he couldn't serve God, he couldn't go into ministry, he had to work two, three jobs, try and pay the bills. Desire It's a powerful thing. And now it's taken over David and it's controlling his actions. We had uh over at the mission house years ago, this was uh before Ron and Deb, they've done a lot of work over there, this before they got their hands on it. Uh it was a little rough shape. And on the back there, if you remember the old porch that used to be there, there's a there was a stone uh base to the porch and then it went up and there was these vines, these ivy vines growing up around there. Does anybody remember that? Ron probably does. Maybe not. Uh but anyway these vines were growing up all over that back porch and up to the thing. I mean they were taking over. And I noticed one day That they had actually, these ivy vines had actually worked their way up and pushed their way down underneath the window And worked their way in under that window. We're coming up on the other side into the house. And as those vines grew, they pushed that window up, pushed it up, pushed it up, till it actually broke the window You've seen roots of trees that get down in a crack of a rock and they'll grow and they'll split that rock wide open. I want to submit to you, that's a perfect picture of what unrestrained desire will do It'll creep in and take over, and the next thing we know that desire is controlling us and it's completely ruined us. That's what's happening to David Desire has taken over, and now he's taking things David would have never taken. Now what happened? How did this begin? David wasn't where he was supposed to be David gave attention to something he should not have given his attention to. And I know I'm being- you say, brother, you're preaching, you're beating this to death. I know I am. Because these are important principles And if we get a hold of this, it will help us. If you remember, we spent a long time on David fighting Goliath. Remember that, David? We spent a long time on that. Why? Because it was real that it was key to our success I think this is key to victory in our lives. So David gave attention to something he should not have given attention to. Now I didn't touch on this then, but I want to mention it here Did you know that just by looking at some things, it changes the way we think? It affects our thinking. We think one way and then we see something and it affects our brain. I'm convinced David, up until some point, it may have been a little bit before the direct events right here, but David would have never dreamed of getting in bed with another man's wife. David would have never dreamed of committing adultery. But he saw something. And it changed the way he thought. It changed his behavior. The power. Of sight, mine eye affecteth my heart. And we're going to see that. I'm trying to get to a something I want to show you here. We're going to see this all through scripture. So David gave attention to something he should not have given attention to. And he desired something he should not have desired, is where it ended up, taking something he should not have taken. I said all that because this is what I want to show you. Go with me, if you would, to Genesis chapter 3. I saw this years ago, a pattern, all through Scripture, of people destroying themselves By these same three steps. Genesis chapter 3, and look with me if you would at verse number 6. And if you're in the habit of marking in your Bible, I think it's a good thing if you do it right There's three words here I want you to underscore or highlight or at least take note of. This is Satan is approaching Eve. He's confronting her about God's instructions. In the garden. And notice what it says here. It says, and when the woman, what's that next word? Saw. Remember David was on the rooftop and he what? Saw a woman washing herself. Alright, there's step number one That the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be what Desire. She saw something, she ought not to have been looking at it. Hey, if God says don't eat that fruit, it's a good idea not to look at it, right She saw it. And now because she saw it, it affected her heart. My eye affected my heart. What she saw affected her heart. Now she desires it And then read on, there's another word here. A tree to be desired to make one wise, she what? Took it, took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also to her husband with her, and he did eat. And there was a fall of man. Same three steps David did. All the death, all the sorrow, all the pain. All the murders and rapes and fevery and stealing, all the wars, and the history of mankind are the result of those three steps. Saw something, I ought not to have been looking at. Desired something, I ought not to have been desired. Took something, ought not to have taken. Now there's another factor in this, and we're going to see this along this pattern. I just notice this one. Before she ever looked at it, before she ever desired that fruit, before she ever took to that fruit and ate of it Satan got her to do something before any of those three steps took place. And what was that? He got her to question God's word. What was his first statement to Eve? Yea, hath God said? He's getting her to disregard the clear word of God to her Don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And he got her to question it, and in questioning it, she disregarded it. And here you have the three steps. She looked at it. She desired it, she took it. Everybody see that? Clear as a bell. Go to Joshua chapter 7 with me if you would. Joshua chapter 7 And uh verse number 21. Here we have Achan. Anybody remember the story of Achan? Joshua is leading the armies into Jerus into the promised land. And uh they get to Jericho, they blow the trumpets, the walls came uh Joshua fought the battle at Jericho, and the walls came a tumbling down. Boy, great victory! Praise the Lord! Woo! It fired up The next little town is what? Who knows their Bible? What's the next little town? Ai. Oh, it's just a little town. It's like Corinth Uh you know, it's kind of like Deer Park. I'm trying to think where some of y'all live. Uh Eglin, it's kind of like Eglin or Swanton. It's just a little town. We don't need all the armies to go there. We'll just send a few there. They go there and what happens? They get whooped. They lose a bunch of guys get killed. David's what in the or Joshua's what in the world? And God says there's sin in the camp. What happened back in Jericho, I got one of Dave one of Joshua's soldiers Looked at something he ought not to have looked at. Look there in chapter one. God had told them before they took Jericho, said, listen, all the spoil you bring that back, that's the Lord's, that's the Lord's Verse number twenty and eight uh uh oh and uh there well let me back up, let me set this get the setting here. And so Joshua says, you know, what do we do? And God says, You bring all the tribes by. And so they bring all the tribes of Israel by. And God said, I'll point out who has the sin. They're sin in it again. So all the tribes go by and uh he picks out the tribe of uh Judah. He says, Alright, all the families of Judah march by Joshua. And so I mean this has taken a period of time. These are a lot of people. So they all marched by, and the family of the Zerhites, God says it's in that family. Alright, so they brought the family of the Zerhites man by man, and Zabdi was taken, his family They brought his household, verse 18, man by man, and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zarah, the tribe of Judah, was taken. And here, this gets interesting. And Joshua says, verse 19: Joshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to the Lord God of Israel. And make confession unto him, and tell me now what thou hast done. Hide it not from me. Well, Josh Achans busted. Now why did God, I think I mentioned this before, but why did God go through that long process of the tribe and then the families and then the households and down why did he go through I mean that had to take at minimum hours. Why did he go through that long process? That's what I think I think he was giving Aiken a chance to confess, come forward and confess. Can you imagine being Aiken standing in that line? You know it's you And twelve representatives from the twelve tribes, and lo and behold, your tribe's pit. Whew. How do you think he was getting away from that with that? And then his family, and then that household, and it's narrowing down. He had to be standing in line there thinking, well, I mean, what was he thinking? Somehow are going to be wrong? And uh lo and behold, he gets picked. And and and aching comes clean. And look at this. This is where I'm all getting at. Look at verse 21. He tells Joshua When I what Saul among the spoils A goodly Babylonian garment, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels of weight. And by the way, that word Saul comes from the exact same word when David's on the roof And he saw the woman. I gazed at him. I looked at him carefully. In other words, Achan is going down. He sees him and he's picking them up And he's looking at he's inspecting them. He's looking very carefully out, man. This is nice stop. He saw it, and then look at this Then I what? What does it mean to covet something? Desire it. Same thing. Saul. Desired. Look at this. And I coveted them and what? Took them. Same word. Says David took Bathsheba. See the three steps? The fall of mankind is a result of these three steps. Boom, boom, boom. Saul, desired, took. Saul, desired, took. Achid. He ends up being killed, his children killed, stone, as a as a consequence of this. Desired salt took. By the way, remember I said that first thing Satan did was to get Eve to disregard God's clear word to her? You know what Achan did? He disregarded God's clear word concerning the spoils. God said, you're not to take these. And he disregarded that, looked at it, desired it, took it. Now, if you would go to Judges. Judges chapter number 14. Joshua Judges chapter fourteen, and we've got Samson. Boy, Samson made a mess, didn't he? He's one of the men, one of the people in the Bible, and if my count's correct, it said more of Samson that the Spirit of God came upon him than any other person in the Old Testament. And yet, my, what a mess he made. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 14, Judges chapter 14, verse number one. And Samson went down to Timnath and what? There it is. I circled it. Same word that's used of of uh Eve looking at the fruit, same word, Achan looking at those spoils, same word, David looking at Bathsheba, gazed at, looked at, intensely checked her out Saw a woman of Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And then he repeats it. He says he came up and told his father and mother and said, I have seen a woman. She caught his attention. Now she's a Philistine. He has no business giving his attention to a Philistine woman. In fact, his parents said that to him. Isn't there any of God's people? Look at the end of verse 3. Get her for me, for she what pleaseth me well. There's desire. There's desire. Verse 7, he went down and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well. Boy, he's his heart is stirred. He saw, he desired, look at verse 8. And after a time he returned to what? Taker. There it is. The same three steps. He saw, he desired, he took. How many people agree with me? It might be a good idea to be careful what we look at Might be a good idea to be careful what we give our attention to, what we what we allow to capture our attention, regardless of what it may be. Oh, by the way, did you notice Samson disregarded the authorities in his life, his parents? Same thing. Eve disregarded what God had said Achan disregarded what God had told Israel. Samson disregards what his parents told him. It all begins with disregarding the authorities that God has over us. And they looked at something, gave attention to something they ought not to have given attention to, and um they uh desired something they ought not to have desired And took something they should not have taken. And from that point on, for old Samson, it's downhill. It's one woman after another. Just the same thing over and over. Now I got another one. If you would go to Luke chapter 10. Now this has a little different twist on it. Luke chapter 10, I noticed these same three steps. Except It is not steps to sin, but there's steps to service. There is a positive side. In Luke chapter 10, we have the incident of the Good Samaritan. How many people are familiar with the Good Samaritan? Yeah, he's coming up. This guy fell among thieves. Verse 33 is what we're going to look at. It begins in verse 25 with this lawyer. Uh verse 30, uh Jesus said, A man a certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he. What? Are you looking there, verse 31? When he saw him He passed by on the other side. He didn't give attention to it. He didn't inspect it. He just passed by. It was no interest to him. Do you agree with me? A priest ought to be better than that. Priest of God? Just let the guy lay in there half dead. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came by and looked on him. But it didn't have any effect. He passed by on the other side, a Levite, good night. They ought to be better than that. But a certain Samaritan, what they would have called back then a half-breed Hated by the Jews. He journeyed, now watch this. And came where he was, and when he what Saw him. He stopped and looked. The idea there behind that word is inspect closely. Check it out. Gave his attention to this poor man beaten here. Look what it says. And when he saw him, he what? Had compassion. His desire is stirred. He wants to help this guy. He sees him, he looks at him, he gives attention to him Now his heart his desire started, I need to help this guy. His compassion, I can't leave him here like this. And uh he had compassion on him, and look at this, and what went to him He reacted. He acted. He did something. It produced action. And went to him and bound his wounds and poured in oil and wine and set him on his own beast and brought him to an inn and took care of him. Now do you see the same, I see the same three steps there, except in a reverse. We have three people, Eve, Aiken, well four. Eve, Aiken, David, and Samson. Not in that order. Eve, Achan, Samson, and David all looked at, gave attention to something they ought not to have given their attention to, which caused them to desire something they had no business desiring, and they ended up taking something they should not have taken. But here you've got this Samaritan. And he takes those same three steps, but not to draw him away from God, not to draw him into disaster. But earn the praise of Jesus Christ and help this poor man that's dying Say, what are you trying to say, preacher? I'm saying this. There are some things that we should give our attention to. And there are some things we should not. And uh I've often thought when I was in Indianapolis, I was a youth pastor, but I had the buses up. We had four buses we brought about Uh one one Easter one year we brought in, I think it was 325 kids on the buses. I mean it was a big bus ministry. I loved it And uh I and I was always looking for workers, always looking for workers, always looking for workers, and I came to this conclusion as a result of that there, that that Good Samaritan. I thought if I can just get some people to come out with us and see these kids and see the homes that they're in and see what their lives are like. I believe that the eye would touch their heart, affect their heart And maybe the compassion would be stirred up to say, you know, I've got to do something to reach these people with the gospel. I've got to do something. And that's been the basis of our mission trips that we've taken over the years. Get people out in the mission field for a week or ten days and see, gaze, look at, inspect the mission field. And that touch the heart and stir the heart and come back and say, I've got to do something to get the gospel to these dear people. So here's the lesson I take away from it. The overall lesson in in 2 Samuel eleven is a negative one. Don't look at things Don't give attention to things we ought not to give attention to. Don't desire things we ought not to desire. Don't take things we have no business taking. But the positive is how about let's give our attention to the real spiritual needs out there And let God stir our hearts and say, you know, I want to get involved. I want to act on this. I want to be a part of the solution. And it begins with the eye. Now the all the others began with disregarding what God has said. The Samaritan, that's that principle begins with paying attention to what God has said. Go into all the world. You follow my thinking on this? And so those three steps, Saul See, desire, take, or act. See, desire, act. Let's use that in a positive way and reach this world with the gospel. Amen? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us To control our attention, what we give our attention to. Help us to be disciplined. Help us to heed your warnings and your instructions and keep our focus. Where it ought to be, seeking those things which are above. And Lord, I pray you would help us to keep our desires in check. And then serve you, Lord, faithfully. When are with our heads bowed, eyes closed? How many would say, preacher, you know, I really need to pay more attention To the needs of others and maybe how I can help them. Any like that? We just live our lives. We get caught up in what we're doing. We really don't look see what others are doing. How about it? Sure. And then maybe ask Lord, Lord, stir my heart. I see, I see my neighborhood and folks that need Christ. I see a world without Christ. I see my country. Lord, stir my heart that I can Have a part, maybe help with scriptures, go out visiting something, send letters, make phone calls. Somehow, act upon what I see. And let the Lord control our desires. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these thoughts as I try to tie them up here and help us to take heed To the negative and then apply ourselves to the positive. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together