And if you would turn in your Bibles there, it is good to have Chester and Linda back in town. The Robins were here a couple weeks ago. I saw the Robins, and then um little flowers started peeping up. Friday night I took the dog for a walk. About 10. 30 at night. We're out here by the swamp area. And uh guess what I heard? A peeper, one peper. I heard one a peep froze But there was a peeper out there peeping. And so I thought, all right, there's a peeper, there's Robin, I'll bet you Chester and Linda are gonna show up here pretty soon. So we're glad they followed the Robins North. And we're glad they're still kicking. 1 Samuel chapter 18. I want to begin reading. We started this before. We were talking over the spaghetti back there and we were talking about, man, every verse is so full you could spend a series on a verse. And we're going to look at probably just get one verse tonight. But I'll begin reading in verse 22. Somebody fill us in. What's taking place here? Saul is trying to do what at this point? What? He's trying to get David married to one of his daughters, but why does he Because he loves his daughters so much and he won't want what's best for them and da David would just be the best husband for him. Is that his motive? He's trying to get rid of David. Eighteen. Um he's trying to dispatch David. Now, I think David would be a great husband to his daughters, I think. He's a man after God's own heart. He loves the Lord. But that's not Paul's not King Saul's motive. He's wanting to get rid of David. Let's begin reading in verse 22. Oh, by the way, just a reminder, remember he schemed a little bit here, and he was going to have him marry his oldest daughter Remember that? And he put him out in the field and uh and then at the last minute he pulls the rug out from under him and he has her marry someone else. Boy, how many guys boy you'd be steamed. Tell me you're gonna marry this guy, you're all set to go, and then all of a sudden her dad gives her someone else. We don't see any reaction on David's part. It's amazing. We're gonna talk about that. So now he's got his second daughter. She actually is in love with David. We talked about that a little bit. But now here we are at verse 22. And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore, be the king's son-in-law. And Saul's servant spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor man and lightly esteemed And the servants of Saul told him Saul, saying, On this manner spake David. And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David. The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David what? Ah, there's the crux of the whole matter here. Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. You see there, it's not what's best for his daughter. That is not in his mind. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David. It pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law, and the days were not expired. Wherefore David arose and went, he and all his he and his men, and slew the Philistines. How many Two hundred men. He asked Saul asked for a hundred. He slew two hundred men, and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law And Saul gave him Michael, his daughter to wife. How many people think like I do that Saul was pretty steamed when he showed up? Not with a hundred, but two hundred. This is not the way it was supposed to work out. In fact, he wasn't even supposed to come back. And here he shows up with double what he asked for. So um David is becoming Saul's son-in-law. Let's pray. Father, we ask now you bless as we study this portion of Scripture here. Maybe for a lot of people, it's a little obsolete. Most people probably don't pay a lot of attention. But Lord, you have a lot of lessons for us here, and you told us that all of Scripture is profitable. And so I pray we would profit from this tonight. And I pray, Lord, it would be you speaking through me. And to our hearts and minds, and that you would help us to grow in our faith and be mature Christians. I pray again that you'd prepare our hearts for the revival meeting. And just fill me with your spirit, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so Saul is scheming here. We noted that. That was our first point of this passage as I outlined it Saul was scheming, he's trying to divert attention off of himself onto the servant. So Saul is not coming to David directly himself saying, Hey, Mary, my daughter. He's uh diverting the attention off of himself He's being pretty deceptive. He says, he has the servants tell David, Oh, the king delights in me. How would David have responded if King Saul would have come to him directly and said, King Day uh said, David, I delight in you? What do you think David would have said? Ha! He wouldn't have believed that for one minute. He'd just been throwing javelins at him. And so King Saul knows I can't say this to him. He's not going to buy that. I'll get the servants. He'll believe that. So he's being very, very sneaky here, very deceptive. So he makes this lie, the king hath great delight in thee, but then he covers it up in truth, remember? And he says, all the people And all his servants love thee. Well, that was true. Everybody loved David at this point. And so he's scheming here. He diverts the attention off of himself onto the servants. He's very, very deceptive. And uh then he puts that peer pressure on his servants. Don't ask him, hey, you want to be the king's uh son-in-law? You want to marry Michael? They don't ask him. What do they do? They tell 'em, you need to do this. What do we call that? Remember we said last week, what do we call it peer pressure. They're putting the squeeze on David. You know, if Saul would have been saying all this stuff to him been meaningless, David would have known something's up. But he boy Saul's being sneaky here, and um he he puts the peer pressure on him and uh and so he's scheming here. Now we want to get to our second thought. This is verse 23 And David displays, this is what my point is, David's characteristic humility. First was Saul's continued scheming. Now we find David acting like David. Look at let's read verse 23 again. We'll probably read it several times here. But tell me if this doesn't sound classic David. And David said Seemeth to you a light seemeth seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor man and lightly esteemed. Doesn't that sound like David Humility. We're seeing this over and over and over. There is this dominant characteristic as we're looking at the life of David, and right now it's very closely intertwined with King Saul. We can't separate the two hardly. Because God's using Saul to um to uh refine David and and of course God's working in David's heart, preparing him to be the king So we have a hard time. So we're looking a lot at Saul and a lot at David because they're so intertwined. But there's something about David, there's a characteristic about David that is beginning to rise to the top That is be beginning to become more and more evident, and that is this, humility. Humility. David At least at this point, and for the most part, I think throughout his life, I think we'll see it. There was times when he he struggled with it, but um for the most part, he's an incredibly humble man. Now, David was not a coward. Agree with that? Nobody in the world would describe David as a coward, at least not up to this point so far. And continuing. Humility is not cowardice. Don't ever confuse the two. Some of our greatest, bravest warriors in our nation's military history have been some tremendously humble people. Tremendously gracious people. So don't ever confuse humility with cowardice. Arrogance Is uh is not arrogance, don't confuse arrogance with confidence Right? Person can be very very confident and yet be very very gracious and kind. Sometimes people who are very very arrogant I think use that to overcompensate for a lack of confidence. Follow what I'm saying? I lack confidence, so I become overbearing. I'm very arrogant. Preachers do this sometimes. And so David is not a coward. We're looking at him, we're studying his life, we're looking for characteristics, and we do not see cowardice, we see humility, and that's not the saint. He's very, very brave, he's very, very courageous. So don't think that a person's humble, they can't be courageous. David is not timid. I won't describe David as a timid man. What do you think of when they say somebody always is very timid You think they're what? Very shy, uh quiet. Um I I don't know, in my mind sometimes I equate being timid with being insecure Maybe. You know, I'm just timid. Yeah, they're not assertive. Sometimes insecure, you know, they're insecure, so they don't say much, they don't speak up, they don't do that. David is not timid Remember back in chapter 17 with uh with uh Goliath? And David is standing before the king of Israel. the commander in chief of this huge army. And he's he's not being disrespectful, he's not being arrogant, he's not being anything like that. But he's certainly not timid. And he's speaking with confidence. Hey, God can beat this guy. God can do it. Listen, if you'll let me, I volunteer, I'll go out there. And you find David, when he speaks to people who could be intimidating, you never find him intimidated. He's very confident. He's very secure. I'm going to suggest to you that comes from a close walk with God. He knows what God can do, and he knows he's in the will of God. And so he can be very, very confident. So When we say, and I said I'll have to say this, when we describe David, as we're observing here that this characteristic of humility rising to the top on David's part, becoming more and more obvious We're not suggesting it's cowardice. We know that's not what it is, and we're not suggesting that it is him being timid. He's not intimidated by things. It is an attitude of mind. It is a frame of mind. It's a way of viewing myself and viewing God. And we're going to see that as it comes out. Um no hint of pride here. I think I think all of us, maybe I should say most of us, I'd say at least most of us, maybe all of us. have at one characteristic that stands out about us. They probably have one. Whether we recognize it or not, other people probably do. They would say, what's what's one thing that stands out? What's one characteristic that stands out about so-and-so? Probably folks would come up with something. They say, well, this is this would probably be the most obvious characteristic about him. We look at David. And uh you say, what's the one characteristic stands out about David? We're going to see here that characteristic of humility, humility, humility. I believe one of the greatest virtues in the Christian life is that of humility. In fact, I would have suggest most, if not all, other Christian virtues are rooted in humility. Humility. The greatest enemy, I said Sunday morning, our greatest enemy to our spiritual life is sin. And the greatest sin that threatens every one of us is what? Pride. No doubt about it. No doubt about it. And so uh humility is no doubt the greatest characteristic of uh of the of uh greatest virtue in the Christian life. Now I see David's humility, I see it, I see it manifest in two ways here. In two ways. First of all, his humility is manifest in his respect for authority. In his respect for authority. Look with me again at verse 23. Saul's servant spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, look at the first statement he said, first thing out of his mouth, seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law. You think this is something this you think this is a light thing for me to be a king's son-in-law? I see there a frame of mind of thinking that that king is a tremendous authority And I see this tr I see great, great respect in David's uh in David's heart and mind uh for the king's authority. The word light thing there, that little phrase, it seemeth it Uh a light thing? A light thing? That phrase light thing means yes, trivial. You think it's just a trivial thing? Oh yeah, I'll just go be the king's son-in-law. Um without significance. I like this definition for that phrase, a light thing. Dishonorable What David is saying here, listen, to be the son-in-law of a king is a tremendous honor. It's a tremendous, tremendous Uh privilege. That's not something you take lightly. Now why would he say that? Because Saul is such a great man of character? No. His respect was not necessarily for the man holding the position, but his respect was for what? The position itself. He doesn't say, notice what he doesn't say. He says, seemeth it a light thing to be King Saul's son-in-law? Doesn't say that He says, seemeth the right thing to be the king's son-in-law. That that position that the king holds is a position of authority. Of authority. In fact, I'll throw this out. I suggest to you, David had greater respect for the office of king. He had a higher regard for the office of king than the man holding the office did I see little respect on Saul's part for the position he held. He's getting awfully trivial. He's getting awfully quote unquote light. About the responsibility he holds as leader of the nation of Israel. In fact, he's running around chasing this petty this petty attitude he has towards one of his most beneficial and one of his greatest assets He has this little attitude that is dominating him. That is not respect for the position that King Saul held. But David does. David has tremendous respect. A disrespect for authority, let's talk about that for a little bit. Disrespect for authority is a key indicator that pride has taken root. Disrespect for authority. Uh it's it's a key indicator that pride is. You can see all links here Pride has taken over my thinking. I want to suggest to you respect for authority is a vital ingredient in spiritual maturity. Who is the ultimate authority in existence? It's an obvious answer. It's not a strict question. Who's the ultimate authority? God Almighty. He is King of Kings. He is Lord of Lords. He is God of gods. In fact, the title God, the name God, indicates supreme authority. And so God has, in his infinite wisdom and in his part of his plan, delegated authority in certain areas of our lives for our good. And I if I if Brother Homer used to say this to the kids. He used to say this to kids. He said, if you can't he'd give instruction in the neighborhood Bible time, he was the founder and director of Bible time for years. I he trained me. I trained under him. And uh he would say to the kids, if you can't obey me, if you can't obey your mother and father, you'll never be able to obey God. What was he saying? You need to learn that God has placed over us authorities. And those authorities, if we can't follow them, And we certainly cannot follow God. Why did King David have such respect for the king's authority? I'll suggest to you because he had such respect for God's authority. He had respect for authority, the concept of authority, which flows out of God's position And so it's a vital ingredient in my spiritual maturity. Remember, we're learning, we're seeing here that God is preparing David To be king of Israel, and that is a position of authority, God ordained authority, and David as a humble man Is going to be a better leader because of his respect for authority, he will fill the role, the responsibility of authority Better. Follow what I'm saying? Respect for authority is a vital ingredient in being a strong in being a healthy leader. I learned a long time ago, if I can't follow the authority that God has placed over me, then I'm going to be a poor authority over others The best the best soldier today is makes the best uh captain tomorrow So David is going to be a great great king. We know that. Not perfect. Nobody suggests that he's going to be perfect, but he's going to be a great great king. One reason being he respected that position of authority tremendously long before he ever held it. Saul's problem was he lost respect for the authority that God put in there. And he began, it became not a privilege to Saul, it became an entitlement. I can use this authority for my own petty purposes. And he disrespected it. A disrespect of authority by those in authority leads to the abuse of authority. Do you get that? We can see that in our own country. A person that is in authority but does not respect authority will abuse that authority And we see that with King Saul. Take your Bible if you will. I want to illustrate something here, and I want to suggest the root Of a disrespect for authority, Isaiah chapter 14. I know better than to eat a big plate of spaghetti before I speak. There are things happening. Isaiah chapter fourteen There is no second Isaiah, so just Isaiah. Chapter 14. Are you there? Keep going, you'll make it. Isaiah chapter fourteen. And here we have the inspired record of Satan's fall. Lucifer. This is fascinating. Look what it says verse uh verse 12 is where I want to start. Chapter 14, verse 12. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? Can I just throw a little? This is absolutely nothing to do with the message, but I want to throw it out. Did you know that the NIV and a lot of other versions where it says Son of the Morning, it's translated Lucifer, thou morning star. Does anybody see a problem with that? Yeah, Revelation tells us very clearly Jesus Christ is the morning star. Not only is it a mistranslation, it is a serious, serious doctrinal error. But thou art fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, thou son of the morning. How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? Now look at this. Here is Here is the fall of Satan. For thou hast said in thine heart. Now there's two words that are going to be repeated five times here. For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt what? My throne above the stars of God. The stars of God is probably a reference to the angels there. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. When he says, I will sit upon the mount of the congregation, he's talking about the throne of God. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. Now look at this last statement, and notice the wording very carefully. It's important. I will be, what's the next word? Like the Most High. Now, several observations there He's not trying to He's not trying to eliminate God. He's not trying to destroy God, annihilate God. He knows he can't do that. That's not going to happen. He just wants to be what? Like God. So is he saying here, oh, I want to be holy and compassionate and good and wise, just like God? No, he's not saying I want to be like God in character He's saying, I want to be like God in authority. I want to have equal authority as God. I want to be able to decide what's right and wrong. I don't want I want to be able to make all these decisions You know what this whole five statements, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, you know what that was? That was a rejection of God's authority. Is the root of all sin. I will be God will not rule over me. I I don't know. I may be stretching it. I don't think he wants to Replace God necessarily. He just wants to be equal with God. He just wants to have the same authority God does. I will be like God. I will be like God. Satan was created perfect in all ways But God gave Satan, at this point at least, a free will. And he, of his own free will, decided decided to be proud. Aye, aye, aye, aye And he rebelled against the ultimate authority in existence. I'm telling you, respect for authority is a vital ingredient in mature Christian well-being, our spiritual well-being. We must respect authority. As I was studying this here, preparing for tonight, I couldn't, it kept coming to mind. I'll tell you what kept coming to mind in contrast to Satan saying, I will, I will, I will. In contrast to that, I found three passages in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, where Jesus did not say, I will, but he said, nevertheless. Thy will, not my will, but thy will. Boy, what an exact opposite Of Satan. The exact opposite mentality. Nobody had a higher regard for authority than Jesus Christ. In his interactions with others, in his interactions with the authorities. And so Respect for authority is a vital ingredient in my spiritual maturity, my spiritual well-being. Now, having said all that, And this it is, the Bible clearly teaches it. And we could list all the authorities in our lives. There's various areas where there's authorities. Government authorities are God ordained As frustrated as we get with them, they're God ordained. There's authorities in the home. God has put a hierarchy in the home of authority In the church and in various areas. Employers. Ephesians talked about the employ the the uh he doesn't use the word employer, but um masters and servants Which would equate today, I think, an application to employers and employees. So there's God has God has delegated authority to men in certain positions And having respect for that authority is very, very important, very necessary, but there's some things that does not mean All right? Respect for authority does not mean blind obedience to that authority. I can respect the position, I can respect the authority that God has delegated to certain people in certain areas. But that does not mean I must respect that I have to if I'm going to be healthy spiritually. But that does not mean I blindly obey whatever they say. It does not mean and and it doesn't mean this. It doesn't mean a blanket support for that authority. We live in a unique situation in our country where we have a say in who holds positions of authority. We have some influence there. You say, well then how comes all these knuckleheads are getting in these positions? And here's another little rabbit trail I'm going to hit here. And we got talked about this quite a bit down on our trip the other week, but I don't I don't hold those these knuckleheads that are holding these offices responsible for them being there. I hold the knuckleheads who are voting them into office for being there. And so you say, well how do we change that? I'll tell you how do you change people's worldview? How do you change people's values? How do you change people's uh perspective on the world life right and wrong. You get 'em saved And so the answer to America is oh I mean I'm over we need to go, we do, I'm diddle, we talked about all that. But when you bring it down to the rass tax, is that right? Bring it down to where um the rubber meets the root. I think it boils down to soul winning. This has nothing to do with the message, but it's just got it off my chest. So respecting authority, respecting the authorities that God has ordained does not mean I just blindly obey Him or I give them my blanket support. Take your Bible if you would, real quickly, and turn to Acts chapter four. And uh man, the authorities in place are putting the squeeze on the new Christians. Good grief. They are they are enemies of the state. The Christians are the church. Enemies of the state. Can you imagine If our community, our state, our country viewed you and I as enemies of the state. Imagine that. Now, if that was the case, and it was if that was the case for us, and that was the case for them, we are still instructed to respect authority. Regardless of what that authority's attitude is towards me, I have to respect that authority. However, I don't have to blindly obey it or blanketly endorse it. Look at verse 19 of Acts chapter 4. They're being threatened. Verse 18 is what I call Satan's great commission. They called them, the authorities, called them the disciples. And commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. That's Satan's great commission, the exact opposite of the Lord's great commission. But Peter and John answered and said, Look at this, whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Come over, if you would, to chapter 5 and verse 29. They elaborate on that a little bit. Acts chapter 5 and verse 29. Again, they're getting the squeeze put on for preaching Christ. And Peter and the other apostles answered and said, Look at this classic statement. We ought to obey what? God rather than man. Now I've got one other illustration, chapter 23. It's a little different setting than what these two were. But here the Apostle Paul is before some authorities. He's before the High priest, he's being tried for preaching Christ. It's actually a false accusation that he was brought a Gentile into the temple and stirred up trouble. Let's begin in verse 1, Acts 23 and verse 1. And Paul, earnestly beholding the counsel, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God unto this day. And the high priest, Ananias, commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth. Smack! Boy, Paul didn't that didn't set well with Paul. Then said Paul unto him, look at this. This gives you a little insight into Paul's personality. God shall smite thee, thou white wall. For sittest thou to judge me after the law and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? Old Paul had a little scrap in him, didn't he? And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest? Then said Paul, I don't care who he is, I'm going to speak my mind. Is that what Paul said? No. Why not? Because Paul respected the authority. And when he realized who it was, he said, then said Paul, I wish not, brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people. What was the basis of his respect for this man who treated him disrespectfully? What was the basis Of Paul's respect for this man who treated him disrespectfully. The office, something even more than that. Do you notice what he said? It is written. God has commanded me to respect this office. Our respect for authority Is not based upon whether that rhetoric, the one holding that position, is respectable or not, but is based upon God's word to us, God's instruction to us. Because I respect God. I will respect the authorities he has placed over me. Make sense? And so we come back to David back here. And we see this throughout scripture. We could talk about Daniel working under ungodly kings, but always respectful, never compromise, God's instructions, Shadrach B. Beshach, uh, Chadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, um, very, very respectful to their king, but they're not going to disobey God to obey the king We see this all through through scripture. So we come back to David and we see David uh speaking incredibly respectful to a man that has just thrown javelins at him, trying to kill him A man that has lied to him, a man that engaged him to his daughter, and the last minute took her away, tried to get a reaction from David Saul has not taught taught treated David respectfully in the least, but David respects him because of his respect for God, because of his respect for God. We see this characteristic of David is humility. He's a humble man, and it manifests itself in two ways here in this instance. First of all, his respect for authority, then, second of all, his rejection of pride Look again at verse 23. David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law? There's his respect for authority. Then he makes this statement. Seeing that I am a poor man and lightly esteemed, there's a rejection of any pride. Let's see if you agree with me. He could have had this attitude, hey, I'm a national hero. I deserve this. I killed the champion of the Philistines. Everybody was scared to death. Hey, the women are singing about me. I'm the top ten, the top song on the charts is about me. He doesn't have any of that. He has pushed all of that aside. That is not even a factor in his thinking. And by the way, I don't think he's saying this out of pretense. Do you ever have somebody act humbly and they're just being pretentious? Oh, I'm just nothing. You know when somebody does that, I just want to slap them, say, stop it. Don't do that. I don't slap them, but I want to. He's not being pretentious here. He's just not putting on this facade. I think he's sincere. I think this is really the way he saw himself, and we're going to see it throughout his life. I am a poor man. That phrase poor man means this. Impoverished. In great poverty. Now I don't know. I know I'm confident that when he was out on the mountainside watching the sheep, he was broke. That was the lowest position of low. Nobody said when they were growing up, I want to be it kind of reminds me when the boys were real small, the trash man always comes on Tuesday, and they were fascinated by the trash man. He'd go by, they were just captivated And so one time we asked them, what do you guys want just unrelated to that was just uh some other time we said, what do you want to be when you grow up? A trash man Great aspirations in life. Now I'm not trying to be disrespectful if you're here and you're a trash man. Praise the Lord for you. Nobody when they were a kid said, Oh, I want to be a shepherd. That was not that was not a highly regarded. So no doubt when he was there, but I don't know, I'm just thinking. He's now been head of state almost. He's held some pretty influential positions, not very long, you know, a couple days maybe a few weeks, a month or a couple months at the most, probably. But he has a little bit of income in, but he doesn't see that. He sees himself as somebody in great poverty, impoverished, and then he makes this statement, and lightly esteemed. That means to be without honor. Considered to be vile, I think it's interesting, he views himself exactly opposite of the way he viewed the office of king. He says, I am everything that a king is not. I don't deserve this. I don't deserve this, even remotely deserve to be the son-in-law of a king. Not me. David was highly honored by people of Israel, but he did not view himself highly at all. In fact, if we would go back to chapter 17, uh all the people of Israel, everybody's praising them because David killed Goliath, David delivered our nation from uh sure defeat, David is the hero. But if you go back, and we won't forsake a time, because I want to stop, if you go back to chapter 17, you notice David never viewed himself as the one that killed Goliath. David never viewed himself as the one that delivered Israel from their enemies. David's view of who killed Goliath and delivered him was who? Was God. And he still, I'm just nothing. Paul had that attitude. Paul said, I am the chief of sinners He said, I am the least of the apostles. And so this characteristic of humility displays itself two ways in David's life. Number one, tremendous respect for authority. The office, the for authority, the principle, the the authority. And then a rejection of pride. And I think it would do you and I a heap of good If we would work at developing respect for authority and number two, reject pride out of our lives. I used this before. It's a humorous event. It's a true story. It actually happened. It was the governor of Massachusetts. This was years ago. And he was campaigning, I'll give you his name, uh, Christian Herter. I think this was back in the sixties actually. I don't know when he served. Brian might know. Way back. Um but anyway, he was out campaigning. All day long. It was a Sunday and he was tired. It was getting late in the day. He was very hungry. It was scheduled to be at a church for a chicken barbecue. He's gonna shake hands and kiss babies and boy he's gonna mix it up with everybody. But he was starving. Do you ever get so hungry to the point you get a little grouchy Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just get I lived in that zone. Um and so he was at that point. He was hungry and and what I was reading about him, they said that he's generally a very cordial fellow, very gracious, very Very nice fella. So what he did was a little bit out of character. He got up there and they had a line and went down and got his plate and he got up and the lady put a piece of chicken on his plate And uh like I said, he was very, very hungry, and uh he was a little bit irritable. He was so hungry he was a little bit irritable, and he said, Man, uh I'm really hungry. I've been running all day. Could I please have another piece of chicken And she says, um, no, one piece per person And they said he doesn't never did this, but on this instance, because of the frame of mind, he said this, do you know who I am? I am the governor of Massachusetts. And without beating an eye without any hesitation, the lady said, Do you know who I am? And he said, no. She goes, I'm the lady that gives out the chicken. You get one piece. Now, she had a great responsibility. She respected authority, but she wasn't going to compromise her responsibility for authority. Now, as Christians, we have a higher authority than Washington or anywhere else, and that's God. He's instructed us to respect authority. But in humility, if that authority violates God's authority, we obey God Amen? If they come in and say, you can't preach against certain sins or you will go to jail, we say, yes, sir. And we preach against every sin the Bible tells us to preach against, and we go to jail. Right? You can't preach the gospel. Now, if it's other stuff, it's not clear, and I I I need to we don't want to we wanna be careful here. The areas that we disobey the authorities over us, the human authorities over us, must have scriptural basis. If the if the authorities pass a tax that I don't like and maybe isn't constitutional or isn't even fair I ought to pay that tax because there's nowhere in the Bible where it tells me not to do that. You follow what I'm saying? Now I'm I'm gonna squawk. I'm gonna use every influence I have to try and change that and counter it But I'm going to say, yes, sir, I'm going to pay it. That ain't right. You know it ain't right. See what I'm saying? So the only place we can violate authority is a man's authority if it violates God's clear authority Not if I just don't like it. I think the speed limit ought to be eighty-five. And it's better to obey. Wait a minute, God did say drive eighty-five. Right? Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the privilege of living in this whole planet you've placed us and the structure that you have established. And I pray you'd help us to follow David's pattern here, his model for us as being people after your heart. Help us to be humble, Lord, to humble ourselves, to live humbly. And Lord, help us to respect the authority and help us to reject pride so that you can use us to be a profound influence in this world for Christ. Help us, I pray. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need I need to get now this is between you and God, so but maybe say, I got an attitude about authority. God spoke to my heart. I need to correct that. Any like that? I just got an attitude there. God bless you. Probably most of us at some point or another would be that way. I mean some say, preacher, I I can see pride creeps in so much, pride. You'd say, pray with me, God will help me. Reject that and see myself as I am and see Christ for who he is. Anything like that, this pride thing. God bless you. Sometimes we're too proud to acknowledge it. But we need the Lord's help. Humility is the greatest virtue in the Christian life. I'm convinced of that, and it's up to us to decide whether we're that way or not. Father, you know our hearts. I ask you'd help us to humble ourselves before you, to seek your face, pray and turn from our evil ways. So you can heal our land. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James play an invitation hymn. And I don't know, maybe tonight you just want to kneel at an altar and say, God help me. Help my attitude to be what it is. Help my frame of mind, my view. Of who I am and where you've placed me. God helps us. God helps us. That's what prayer is: seeking the Lord for his help and his leadership. Oh, Pea Now, Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for David's great testimony. In Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated.