I can honestly say this. I've always in my preaching, I have never sought to please or pacify any person, anybody in the crowd with what I'm preaching I never sought that. I don't seek man's approval upon my preaching. I don't seek man's praise in my preaching My main concern, my single concern is number one, I be true to the Word of God, and number two, I please the Lord with my preaching. And so uh somebody sent me a text, oh it's been a week or so ago, they thanked me for a message and they said, Appreciate a preacher that preaches the Bible. Now I'm grateful for a thing. I don't look for that. I'm not that's not what I do, but I'm grateful And uh he said, I'm grateful for a pastor that preaches the Bible. And I wrote text back and I said, well, actually all preachers ought to do that. And he texts back, but they don't all do that, and I text back to him, then they should be fired. They don't preach the Bible. And so um it's it's not preaching is never done for man's applause or man's approval. It is for god it's true to the Word of God and it's for God's approval And whenever I'm preaching, and I know sometimes I'll speculate in our preaching here, and I try very, very hard to point out that this is my speculation. This isn't the word of God, this is my speculation, or if I give my opinion on something. I always try to point out this is my opinion on it. And um and uh so uh I just I just want to clarify that that our preaching is not Our preaching is want to be true to the Word of God and please the Lord in all we do. So with that in mind, let's look at verse number one of 2 Samuel chapter 11. It says, and it came to pass after the year was expired, at the time when the kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him in all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabba. Now that next phrase I underscored in my Bible because I think it's significant in understanding what's about to take place. But David carried still at Jerusalem. Now we already preached on that. We already talked about that. David stayed back. The word tarry means to lounge around and be idle. Verse 2, and it came to pass in the evening tide, in an evening tide, that David arose from off his bed And walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba the daughter of Eliam? The wife of Uriah the Hittite? I underlined that phrase right there. And David sent messengers and took her. And she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned to her house, unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with child. We're talking about David's darkest hour. And we started on this a couple weeks ago. I'm going to spend a little time going down through, breaking this down, because I think it is so significant. And there are so many lessons here for us. And so David's darkest hour. Verse 1 was the introduction to David's darkest hour. Verse 2 down through verse 5 is the inception. Or other words, what took place to get David to this point in his life. Where he is a father of a child with a woman who's another man's wife. And so let's pray, and uh we'll briefly review, and then I want to look at our second thought this evening. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening. I thank you for the word of God. I thank you, Lord, for these Old Testament accounts of these men and women, their successes, their failures. Lord, how you worked in their lives and just the lessons we can learn from them. I thank you for recording and preserving them for us, Lord. I ask you would help us learn from these now, and we need your Holy Spirit to do that. We need your Holy Spirit to take these events and then apply the principles from them and the lessons from them to our lives so we can avoid disaster. We can avoid these dark hours. And so, Lord, with all my heart, I ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit. I yield my will. I present my body anew. And pray again tonight in this hour you would speak through me, Lord, and help us in Jesus' name we pray. Amen We made a statement last week as we introduced the message that you cannot, you can never satisfy sin. The more you indulge in sin, the more inflamed it becomes. Remember us making that statement. It's never satisfied. Well, if I just give in to this sin, then it won't be an issue anymore. I'll just satisfy and it never happens that way. It just becomes, it just incites it into greater desire, makes it stronger. We see that in David's life. God had put into place a very important safeguard for the kings of Israel. Among others, the one safeguard was they were not to multiply to themselves wives. David disregard that safeguard. David disregard that guardrail, so to speak, that God had put in place to protect him from what happens right here. Um he began when he became king, actually leading up to his time after he was anointed to be king by Samuel. And he got out and he began taking wives, first Michael, which was legitimate. It was under difficult circumstances, but it was legit. Then he added more, then he added more, then he added more. And here's the thing These multiple wives never satisfied David's sinful passion. And my suggestion is it inflamed it. And inflamed it. And we see it even more so with his son Solomon then later on. And so sin can never be satisfied by indulging it. It only inflames it, encourages it, and strengthens it. And so here we have David who commits adultery. And adultery, and again, another statement we made before, and I want to make it again: adultery never happens by accident. There are decisions made. There are actions taken. There are warnings that are ignored. And so David makes a series of decisions. I see three in our text here. I see three decisions that David makes that lead him down this road to his darkest hour. And that's what we're looking at. We began last week. We noted the first decision he made in verse number two is that he David gave attention to something he should not have given his attention to. Remember we talked about that? He gave his attention to something he should not have given his attention to. Look there in verse 2, and again, just quickly review. It says, and from the house in the middle of verse 2, he's from the house, from and from the roof, I should say He saw a woman washing herself. The woman was very beautiful to look upon. That word saw, if you remember, we said means to gaze at, to inspect very closely. It wasn't just a glancing uh uh observation. He saw it, he stopped, he looked at it. Dr. Tom Malone used to say years ago, I heard him say a number of times in various meetings, he used to say this along this type of subject He said you can't keep a bird from flying over your head, but you can keep it from making a nest in your hair. You get the point, right? Now some of us that uh that illustration does not apply to. But what the po what he's saying is, listen, we can't help sometimes from seeing something or have a thought go through our mind, but we sure enough can stop and not let it take over. We can keep it from taking place. So David gave some pretty intense attention to something he ought not to have given his attention to. We said the first thing we considered was David's bearings, or in other words, the position he put himself in. Now again, speculation. I don't know if he knew what would happen of the evenings with Bathsheba bathing herself on previous occasions. We're not told, but we are told He was up there in a place where he could see her in at the very best a very immodest condition And he had himself in that situation. And you and I can put ourselves in situations where we become very, very vulnerable to sin. Everybody follow me, everybody with me tonight? We can become put ourselves in situations. Listen Uh if uh if we have a problem with uh uh liquor, then we ought to avoid the liquor store Uh if we have a problem with uh um uh uh watching bad shows, we ought to uh we ought to avoid cable TV and stuff like that. Right? You follow my saying? And so David put himself in a bad situation. But then we also noted David's focus. In other words, he was looking at Bathsheba. She was bathing. She was beautiful. And um and uh he ought not to have given his attention to where he gave his attention to. Now, I brought a subject up last week that I promised That if you come back tonight, I will address that subject. Anyone remember what it was? Wow, I'm amazed. Was Bathsheba complicit? In this event. Now I'm jumping way ahead. I should have saved this for the end of the little series we're going through here, but um but I said I would last week, and I got thinking, and I've been studying this And I'll be very honest with you. I'll give you my opinion. I've read this at least 40 times. I know more than that. At least 40 times in my Christian life. I've read this passage. And I always had a preconceived idea of how this took place. Here is my thinking. It takes two to tango. Right? Anybody ever hear that? Takes two to tango. And my thinking was, without really giving a lot of in-depth study and paying a whole close attention to it, my thinking was, in fact I engaged in conversation with people of this over the years. And our thinking was, listen, David's held responsible, but you know, Bathsheba plays a role in this. That was my thinking for years. And then I started studying this For the message is for this series we're doing on the life of David. And I've done a complete 180 in my thinking on that. I did a complete 180. Now let me show you what I think took place here. Now this doesn't have a lot of practical application to, so to speak, but maybe it helps us grasp what's taking place here and why God responded in the way he did in some ways. Was ba was Bathsheba complicit in the uh David's adultery with her. Well, let's look at a few things. And again, I'm jumping ahead. I should have saved this a little later on, but let's go ahead and look at it. Come down to verse number four So David David sees her, verse 2. She's very beautiful. She's bathing. He sees her. He's uh uh his uh desire is um is ignited. Verse 3, he sent and inquired after her. And now you get down to verse 4. And notice it says David sent, what's that next word? Messengers. Plural or singular? So he's sending at least two. Maybe more messengers who no doubt were men, probably, we're not told. But he's sending a number of men, a number of folks down here to get her and bring her back up to him Now, this is my first, this is the first thing that started me making me rethink whether she was complicit in this or not. If she was eager, if she was part of this, if she was complicit in this, why would he have to send a number of people to go down and get her? If she was willing and willing to participate in this, why would he send that? Then we come to another word. You look go on, and it says, and he took her. And like I always do, I looked up the word tuk. I wanted to study the word it came from. I looked how it's used in other places in the Bible, which is very significant in this case. And the word take there means, it's translated sometimes, to capture. The word take there means to lay hold of or seize. In one case, it has this idea to take possessions of. So he sends multiple people down. To take her, to seize her, to take possession of her. I don't know about you, but my I changed completely changed my thinking when I especially when I got to that word He's gone down there to take her. It doesn't sound like she is volunteering herself to come up there. It sounds like she is being coerced. To come up and engage in this activity. And there's more to it there. Notice in verse number four It says David sent messengers, plural, so he sends several down. It's not like they're having a rendezvous here. He took her, seized her, took possession of, carried her away is another definition. And she came in unto him. And then again, the wording here maybe isn't That explicit, but it says he lay with her. That sounds to me like he's taking the initiative on this And then come down to verse 4. Look at the end of it after this event takes place. End of verse 4. And she returned to her house as soon as this was over. As soon as the deed was done, she gets up and she's out of there. She gets up and she goes home. Does that sound to you like somebody that's complicit in this? That somebody is in on this It sounds like somebody that doesn't have a whole lot of choice in this matter to me. Let's go on. Look down at verse 26. Come down to the end of the chapter, just about the end of the chapter. Verse 26. And when the white now David, you know the story, David has Uriah murdered, really, on the battlefield. He's killed, but it was murder. It was deliberate. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, what did she do? She mourned for her husband. Let me ask you a question. Do you think David mourned for Uriah's death? No, he's the one that caused it. He was behind the whole thing. Doesn't sound like me like uh Bathsheba was really in on bumping her husband off so that she could have David Again, it just you put these things together and I changed my position on this. Um then up here in verse number 27, look at the very last phrase, the very last statement. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. Bathsheba is not mentioned there. Then you come down to verse number 12. Nathan approaches David as a significant amount of time later. Finally, Nathan comes, approaches David about it. David had hidden it for about a year Nathan comes up and he tells this little parable, he tells this little story about a rich man, and we'll preach on this later on, but I want to tell you why I came to the conclusion I did Verse 2, he says, This rich man had exceeding many flocks. Now, who would that be in his application to David's situation? A rich man has all kinds of flocks. Who would that be? That'd be David. He has all these wives. Then verse 2, but the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb. Now who would the poor man be in this allegory? Uriah. And he has one wife. And notice how Nathan describes Bathsheba here. She is a one little ew lamb. Now, I don't know about you, and again, this may be something I'm reading more into it than what's really there. But to me, a little you lamb sounds pretty innocent. Sounds pretty vulnerable. Pretty vulnerable. And look what he says as he goes on. He's using this allegory to confront David and bring conviction to David. And it says, uh But the poor man had nothing save one little eulamb, which he brought and nourished up, and grew and it grew up together with him and with his children. It did eat of his meat and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, was one to him as a daughter. So he loves this little ew lamb dearly. It's dear to him. And there came a traveler unto the rich man. Now that traveler, again, we'll talk about this later. The traveler is the desire of David. David has this desire inflamed. He became a traveler to the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock. David could have had his desires fulfilled. He spared a take of his own flock and of his own herd the dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. Now look at this. But what took the poor man's lamb He took it. And David's anger was great. Now come down to verse 7. And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Who was held responsible for this whole travesty? David was held responsible for it. David was held responsible. So, this again, there's not a whole lot of personal application here, but I found it interesting as I studied this that I had never really looked at it that closely and just made an assumption and made a assumption, well it takes two to tango. Well, I think in this case here, now that raises another question, and I'll get back to my message here in a minute, but that raises another question. Did David rape Bathsheba? Hmm, that's pretty strong, isn't it? To rape someone. I'm not prepared to say that David raped Bathsheba. I'm not prepared to say that. And one of the reasons is this, because in the Bible, when a man did rape a woman, the Bible expresses it pretty clearly. For instance, in chapter 13, which we're going to get to here in probably six years at the rate we're going, uh in chapter 13 Annon, David's son, gets a lusting after his ancestor, Tamar. Oh, he's vexed, he doesn't know what to do, he knows this is wrong, and da-da-da, and he has this friend Uh Amnon had a friend, um, help me his name, Jonadab. Had this friend, so-called. It was actually his cousin. Uh who's Amnon uh was the boy, was the son, he had a friend, I think it's Jonadab. Looks like the missionary would know the answer to that one if he's gonna start a church, but uh By the way, I wanted to recognize Brother Ward and Mr. Ward are here tonight. Praise the Lord. But uh anyway, uh anyway, so he gives him advice. Well, you're the kings, and he told him how to trick Tamar into getting in his bedroom And he rapes her. He does. And the Bible uses the word he was stronger than her and he forced himself on her. The Bible doesn't say anywhere that David forced himself on Bathsheba. And so if she's not complicit, and you say, preacher, you say he didn't rape her, then what in the world happened? Here's what I think. This is my conclusion. And for whatever it's worth. I think Bathsheba was very vulnerable. The king was highly loved, highly admired, highly respected. She may have been in with the crowd of women singing his praises many years before when he would come in from the battlefields. We don't know. Whatever the case was, David was highly revered, highly loved by the people. He was highly respected. So in that case, she was a bit vulnerable when someone knocks on her door and says, the king wants you. Now maybe she put two and two together, we're not told. But what's she going to say? There's multiple people there, and they come, and I'm no doubt in my mind, they made it very, very clear she's coming with them There's no other option. And so Bashita is very vulnerable. I think she had no choice, perhaps. Now she could have kicked and screamed and made a scene. She could have But realistically, I think she saw no other option but to cooperate and comply with David's demands And then once she's there, there's and maybe she didn't know until she got there. Who knows? But I know this, once she was there, there's there's no turning back. What's she gonna do? What she's going to do. So I'm not prepared to say that David raped her, but I'm not prepared to say but I can't say Bathsheba was complicit in this. I think she is a victim, in the real sense of the word, in all of this. Right. So she'd be very vulnerable there. So anyway, so that's my position. And you say, well, praise the Lord, we settled that. All right And by the way, if you go get some commentaries, good commentaries, they're gonna say uh things other than mine, but um I think they're wrong. And um And there's some commentaries that agree with me not as thoroughly. I I found more stuff than what the commentary said, but um and the ones that agree with me are right. Alright, so let's get back to what how this applies to us. Number one, David gave attention to something he should not have given attention to. We can see that. We can agree on that. Number two, second major decision, deadly decision David made. He desired something he should not have desired. He desired something he should not have desired. There are some things in life and in the world that we have no business desiring after. And David got a desire here. Now look at look at come back here, verse 11, look at back in verse number three. And David sent, he sent, first he saw her, stirred up his desire. Now he sent and he inquired after the woman That word inquire there means to investigate or ask very diligently about whether he saw her. Something he gave attention to, he should not have been given attention to, and he comes back and he starts asking questions, who is this cow that's down there? What about this? And he starts asking all these questions. He starts inquiring. His desire was ignited. Now, on Sunday night, Brother Ward referenced a verse. that uh that applies here from Lamentations chapter 3, and I think it's verse 51. It says this. Jeremiah says, mine eye Affecteth my what? My heart. Mine eye affecteth my heart. And this is the thought behind that. This is the idea behind that. The lesson behind that is what we look at will affect. What we desire. What we desire. What would be a lady's version of Cabela's? Hobby Lobby there. Or Macy's was I was thinking. Macy's something. Uh ladies Did you ever go into Hobby Lobby and you're completely satisfied with everything you had and everything you had, no needs or wants in the world, and you walked in there and by the time you're in 20 minutes, oh I need this And I need that and I want this. Can I get it? Come on now. Be wit be be honest. I never even knew the thing existed a half hour ago and now I want it so bad I have to have it. Now guys can go into Cabela's, that doesn't happen n at all. You know, in and I go into Walmart and see stuff I never even thought of it. Oh, I need to have that. You know why? Because my eye Affects my heart, and my heart is the root of my desires. It's where my volition is, it's where my will comes from. David's in a position where he ought not to have been in, and he's given attention to something he ought not to be given attention to, and it affected his heart. And now there's a desire for something that perhaps hadn't been there before. Mine eye affecteth my heart. The heart is the seat of our emotions. It's the seat of our desire. What we give attention to has a powerful effect on what we desire. What we give attention to has a powerful effect on what we desire. Does anybody notice we're living in a very visual age? We're in the last days. I think we're in the last days of the last days, my opinion. And everything is visual. Everything is visual. You can't drive down the road without some sort of screen, electronic screen billboard, even here in Oakland. I mean it's everywhere. We carry little visual screens in our pockets. They're at our desks. They're in our living room. Some cases there are there's a screen in the in the bedroom. In the study I have a computer screen. We have them in churches now. Everything is visual, visual, visual. You know why I think part of that is, you know what I think part of that is? Satan knows that our eyes affect our hearts. And he can get us driving down the road as innocent be and some immoral visual thing comes out and boom that can spark a desire in our heart. Am I right or wrong? That's one of the reasons I keep those screens to a very limited use in our church. Anyone notice that? I don't want to put verses up on there. I want us to look in our Bibles. We're not going to use that for announcements. We're going to have a person stand here and make the announcements. In person, live. Amen? I'm telling you, that's my approach. I don't use it for preaching, illustrations up on preaching, because I want people's focus and attention to be on the person. And so our eye affects our heart. Now I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that in and of itself, but I just that's just my my weird policy. Take your Bible if you would and turn with me to Proverbs chapter number eighteen. David gave his attention to something he should not have been given his attention to, and as a result of that, he started desiring something he had no business desiring. And I'm suggesting to you it was the result of his seeing, his visual, his gazing at, is what the word saw there means, affected his heart. Now he has an unholy desire. Look at Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 1. Now I've underscored this, I memorized this years ago back in Bible college. Proverbs 18:1, through what's the next word? Desire. A man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom. You get what he's saying here? He's saying an uncontrolled desire. will separate a man from wisdom. What is it if I'm if I don't have wisdom, what am I? I'm fool. I'm a fool. And what this verse is telling us, what God is telling us here is if we don't control our desires, we'll end up making a fool out of ourselves. Through desire, a man having separated himself. I put a few statements down about that verse. Number one, to be wise, I must control my desires. I must control my desires. If I'm going to be foolish, then I let my desires control me. I control you say, well, preacher, how do you control your desires? How do you keep these desires under control? By the way, Proverbs 4, 21, I think, says, keep thine heart with all diligence. The word keep there means to imprison, restrain, hold back. The idea isn't keep uh keep sinful things from coming into your heart, although that would apply to that. What it's saying is don't let your heart have its way. Don't let your heart pursue itself. Don't let your desires control you. You keep that under reign. You keep that held back. You keep that insecure. Did you ever hear somebody say, well, just follow your heart? Anybody ever hear that statement? That is terrible advice. He that trusteth in his own heart, the Bible says, is a fool. A heart is the seat of our desires. In other words, what we're being told here is, and I think the object lesson from David is what he observed, the attention he gave himself to uh in uh caused desires to have that he ought not to have had. How do I control my desires? Can I suggest part of it is being careful what I give attention to? My thinking when uh years ago and raising the boys, my thinking was if they don't know exists, they won't be tempted by it. Paul told the church at Corinth, he told them, be simple concerning the things which are evil I think there's a real danger in getting out there and knowing everything the world's doing and everything happening, all of that. Man, I want to be simple concerning that which is evil, and I want to be wise And educated and knowledgeable about that which is holy and true and right and good. You say, preacher, are you saying we should shelter ourselves? Yeah So David gave his, he desired something he shouldn't have desired, and that was a result of giving his attention to something he should not have given his attention to. Not even David, a man after God's own heart, could control his desires after giving attention to something he should not have given attention to. Now I know I'm hounding this, but I think this is so important. Come back to the book of James with me, would you? Real quickly, go to James chapter number one. James addresses this very issue that David is making these foolish decisions. Through desire, he's separating himself from the blessing and will of God. And he's not being wise. He's behaving very foolishly. Look at James chapter 1, and come with me if you would to verse number 14. Now think about David's situation that we're studying here and what's being said here. Every man, verse 14, James 1, every man is tempted When he is, look at this, drawn away of his own lusts. Now, what's another word for lust? Desire. Desire. And notice it says every man is tempted when he is drawn away. Something has caught his attention. Something has caught his attention and it is drawing him away. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own desires, and now his desire is going to it Number of years ago I preached the message on build the wall. It had nothing to do with Mexico It had to do with putting up barriers between our heart and things that tempt us to do wrong. They're called standards, convictions, precautions. Because what we give our attention to is going to affect our desires. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Can you see David up on the roof? He's drawn away his own lust. Now he's enticed. Every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust. And enticed, lured, or baited is what that means. And when lust hath been saved, it bringeth forth sin. Man, you can see that in David. Boom, boom, boom. The desire that attention ignited. David is separating himself from wisdom Now one last thing I want us to notice here. Well actually two last things. Actually 13 last things. No. Two real quick thoughts here before we go. Come back here to Samuel, if you would, 2 Samuel. 11. There's something else I noticed. Now there's a third step. There's a third decision David made. One was he gave his attention to something ought not to give his attention to, which produced A desire he had that he ought not to have had. And then later and then later we'll notice next week some actions he took that he ought not to have taken. But what I want us to notice, what stood out to me in studying this, is this, the progressive nature of sin. Did you catch that? The progress, one foolish thing, one careless uh um action One sinful deed, pay giving attention to something I ought not to give attention to, led to a more serious one. Now I'm desiring something I ought not to desire. Which led to a more serious thing, actually getting in bed with this woman. The progressive nature of sin. If you would, keep your place here in Samuel. Go to Psalms chapter 19 Ironically, a chapter written by David. Now I'll be honest with you, I can't tell you off the top of my head if it was written before this event or after. My suspect is without do I haven't done research on it, but my s suspicion is it was written before this, maybe. But I don't know, I can't say off the top of my head. Psalm nineteen, look with me if you would at verse twelve. Who then can understand his errors? He's talking about previous verses. But then he makes this statement Cleanse thou me from now talk to me, cleanse thou me from what? Secret faults. Then come down to verse thirteen. Keep back thy servant also from talk to me, what's the next two? Presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me, then I shall then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the what's the next one? See the see the progression Secret faults in my heart and mind. Nobody knows about it. It's just me. This is this unholy attention. And then from the secret faults, it goes to the presumptuous sins where I'm acting on what those sinful things were. And then it's the great transgression. That's where I've crossed the line and it can't be undone. Can't be undone. The progression here. The progression here. Secret thoughts are those private thoughts in our mind, those private desires of the heart, that sinful attention. That maybe nobody else knows about it, and my spouse might know about it, the family might not know about it, friends and neighbors don't know about it. It's a secret fault and desire, a secret attention. By the way, this is the time to deal with sin when it's secret and quiet in the heart. David said, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in thy sight. You know what he's saying? He's asking, God, protect me from these secret faults. Protect me from these private desires and these private attention that I have. This is the time and place to deal with temptation and sin. The problem was when David had this secret thought, he saw her. At that point, nobody else in the world besides God knew anything about this. That was the time to deal with it. Now it's easy for us to look back and make all this judgment, make all these suggestions, but I my suggestion is at that point when he when he saw her and then that secret fault The best thing to do right then would be go get alone with God, get on my knees and say, God, that was sinned. I shouldn't have looked at that like that. But he did. He let it go. And it turned into a presumptuous sin. A presumptuous sin in verse 13 there is sin that starts controlling my behavior. The word presumptuous there has part of its meaning is arrogant. And I think the idea is this: that sinful desire that's been stirred up by the wrong attention now is getting arrogant. And that sinful desire is starting to take over and affect my behavior. We see it with David. Secret fault? He saw, he looked. Presumptuous sin. Hey guys, go down there and get her. That desire has taken over, it's become presumptuous. David's inquiry into Bathsheba was his presumptuous sin. By the way, the presumptuous sins are much more difficult to deal with than the secret faults Once you get to that point where we're taking action to engage in this sin, whatever it may be, in this case adultery can be anything, once I start taking start acting on it Well, then it's hard to put the brakes on. It's not impossible, but it's tough. The time to deal with sin is when it's a secret fault, when it start first shows its ugly head. And then you get to the great transaction. And that is what James says, and lust, when it hath conceived, bringeth forth sin. That's the great transaction. Sinful desire has been conceived. The deed is done. The line has been crossed. And see that with David when he took her. He took her. So, the progression of David's sin here. Now, there's one other thing I will notice here that I want to bring out. Verse 3, David sent and inquired after the woman. And one s now look at this. Everybody still with me? Everybody doing alright? Alright, I can't tell you. Some of y'all have blank looks on your eyes there. Now look, this is important. I think this is very, very helpful. And David sent and inquired after the woman, verse 3. Now look at this. God injects this next event that took place a little, maybe just on the surface, doesn't appear very significant, but I'm suggesting to you it's very significant. And David sent and inquired after the woman. Look at this. And one said, somebody spoke up. Somebody now this is Leatherman version here, alright? Wait a minute, David. I think this one it says, and one said, whoever this one was They saw what was going on here. They saw what was happening. And they said, David, is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife? Of Uriah the Hittite. You know what they were saying? They were saying, David, this is another man's wife. In so many words, they're saying, David, don't do this. David, don't do this. First Corinthians ten thirteen says, There is no temptation taken man but such as is common to man. David's temptation in this It's common, just like all temptations are. But God is faithful and will not suffer us to be tempted above that we are able, but will with the temptation, what? What's it say? Provide a way of escape. Make a way of escape. You know what I think this is? This is David's escape God had somebody there that was willing to speak up and say, wait a minute, this is Uriah's wife, David! You know what David could have done? Say, oh, good heavens, you're right. Forget it. And he could have saved himself from that awful deed. But he disregarded it. And here's my suggestion. Based on 1 Corinthians 10, 13, I want to suggest to you that whenever we're tempted, whenever temptation comes, God always provides a way for us to get out of that. Because if we could not bear, if we could not resist that temptation, if we had no choice and no power but to give in to that temptation, God would not suffer us to be tempted in it. Following what I'm saying? So there's a bit of encouragement in temptation. Say, preacher, what are you talking about? Encouraged by temptation? What I'm saying is this. If I'm being tempted in an area, then I know for sure that I can have victory over it. I don't have to give in, because if I had no power, no choice but to give in to it, then God wouldn't let me be tempted in that area. He promised me he wouldn't You follow my thinking? So somebody comes to me and says, Preacher, I just get so tempted. I have no choice. It empowers me. I have no willpower. I can't give into it. I said, well then if that's true, then God's a liar Because God said there's no temptation taking you, but such as come I am, God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted above what you're able. But will with the temptation make a way of escape. I think this is David's way of escape. And by the way, thank God for people in our lives that are willing to speak up and say, wait a minute. Thank God for that. And sometimes it's no one else but the Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit. And so God makes a way of escape. God makes a way of escape. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you would help us. We live in a sinful world, we have sinful hearts. It is a spiritual battle from day one till the day we go home to heaven. David, a man of his caliber that could fail in this area, Lord, how much more do we need to be careful? Not just in this particular sin, but across the board. So we need your Holy Spirit to help us. Lord, we need good Christian brothers and sisters that are willing to step up and say, hey, wait a minute, wait a minute. Lord, I think that's the role the church has, maybe a Sunday morning sermon or whatever would be. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Wonder with their heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if folks would anybody here have seen who would say, Preacher, now this is private, and we're all in the same boat, all right? So we have no room to make any judgment on anyone else. Good heavens But I wonder if someone would say, preacher, you know, I do face temptation, but it's encouraging to know that God can and will Keep me from being tempted more than I'm able to, and he'll help me have victory over it. Is there any anybody like this, preacher? That's encouraging to me. Yeah, praise the Lord. We need to heed that, we need to pay attention to that and respond to it, but thank God God's on our side. God's pulling for us, He's helping us, He's making roads for us to avoid disaster. But we just have to trust them. We have to respond to that. And the longer we go down that road, the wrong road, the harder it is to turn around. Father, please bless us and please help us in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are about eyes are closed