Uh the uh insurrection by David's son Absalom. Of course you re you remember we've been looking at this uh Absalom won the hearts of the people of Israel over to himself. He undercut David as he would sit at the gates of the city and businessmen and and um uh representatives from other countries and other cities would come and go. He'd engage them and uh he'd make these promises, a classic politician, make these promises and win them over, and convince the majority of the Israelites That he would be much better for them than King David, who, uh, by the way, was the anointed of God, God's chosen king. And so he undercut David's support among the people, and uh raised up against David. Of course, David, rather than fight, David fled the city. And we gave a number of reasons why we believe He uh would not fight his son in the city there. And so he's leaving the city. And in verse number 24 is where we're picking up. There's a number of people that joined themselves with David Of course the majority turned against him, but quite a few s uh stuck with David even to the point where they were willing to, in one night's notice, I mean with within twenty-four-hour period of time They're leaving their jobs, they're le abandoning their homes, packing up what they can, throwing them on, beasts of burdens, and they're going out of the city with David fleeing out into the wilderness. They don't know where they're going They don't know where they're spending the night that night. They're going to set up tents somewhere. And uh it's it's quite a it's quite a dedication on the part of the people in their um support for David And so that's where we're picking up here, verse 24. Notice some things I want us to notice about David. And verse 24. And Lozadok also And all the Levites were with him, bearing the Ark of the Covenant of God, and they set down the Ark of God, and Abiathar went Up until all the people had done passing out of the city. And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the city. If I shall find favour in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me again, and show me both it and this his habitation. But if he thus say, I have no delight in thee, behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good unto him. And King said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thou a seer? Return unto the city in the peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimenez, thy son, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathor. And see, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness until there come word from you to certify me. Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem, and they tarried there David went up by the ascent of Mount Olivet and wept as he went, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot, and all the people that was with him covered every man his head, and they went up weeping as they went And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. And it came to pass that when David was come to the top of the mount, where he worshipped God, behold, Hushei the Architect came to meet him with his coat rent and earth upon his head. Unto whom David said, If thou passest on with me, then thou shalt be a burden unto me. But if thou return to the city and say to Absalom, I will be thy servant, O king As I have been with thy father's servant hitherto, so will I now also be thy servant, then thou mayest for me defeat the counsel of Ahithophel As thou the uh and hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathor the priests? Therefore it shall be that whatsoever thing what the what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house Thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathor the priests. Behold, they have uh they have there with them their two sons, Ahimenez Zadok's son, Jonathan, Abiathar's son, and by them ye shall send unto me everything that ye can hear. So Hushei, David's friend Came into the city, and Absalom came unto Jerusalem. Talking about David yielded to the Lord here as he's driven out of the city. We started this last week. We'll pick it up. Finish this section here. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would bless this stu our study of this passage. Pray we could learn what it means to be yielded to the will of God, every one of us in our own lives In our own particular circumstances, I ask Holy Spirit that you would meet with us tonight. And, Lord, I yield my will to you, present my body anew. I pray with all my heart you'd fill me with your Spirit and you would speak through me. Help us to be wise in decisions we make, and maybe some truths given tonight would help us in that matter. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Got the amens back there, praise the Lord. I put down, if you remember, last week I mentioned just quickly some characteristics of a m spiritually mature person We all might have our own ideas. Somebody asks you, what would a mature person, a mature Christian, what would they be like? What would be some characteristics of them? I gave a few. I just want to briefly mention these again, just to kind of lay the groundwork for us here. One thing I put down is that a mature Christian would love God and would love others God is love. The first and great commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. And thy nay and the second is like unto it, love thy neighbour as thyself So Jesus told us the greatest commandment is to love God. So it seems to me that if someone is mature in their faith and they're grown up spiritually, they would love God Second one I put down was this, they would have some biblical discernment. Mature Christian can tell the difference between what is right and what is wrong. I'm curious, just quickly, how many folks here when you first got saved There were some things you thought, well, I don't see anything wrong with that. But as you grew as a Christian and as you developed in your faith and your understanding of the Bible, you look back and you say, you know Maybe that isn't as innocent as I originally thought. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure, I've got things in my life. And so as we grow, we and we learn the Bible and we develop our faith, our understanding of God and the Christian life, a lot of times we'll develop our discernment We're able to discern the difference between things that are helpful and healthy spiritually and things that are hurtful and not healthy spiritually. So mature Spiritually mature is has biblical discernment. Uh sp a spiritual mature person uh I put down is patient. How many people got some growing to do in that area there? Yeah, I was talking to somebody today and they were asking prayer. So I've said, I'll pray for this. I said I'm also going to pray that God gives you patience. And they text back and they said, oh no Said, I've prayed for that once before. It's the worst time of my life. And so sometimes God has to put us through some rough seas to teach us patience. But it's good for us. So patient. If someone can be patient, that's an indicator that their spirits will mature. Disciplined and faithful. They take responsibility. seriously. And um they they fulfill their responsibilities. They're where they're supposed to be, doing what they're supposed to do, the way it's supposed to be done. I put down they have strong faith in God, a mature person, a mature Christian. And then all that to said to lead to this: a spiritually mature person is a person who is submissive to the will of God. And that is a key in the Christian life. If you and I, I'm going somewhere with this, but if you and I can learn to be submissive to God's will. We are coming along in our walk with God, in our development as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we mentioned several people in the Bible and how they express that. John the Baptist He said he must increase, but I must what decrease. He is growing. Has to be more about Christ's will, not my will. Uh uh Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. He was saying this, listen, it's not about getting my way, it's about the Lord's will being done. And we can when we can get to the point where it's not my will, but thy will, and that's our attitude, that's our desire, brother, we are growing as a Christian. And I see that in King David here And a statement he makes about five, six verses into our passage. And so David is displaying some spiritual maturity here. We mentioned last week we started off with the first point of my message was David was submissive to the Lord. If you would, look at verse 24. there of chapter 15. He says, Zadak also and the Levites were with him, bearing the Ark of the Covenant of God. They set down the ark of God, Abiathar. went up until all the people had done passing out of the city. King said unto Zadot, Carry back the ark of God into the city. I shall f Now listen to what he's saying here, speaking of the Lord. If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, He will bring me again. He'll bring me back into the city. And um and show me both it and his habitation. If God shows me favor, remember we said that's the same word as grace. If God in his grace, if it's his will that he'd have me come back and continue as king and live in the palace there, what it is, if that's the case, God will do that. And then look at the next statement But if he, the Lord, doth say, I have no delight in thee, behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good unto him. Abiathar and Zadok brought the ark out. They were kind of treating it like a good luck charm. David said, You take it back. That ark isn't mine. I have no claim on that. That's the Lord's. It belongs in the tabernacle He says, you guys go back on there, take that thing back there. And David says this in verse number 26 there. That touches my heart. To hear David the king of Israel, and he says, if God is not pleased with me, if God's done with me, then he can do whatever he wants. I wonder how many of us have ever gotten to the point in our life where we say this, Lord, My life is totally in your hands. If you wish, if you're done with me and you're done, I'm completely submitted to that. Lord, if you have more for me, I'm completely submitted to that. David is expressing 100% total submission to the Lord. He's saying in so many words, my life is not my own. I'm no longer my own. I'm the Lord's. Whatever he chooses to do, I'm okay with that. Brother, what a great place to be. What a tremendous uh attitude to have as a Christian. David is displaying uh some tremendous uh spiritual maturity here. And so he sends these two guys back. He says, you know, whatever the Lord has He submitted to the grace of God. If he shows me favor and lets me go back, praise the Lord. To him be glory. If he chooses, he's done with me. I know whatever he does is good Notice what he says there. Let him do unto me as seemeth good unto him. If he's done with me and my son kills me, and my life is over, God is good, I trust him. And total submission on the part of David. So number one, first thought we looked at last week was David was submissive to the Lord. I want to pick up in verse 27, 28, and 29. I notice this Not only was he submissive to the Lord, but David was strategic in his planning. Now this may seem a little contradictory, but I think you'll see what's going on here. Look at verse number 27, if you would. The king said also, now he's sending these guys back with the ark. The king said also unto Zadek the priest. Art not thou a seer? Now what's another term for seer? We said this last week. Prophet. He says, you're a prophet of God. You're a spokesman for God. Art thou not also a seer? I can see David, the wheels in his mind turning. He's thinking. Return to the city in peace, you and your two sons with you, Ahimenez, thy son, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathor. See, I will tarry out in the plain of the wilderness until there come word from you to certify me Zadok, therefore, and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem, and they tarried there. They didn't put the ark and then come back out to David. David said, You guys take the ark back, and then you stay there You hang out there, you stick around. Look over with me, if you would, at verse 32. He says, And it came to pass that when David was come to the top of the mount where he worshipped God Behold Hushai the Arkite came to meet him with his coat rent and earth upon his head. Unto whom David said, If thou passeth on with me, then thou shalt be a burden unto me But if thou return to the city, now this is the second, the first two guys, and now Hushai, he's sending him back to the city. Notice what he tells them to do. If thou return to the city, verse 34, and say to Absalom, I'll be thy servant, O king, as I have been with thy, as I have been thy father's servant hitherto, so will I now also be thy servant. Huh, that's kind of interesting. Zadak, Abiathar, you two priests, you guys go back and you stay hang around the temple there. Keep your eyes and ears open. Hushai, David's friend, he sends him back, you're a counselor. You go back, you were one of my counselors. Go back there and you tell Absalom you'll be his assistant, you'll be his counselor just like you were mine. What's David doing? He's planting what? Spies. I think we touched on this a little bit last week. He's planting moles. They are in Absalom's administration. And one of Absalom's going to end up being one of his top advisors, is actually loyal to David. And these two priests are going to be um uh what do they call them? They're gonna take a message from Hushai, who's in s who's in the inner circle, he's going to bring out information, give it to the two priests, they're going to send their boys. out of the city out to where David is and keep David in the know. Give David information what's going on. Here David is being very, very strategic In what he's doing. Now he submitted to the Lord. Lord, you know, if you bring me back, praise the Lord. If not, I'm good with that. Whatever you do, Lord, is good. But I'm going to put a couple guys up there to keep their eyes and ears open and give me any information that may be helpful. I put this down. Being submissive to God does not equal being stupid. I put it another way. Having faith is not the same thing as being foolish. How many people understand there's a difference between having faith in God and acting foolishly? Now, sometimes it's hard to distinguish the two. Sometimes having faith in God in some people's eyes looks like we're being very foolish. But sometimes what we call faith is really being presumptuous. For instance, over in uh some parts of Kentucky, West Virginia, some in the hills, uh there's a certain group of churches And they'll bring some rattlesnakes in. And they'll bring copperheads and venomous beasts. And they'll bring in there and they'll say that they're having uh we're going to have a faith service and we're going to handle these snakes, these venomous snakes. And we're just going to trust God that we're not going to get bitten. Now, question, is that faith or is that foolishness? That's foolishness. You know what almost always happens? They get bit. And there was a big news thing here a few years ago. One of the sons of a preacher got bit and he ended up dying, swelled up, and was terrible Listen, uh having faith, if we're not careful, sometimes we'll want what we want, and we lean on our own understanding, and we try to justify it by call it having faith in God And faith in God sometimes it's tough to make the distinction. Is this faith or is this really foolish? And so David here, he's submissive to God, he's trusting the Lord, but he's not being stupid. He has an opportunity to have somebody in the inner circle of Absalom and get some information. This could possibly help avoid all-out warfare. It could help keeping innocent people getting killed. What Absalom was doing was wrong And David was being very, very strategic here. There's a world of difference between being foolish and having faith in God. There's a big difference between exercising faith and playing the fool. I put down, it's a big difference between trusting God and being stupid I read about this past week two girls that there was a heavy flooding, it was raining, they got got stuck at uh away from home and they were making their way home and uh driving and the and the road was flooded And um professing Christians, the story went. And they got to this area, the road was heavily flooded, and the water was smoothing very, very rapidly Question, is it a good idea to try and cross through a low area road that's being flooded? Is that a good idea or not? No, it's not a good idea. One of them said, well let's pray and just trust God and we'll drive through there. They prayed. They trusted God. They got about halfway through and the car got washed downstream, started rolling over. One of the girls drowned. The other one went went through a terrible time. That was not faith, that was foolishness. I don't play on a train track and say I'm going to trust God to keep me safe. I don't I don't I don't I don't handle snakes, venomous snakes, and then try say I'm just gonna trust God. That is foolishness. I could give examples, I mean personal examples I know firsthand of folks that were diagnosed with a uh uh a sort of sickness at the doctor's could have made them well. They could have treated it. They could have removed it. And the person said, no, I'm going to trust God. I'm not going to do the medical And then a year later that thing grew in them and it was too late for the doctors to do anything. And I have one person I can tell you firsthand on their deathbed said to me, I was so foolish, I should have let them do it Is it a lack of faith to go to a doctor for treatment? No. Jesus said, they that are sick Should go to the physician. I came not to call the righteous to repentance, but the sinners. They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. And so God has given us this. And so David is David's not stupid. He's here's an opportunity. Even though he's completely submissive, God, here's an opportunity to have somebody be able to give information. that can maybe keep this thing from being a full-blown war. That can maybe save innocent lives and help his family. And so he takes advantage of that, being strategic. I think Christians, sometimes we need to use our heads. And not and just, well, we'll just trust God. Listen, you can lay around the shack all day drinking iced tea, say, I'm just going to trust God to meet my needs. Maybe you ought to get up and go get a job Trust God. There's a difference between having faith in God and being foolish. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Proverbs chapter 21. Now keep your place here. We're not done yet. But Proverbs chapter 21, and notice with me, if you would, the end of that chapter. Proverbs 21, let me find it here. In verse number 31 Makes an interesting statement. Now, this is David's son. Solomon is writing this under the inspiration of God. He's penning this. Verse 30 says, There's no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord. Then look at verse 31. The horse is prepared against the day of battle. Now what does that mean, preparing the horse against the day of battle? What's he doing to the horse? Yeah, he's getting it ready, putting armor on it. Remember if you see in those uh in those old medieval uh pictures, man that horse they'll put a metal helmet on that thing. It'll have a coat of mail hanging down. Anybody know what I'm talking about And they'll have that horse all protected up and armored up. And he says, uh the horse is prepared against the day of battle, but Safety is what? It's of the Lord. What is he saying? He's saying this. Listen, don't be stupid and just run your horse out into battle with no protection. Don't just run your horse out there without any armor on it. But you need to understand behind all of it, God is the one that provides safety. And he's saying, don't have faith, trust God, but at the same time, don't presume upon God either. Am I making sense? Is everybody with me on this? Uh, well, I'll just trust God when I get old. He'll take care of me. And that's true. Praise the Lord for it. But you know, you ought to put up some maybe at life insurance. You ought to put some money up for later on. That's scriptural. You ought to make plans and and uh the Bible talks about uh the uh passing on to our children uh an inheritance or things for our children. We ought to plan ahead a little bit. We ought to use our heads It's a world of difference between having faith in God and being foolish. Doesn't mean that we don't trust God. We do trust God, but we do our part also. I was reading about George Mueller. Anybody here recogn re familiar with that name? George Mueller. George Mueller was a German fellow And uh just wild as his teen years in jail looking for fights, he would go out looking for trouble And I think he ended up in England, in London, somehow, and uh he had spent some time in jail. As a young boy, he ended up in in London, I think late teen years, and he heard the gospel And he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, and Jesus saved his soul. And his life was transformed. He got married, began serving the Lord. What is George Mueller known for, his ministry? Anyone remember? Orphan homes. He would take the little waifs off the street, the little orphans off the street. And he built houses, built homes for them, and took care of them. Before he ever started any of that, he and his wife determined they were going to live by faith. And they weren't going to let any of their needs known. And if there was uh they came up short on some things, they weren't gonna broadcast it to everybody. They were just gonna take it to the Lord and trust God Now he's working, he's being wise, but it was tough days and they come up short. And they learned to trust God and they would pray. They worked hard. They were wise with what they had, but when they came up short, uh he did what he called pay pray and pay system And they learned that when they did their best and they prayed and trusted God, God came through every time. God stirred his heart about these little children living on the streets, squalored, dirty, diseased. Cry. And he'd bring these little children in, a couple of them, and he and he determined he was never going to tell the church or anybody what the needs were. He was going to trust God. He would work, save his money, be wise, but he's going to trust God. And God provided for the few children he had, so he brought some more in. And he paid, he would pray and pay. And he brought more and finally had so many he had to build a building for these orphans. That began to grow. Never advertised for a dime. Never asked publicly for a penny. Just prayed, trusted God, acted wisely. And God would provide. Soon he built a second building full of little orphans, a third one, a fourth one, a fifth one, till he had thousands. Of little orphan children, no mothers, no fathers, just take them off the street. And he fed them, pointed them to Christ, taught them a trade, and would send them out to live productive lives. And he his sit his motto was this, pray and pay, pray and pay. Those two girls crossing a river, that was foolish and presumptive, right? George Mueller was living by faith. He worked hard, used his head, and trusted God. And God met his needs. I'm telling you, you and I need to learn to live by faith. but also not be stupid. That's a good motto. That would be a good motto for a year. Let's not be stupid this year. Let's trust God. Let's do our part and live for the Lord. So David was very submissive to the Lord. Or if he's going to send me back. Praise the Lord. If he shows me favor and grace, lets me go back in the city, be king again, that's his grace. If he's done with me and it's all over, well then God is good and whatever he allows, I know that's good, and I just trust that And then David says, Hey, Zadak and Abiathar, you guys go back in there. You hang out at the tabernacle, Hushei, you go back also and You get up there with Absalom and you get in the inner circle there and information you get, give to these two guys. They'll tell their sons, their sons come out, they'll give me information, I can respond to that. That was being smart That was being smart. How do you tell the difference between faith and foolishness? How do you tell the difference between trusting God or being stupid? I jotted three things down. I'm afraid about that. So how in the world do you know the difference? I jotted three things down. I put this. Number one, have a Bible basis for my decision I ought to have a Bible basis. If I'm going to say, boy, is this really smart or is this being is this trusting God or is this being stupid? Get a Bible basis. I tell you, it is never stupid to claim a promise of God. It's never stupid to have a Bible basis for my decision. I've tried over all these years, I've tried my best. If I'm going to make a major decision that's going to affect me or my family or the church I want to have a biblical basis for that. I want to have a foundation, a scriptural foundation. I remember back, I was thinking of this the other day, yesterday. And um I was thinking about back when we introduced faith promise here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. It was a new idea. A lot of the people here didn't really grasp it. And I began introducing him. Before I ever did that, I was convinced in my heart and mind this was a Bible method of supporting missions. It was scripturally sound. And you've heard the story of one fellow in a particular, a good guy, he kind of challenged me, said, I don't know about this. This doesn't sound, this sounds a little risky And I said, well, let's trust God. Here's the Bible says, let's trust God. We trusted God, and here we are 20-some years later, and God has blessed our faith promise. So what I'm saying is this, the difference between foolishness and faith, faith has a scriptural basis. I'm operating according to scriptural principles I'm not being presumptuous. I'm not misquoting. I'm not misclaiming some promise. I say this often. I believe it's true in a lot of circles of Christianity. People are claiming promises God never made. I need to be very, very careful about that. So number one, have a Bible basis for your decision. Number two, trust the Holy Spirit to direct you. Sometimes you get a situation and you know you know what the Bible says, but I don't see how which way to go with this thing. Anybody ever been in a situation like You just really didn't know what was the right way to go. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Here's my advice in that situation. You look for scriptural principles the best you can. You put this in God's hand and then you just trust the Holy Spirit to lead you. Just trust the Holy Spirit, all right, Lord, I don't know, I'm not sure. I've got to make a decision. Alright, this is what I think I should do. I'm going to trust that this is your will, that this is the Holy Spirit leading me. I've often said, if you're not sure what to do, don't make a decision until you absolutely have to. If you're not sure, just wait, wait, wait. And a lot of times, the last minute the Lord will step and say, Alright, this is the way, walk ye in it. And so number one, have a Bible basis. Number two Trust the Holy Spirit to direct you. And number three, seek godly or knowledgeable counsel. Find somebody that knows the Lord, that has some integrity about them, that has some common sense And say, here's my situation. What would you advise in this situation? Sometimes you get a l- I get a little money situation. certain godly men that uh have been faithful to the Lord that but are knowledgeable in financial things. I'll try and decide what's the best thing to do, what's the best thing to do, and I'll give them a call and say, what would be your advice here? Maybe in building things, or certain fellows I can go to, they know a whole lot more about it than I do. What would be the best course of action? So getting wise counsel, letting the Holy Spirit lead you, number three, having a biblical basis helps me be wise. While I'm trusting God. So number one, David was submissive to the Lord. Number two, David was strategic in his actions. Number three, look with me at verse 30. Come back here to 2 Samuel 15. And look with me, if you will, at verse number 30. I put this down. David was sorrowful. We're giving a little information here that caught my attention in verse 30. And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. Now, Ahithophel, we mentioned this before, he was one of David's dear men. He was one of his closest advisors. And he's fallen out with Absalom. He's abandoned David. He's tied in with the usurper. And the one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said And David said, O Lord, I pray thee turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. I'm sorry, I'm on the wrong verse. Verse 30. I thought that verse didn't go long with my point. Look at verse 30. And David went up by the ascent of Mount Olivet and wept as he went, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot. And all the people that was with him covered every man his head, and they went up weeping as they went. David wept as he went. He was very sorrowful. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Psalm chapter 3, real quickly with me. We looked at this just briefly last week. We read the Psalms, but I want you to notice something here Psalm chapter 3 was written by David. If you notice the heading there above verse 1, it was written by David when Absalom rebelled against him. So I don't know if he wrote this as he's F r fleeing out to the wilderness, or once he got out there and sat down in the middle of the night and penned his thoughts down, or if later on looking back, he penned this out, I'm not sure, the timing of all this But the context of Psalm 3 is when David is being chased out of the city by Absalom. And if you look at the Psalm very carefully, what is that Psalm? See if you see if you're on the same wavelength with me. What is the song? It's a what? It's a prayer. Do you notice that? He's praying to God. This is a recorded prayer. Notice what he says: Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me And we won't take time to go through it, but if you look at it very, very carefully, his eyes are on the Lord. His heart is broken. He's shattered. His son is turned against him. I don't know what dreams David had for Absalom. I don't know what hopes he had. I don't know how maybe he groomed him as a child, maybe thinking someday some God can use him. But whatever dreams David had for Absalom, if there were any, whatever plans and hopes he had for his oldest son, they have absolutely been shattered. They are gone. And David is heartbroken. And in his sorrow, he turns to the Lord I've noticed something here in 2 Samuel 15, that's the event, and then in Psalm chapter 3, I noticed something that's missing. In his sorrow, in his heartache, David's not blaming anybody. We study Psalm 3 very carefully, and we won't, but if we would, there's not one blame. For anybody. He says, people are coming against me, men are risen up against me, but he doesn't cast any blame. You come back to Psalm 20, uh, to I uh uh 2 Samuel 15, he doesn't blame anybody There's no accusations. There's no pointing fingers. David's heart is just broken. I think the Bible doesn't say this. Psalm chapter 3 doesn't give us any insight here. But I think David's broken over his own sin. I think he sees what's happening. And he knows this is fallout from a decision I made about two years ago. And it absolutely crushes him. I tell you, there's some there's something I don't know of anything more heartbreaking than than knowing that my decision My actions have hurt someone else. Anybody know what I mean? That my behavior has hurt maybe my child or somebody a chur a church member or someone someone dear to me And I think David's coming out of there, and I don't know if the devil's jumping all over him or just his own conscience, but he begins to weep. I don't believe David is weeping over a lost throne. My own opinion is that's the last thing he's worried about, sitting on some throne or being a king. I think his heart is breaking over his family, over his son, and what has happened And he begins to weep. But the thing I noticed here is he doesn't point fingers. He doesn't make any accusations. He doesn't throw blame to anybody. What do we have a tendency to do when something bad happens? The first thing we want to do is find out what? Whose fault is this? We want someone to blame. We want to accuse somebody. We want to hold somebody responsible. And I know people need to be held responsible. But sometimes we need to just stop and say, you know, maybe it's me. Maybe I brought this on. I've often said this, I study my Bible, and I don't the only people in the Bible that I find accusing other people of stuff are the enemies of God. Particularly in the book of Acts, you look up the word accuse. Get your concordance out. Look up the word accuse. They accused. They accused. Made accusation. Look up all the uses of that word, and you're going to find every single time it is the enemies of God that are making accusation, that are accusing somebody of something The Pharisees accusing Jesus. The Jews accusing Paul. The accused. They accused. They accused. We need to be very, very careful. About pointing the finger at other people and accusing other people of stuff. I think one thing we get to the judgment seat of Christ, I think we get to heaven. We're going to know, even as we're known And I think we're going to be appalled, not at how sinful the people we were mad at around us were, but we're going to be appalled at how sinful we were. The sinfulness of my own heart. I was talking to somebody recently, I made this statement. I said, if you knew how sinful my heart was, you'd be ashamed of me. And I think that's true for all of us. We forget that my heart is just as vile and wicked and filled with the sin as anybody else that's mistreating me. And David's being run out of his home. David's fleeing for his life from his country. He's not blaming Absalom. He's not pointing the finger at anybody else. He's weeping. He knows I'm a sinner. I messed up. So David, I see a very sorrowful man here. No accusations, no pointing fingers. I think David's sin is haunting him. I think his son is grieving him. I put some verses down that were penned by David. Listen to what he says in Psalm 34, 18. He says, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. Psalm 51, verse 17, he says, and this is where he's confessing his sin, he says, a broken and contrite heart God will not despise. Isaiah 57, verse 15. Now, this is Isaiah pending under the inspiration of God. He said, I dwell, God speaking here. He says, I dwell with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit. to revive the heart of the humble, and to revive the spirit of the contrary. Again in Isaiah 66, too. Uh God says this, to this man will I look, even to him that is of a contrite spirit. Listen, you want God's special presence, you want God's help in your situation? You want God's grace and you want God's strength, you want God's pity and God's mercy in your situation. Stop blaming the other person for what they're doing wrong. Start looking at my own heart and see how sinful I am. Jesus talked about that. He says you're worried about the beam. You're worried about the moat in someone else's eye. No, no, no. You need to get that beam in your own. I think David's grieving over the beam that's been in his eye and how it's affected his loved ones. I see the sorrow. He's submissive to the Lord. Lord, you let me go back? That's your grace. Lord, if you take me out, you're still good. He's submissive, Lord. He's strategic. He's not stupid. Hey, you guys go back there. Just see what you can find out. Sneak me out information. And then he's sorrowful. He's weeping as he goes up here. I think it's interesting, if you notice there in chapter 15, everybody else starts weeping with him. They're sharing in his sadness and his sorrow. Then I notice verse 31 real quickly, says, and one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And as I mentioned A moment ago, that was David's previous good friend, his advisor. He leaned on his advice hard. And now he's with Absalom. Notice what David does. And David said, O Lord, look at this, I pray thee. Turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. Prayer Was David's go-to resource. He went to God in prayer. Listen, if if Ahithophel's advice is going to be foolish, that has to be God, because Ahithophel was not a foolish person. He's a very wise man. He'd been with David for years. David knew that Ahithophel would knew how to take David out. And he said, Lord, turn his advice to foolishness. That would have to be God. You know, there's some situations we can be as wise as we want, we can be as strategic as we want, but only God can get us out of that mess. And David understood that. If Ahithophel is advising Absalom, God, you're going to have to do something, because he knows. He knows how to take me out and turn his advice to foolishness. By the way, I'll give you a little spoiler. God does just that. And foils Ahithophel's advice for David's sake. And so he prays, he brings supplication to the Lord. Never underestimate God's ability to turn around a bad situation. Never underestimate God's ability to turn around a bad situation. And then last of all, I want to end with this. David was submissive. Say, wait a minute, preacher, you're losing your mind. That was your first point, I know. And it's my last point also. I am losing my mind, but in this case I know what I did there. David was submissive. Look at verse 32, and I'll end. And it came to pass that when David was come to the top of the mount, where he worshiped God, Behold, Hushai the Architect came to meet him with his coat rent and earth upon his head. Now that's where he sends Hoshai back. You go be an advisor and be my mole. But notice it says he came to the mount, to the top of the mount, where he did what? He worshiped God. He submitted himself again to God. What is worship? Well, he got up on the mountain, he crossed his heart and spit and hoped to die. No, it wasn't some ri religious ritual he went through. None of that stuff. Worship is this, and it seems like I just mentioned this recently. I think it was Sunday school, maybe Sunday morning. But worship, biblical worship is this. Simply recognize God's supreme authority over my life. And then humbly submitting to that authority by trusting God and following his instructions. That's what worship is. We worship God. Abraham worshiped God when he told him, Take your son, your only son, offer him up as a sacrifice. Abraham worshiped God. God, your supreme authority over my life. I submit to that. I'll trust you. I'll do what you say. I trust you. That was worship. Job worshiped God when all his children were killed and all his possessions destroyed, and he's eaten up with boils, and he's in the lowest point in his life. And the Bible says he worshiped God. He said, God, you're the supreme authority over my life. I humbly submit to that authority. I'll trust you. I'll do what you say. Worship God. David worshiped God when his son is turning against him and he's fleeing for his wife. The Bible says he got to the top of Mount Olive. He worship God. He worship God. Significant, the top of the Mount Olivet there, by the way, that's where Jesus taught his disciples the Olivet discourse. It's where Jesus went the night before he was crucified to pray. And Gethsemane was there It was the Mount Olivet where Jesus ascended after his resurrection. Disciples stood and watched him gazing up as he went into heaven. It's Mount Olivet where Jesus is going to return at the end of the tribulation period. And that thing's going to split wide open. And Jesus set up his millennial reign. And David worshiped God at Mount Olivet. If you and I can learn when everything is going against us and we're at the lowest point in our life, To bow our heads before God and say, God, I don't understand. And my heart is broken. But you are supreme authority over my life. And I submit to that authority and I'll trust you and I'll do whatever you say. When we can get to that point. We're getting a little mature in our Christian faith. We're growing up spiritually. We stamp our feet and get mad and throw stuff and we don't get our way and you don't treat me this way and you don't do that I don't get this and he didn't say that. And she said this. But we had a lot of growing to do. We had a lot of spiritual growing up to do. I see David here. Not pointing fingers, not throwing a tantrum, not panicking, submitting to God, using his head Brokenhearted, seeking God and submitting. Lord, you are God. You're my God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from David. I pray you'd help us to grow in our spiritual lives where we can trust you even when everything has gone wrong. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I've got some growing to do in my life spiritually. Anybody like that, my hands raised. I wonder if some would say, preacher, I learned to learn to submit to God, and I have a tendency to demand my way, and I need to learn to submit to God and let his will be done, not mine. Is there anything like that, preacher? I need to learn that. Sure Sure. How about this matter of learning to pray and just bringing that to God and putting God's hand, say, God, I need you to turn this thing around. Any le anybody need revival in their prayer life? I sure do And then this matter of using our heads, not being stupid, but doing what we can, doing our part. I thought of this. A guy told me years ago, he said, God helps them who help themselves I don't know about that, but I know this. God helps them who don't do what he says. We use our heads a little bit. Father, bless our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's playing invitation hymn. Maybe