My heart is fixed. I will sing and give thanks even with my glory. Awake sultry in harp. I myself will awake early I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. I've just entitled it David's Psalm of Praise Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and what it means to us. It's precious. We thank you for how your word has impacted our lives. And the changes we've seen and the promises we've uh experienced that you've kept, and we rejoice in all of it And Lord, we do come to you this morning with very, very grateful hearts. I believe I speak for the vast majority of us. Lord, we're very grateful for your goodness and your faithfulness. Lord, you've been good to us as a church. And we rejoice in that. This past week was a blessing, the revival, and then all the other things we can be involved in. God, how you've blessed us. And I ask now that you would use your word and help us to praise you. I pray that your Holy Spirit would burn deep in our hearts and our souls an attitude of praise. And it would be reflected in our lives. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak your word through my lips. And Lord, I ask you to guide my thinking, that I would only say that which you would have said. And so have your way this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We do not know very much about Psalms 108. We do not know when it was penned, other than during the life of of King David. We don't know what the circumstances were behind the Psalms. Sometimes we know that. Sometimes we're told directly. Other times we can kind of glean it as we study the chapter and we figure some things out, maybe what was going on. We don't know any of that about Psalms 108, other than the fact that it says right there above verse number 1, it is a song. It was designated as a song to be sung by God's people. And God's people have always been singing people. A spirit-filled Christian, we're told in Ephesians, is a singing Christian, has a song in their heart and soul. And I found when there's a song in my heart and soul, that song comes out on my lips. And so it's a song to be sung by God's people and was. Throughout Israel's history, they would sing this song We are told that it was by King David, penned by King David. Again, we don't know the circumstances or surrounding it, but we're told very clearly it was by King David. Now a few thoughts about this Psalm, some things we do know. Number one, I put this down, this is just introduction, but it is what we would call a composite psalm. It's a composite psalm. As far as I know, there may be a couple others to some element, but this is one of the clearest, if not the only, composite psalm in the Bible And what we mean by that, it is actually made up of portions of two other Psalms that David had penned previously. Verses 1 through 5, we won't take the time to look at all of this, but it would be worth checking it out sometime. You might want to jot it down. Verses 1 through 5 are verbatim Copied from Psalms chapter 57, verses 7 through 11. It's very obvious that Psalms 57, verse 7 through 11, they took those passages, that passage And they put it into Psalms 103. It's a composite. In our day and age, you would have said they cut and paste it. And then verses number six through thirteen are taken from Psalm chapter sixty. Again, previously written, Psalm chapter 60, verse 5 through 12 is almost word for word cut and paste from Psalm chapter 60 and put in the end of Psalm chapter 108. So it's a composite psalm. It's made up of two previous passages put together. Now the question comes up, and I don't know how significant this is Question comes up, did pi David pen this? Is he the one that put these two together? Or was it maybe some later date? People Somebody took these two passages that David had penned under the inspiration of God and put it together at some point. We don't know, and I don't know that it's that significant. The other question comes up, at least in my mind, why would God do that? If we already have verses 1 through 5 in Psalm chapter 57, and we have verses 6 through 13 in Psalm chapter 60, why repeat it again? Why would you copy it and put it together and introduce it twice? Actually, that is not unusual in Scripture. In fact, if you'll pay attention as you go through scripture, God repeats himself quite a bit. And it's not because he has dementia or Parkinson's disease. God is perfectly fine. When God repeats himself, he does it deliberately. There is a reason for that. And if you're in our study of the life of Joseph on Wednesday night, several months ago, we were given some insight from the life of David why God repeats himself If you remember, God gave uh uh Pharaoh a dream twice, double dream. And Joseph said, under the inspiration of God, he says, it is because the uh because that will and I'm putting my own words here, because it will absolutely for sure happen God is emphasizing something when he repeats it. Jesus, numerous times in the gospel, says, verily, verily. I say unto you. The Psalms, uh the pr the gospels, I should say, Matthew, Mark, and Luke have many of the same events, same miracles, same conversations are repeated in those three gospels, it's not because God's trying to just fill up space in the Bible. It's because God is emphasizing a truth. He's emphasizing something He wants us to know. And so all through Scripture we have things repeated. If you study Scripture carefully, if you pay attention, Scripture, God will repeat the importance of salvation over and over and over and over and over. The most important issue in life is the salvation of an individual soul. It's a lot of important things in life. Family's important. Amen or not. Yeah. Job, employment, income is important. Amen or not. But I'm telling you, the salvation of the soul is the most important issue in life. If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice in one way or another. And you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. I'm telling you right now, that is the most important issue in your life It must be settled. You need to come to trust Christ as your personal Savior. And so the Bible repeats that all through Scripture. And numerous other things, living for God. Doing right. We're told multiple times that in various ways we're to do what's right. We're to do what's right, we're to do what's right. We're instructed on the home and marriage. And what a husband is to do, and what a wife is to do. It's repeated throughout scripture what marriage is. And who makes up marriage? And God's plan and purpose. All that's for a reason. And so when we look at Psalms here and we see that he is it's repetitious from previous Psalms, that doesn't surprise us. It's not a mistake. It's not just filling space. What he's saying in Psalms chapter 8 is important for us to understand. And God repeats it. How many folks how many when you were young, your your mom or your parents ever said to you, I'm telling you once, I'm not telling you again? Anybody been there? How many how many folks they actually did tell you again And you paid the price. Well, God's telling us something again. And he says it over and over and over. So it's a composite psalm. That is made up of two previous passages that were penned by David. Again, under the inspiration of God. This is all God's doing. Second thing I notice about Psalm 108, it's a morning psalm. Morning, as in opposite of evening. Notice verse number two. This is where we get that from. Verse 2, he says, awake, sultry in heart. I myself will awake early. So the idea is this psalm is designed to be sung early in the morning. It is the Word of God given to us in the morning. A lot of times, uh anybody here ever wake up in the morning with a bad attitude? I don't mean this morning, I mean at some point. Sometimes I wake up grouchy Sometimes I let her sleep. The only reason I said that is Kathy's not here right now, but But sometimes we get up in the morning and our attitude, our frame of mind, isn't all that it ought to be. And do you ever notice that affects our day? Affects our day. Anybody some of us uh do you ever wake up in the morning? And fearful, you got stuff going on, and issues, you wake up, it's the first thing that comes to your mind, you're concerned about that. That affects your day And I think what God is telling us in this psalm, particularly verse number two, and really throughout Scripture, it's a good way to wake up in the morning, is the first thing to do is get into the Word of God And get the Word of God into me, and get that song of the Lord and get those promises, instructions from God, first thing in the morning. And you know what I found? That will often set the tone for the day. And prepare my heart and mind for what God has for the day. And so Psalm 108 is a morning psalm. It's designed for the morning to help us along with all of God's word. Then it is a praise psalm. Notice he says, uh my oh verse one, oh God, my heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. It's a praise psalm. It's a praise psalm. I got studying that word praise. I found that it's used at least 400 or 248 times throughout Scripture. Praise, praise, praise. I looked up the phrase, praise the Lord. That phrase, praise the Lord, or variations of it are used at least 32 times. We are instructed in Scripture to praise the Lord. Thirty-two times. If God tells us to do something once, we ought to do it. Amen or not? If God tells us to do something twice, we ought to doubly make sure we do what he says. If God tells us to do something at least 32 times, that tells me two things. Number one, God wants me to do it. And number two, I probably have a hard time doing it. That's why it has to keep telling me to do it, telling me to do it Thirty-two times God says to his people, Praise the Lord. And it's not, well, praise the Lord. It's instruction. Praise the Lord. He's telling us to do that. Um it is a praise song. Somebody came to Jesus, a fellow, I think it was a lawyer if I remember correctly, came to Jesus and he asked the Lord Now the lawyers in the New Testament and Gospels were lawyers concerning the law of God. They weren't Like we think of lawyers today, they were to study the laws that God had given, and they would uh help people and teach people to implement those laws. One of them came to the Lord Jesus and asked a powerful question He said to the Lord, this is a lawyer. He said, which is the greatest command? Now there's a heap of commands in Scripture. Now lawyers knew them and they they were experts on it. And he comes to Jesus, the Son of God, and he says, What's the greatest command in all scripture? Without hesitation, Jesus answered them. The greatest command is to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind. And the second is like unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. That's the greatest command in Scripture according to Jesus. You think we ought to pay attention to that? Yeah. It's the greatest command. Of all the commands, that's the greatest one. If you study it carefully, the command to praise the Lord is not necessarily the greatest command, but it is the most often given command. We're not instructed to do anything else more often than we're instructed to praise the Lord. How many people believe Christians ought to go to church? Amen. You know we're told to go to church a couple or three times, a few times in the Bible, but we ought to. It's important. We should do it. How many people believe Christians ought to pray? Yeah. Do you know we're commanded to praise the Lord? More than we're commanded to go to church or to pray. Now it doesn't mean, oh, I'll just stay home, praise the Lord. It's more important. No, no, no. It means go to church and praise the Lord. I think what God's telling us is this. Above everything else, we ought to praise the Lord. We ought to love Him with all our heart, and we ought to praise Him with all our heart. To praise God is an expression of gratitude. To praise God is an expression of adoration, to adore God. We have to teach our children to say thank you, don't we? We have to teach them what do you say? Do you ever do that to your kids? What do you say? I probably shouldn't say this. I've got everybody's attention now. But on my desk, there is a jar that's full of candy. The word's out. There's a heap of kids in this church that know about that jar full of candy. And every Sunday, with almost without fail, while the choir is practicing, I like to come over a little early and sit and listen to the choir. And almost without fail, and the nursery workers back there will tell you, verify this, those kids see me and they'll come and say, Pastor, can we have some candy? And I always say, sure, come on. And we go flying back to my office and they get and when we go out of there Not always, but often I have to say, you forgot something. And they all stop and turn around and what? Thank you, Pastor. God wants us to thank Him. It's the polite thing to do as a Christian to thank God for His blessings. That's what praise is. It's an expression. In fact, it is a deep, and it's an expression of deep, heartfelt gratitude to God. Thank you, God. Thank you. To praise God is to rejoice in God's goodness, and God is good Don't let this world, don't let the devil convince you that God is somehow doing you wrong. God is good We rejoice in God's goodness. Its praise is a rejoicing in the wisdom of God. God knows what's best for you and I. There's a lot of things that God has allowed into my life. Not everything was, I don't think everything was necessarily his will, but he allowed it because he knew he couldn't use it. And there's a lot of things God has allowed in my life, born in my life, that I would not in my own wisdom have chosen. But God in his wisdom allowed it, and I look back afterward, and most I can look and see, oh, God knew what he was doing. God in his wisdom allowed that for a reason and it was good for me. It helped me. Now there are some things I think we won't know until we get to heaven. There's some things we won't fully grasp till we get to heaven, but I'm here to tell you, our God is perfect in his wisdom, and we can praise him for that. Even things we don't understand, even things we wouldn't choose, even things that are unpleasant we do not like. Nevertheless, God in His goodness and His wisdom allows it. And we rejoice in it and we praise Him for it. We praise Him for it. To praise God is to rejoice in God's care for us, and He does care for us. So David says in the beginning of the Psalm, as he does back in Psalm 57, it's repeated here, oh God, my heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. I will express my gratitude to you. God, I adore you. Thank you for your goodness to me, your goodness to me. And praise begins in the heart. Did you notice there in verse 1? My heart is fixed. My heart is fixed. Praise begins in the heart, and it's to be manifest in our life and on our lips. Praise to God. Now as I studied this, I came up with four ingredients of genuine biblical praise. Four ingredients of genuine biblical praise. Number one, let me give them to you quickly. I encourage you to jot these down. They may be helpful to you. Number one, my praise is to be persistent. Persistent. Again, verse number one, he says, O God, my heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. He makes a decision here, but it is not a decision of the moment. It is not just a fad that he's going through. It is not just an emotional reaction Maybe at a revival meeting or a special time of blessing. It is a fixed, permanent, persistent decision on his part. I will praise God. The word fixed means to be firmly established, anchored. It means to endure. It means to be steadfast and unchanging. And David said, My heart is fixed. I am going to praise God. We live in a changing world, amen or not? World is changing. Oh, we can't hardly keep up. What in the world? Just every day. Our circumstances in our own individual lives change a lot. Anybody finding that out? The older you get, the more the changes. And it's really, it's a whole life. From an infant on up, change, change, change, change. David makes an important point here. His praise of God is going to be persistent. Regardless of the changes taking place, I'm going to keep on praising God. You say, well, preacher, I like things the way they are. I'm going to praise God the way things are. Well, they may not always be the way they are, but I want to keep on praising God. It's persistent. It goes on, regardless of circumstances. We don't know what David's circumstances were here. You study his life. Good heavens, what a roller coaster. But he says, when I'm up, I'm going to praise God. When I'm down, I'm going to praise God. When I'm popular, I'm going to praise God. When I'm unpopular, I'm going to praise God. When I have wealth, I'm going to praise God. When I'm in poverty, I'm gonna praise God. When I'm healthy, I'm gonna praise God. When I'm sick, I'm gonna praise God. My heart's fixed It's not changing. It's not open to debate. It's not negotiable. God is good. And I'm going to praise him. Persistent praise. My heart is fixed. My heart is fixed. We don't know what his circumstances were, but we do know he determined in his heart he was going to praise God. He was going to be grateful. He was going to see and rejoice and adore God for his goodness and his faithfulness, regardless of the circumstances. Now keep your place here if you would, if you would, just real quickly, come with me to Psalms chapter 42 Psalm chapter 42, just a few pages back there. We brought our Bibles, we might as well use them. Psalm forty-two. Come down with me if you would to verse number five. Psalm forty-two, verse number five. Notice what the Psalm says here. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Has your soul ever been cast down? Maybe it is this morning. Maybe right now. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? That word disquieted means troubled in an uproar. Unsettled. Why art thou disquieted within me? Look at this. Hope thou in God. Now notice what he says. This is a determination, a decision. My soul is cast down, my soul is disquieted. I'm going to hope in God for I shall yet praise Him for the help of His countenance. I will praise God Over verse number 11. He repeats it verbatim. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted with thee? Hope thou in God. For I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my God. He is fixed on this. When he's up, he praises God. When he's down, he praises God. Look at verse 5 of chapter 43. He says it again. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise him. I hope this morning, we as individuals and as a church, we can just decide that our heart is going to be fixed And doesn't matter what this coming winter holds, it doesn't matter if it snows and our my heart is cast down because of the snow Or if it's going to be nice and sunny and warm and my heart is cast up because it's nice and sunny and warm, I'm going to praise God either way. Just praise God. It's persistent. Some people, man, when things are going good, they're in church. Amen. Praise the Lord. Glory to God. And everything goes bad, start home. Mm-mm. Nobody loves me. Everybody hates me. Throw up. Be persistent. Just decide I'm going to praise God. Just decide I'm going to praise God. It's persistent. God doesn't, oh let me remind you, circumstances change, but God doesn't Sometimes his goodness is very obvious, sometimes our finite minds don't see it as clearly But I'm telling you, behind the clouds of affliction and heartache and difficulty, the sunshine of God's love is still shining. Persistent. My heart is fixed. My heart is fixed. I think one of the most important lessons we can learn in life is to be persistent. Be persistent in our prayers. Don't quit. Keep praying. Keep praying. Keep praying. I know for a fact a slew of people, a heap of people in this church, I know for a fact some things they're praying for. Earnest, heartbreaking things, desperate some cases. I'm here to tell you, don't you quit praying. Say, preacher, I've been praying a long time. God hasn't answered it yet. Keep on praying. Pitch your heart. I'm not going to quit praying until God either changes my desire or God answers my prayer. We ought to be persistent in our witness. Say, preacher, I witness folks, and I never see anything. Keep witnessing. I had a lady years ago, dear lady, she's with the Lord now. She goes, Pastor, I come out visiting. I'm trying to witness. I give out tracts. I never see anybody saved. I said, just keep right on doing it Just keep right on doing it. Keep right on doing it. There are things happening you don't know about. God is doing things you and I don't see. And I think we get to heaven And these tracks we've given out, and this radio broadcast, and the people you've talked to, and the witness you've tried to bend, has borne more fruit than you and I realize this side of glory. So don't quit. Keep witnessing. Keep witnessing. You say, what if it turns illegal? What if they make it illegal to witness? Keep on witnessing. Just stay right at it. We'll have a whole new clientele in jail. We'll just witness in jail. And then we ought to be persistent in our praise. I think a strong, healthy Christian has learned to praise God in all circumstances. If we had time, we don't. I wish we did. We go to Psalm Acts chapter 16. There we find two of the greatest witnesses in all scripture: Paul and Silas. Missionary, church planning, soul winners, power of God on them in ways I can only dream about. They are persecuted relentlessly, beaten, put in stocks in the city of Philippi. Acts chapter six. Read it. For no other reason than the fact that they're sharing the message of Jesus Christ. They're beaten, put in the inner prison, the worst part of prison, their feet and their hands in stocks, if you know what that is. The Bible says at midnight they sang and praised God. That's a strong, mature Christian that, even when treated unjustly and beaten, violently, incarcerated in prison, and yet their heart is full of praise to God. And by the way, the Bible says, and the prisoners heard them. A little bit later, an earthquake strikes. Boom. Breaks the place down. The jailer thinks he's all the prisoners escape. He's going to kill himself because if he doesn't, the Romans are going to kill him for letting the prisoners get away Paul says, don't you do that. We're all here. Don't do yourself any harm. And the interesting thing is, he says, what must I do to be saved? How'd he know about being saved? I'll tell you how he knew about being saved. He heard Paul and Silas praising God for their salvation. I don't know exactly what they said, we're not told, but I can imagine they're in there. Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. They might kill us, but praise God, I got a home in heaven. My sins are forgiven. I got eternal life. Man can do what he wants down here for a temporary period of time, but I've got an eternal home in heaven. And the prisoners heard them. You know what praising God in all circumstances persistently will do? It will have a profound impact on those around you. This world looks at a Christian when his bills are paid and everything's going fine, he's healthy, everything's fine, and hears him praising God, sure, praise God then. But I tell you, they see an old Christian that's beat up and rejected and treated unjustly and mocked and ridiculed, and they're still praising God. Ah, that has an impact. Huh? That has an impact. Our praise, my praise must be persistent, not just a fad that comes and goes. But consistent in all circumstances, God is still good. I have eternal life. I can never lose it. I rejoice in the Lord Ron Hamilton wrote that great song, Oh, rejoice in the Lord. He makes no mistake. You know he wrote that when he found out he had a cancer in his eye and lost his eye? And he said, I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. It's not a mistake. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. That's persistent praise. I like thanksgiving. I like when we emphasize giving thanks, but God forbid that our praise and our gratitude ends next week. It ought to be persistent. Summer, winter, fall, and spring. Praising God, praising God, praising God. Second of all, my praise ought to be passionate. Look at verse number one, the last part. He says, Oh my God, my heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. Word glory means dignity and honor. Prais God was important to David. Praising God, expressing his praise to God as far as David was concerned was a great honor. But I'm able to express my gratitude to God. It's my glory. You don't need a great education to praise God. A dummy like me can praise God. You don't need to have great riches to praise God. I've seen people in St. Lucia living down with the Bartleys. They took us down in what they called Shantytown People literally living under a tin thing, leaned up against the side of a building, and in there and singing praises to God. We showed a video, that guy playing that little thing, he rubs it. That poor guy. Got saved. He he dream he doesn't even dream about living in a place like you and I live in, but he's rejoicing and praising God. I'd take you to uh Mexico, I'd take you to Dominican Republic, so many places. Some of the happiest people in the world, some of the greatest praise to God. comes off the lips of people in abject poverty. Because God's goodness transcends the pleasures and the luxuries of life It reaches down into the soul, and it puts peace and joy in the heart and the soul of those who know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. It's passionate. He said, This is important to me. This is my glory. Passionate praise is intense in its understanding of the goodness of God. Some Christians have such a shallow understanding of the goodness of God. God is only good when everything's going their way. That is a shallow understanding of the goodness of God. When I have an intense understanding of the goodness of God, I understand that even when things are not going my way, and I'm hurting and I and I don't understand, yet God is still good. The passion of praise. The passionate praise has a clear understanding of the gospel of Christ. Tell you, the gospel and what Jesus Christ did on that cross is thrown around so flippantly. We stop and realize what took place, the transaction that took place on that cross. When Jesus took responsibility for all of my sins and all of your sins, and he was judged by the all-powerful, perfectly holy God, judged for my sins in my place. that I can be declared righteous in him. I tell you, that's something to praise God about. People that gripe and complain about stupid little stuff, they do not have a clear understanding of what God did for us on that cross and when he was buried and rose again. Passionate praise. My praise should be persistent, up and down, in and out. Oh, rich and poor. I ought to just keep praising God. It ought to be passionate. The great characteristic of K King David was his passion. He had the ability to be grateful in all circumstances. He had the ability to passionately praise God regardless of what his situation was. Whether in a cave, being pursued like a uh a hound dog by a king, or sitting in the palace, he praised God with all his heart. With all his heart. By the way, praise, passionate praise is more than just words. It's an attitude. It's a lifestyle. I live a life of praise. My life is characterized by praise and gratitude to God. If someone would come and ask, how would you if someone was asked to describe your attitude? If someone was asked to describe your Christianity, Would the idea of gratitude and praise ever enter that conversation? Would you and I be described as a Christian who has intense, passionate gratitude to God for what He's done for us? Would we be described as a church that is intensely passionate and persistently grateful to God, praising him for his goodness? Is that how we'd be described? That's what the Bible tells us is true of genuine praise. It's persistent, it's passionate. Let me give you the last two very quickly. My praise is to be a priority. Again, verse number two. Awake, sultry in harp, I myself will awake early. Praise was a high priority, spiritual priority to David, and praise is a high priority to God. So we mentioned before, over 32 times we're told expressly, praise ye the Lord. Praise keeps our focus on the Lord. We ought to praise God first thing in the morning. Just you say, well, I don't feel like it. I'm grouchy. My bad breath is bad. My knees aren't. Well, what you need to do is do what David says. My heart is fixed. I will praise the Lord. I'm just going to do it, whether I feel like it or not. Ouch. Praise God. God, you're good to me. Oh, my back. Oh, praise the Lord anyway. Priority. Get up in the morning. Just praise God. Get alone. Get up. Do what you need to do, and then get alone with God. My prayer time, I I have uh uh or somewhat one of the few things in my life that are organized, um I have a somewhat organized prayer time. Big portion of that prayer time is just thanking God and praising him for all he's done for me Did you know when you sit down again, let me ask again, how many folks here say you know it? Say amen. Did you know if you sit down and just start thinking about, give some thought to all the things you have to be grateful for You'll spend a good long time praising God. I mean, give it some thought. This world's convinced us that God treats us wrong. The devil certainly convinced Adam and Eve that God wasn't being good to them I'm here to tell you though God is a heap gu heap he's a heap good to us He's gooder. I like what old Bob Hamlin, you say, he's gooder than good. Priority. Praise keeps my focus on the Lord. Praise keeps my heart at peace. We get so upset Turn that stinking blog or not my blog, keep that one on, but uh These uh what are they called on the uh these talk things on the internet now? Um podcasts. Turn those stinking things off And watch it all this garbage. Listen, the world's a mess. We don't have to wallow in it We don't have to feed on it every day, all day long. Jesus said this thing's going to go to pot in the last days. I start praising God and genuinely rejoicing in God. Man, it brings peace in my heart. It gets my focus on the Lord. It sets my testimony afire. I tell you, folks will pay attention to somebody that's excited and praising God. Somebody that has the joy of the Lord in their life. They'll pay attention to that. Did you get some old down in the mouth griping Christian that can't find anything right and is all mad at politics and mad about this and uh furious about that. They don't want to hear you talk about your God. Governments become your God. And it's treating him miserably. We start praising God. We get our eyes off all that garbage and we see how good God is to us. We start rejoicing, and our testimony comes alive. And I get to end. Let me give you my last one. Did you get all four of them? I like these. Number one, my praise must be persistent. Number two, it must be passionate from my heart Number three, it must be a priority above all else. Praise God. And last of all, my praise should be public. Public. Look at verse number three. I will praise thee, O Lord. What's the next phrase? Among the people. Then he goes on. I will sing praises unto thee. Look at this: among the nations. I put in the margin of my Bible, missions. Missions. Praise is part of missions. Going into all the people groups of the world, going into all the nations, every city, every village, every community, and praising God. And telling a world of lost sinners that are under the wrath and judgment of God, they're on the way to hell, we can thank God He sent a Savior and they can be forgiven and they can have new life. And they can have eternal life, and they don't have to go to hell. We have reason to praise God in all the world. That's what he's saying. Public Let it be known. Let it be known. Among the people, among the nations, regardless of where I am. Praise God. Regardless of who I'm with. Praise God. Praise God in the workplace. Praise God in the marketplace. Praise God in the schools. Talk of his goodness. Talk of his salvation. Talk of his gospel. Talk of the Lord Jesus Christ. At church on Sunday, praise the Lord. At work on Monday, Tuesday, whatever your work schedule is, praise God. In school, praise God. At home, praise God. Why is it sometimes we're such a great Christian, then we come home and we turn into a miserable grouch? We ought to praise God at home just as much as we do in church. God's good, God's good, God's good. Let your kids hear you talk about how good God is rather than talk about how terrible your neighbor is. Public, public, public. Praise God in all places. In Luke 17, and we don't have time, there was a ten lepers. You know the story, most of us. Ten leprosy, the worst disease you could possibly have in that day and age. No cure, quarantined, horrible death. You're diagnosed with leprosy, it's just a slow death from that point on. Jesus making his way through the region. Ten lepers hear about him. They come down. Will you heal us? God heals all ten of them. How many people know the story? He heals all ten of them. Every last one. All ten of them are completely healed of leprosy. He sends them off to go do some ceremonial things, go wash. All ten are completely healed. Their lives have been changed. Their lives have been salvaged. They're going to live a lot longer. They're going to be okay. Back with their families and their friends. Let me ask you a question. Do you think all ten of those were grateful that they were healed? I'm going to submit to you they were. Good night. How could you not be? I think, I think all ten were very grateful But one expressed it. One came back and said, Thank you. One came back. What was I no doubt was in all their hearts, one of them came off his lips And he got the extra blessing. And he got the special attention from the Lord because he praised God publicly. In front of everybody. He came, he knelt down before the Lord Jesus. He said, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And everybody saw there's a man grateful for what God did for him. I'm telling you, our praise to God ought to be public. And Oakland and surrounding areas ought to know that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is grateful for what God has done for us. And you and I as individuals, this community, our family, our nation, our world ought to know that we're grateful for what God has done for us in saving our souls from sin in hell. I'll tell you, it's hard to respect a Christian. It's hard to respect someone that will accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, have all their sins forgiven, give eternal life, escape hell. And be held by the hand of Jesus Christ Himself, and then never say a word about it to anybody No word of gratefulness. Too worried about what people might think of me. God have mercy on Christians that are too worried about what this wicked old world thinks about us when what Christ has done for us. Our praise ought to be public. They ought to look at us and know we're grateful for what God has done. And not just on Thanksgiving day. But every single day of our life. How many people recognize the name John Wesley? Methodists came out of Wesley's ministry. Powerful. Powerful evangelists in the 1700s throughout England and surrounding areas. There's urban estates here a little bit. Over in the colonies at that time. He lived to be eighty-eight years old. There was a young, when he was a young man in college at Oxford or wherever he went to school, he was brilliant. As a young man in college, there was another student there, and we do not know that student's name. The only thing we know about him is what John Wesley referenced him. John Wesley said he was a very poor boy, poverty, and he said he had a lot of afflictions. But John Wesley said that that student that he went to had shared classes with was the most grateful student he knew. He would praise God in all circumstances. John Wesley said that boy had a profound impact on his heart and life and the way he thought. He saw a boy in poverty and affliction that praised God sincerely. And on his deathbed, 88 years old, he referenced that boy and his influence in his life. And he sang as as he lay dying. He sang a praise, a song of praise to God for all God's done for us We learn to praise God the way we're told here, as I listed. If we learn to do that, we'll have an impact on folks that we will never know until we get to heaven. The impact of a praising Christian, young and old, we'll never know till we get to heaven. Father, I ask you to teach us to praise you. Teach us to decide and fix in our hearts that we're going to be grateful, we're going to rejoice and give you glory Regardless of what is thrown, regardless of what this world throws at us. And just rejoice in the Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many like me would say, preacher, I need to learn to praise God. As the Bible instructs, any like that by the uplifted hand. I need this. What's laid out for us here in Scripture, I need to incorporate this into my heart and soul and mind and life. And God will help us. The Holy Spirit will help us. That's part of His ministry. It's to enable us to praise God in all circumstances. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and that I have a home in heaven. You're concerned about that. Would you say, preacher, I'd like you to pray for me, help me settle that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I need to get this settled. I don't want to doubt and question this. I want it settled. Any at all Maybe there's some, you say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. I want my testimony to be effective. I want them to see Christ in me, the way I live and talk and my praise. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I know someone. I'm burdened for him. I want him to be saved. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Sure. God bless you. Old Alder is a good place to come and just say thank you, Lord. Thank you for saving my soul. Thank you for blessing me. Alter's a good place to do that. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed on