Say is we're looking at the life of King David. He's not king yet, and uh King Saul is still on the throne and uh is beginning to wreak havoc in David's life. Look at verse number 12 we'll begin reading. 1 Samuel 18. And uh notice what it says, and it says Saul was afraid of David, and because the Lord was with him and was departed from Saul. Therefore, Saul removed him from him and made him his captain over a thousand. And he went out and came in before the people. That was David, went out and came in before the people. And David behaved himself what Wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. Wherefore, when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him But all of Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and came in before them. I've titled this passage here, David's Wise Behavior. So let's pray. And uh maybe the Lord will speak to our hearts tonight, teach us something from this. Father in heaven, we ask that you would help us in our Christian lives. You told us that all of the scripture is given uh for our uh instruction and help. You said these Old Testament passages were given to us as examples, so I pray that we would be stronger Christians. We could learn some principles from this. to strengthen our faith and our walk with you. I ask, Father, as I always do, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, whether there's a few or there's many here, we pray that your presence will be would be here and that we benefit from our time in your word. Speak through me, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. King Saul Has uh all but declared war on David. If you remember last time we looked at this, the previous passages, uh the evil spirit from the Lord came upon King Saul. The Bible said he prophesied. And David played to um kind of calm him down and run that spirit off. And what did King Saul end up doing? Who remembers? King Saul, when David was playing, he did it twice. He threw the javelin at him. He tried it. It was attempted murder But David escaped out from his hand twice, and so Saul has, what I'm saying is Saul has all but declared war on David. It's very, very obvious uh Saul's thoughts towards Davis, uh towards David. Um it's interesting to me is he hasn't declared war on the Philistines who are actually Israel's enemies. He hasn't declared war on the Amalekites who really are their enemies and want to annihilate the nation of Israel. The Philistines want to eradicate the Jews and the nation of Israel. And Saul is not concerned about these actual, real, legitimate enemies. He's obsessed with probably his greatest ally that he has. And he's out to destroy him. You know, it's kind of funny how we can get so bent out of shape and we can get so out of sorts with the Lord and with others, we start seeing those who are actually on our side as our enemies And those who are actually our enemies, we just ignore them and not think much of it. I've seen Christians go at it towards each other. And yet they fail to see the devil wreaking havoc in the world and the flesh wreaking habit out there, but they get out of sorts with a brother or sister in Christ. And they fail they fail to realize who the real enemy is. So it's a tragic thing that is happening to King Saul. His animosity towards David has boiled over, and it's active hostility now Sunday morning we preached on this, and uh and it's true, it's scriptural principle that whatever is in my heart and mind eventually is going to come out in my actions and my words. And this attitude that Saul had towards David had been boiling there. We've been reading it for several passages here leading up to this. And uh now it is full bloom. Uh my first point here in verse number 12, you if you follow on the outline, um And those that are listening at home, you will be required to turn in these outlines when you get here to church. Number one, first point is this. I want us to notice King Saul's fear. In verse number 12, and again in verse number 15, King Saul's fear. Look at verse 12. It says, And Saul was afraid of David Because the Lord was with him and was departed from Saul. Then come down to verse number fifteen. It says wherefore, when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, He was afraid of him. From this point on, as we get into the following passages and we follow the life of David and his interaction with King Saul, we're going to see that fear has become a major factor in King Saul's life. In fact, he's almost characterized by it, uh his fear, and his fear particularly of David Now it's interesting in verse number 12, the word fear there in verse number 12 means initially what you think it would mean, to be afraid of something. But as I got looking how it's used and the further definition on it, it's an interesting statement here. It says Saul was afraid of David. The word afraid there means, as I said, to be afraid of But it's translated several places in the Bible, exact same word, it's translated to stand in awe of And it actually is translated several times to be in reverence for. It expresses our reverence for God. And so when it says here that Saul was afraid of David, he was more than just a cowering scared, uh, skiered of uh of King Saul. It was um, this was my definition. Look at them all, I came up with this definition, an intimidating respect for David. And I think it gives us a little insight in Saul's frame of mind. He saw in David, I'm convinced of this, that King Saul saw in the life of David and the behavior and actions of David, he saw what he knew he should be. He saw what he knew God expected and desired of a man in his position, and he simultaneously had a fear of David, yet simultaneously had a tremendous reverence and respect for him. It seems almost like a contradiction there. But nevertheless, that's the case. Then you come down in verse 15, he uses the word fear again. That's a different word. And that one means what we think of fear to mean as to dread or to cower before One of the definitions said this to view as a threat. And so King Saul saw David's actions, he saw David's behavior, he saw several factors that were true about David. And he had tremendous respect for him. He had tremendous even all for David, but simultaneously he viewed David as a threat to him. And so, uh, what was it? Now we look at this, they say, what was it about David that Saul was so fearful of? Why did he respond this way? Well, the Bible tells us. Look at verse 12. And Saul was afraid of David. Why are you afraid of David, Saul? Well, because what? The Lord was with them. The Lord was with David. I put it this way: one of the reasons Saul was afraid of David was because the attendance of the Lord's presence in David's life. In other words. God was present in David's life, and it was evident. Do you ever get around somebody and you just sense the presence of the Lord? There, do you ever been that way? You just kind of sense, man, uh we we put it this way, man, God's all over that guy. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever go to a church service or somewhere and you say, man, God was in that. God was there. You could just sense it. I think that's the way it was with David and Saul. Sense that God is with this guy. God's hand is on this man. God is present with this guy. And that's a strange thing that Saul would be afraid of somebody that is living in the presence of God. Why would that be a threat to him? Why would he be afraid of that? Um in fact that would be a good thing for King Saul, to have the guy, his chief of staff, so to speak. To have the presence of God all over him, it looks like that would be a very good thing. There's no reason for King Saul to be afraid of him. Saul's the king. David is a servant. Why would you be fearful of your servant? I put this down. I got looking at this and got thinking about it. Fear is not always caused because there's an actual threat. Sometimes people are afraid, and there's really no threat there at all. Fear many times, I want to suggest to you, fear many times, is simply the result of faulty thinking. The result of misperception in my mind of what reality is, uh a wrong perspective on things. Sometimes fear is a result, not because there's any real threat to me, but because of my poor spiritual condition, my weak faith My poor walk with God, and I see things that are actually good for me, I see them as a threat to me. And what a tragedy that King Saul was fearful. of um of a fellow that was actually going to be good for him. And so sometimes fear is not always caused by an actual threat, but it's a result of my own flawed thinking. Did you ever did you ever get something in your head and man you get worrying about that? And then you get upset about it and you're scared to. Then a little bit later you find out more about it. Oh, it was nothing at all. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'll tell you what happens to me. This is a little bit of insight into preacherness, pastorate. Somebody comes up and they always do it before service. They come up and say, Pastor, I have got to talk to you. And uh me being the fearless pastor that I am, uh, it's like, oh no. And then so the whole time I'm sitting on the platform, oh, what are they upset about? I'm gonna get chewed at, what is it, what is it? I'm trying to preach, you know, and not worry. And then I get afterward and they say, Oh, we just want to tell you we're gonna up our giving to make promise for this There was no threat. There was nothing there to be worried about. But because of my mind, my thinking, I get myself worked up. Now I know y'all never do that about anything. But um uh that's what's happening here. Saul, this is no threat, Saul. God's presence in the life of your uh one of your servants, your chief of staff, is a good thing, but he didn't see it that way because of his spiritual condition He saw that as a threat and made him afraid. A second reason, now this is a little bit more legitimate. Look at verse 12. It says, and Saul was afraid of David, one, because the Lord was with David. All right, that's not nothing to be afraid of. That's foolish. However, look at the next reason he was afraid. Well, what was the next reason? Because what What was it? Come on, you can talk. There's hardly anybody here. The Lord had departed from Saul. I tell you, that's something to be worried about. That's a serious condition. The word departed there means this, to withdraw from. To remove myself from, and this is what caught my attention in the definition. It means to separate myself from. That's interesting. There's a doctrine in Scripture, I call it the most neglected doctrine in all scripture, and it's this, the doctrine of separation. Personal separation and ecclesiastical separation. Now, it's it's group involvement night So when I talk about, when a preacher preaches on separation or we reference the doctrine of separation, what are we talking about? Somebody help me. What does that mean? A personal separation. All right, separation from the world from sinful things. I'm not going to associate with that. I'm going to keep my distance away from that. you know, certain movies maybe, or certain places I'm not going to go there, certain things I'm not going to do. I separate myself from. Then there is, the Bible teaches what we call ecclesiastical separation. Whoa. Ecclesiastical separation. Anybody want to take a shot? What is that? Separation, not just on a personal level, but on a What? Church level. Ecclesiastical separation is a church. We are an independent Baptist church That's very significant. That's very important. That's a whole nother subject. But what we talk about ecclesiastical separation is that as a church body, we stay away from certain liberal things. Certain liberal organizations, certain things that wouldn't line up with Scripture, and we say, all right, we're not going to, as a church, we're going to keep our distance from that. We're going to be very careful about that. And so there's two very strong teachings in Scripture that are very neglected, I think, in our day and age. Number one, personal separation, keeping my body and testimony clean and pure and not getting involved in stuff that ain't right. And as a church, keeping ourselves right and staying straight and not getting involved in things that are not scriptural. But there's a separation I see here that I really, to be honest with you, I've not given much thought to before. And that is this, God's separation from a person. God is separating himself from King Saul. Just like you and I would say, you know, I'm not going to go to that party Saturday night. They got rock and roll and dancing and drinking and carrying on. I'm going to separate myself from that. I'm going to keep my distance from that If we understand that. But here you have an instance where Saul is such an attitude and such a frame of mind and such a condition that God says, I'm going to keep my distance from King Saul. And God separated himself from him. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible where God did that? There's several other instances. Was it? Samson is who I thought of. Remember, he's horsing around with Delilah, and uh she goes, Where's your s where's the secret of your strength at? And you know, what was the first one he said? He said, if you tie my hair and weave it, weave it, I think. I don't know if that was the first one. He gave a various things to do, which were all baloney. And she does it. And then the Philistines are on you and he just shakes it off and you tie me up with new ropes, he breaks them like they're butter. Remember that all that? I don't know about you, but Samson wasn't the smartest guy in the world in my mind. Looks like after two or three times of her actually doing what he said, you'd catch on. So finally he tells her, if you cut my hair, my strength will be gone. And so she does it. She gets some guys to do it. She didn't actually cut it herself. And um she goes, the Philistines are on you. And he got up and shook himself as before, and the Bible says he wished not that the Lord had departed from him. He didn't know God had separated himself from him. I tell you what, that's a terrible thing when God says, I don't want to be associated with this with you. I'm departing from you. I don't want to interact with you. Now, we live in the New Testament. We are in a little different setting here where now we have the Holy Spirit indwelling us and God has assured us the Holy Spirit will never leave a New Testament believer. We are secured, we're saved. However God can, and there are some instances where God says, I'm going to take my hand, the blessing off you, I'm going to remove my uh Because of hardness and sin and rebellion. I'm going to remove myself here. Read Romans chapter 1. It says three times God gave them over. God gave them over. If we had time we'd look at that. But God says because of their behavior, says they weren't thankful and all these various things and got into such horrendous sin, God says, all right, I'm giving you over, I'm removing my hands. Now he If they're a genuine believer, God will never totally forsake them. But God says, all right, you're on your own. You want to live that way? I'm going to let you go, whatever the consequences are. Paul said, he says, I'm fearful, and I'm not quoting this exactly right, but in Corinthians he says, I'm fearful that I become a castaway. And God just sets me aside. And God says, all right, I'm done with him. I'm not going to interact. And Paul said he's very, very fearful of that happening. And so Saul, King Saul sees David, and the presence of God is all over David. David is is filled with the presence of God in a very obvious way. And boy, King Saul is intimidated by that and he has he respects it, but because of his own condition, the Lord had left him That brought great fear into his own heart and mind. Oh, also the other instance I thought of was Genesis' flood. And God says, I wished I hadn't even made them, and God just floods the whole earth. And he says, I'm done. I'm done. And so uh that's a legitimate fear. So Saul is overcome with fear. It characterizes really the rest of his life At least his interaction with David, you you pick up more and more his intimidation around David because God's presence is on David, and God's presence is not on the life of King Saul. But there's a third reason I notice why King Saul was fearful. Come down, if you would, to verse 15. And notice it says, Wherefore when Saul saw that he, David, behaved himself very wisely, He was afraid. He was afraid. Now here's the thing. This isn't a legitimate fear in my mind, anyway. God's presence, let's suppose, just for sake of illustration, let's suppose I'm King Saul, I'm Pastor Lemon, this is uh Brother Heinball. Let's say I'm out of sorts with God and I'm not walking with God And I got a guy in my church that's walking with God and loves the Lord, that would be a good thing, right? That would help me. That somebody that's acting wisely is filled with the Spirit of God, and here I'm not everything I should be. And in my mind I ought to welcome that. I ought to say, yes, this is good. I want you here. We need you. This will help us. But King Saul's comes so out of whack. That his he's he's more fearful of David being intimidating to him because of David's behavior than uh he is of his own well-being. King David being filled with the presence of God and being wise in his action was no threat to him whatsoever at all The presence of God and wise actions would be of great value to the well-being of the nation. And my thinking is if If I'm the king of a nation and somebody's going to make my nation stronger and secure, that's good for me as king, right? And so this fear is illegitimate because David is behaving himself wisely. As I was studying this, I thought of years ago there was a fellow He's coming to church here. Uh he was saved. He had made a profession of faith and was living for the Lord somewhat. His wife was unsaved And man, he would pray and pray, he'd be at the altar, and he'd come to me, Pastor, my wife, he'd say her name, she needs to be saved, she need to be saved, and we'd visit her in different things. And finally, I think it was my wife, this was many years ago. My wife went and visited her, and uh she was somewhat religious, believed in God. My wife went through the gospel, she goes, nobody ever showed me from the Bible what the gospel is, how to get saved. She goes, I always thought I was And so she trusted Christ and boom, her life has changed. Now here's the interesting thing. She gets on fire for God She's coming out to everything. She's going soul winning. She's getting rid of garbage in the house, spiritual garbage. She's cleaning things up. She's changed, her life has changed. Now here the husband, he was a carnal Christian at best. He wanted his wife to get saved, but he didn't want her to sell out for the Lord. It wasn't, and all of a sudden she became a threat to him. Because she got saved, became a stronger Christian than he was. Now my thinking is he ought to be glad that he's got a good, saved, spiritual wife that loves the Lord. But rather than seeing it that way, suddenly she became a threat to him. And that said, I'm telling you, we can get so out of whack in our thinking that that which is good for us we think is bad And that which is bad for us we think is good. And so that's where King Saul is. So he's fearful. He's fearful. Let me try and give my outline to you. Number two, this is my second one tonight. I see King Saul's foolishness. First of all, was his fear. Now look at his foolishness. Let me try and go through this real quickly. Verse 13, the first part. Because he was afraid that the Lord was with David and departed from him, and David's acting wisely, he's afraid. Verse 13, therefore, because of his fear, therefore Saul removed him, David, from him. Saul got, said, I don't want David around me. So he dismissed him from his Staff position, I'm calling him chief of staff, I don't know if it's accurate. And he puts them out on the field. He makes him a field captain. He made him his captain over a thousand soldiers. So he's putting them out on the battlefield now, rather than being there on staff with him, uh he puts him out as a field general, I guess you would call it. I don't know. Now, one, I think that is a foolish move politically. Let's just put aside everything else. Let's just look at this politically. David was good for the king. He's wise. He's defeating their enemies in ways they've never seen before. The most powerful weapon of mass destruction, David has completely defused it, King Goliath. This is a good guy politically. If you're just going to look at it from a political standpoint, the kingdom was stronger and more secure because of David's position and David's influence. Now what King Saul could have done, this is leathermanism here in my thinking, what I think he should have done, if I was an advisor The King Saul. I would have said, King Saul, keep David here. He can be your brain trust. Does anybody know what a brain trust is? You ever hear that term? A brain trust. What it is, I didn't know either, I looked it up. A brain trust, actually I knew somewhat what it was, but it means this: it is a behind-the-scenes advisor. In other words, it's somebody to the king or the president, and they will give advice, and they'll counsel them in good ways. And then the king comes out and says, I'm making an announcement, a decree, we're going to do this. And everybody says, that's ingenious. Man, this king is so smart. He is so wise. And really, he got it from his Reagan Trust, his advisor that's behind the scenes. That's a lot of what uh uh I think it was President Reagan made the statement back years ago. He says, I don't know a lot about it uh said I don't know a lot about everything He says, but I know to pick people who know a lot about these areas. That's tremendous leadership. Say, listen, I don't know anything about that, but I'm going to get somebody that does. And that makes the lead, that's good for the leader. And so for him to push David out of his advisory council pushed David out away from him in my mind politically was foolish, but not only that, it was foolish because it backfired personally. Look with me if you would at verse 16. Alright, so Dow David bef before he's in the court, he's in the uh the administration, he's on the board here, he's not out with the people so much. Now he's out with the people, he's going in and out among the people. The population is seeing him. The public is hearing him and seeing his actions and interacting with him. And look what happens. Look at verse 16. But all Israel and Judah, what? They loved him. Why? Because he went out and came in before them. Huh Now David's more visible to the nation, and they are falling in love with David. They already love him because he's a hero. He killed Goliath But now they're seeing them and they're absolutely loving them. And what I think is happening here is the contrast between between King Saul's condition and frame of mind, and David's character and integrity and wisdom is becoming more and more pronounced in the eyes of the nation. And they are seeing the difference between these two guys, and their hearts and their minds and their loyalty and their respect is coming over to David, and they're seeing more at King Saul, and it backfired on him Now this is my opinion. I think he should have kept David there on board close by, listened to him, took his advice, and used that to help his leadership, but he didn't do it. All right, let me real quickly give you the last thought here. Number three, David's foresight. Look at verse 13 I like this. This is what I was wanting to get to. Therefore Saul removed him from him and made him his captain over a thousand, put him out in the field. And he, David, went out and came in before the people I use the word foresight. It means this, to ability to look beyond the here and now. The ability to see the consequences of my actions. David was a, he saw what was happening. He says, all right, how should I respond to this in such a way that it's going to be good down the road, that the consequences of this are going to be good? Should he retaliate? Should he cut and run? How should I act? The first thing I notice he does that is good foresight is he stays persistent. He stayed the course. Notice it says he went out and came in before the people. He just did his duty. Just did what he was supposed to do. Kept doing what was right. Kept doing what he was supposed to do. Regardless of what King Saul did or didn't do, he just stayed at it. Number of years ago, I got a call from a missionary. And um He said, I uh can you he says I'm not sure what to do. Can you help me? I said, I'll try. He says, I've got a guy, um, and he's harassing our church. He's claiming to be another Christian, he's in another country He's harassing our church. He's made threats to me. Um He sits outside our church and uh and you know when people leave he'll go tell them not to come to our church. And I said He said he's just uh he's threatening us, he's harassing us, he's interfering with our ministry, and he said this, he said, what should I do? He said, should I move to another area, another town? Should I just, you know, can I should I pack up and quit here and maybe go somewhere else? And I said, I don't know, I'm not there. I don't know all the details, but my first thought is this. I think you'll just stay the course. Just keep preaching, just keep winning souls. You have a church. I said, you do right You pray and you preach and you win people to Christ, sooner or later your people will see the difference between what he is and what you are, and he will no longer be the threat. And so that's what he did. And he said he just stayed there. And he tried to ignore it best he could. If he had to, he'd deal with it. But uh he just kept preaching it. And you know what? He has a tremendous ministry now. He's influencing all kinds of people Just because he stayed the course, stayed the course. So I see David has foresight and he says, I'm just going to keep doing what's right. I'm just going to do what my duty is and stay at it and stay at it. And then he's prudent. This is what I get from verse 14. David behaved himself wisely. That means to act skillfully, wisely, to be prudent, to behave in a way that brings about blessings. Now this is the lesson I take away from this. David did not allow Saul's terrible spiritual condition To degrade his own spiritual condition. Just because Saul was acting foolishly, David said, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to keep acting wisely. Saul was behaving foolishly. David said, I'm going to behave widely, regardless of the spiritual condition of those around me. I must maintain my walk with God. If everybody around me is making foolish decisions, I must be very, very careful to maintain my wisdom and make wise decisions. You say, preacher, my boss is hateful and he's stupid and he treats us wrong. So I'm going to start, I'm going to steal stuff. I'm going to take stuff home. He treats us that way, then I have a right to do this. No, it doesn't matter how wrong someone else is, isn't right for me to do wrong. I still got to behave myself wisely. I still got to go on. Say, oh my spouse isn't all this, my husband is that, or my wife is this. Listen, doesn't matter what those around us are and must not allow that to interfere with my walk with God and my uh my actions I must maintain myself, behave myself wisely. I think a key element in victorious Christian living, key element in being a disciple of Christ is this, um doing right when others are doing wrong. It's a disciple. Jesus said, I keep referencing this, but Jesus said, bless those that curse you. Do good to those who Despiteful of you. Pray for those that revile you. And what is he saying? He says, you behave yourself wisely when others are acting foolishly. You do right when everyone else is doing wrong, and maybe it's somebody close, something you can't get out of it, you cannot separate yourself from. You just behave yourself wisely when the rest of the world is acting foolishly. I like what Bob Jones Sr. , what he the way he put it. He said, do right till the stars fall. Just stay at it. Just stay at it. Just stay at it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that maybe these thoughts from David's experience here would help us to stay the course and stay faithful and think things through and act wisely and behave wisely. Pray you'd help us to associate and see in others your hand and your presence and not drive that away, but be attracted to that. And help make uh use that to help us grow and be more what you would have us to be. So I thank you for David's faithfulness. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.