Chapter 17, we're back out on the battlefield. And uh we're looking at David and Goliath. And this thing uh I I didn't imagine this battle really lasted four months. But uh it is on our study. And I don't know about you, but I am thoroughly enjoying this. I hope uh I hope we're getting something out of this. I'll see if I'm t am I turned on, Dave? There we go. Am I right? Okay And uh we're gonna I'm gonna begin reading. We've already started this section, uh but where I want to begin at, I believe, well tell you what, I'll read the whole section. Let me I'm going to start reading in verse 40. I'm going to read down through verse 47. And we're aware of what's been going on here. David has showed up on the battlefield at the obstruction of his father, not to engage in battle. He's simply delivering some snacks and refreshments for his brothers who are in the army. And um uh he has no idea, I don't believe what was going on. He shows up And lo and behold, this giant is out there, and he's defying the nation of Israel, he's defying the armies of Israel, he's defying God, he's blasphemy God, and David gets stirred up about that. Anybody here ever God heard somebody use God's name and it stirs you up a little bit? You get you get stirred up about that. Well that's the way David is And uh the more the Israeli army does nothing, the more stirred up David gets. And uh and so he gets out there and he has this introduction to Goliath And then he's going around, like I said, he got all stirred up. And then we have where David Saul gives David a commission. He goes, all right, go out and get him. The Lord be with you. And now we have David is actually engaging Goliath. Now this is what it's all been coming to. David is engaging Goliath. Look at verse number 40 with me. And like I said, I'm going to read down through verse 47. And he, David, took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had, even in a script. And his fling was in his hand, and he drew near the Philistine. And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David. And the man that bare the shield went before him. And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth and ruddy, and of fair countenance And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest out to me with stabs? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said unto David, Come unto me, I'll give thy flesh to the fowl of the air and to the beast of the field. Then David then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a spear with a sword and with a spear and with a shield. I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. And this day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcass And I will give the carcass of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls. Notice he doesn't just say, I'm going to give your carcass. He says, I'm going to give the whole army's carcasses. He says, all y'all are dead me. And to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. Wow Isn't that an incredible statement? Incredible conflict here. And so let's pray and we're going to look at this. David engaging Goliath. Father, I ask you to bless now. Or study this passage again. I pray, as I always do, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit. I pray that it would be more than just a time looking in the Bible, but Lord, I pray it would be something where your word uh by your Holy Spirit is applied to our lives and our attitudes and our behavior, our perspective on life has changed, and we get a heavenly perspective. So again, Lord, I present my body to you. I yield my will, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me, Lord, and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I do want to ask if you would, any phones or anything like that, that we put them aside just for the time of study of God's Word, whatever is going on in the Twitter world I'm sure can wait till after our study time. Amen? Amen. Alright, we noticed last time we were in this, we noticed David had an arsenal. He's facing Goliath, he's engaging Goliath. And the first thing he does, he gets his arsenal together, and we said that it was a peculiar arsenal. This isn't the type of weapons and uh armor that uh average soldier is going to take out into battle He gets his stones, he gets his staff, his shepherd's staff there. Uh he picks up five stones. He's got a little backpack type thing, satchel type thing, he puts it in there, and he got his he has his sling So it's a very peculiar arsenal. But however, for David it was a proven arsenal. And the point there we tried to apply to that was this. God uses us In our own unique ways. I don't have to be like Chester for God to use me, and Chester doesn't have to be like me for God to use him. We each have our particular areas that God has blessed us, God has developed us in, and we use that along those lines. So uh you have uh Uh David's arsenal he picks up. Now what I want to get to tonight is this. I want to notice David's approach to Goliath. And that's where we pick it up in verse number four, the second half of verse number 40. He says this, the last part there, and it says, um, and he drew near to the Philistine. Now I thought this was interesting on picturing this in my mind. You got the two hillsides, you got this ravine in between here. And um Uh David comes out and he's drawing nigh to the Philistine. Apparently, if you if you notice real co closely when we were reading that Goliath isn't out there yet. My impression in reading this is David gets out onto this valley first, and then Goliath comes out. And they approach each other and they give these little speeches. And as I got looking at this and doing a little research on this, apparently this was kind of a custom back in the day When uh two armies were facing each other, they would, before they actually engaged in the battle, they would put on this show. And uh did you ever read through the Bible this little statement? In fact, I think it was earlier in this chapter, it's a little statement that says, they put the battle in array. Anybody ever remember reading that through there? They put the battle in array. Now what does that mean? If you'll notice when it's used, most of the time when it's used, they're not actually fighting. There's one military, the Philistines are over here, the Israelites are over here, and it says they put the battle in array. This is the way I understand it, that I may be misunderstanding what they're saying, but this is My impression what's happening. They holler, they yell, they slam their spears against their shields, and they make a big noise and they go on and go on, but they don't actually do anything They're putting the battle in array. And it sounds like this big thing. And it was kind of a custom of the day where they would put on this big show and they'd strut around a little bit. And um uh and uh they put the battle in array. And I kind of think it's a little bit did you ever see a news clip of North Korea or some of these countries, Iran And a lot of times when there's a lot of tension going on between the countries, they'll put on a military parade Anybody ever see that? And man, they'll bring the big guns out, you know, and they'll march by and the and the the devoted leader is up there and boy they're all doing their high step and putting on this big show. And I think it's a little bit of the mentality of what went on back in the day. They're just trying to intimidate the enemies. They're trying to show how great we are. And I think in the back of the mind is this. If I put on a big enough show and intimidate the not them enough, I don't have to fight them We can just scare them away and we won't have to engage them. I don't think that's necessarily the case here, but that is kind of what's happening. They're putting on this big show, and then they would go and make these intimidating speeches. And they would yell to the enemy, Oh, you're just a knucklehead, your mother wears army boots, you guys are, you know, and they'd say this stuff back and forth to each other before they ever even engaged each other And we see a little bit of that going on here. A little bit of that. We won't take time to turn there, but you see a lot of that in 2 Kings 18, where Sennacherib is attacking Hezekiah. He's attacking Jerusalem. And um he's out there, he puts this big battlement around the city of Jerusalem, and he starts yelling stuff into them, how terrible he's going to destroy them, and how God can't take care of them, and none of the other gods were able to uh uh to defeat Sennacherib and and he just goes on and on and on. He's running his mouth. Well we see that. I said that to say this. We see a little bit of that there. And my first thought under this passage, verse 40 to 44, we have um uh we have David and Goliath are posturing themselves. So to speak, for the battle. They're posturing themselves. Notice again, now we're going to look at this and go through here in a little detail. Verse 40, the last part, and it says, And he, David, drew near to the Philistine. Now I looked up that phrase drew near, word it comes from and how it's used, and it's really a It's an interesting phrase. The word it comes from is very, very interesting. It means this. It means literally to get intimately close to someone. Intimately close to them. And it's used in various applications. And so David is getting out here, and he's not just coming out to the general area where Goliath was He is getting very, very close up against Goliath. Now what's he doing? Why would this little kid basically with Really not non-legitimate weapons. Why would he get up so close? I mean get up there uncomfortably close, he's getting up to the Goliath. That's the implication that he drew near. He's pressing himself up on him. I think it's this. I think David knew exactly what his plan was. I think David already had a strategy in his mind. About how this thing was going to play out. David is getting himself into position. He had a plan of attack. Would you agree with me? David's a tremendous man of faith. Right or wrong? The very fact he's gone out there is a challenge to my faith, that he has such confidence in God. He's going out there. However, living by faith and serving God by faith does not mean we don't have a plan. Living by faith and trusting God does not mean that we don't make preparation Apparently, I am convinced David had thought this thing through while all this was going on. He was looking out there, and he knew exactly what he was going to do. He knew exactly what position he had to get into. He knew exactly what his maneuvering was going to be. He was trusting God. And if you notice what he said, God's going to deliver you to me But he had it all planned out. He had everything in place. He knew exactly what his plan of attack was. Now the challenge to me is this. I'm going to trust God. We need to learn to trust God. But we need to also prepare ourselves. For what the Lord's going to do. I heard a preacher years ago say God called him to preach. And he thought, and he always heard preachers say, you know, God gave me this message. You know, God spoke to me and this is what God had me to preach. And so he thought you just stand up there and God gives you a message and you preach it. So he didn't study, he didn't prepare, he didn't do anything. He got up there, he said it was the shortest message he ever preached in his life. Now, do you agree with me? A preacher ought to trust God. Right? A preacher ought to be yielded to the Lord, let the Lord speak. But a preacher also needs to prepare. For what the Lord's going to do. And same thing for the mission field. God calls a young man to be a preacher. God calls a young man to be a missionary. Well, just get up and go. No, there needs to be preparation There needs to be preparation. So I think it's interesting when it says here that David drew near. He knew exactly what he was doing. He's getting into a position that probably Um you know, other soldiers might not have done, certainly would not have expected that. But he knew his he knew what he was doing. He had a plan. Then in verse number 41, notice what it says And the Philistine came on. All right, David's out there, he's approaching him. The Philistine came on, and what did he do? He drew near to David. Now I thought, well, these guys are going to bump into each other. And I got looking up the phrase there, completely different word it comes from. Completely different phrase. And the phrase there where it talks about Goliath, the Philistine, drawing near to David, it isn't him getting up uncomfortably close to him. It has this idea. It has this idea. This is my definition from looking at it. He's just kind of lumbering out there in the general direction where David was. He's just kind of heading out into that way. Now there's several reasons, I think, for that. One, I don't think he fully realized what was happening on the battlefield. He sees this little kid kind of coming out his way, but I don't think at this point Goliath comprehends that this little kid's coming out to fight him. And so he's just kind of making his way out. And do you notice there it says he had the guy that bore his shield in front of him? So they're just kind of lumbering their way out in the direction where David is, and probably out where Goliath was standing on a regular basis. And uh he really has no plan. He really has no uh strategy here. He's just kind of gone out. I put it this way, for Goliath this is just another day at the office. And so he's just walking out there. And so I see a couple things. You have David, he's coming out and he's positioning himself to get very close to Goliath. Goliath is just kind of lumbering out there, not even fully aware of what exactly is going down here. But I notice a couple things. I put this down under that. I notice a tremendous confidence on both sides I don't notice anything timid about either of these fellas. David is not intimidated by Goliath's size, and Goliath isn't intimidated by anything I don't sense any fear on the part of either of these. I don't notice any hesitation. But they have two very different tactics. David's tactic is this. I am going to trust God. That's my tactic. Now he has a plan, he's got a strategy, but his tactic is God's going to do this. God's going to whip this guy. God's going to get the victory here. I'll do my part. I'll do what I know to do. But my faith is in God. I'm telling you, the best tactic in the Christian life is the tactic of faith in God. That's the best thing. Just trust God. Oh, what am I going to do? I gotta do this. I gotta do that. No, no, no. Get a plan together. Fu you know, get counsel, get get uh principles from the word of God. But over all of that, trust in God. Trust in God. What was Goliath's tactic? David's tactic was he's trusting in God. Goliath's tactic was what? He's trusting in Goliath. And you notice that in his speech he gives here in a little bit. I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna do that. And uh Goliath was trusting in himself. Goliath was simply trying to intimidate his foe. There's a whole lot more going on here than what Goliath is seeing. Goliath sees a little kid. Goliath sees just this ridiculous situation. But there's a whole lot more happening. than what Goliath sees. And I'm telling you, we see that throughout Scripture. You have the unsaved world, and they look at the Christians and they look at the church. And uh, you know, we're just uh we're just uh uh uh they despise us and we're just nothing. Oh, they're just Christians They're just that. And they fail to see that behind the Christian movement, behind the Church of Jesus Christ, there is a power that this world does not understand. We see it all through Scripture. I was looking at in 2 Kings chapter 6, where, in fact, if you would, let me just turn there real quick. 2 Kings If you want to turn there and follow along with me, chapter 6. There's an interesting event. Let me get it here. I'll try and read it to you. And verse number 16. We have Elijah here, and Israel is under attack. And they're scared to death, and they're outnumbered, and they're outgunned, and I think if I remember the story correctly, they're surrounded. Syria is attacking. attacking them. And look at verse sixteen. And uh he answered and said, this is Elijah talking, he answered and said, Fear not, look at this statement. For they that be with us are more than they that be with them. And Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha. What was he saying here? He's saying there's a spiritual warfare that goes on in this world that the world has no idea about. And I'm I hate to say this, this was uh one of the people of God. Even the people of God, I don't think we fully realize The spiritual warfare that's happening all around us. There is a whole lot more to life than just what we see and hear There's a whole lot more to living life than just this physical. There is a spiritual world that is just as real as this physical world. And Goliath and so many in the world, and even God's people, the nation of Israel, there, failed to see that God was behind them. The power of God was available to them. And Goliath never saw that, never comprehended that. I remember the night I got saved leading up to it. Um I was saying I was watching TV, I was under conviction. And actually, I got in bed and I was laying there in bed under such conviction of my sin. I needed to be saved. And I would pray, many times leading up to this, I would pray, God, don't give up on me. Please don't give up on me. God help me and he deal with me, I need to get saved, and then I wouldn't, I go and do stuff, and I come back. God, please don't give up on me And this, you know, I don't say this a whole lot, um, because it could be easily misunderstood. And it wasn't an audible voice, but I'm telling you, as real as me talking now, I heard in my heart and soul, it was like I could hear the devil laughing. And he said, you will never get saved. And that scared me so bad. That immediately I slipped down on my knees and I called out to Christ and trusted in him as my Savior. I don't say that part a whole lot because people can get, you know, take that the seed. But I know this, behind the salvation of every soul, it's more than just somebody say verbalizing a little prayer. It is a spiritual warfare going on for the eternal destiny of that soul. And it grieves me sometimes to see folks, young and old, that just play with this matter of salvation and just toy around and horse around when the Word of God is being presented. And there is a spiritual warfare that goes on that we fully do not realize till we get to heaven how intense and real that thing really is. And Goliath had no clue what was about to go down for him. He's blaspheming God, and God's a joke, and the people of God are a joke. And he has no comprehension in the spiritual warfare that's going on and the spiritual power that's about to fall upon him. I tell you, it's a sobering thing. When we realize there's a lot more to life than just what I see and feel and hear, just what I think and what I what my thing. Man, there is a spiritual warfare. I'm convinced, now this is just me, I'm convinced that even right now there's spiritual beings in this building here, spiritual warfare is going for the victory of God's people and the salvation of the lost There's no doubt about it. And so Goliath comes up there and he has no clue what's taking place. I thought when I was reading this and studying this, I thought of 1 John 4. 4. Does anybody know what 1 John 4. 4 says? Greater is he that is in you than what? Than he that is in the world. The presence of God in David The power and presence of God upon David, though unseen to Goliath or anyone else there, is far greater than any muscles or weapons that Goliath could come up with. And so we had this tremendous confidence on both sides. Goliath's confidence, Goliath's confidence was a blind confidence just in himself. He had no comprehension of what he was up against. And you know, sometimes fools can be awfully confident. Do you ever notice that? Simply because they have no comprehension of what they're dealing with. Did you ever see these pickup trucks they got a little sticker in the back? No fear. No fear. Now I can't answer for them all. I'm not going to condemn them all, but that tells me that person's probably pretty foolish Because there are some things in life we ought to fear, and one of those is we ought to fear God. We ought to fear God. But they don't comprehend that. And so they're very, very confident in this blind confidence That is so foolish. Goliath never saw understood what was taking place. So you have this tremendous confidence on both sides, but then you have this tremendous contrast or disparity between these two. Here we have David. He's a small, from what it says here, he's a small fella. He's young. He's got these crude weapons, and he has no armor. So you got that on one side, and across there, now you have Goliath, the seasoned warrior. He's huge, he's skilled at what he does, and he's heavily armored I thought of this as I was looking, thinking of David and Goliath there. I thought of this: God's people are always outnumbered. There's always going to be more people at the rock concerts than there are at the church house. Huh? Hate to say it, but there's always going to be more people on Sunday nights at the movie theaters than there are in the church houses. We're always going to be outnumbered. We're always going to be outgunned by this old world. But I'm telling you, we will never be outblessed by what God does for us. We can never be defeated if we'll trust God. I wanted to go do the study on Gideon, but that would make this series 12 years instead of four. But isn't Gideon an amazing story? God says you got too many. They're going up against an army of 30,000 or more. And Gideon's got ten, and God says, no, you got too many. We've got to pare it down, pair it down. So he has how many? 300 soldiers. He goes, ah, perfect. You're outnumbered, you're outgunned, you're outpositioned, we got 'em exactly where we want 'em That's the way God works. And that encourages me as a pastor. That tells me our church doesn't have to be the biggest anything. We don't have to have the best of what this world is. You know what we need? We just need an unwavering faith in God. That God can get to victory. God can send revival. God can save souls. God can keep me saved. Power of God. And so we have this contrast here. Um we don't need greater weapons. You know, we're we're trying to build a building here and raise the funds, and I praise the Lord for it. We're coming along and praying and trusting God for this. And sometimes the thought comes, I wonder how many people ever thought this. Boy, if only we had some millionaires Did you ever think that? Boy, if only we had some millionaires. I'm telling you right now, I may have said this before. I'm telling you right now, if somebody came and said, Brother Leatherman, here's a million dollars I'm giving to you. By tomorrow I would know exactly where every dime would be spent. I've already got it all figured out in my head I'm afraid we don't need millionaires. What we need is faith in God. Faith in God. We've got the richest being in existence, is our Father. And so we just need to trust him and wait on him. And so David is so small against this guy that's so big. We don't need greater weapons. We don't need millionaires. What we do need is faith in God. So the first thing we have here, I notice as I'm studying down here. Uh the first thing I notice is we take they position themselves, they posture themselves for the attack. This attack is coming on, the tension is building. Then the next thing we find here is um they Goliath pronounces his disgust. Look with me if you would at uh verse number forty two He says, and when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him For he was but a youth, and rooty, and of fair countenance. And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. Uh Goliath gets out there, and the first thing I put this down for verse 42, he calculates the situation. He kind of lumbers his way out there, and his shield guy is carrying his thing in front of him, and he lumbers his way out there. And I picture it this way. He sees this little kid making his way up, getting closer and closer to him And it begins to survey the situation. Do you see what it says? And when the Philistine looked about, that phrase looked about means this: to scan the horizon. It has this idea to look very closely, to give consideration or to analyze what's taking place here. And so Goliath gets out there and he starts calculating what's going on. And I don't believe that up until this point Goliath knew anything about David. Everything we know about David in the situation has been going on behind the lines, has been going on in the background. Goliath doesn't know David exists. Gaia has no idea. Up until this point. And this guy comes running out to him. And it says when he saw David, he disdained him. That word disdain means this, to consider with scorn, to consider him to be worthless. He's like, what in the world is this? And actually, Goliath was insulted. He's been challenging them for 40 days. And you send a little kid out here with some rocks? He's dumbfounded He's insulted. He's disgusted. Notice what it says about David here. Now picture this in your mind. First thing is, and we noticed this a little earlier previously, but he says. For he was but a youth. And again, that word youth there is used in the Bible to describe anyone between being an infant and the age of adolescence. So we asked this before, what is the age of adolescence? Somebody's an adolescent. What age are they? Fifteen is what I thought. Fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, and that range there. They're adolescent. So David is a young kid, really. He's not an adult by any stretching imagination. He is not of age to be a soldier And so Goliath gets out there and he calculates the situation. He's looking around and he says, here's this kid, this adolescent. And notice how he describes him, for he was but a youth and ruddy. That phrase ruddy means this. He had red hair. I'm guessing by the way reason it's pointed out here is it was pretty red, red hair, Dorothy. And um Dorothy has red and uh I mean it stands out. Let me ask you a question. As far as what we know about Jewish folk, generally what color hair do Jewish folk have? Dark, black hair, Middle Eastern type thing, dark hair, olive skin This is unusual for a Jewish boy to have red hair. And so he's about 14, 15 years old, probably, just an adolescent. He comes running out. He's got red hair. Goliath is here. Seriously? You're sending this guy out? Then notice what it says. It gets more interesting. For he was youth and ruddy and of fair countenance Anybody want to take a shot? What do you think it means when it says he was of fair countenance? Okay, light skin is what you would think. But it's more than that. That phrase fair countenance has this idea. He was a little bit effeminate looking He was very attractive, but he at this point in his life he was of fair countenance. This is like, you know, this is a little effeminate, the guy is And he's got red hair, and he's just a kid. Everything about David insulted Goliath. He's um there's no doubt he's anticipating, he's thinking some great warrior of the Israeli army is gonna step out that's conquered thousands. And man, he's going to come and he's going to have a fight on his hands. He's totally confident he's going to take this guy out, the best of their best. I can handle him. And they send this kid with red hair and just a little, you know, he doesn't look like a whole lot And he starts questioning David. Look at verse 43 again. And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog? You send this little kid out here? Now dogs, as we noticed before, have no value in that society. They had no respect. I think what Goliath is saying when he says, Am I a dog? I think this is what he's saying in our lingo. Seriously? What do you think I am? That's what you think of me? Just send a little kid out here? Um everything about Goliath oozes of pride. Everything about him. And this was such an insult The Goliath, that David would come out here that age and uh and uh just this young red-haired little kid And it absolutely disgusted him. He was so proud. One of the chief characteristics of the devil was pride. One of the chief characteristics of the world is pride. Can I say this? One of the chief characteristics of our sinful flesh is what? Pride. That's our problem, isn't it? It's pride. And Goliath was certain, I deserve better than this. I deserve a greater challenge than this. I'm Goliath. I'm the champion. And this is what you're giving me? David and Israel are about to get a first hand object lesson on the failure of pride. They are about to see right before their very eyes the destruction of pride. And they're going to watch Goliath go down. And so he questions David. He he uh uh calculates the situation. He questions David. Are you, what am I, a dog? You're coming out here like this? Then he curses David. Again, verse 43. And he cursed David by his gods. The Philistines were perverse people. They were unbelievably wicked. And Goliath was their champion. And here he is. He represents the Philistines. He represents everything they are, their might, their power, and their filth. And the words and the statements coming out of his mouth are absolutely profane. It's the idea behind the idea that he cursed them. We preached on this Sunday morning. Filth, filthy language is characteristic of the world, not of the people of God. And the language coming out of Goliath's mouth, blaspheming God, and even his own gods, he's cursing in the name of his own gods. You know where a profane mouth comes from? A profane heart. A blasphemous mouth flows from a blasphemous heart. And Goliath had no reverence, not even for his own false gods. And then he condemns David. Look at verse 44 with me. And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the field. Come to me. He had no intention of running around chasing David down. You're going to fight me, you come over here. And um There was no doubt in Goliath's mind how this was going to turn out. But, as I said before, Goliath had no idea what he was up against. He had no idea what he was facing. This world mocks heaven and hell We talked about it Sunday. This world will take the reality of hell, and they'll use that word so trivially, and they'll mock the concept. And you can't even hardly go to the market or the store or gas station without hearing somebody telling somebody that they should go to hell. So flippantly. And like I was saying before, this world has no comprehension of the reality that they are mocking. And the reality that they despise. This world ridicules God in the Bible, and they have no idea. No idea. That this book, the Bible says that God honors his word above his own name, and yet the world just mocks us. I had a young man probably twenty years old. It was a number of years ago, and I mentioned it before. But I was sharing some scriptures with them, and it was a pretty serious setting we were in I was sharing some scriptures with us and said that uh I was going to read some verses and he says, I don't believe that Bible. I don't believe that's true. I said, really? I said, how did you come to the conclusion that the Bible's not true? What convinced you that God's word is not true? You know what he said? He said, I saw a show on TV one time and they said men wrote the Bible and it's not true. I said, you gotta be kidding me. You're rejecting the perfect word of God that's been proven for thousands of years because of some perverts and some infidels on a TV show Told you to believe that. I said, do you believe everything you see on TV? Well, no. And I thought, and I felt bad for the boy, and I've worked with him for a little while. I felt bad for the boy. That eternal truth, the realities of heaven and hell, God, judgment, blessings, joy, answered prayer, all that were just blown off. Because of some stupid TV show. And here you have Goliath blaspheme the God of Israel, and he is about to find out the reality of all of that. He had no idea. There's a whole lot more to life than what meets the eye. There's a whole lot more to the Christian life than what meets the eye. There are spiritual realities. And Goliath is going to find that out. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that this event and this small part of this event might challenge us. To take very, very seriously the teaching of the Word of God. Help us, Lord, take very, very seriously our walk with you, our standing before you. Not to be trivial or negligent. Of our spiritual walk. Lord, the resources you've given us to have victory over sin and to be a witness in this old sinful world are so great. Help us to avail of them. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher, I need to take my walk with God much more seriously. I need to give a little more attention to that and take that seriously. Is there any like that at all by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I need to take that more seriously. God bless you, young and old. I tell you it's important. Our witness. Sometimes we're afraid to witness. We're scared to share the gospel. We're intimidated by this world. And yet God says, greater is he that's in us. We have the power of God available, so we don't need to be intimidated. How many people would say, preacher, I need a greater boldness in my witness? A greater boldness as I confront this world. How many like that? God bless you. My hands raised. And we need to do that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. We're going to give a little imitation here without the piano. And maybe God spoke to your heart tonight. And maybe somebody want to find a place old-fashioned altering. Just say, Lord, help me to take this thing seriously. Lord, help me to walk with you and not be intimidated by this world or my own sin. Let's just sing softly as folks are coming, just as I am, ready altogether. Just as I am with Wantley But I blood was shed for me And as thou bids me come to thee old Of God I come. Now Father in heaven, I thank you for David's faith. I pray you'd help us to learn from that. Help us, Lord, to incorporate into our lives that confidence in trusting you and obeying you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. Ushers, if you would come on down. And uh take the offering up tonight. And I'm going to ask Ron if you would pray for the offering.