2 Samuel chapter 15 is where we're at. We're studying the life of David. And uh we are at a point in David's life. where it's probably one of the lowest points of his life, I would guess. Now he's had some valleys he's been through, and we're going to find some more Uh but he has of course he's um failed in the matter of Bathsheba and then with the murder of her husband Um it it it it has been devastated, devastating to David, his family and his personal life And so now at the point just to rehearse, it's been a little while we've been here, I think, but just to rehearse a little bit, now we're back We're at the point in his life where his son, his oldest son Absalom, is rebelling against David as king, not rebelling against him just as his father. Sometimes you have that in a family This is rebellion against the king of Israel. This is a coup d'etat that Absalom has uh put into place and is now carrying out Absalom has won the people over, uh, to him, the majority anyway, and uh they are rising up against David, and David is in the process of fleeing The city of Jerusalem. He's fleeing from his son, and that's what's going on now. We looked at this, but I want to read, to get us started tonight, I would like to read verses 19 Of 2 Samuel 15, verses 19 down through verse number 23. 2 Samuel 15, verse 19. It says, Then said the king to Atei the Gittite, Wherefore, goest thou also with us? Return to thy place and abide with the king. The king he's referring to there is Absalom, who's usurped the throne. Abide with the king, for thou art a stranger and also an exile. Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with me? With us, seeing I go whither I may, return thou and take back thy brethren. Mercy and truth be with thee. Now look at Atai's response. Now David's fleeing the city. There's a group of people going with him. Atai's in the group. Look how Atai responds to David's instructions to go back into the city. And Atai answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth, and as my Lord the King liveth, Surely in what place my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. Would you agree with me? That's quite a statement. It's quite a statement. David said to Atai, Go and pass over. And Atai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with him And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Hidrun, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness We're looking at David is on the run again. Let's pray. And I'll briefly review and then we'll pick up this section here. Father in heaven I thank you for the life of David, the most mentioned human being in the Bible, apart from the Lord Jesus. I pray that we can learn from his life, and particularly this event here Help us to learn to grow in our faith. Help us to trust you. Help us, Father, to be the Christians in our day that you've called us to be, as we learn principles from David's experience here. I ask that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. Present my body, Lord, and I ask with all my heart. That you would speak through me tonight and speak to each of our hearts and lives your word and apply it to our lives as you know we have need. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. As I said, David's at the lowest point, uh one of the low points of his life. It's a low point politically. This is probably the worst position David's been in as since he's been king, as far as politically is concerned. This is the only serious threat to his throat up to this point and beyond this. And so this is uh this is crises in the nation of Israel When their beloved king has failed, his testimony is severely stained, and now his son has driven him out of the palace And taking the throne for himself. So this is a low point for him politically, but I also want to suggest this is a low point for King David personally. I don't know any father in the world that likes the idea of a son rebelling against him. Now, some have had that. Some of us, maybe, some of y'all, some of us know what that's like. But that's a painful thing to have one of your children turn against you. And in this case, not just turn against them, but actually seeking to take his life. And so uh David is uh is pretty low. We suggested a few things. We looked at a few um uh previous thoughts. One, we looked at the departure of David and we got that in verse 13 and 14 and we won't go back looking all of it. But um I wondered we considered why did David flee instead of fight? Why didn't he stand his ground? It's the only time in all of David's life we find him running from somebody that's uh uh an enemy that's coming after him except with the exception of Saul. Of course he didn't attack Saul. So David didn't stand and fight. He rather he left the city. And we gave some suggestions there why he might have done that And then we noted in verse 15 through 18, the followers that David had, that they dedicated themselves to come out after him. Verse number 15, the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to go. Ready to do, whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint. And he had some pretty dedicated followers. And uh we offered some suggestions. Um about why they would be so committed to David. We offered some suggestions there. And then we made some observations about their commitment to Christ. Now we get to our text tonight. And we have this fellow Absalom. David has, or not Absalom, Atai. David has a significant number of people have remained loyal to him. And they are leaving their homes, they're leaving their jobs, they're packing their families up on the spur of the moment. I mean in one evening, they're packing up. And they're leaving their homes, leaving their jobs, and they're leaving city, and they're not really sure where they're going. All they know is they're going out in the wilderness somewhere, and they're following David That's a pretty significant level of commitment, right, on their part to do that. They're doing this voluntarily They're doing it for because of their love for David. So this large group of people are coming out. David's leading this, no doubt, and these people are with him. And I don't know exactly how it all plays out, but I picture in my mind, David is glancing around at the crowd of folks coming, they're crossing, they're getting ready to cross the brook kid drawn there, going out of the city, into the foothills there, around the city, and he glances over and he sees a fella. And he catches his attention. It's the spell of Tae. And he catches David's eye, and David addresses him. Notice in verse number 19 a few things about this fella, Atai, and that's how I'm pronouncing his name. But look verse number look at verse 19. Then said the king to Atai the Gittite. This is the first time we are introduced to this fellow. He's not mentioned previously in any of the life of David. He's not mentioned in the Bible up to this point. This is our introduction to Atai the Gittite. In fact, he's only mentioned briefly. Only six times is his name mentioned, and it's all in this context right here, in this event that's taking place right here. It's the only time he's mentioned all scripture It's only six times, and it's all surrounding David dealing with Absalom. And so he's, you could say to some extent, he's an obscure Character in the Bible. He's only mentioned briefly. Now here's where it gets a little interesting. Etai the Gittite is actually Not an Israelite, he's a Philistine. Now, somebody talk to me a little bit. What do we know in our study of David at least? What do we know about the Philistines? They were Israel's most bitter enemy. They were an ungodly people. I mean, it is hard for us To grasp the wickedness, the lifestyle, the society that the Philistines lived. Brutal, violent. Obscenely violent in many ways. He's a Philistine. The question comes up: how in the world Does a Philistine end up becoming a high-ranking member, officer in David's military? How in the world does that happen? And the biblical answer is we're not told. We don't know how it is. We speculate on a few things But however this happened, however this came about, David had tremendous respect and tremendous confidence in this man, Atai. Come over to chapter 18. Now this is where they're beginning to engage in combat his son Absalom. And uh he is me-Atei is mentioned here three times in chapter 18, and it tells us a little bit of David's David's thoughts about this guy, Atei, this Philistine, that is now a military leader in the army of Israel. Look in verse number two of chapter 18. And uh, well, let's look at verse 1. And David numbered the people that were with him, set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them. So he's getting his people organized. They're going to have to defend themselves, they're going to have to engage Absalom and the military there. So he's getting organized. Look at verse 2. And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab. Now we don't know how many he has, but it's a significant number. A third part is a pretty good responsibility, to be over a third part. So St. David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab. And a third part under the hand of Abishai, the son of Zariah, Joab's brother. And look at this. And a third part. And a third part under the hand of who? Atai a Gittite. Man, he's on the same authority level as Joab. He is a high-ranking military leader in David's put-together army here. Come down to verse number five, if you would. It's mentioned again. And the king commanded Joab and Abashai and a Tai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even Absalom. And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom. So here these three are listed together again. Come over to verse number 12, same chapter. And this is after they find Absalom. He's hanging from a tree. We'll look at this later on. But look at verse 12. It says the man said unto Joab, though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in my hand. Yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son, for in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishiah and Atei, saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom So here you have three times Atai, this former Philistine, is referenced as a high-ranking member of David's military. Some suggest, now I don't know, I don't know how you would prove or disprove this, but some people suggest that he may have been the son of the king of Gath. Anybody remember anything about Gath? A very famous, infamous fella came from Gath. Goliath. That's his hometown. Goliath had some brothers that were giants there, lived in Gath. Some have suggested that Atei was maybe the son of the king of Gath. That is where David, Gath is where David went when he was fleeing Saul, remember? He says, oh, I'm going to die someday by the hand of King Saul. So he defected in a sense. over to the Philistines. That's where he stayed. It's possible that David was introduced to a Tei while he was in Gath, hiding from King Saul. And he acted like he was with them. Remember how he was there and he'd acted like he was all for the Philistines now, and he'd go out and wipe out a bunch of their little towns, then he'd come back, oh yeah, I'm for you guys, and he'd go wipe out some more towns And so some suggest that maybe that's where Tei was introduced to David. We don't know. But whatever the case is, he's apparently a pretty brilliant man. He's quite a military leader, and David has a tremendous confidence in him. Again, the Philistines were exceptionally wicked. They were bitter enemies of Israel. They were continual enemies of Israel. The thing I think of when I think of the Philistines is just how relentless they were. They would come after Israel and Israel would defeat them. Short time later, they'd regroup, come back again. Israel would defeat them. Short time go by, they regroup, they come back again, just relentless Bitter, lifelong enemies of Israel and the people of God. Notice, come back here, chapter 15, if you would, and notice how David refers to Atai. He says, Wherefore goest thou also with us? And we'll talk about this here in just a bit, but I want to point it out here: return to thy place and abide with the king, the king of Gath. Or I'm sorry, king of Israel. Go back to Jerusalem and s and stay with uh Absalom. But look what he says. For thou art a what? Stranger and also an You know what that suggests? That suggests that Atai was a fugitive from his own people. And the idea is he probably fled his country. He probably fled his king for some reason, we don't know what it was But he's exiled from his home country. He's a stranger in the land he's at. And so many people take that and suggest that he was a fugitive from his own country. So we don't know. This is all we're told about at Tai. Just trying to put the pieces together and get a picture. I know one thing, he ended up being one of David's most loyal men. And um possibly he gave his life in the battle with Absalom because he's never mentioned again. After that, so we don't know what happened to him. Again, possibly lost his life in battle. We don't know So one thing I take away, just that's just some background here, one thing I take away is, you know, it's possible for a person to have a horrendous history. May have a terrible family growing up. May have awful circumstances in our past. But if we'll let God, He can still use us. He can take the worst of the worst. And God is a master. God is a master at taking that which is ugly and making it beautiful. And taking that which is dirty and making it clean. And taking that which is filled with hate and bitterness and anger. And cleaning that out and making it good and pure and holy. Our God is an amazing God. And we see in the life of a Tei, we don't know the details, we don't know all the circumstances, we speculate so much, but something changed. Something happened that prompted David, a man after God's own heart, to have tremendous confidence in this former Philistine. And that to me is an amazing thing. Now, I want to look at a few thoughts here. Let me give them to you real quickly. Here we have a Tai is committed. He's going to follow David. He's packing up his stuff. He mentions there his little ones. He's got his family, uh the little children, maybe extended family, his household. No doubt they've packed stuff up, they've got on wagons maybe, and they're coming out with David. And it's tell you I makes this phenomenal commitment to his kid And David, my first thought is this, I want us to notice David's concern about Atei's commitment. David's concerned about it. Look there in verse number 19. He expresses two concerns. I see two things David's concerned about. Number one, in verse number 19, he says, Wherefore goest thou also with us. Return to thy place, abide with the king, King Absalom. Go back there. He's king now. He says, for thou art a stranger and also an exile. He's concerned about his condition as a fugitive, as an exile. They're leaving the city. They're coming out in the wilderness here. Absalom, no doubt, is eventually going to be coming out after him. David knows that, understands. Listen, this isn't, this is going to get worse before it gets better. What would be a concern with Tai being a fugitive from the Philistines living outside the city with a ragtag army put together? Being pursued by Absalom, anybody think maybe the Philistines might take advantage of that situation and come after Atai? I think that's David's concern. He says, listen, you go on back in the city, you go on back, stay with Absalom. You're, and I'm maybe reading into this a little bit, but you're a whole lot safer there. Then you are out here in the wilderness with us. You've got not only Absalom coming after you, you've got the Philistines. They've maybe got you on a hit list You're maybe one of the top most wanted fugitives from the Philistines, from Gath. I don't know. But David expresses concern at the fact that he's an exile. And now he's run out of his new nation. And so David expresses, that's one concern I see. I see another concern in verse number 20. He says, Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with us? David's concerned that he showed up just so recently. Now, David says thou cameest but yesterday. I'm guessing here David's just using figurative of speech. I can't imagine he showed up yesterday, and he's already that high ranking in David's mind. So whether it was 24 hours before, which I'm skeptical of, I think David is speaking figuratively here. But whatever the case, he hasn't been there long. He's very, very new. He's very very recently here. Maybe he's still learning the ropes. Now here's David's concern. I don't think David was concerned about Absalom not being loyal to David. I don't think that was his concern. I think David was concerned for the well-being of Absalom, of atai. I don't think he was where I keep saying Absalom and Tei and getting them mixed up. Now if I say Absalom and it's supposed to be a Tei, in your mind, just say, all right, he's ate too many hot dogs. It's a Tei David wasn't worried about whether a Tei was going to do him any harm. I don't think that at all. I think David was concerned for a Tei. Listen, you're already run out of one country. Now you're leaving another one. This might not go well with you. And you just showed up here, you know, you're you're new. You know, go back. You go back, stay with Absalom. We'll trust the Lord. Eventually this will work out one way or another. And I don't know about you, but that just tells me, that just shows me a little bit of the heart of David Let me ask you this question. When everything's going bad for me, and I'm at the lowest, one of the lowest points of my life. What does our focus tend to turn on when we're in everything is bad for us? Us When when everything's going bad and everything's wrong, my son's turn against me, my job, so to speak, is in jeopardy, all these things, we get thinking about ourselves. But yet here I see David Even as he's fleeing for his life, I see David is concerned for Atei. I don't know about you, but I just have tremendous respect for David. So the first thing I noticed in this passage here is David's concern over Atai's commitment. Number two, I notice the chronology of Atai's commitment. And what I mean by that is this: the timing Kai makes this decision. No, I'm sticking with David. I'm loyal to David. And when does he make this decision? Well, he makes this decision when David was least popular. How many people here are familiar or ever heard of Gallup poles? Anyway, everybody, the Gallup poll says, if Gallup, whoever he is, I think he has a horse farm, I'm not sure. But whoever this gallop guy is, if he would have been alive back then and he would have taken a pole What's your opinion of King David? Positive or negative of scale 1 to 10, what's your opinion? I'm telling you, David would have had a very negative polling in that time in the country. He would have been what they call underwater. Uh his negative ratings would have been as low or maybe lower than our president's uh ratings right now. Keep your mouth shut, Pastor, don't say anything. If they'd have taken pole of Absalom And Gallup was there and say, what's your opinion of Absalom? He would have had a high rating. Oh, Absalom's awesome. He cares about us. He's going to take care of us. He's going to do all this. David, he's terrible. He's we don't like him. And here's a K-I that expresses loyalty To King David, even when he's the least popular that he ever is in his time as King of Israel That's a tremendous statement. That's a tremendous thought. And I got thinking about our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ And our commitment and our dedication to Jesus Christ. You know, some people are all for Christianity as long as it's cool. As long as it's popular. Boy, everybody, uh if everybody Christians, uh, as long as it's uh but I tell you, you have society take a turn against Christianity, you have society suddenly decide that Christians are the enemy of the state, and brothers, some people start dropping like flies. You follow what I'm saying? You know, some folks uh you know I want to go to church where the biggest crowd is Listen, there's nothing in the world wrong with crowds. I have some pastor friends of mine that have huge crowds, and they're as straight as an arrow. But the concern ought not to be how popular something is, the concern ought to be how true something is. And you and I are living in a day and age when the truth of God's word is becoming less and less popular all the time, especially in society. And my hat's off to Atai. He knew David for however he wears this and whatever his thinking was, it becomes obvious to me. He knew that David was God's man. David was the king. And he was going to be loyal to David. And he was going to follow David regardless of what his rating was with the Gallup pole. And so Absalom makes his commitment, or Absalom, Atai makes his commitment when David was at the least popular of his whole life. He was committed to David simply because of the character of David, not because of his popularity. And we need to get that way with the Lord Jesus Christ. If you'll study the Gospels carefully, You get around John chapter 6, not even halfway into the three and a half years ministry of Jesus Christ, but you read John chapter 6, and people start turning away from the Lord Jesus Christ. And people start leaving by the multitudes. He had tens of thousands following him. And he made a few hard sermons. He gave a few hard sermons and he made a few challenging statements. And the Bible says people started turning away. And he turned to his disciples and he asked them a question. He said, Will you go away also? Are you leaving me also? Are you going with the crowd? Are you following the polls? Are you letting society dictate to you what you're committed to? I like what Peter answered. He says, Whom shall we go? You're the one with the words of life. We have nowhere else to go. Who would we go to? You know, I've gotten to that point in my life a few times where I thought, you know, I'm just sticking with Jesus. Just sticking with Jesus. Old world can term. Years ago, early in the church here, we had uh there was a couple things, people, a few people a little upset, and one guy have a struggle and he says uh He said a few things. I said, brother, I said, if it's just you and me left in church, we're getting up Sunday morning, we're preaching, and we're just staying the course and going on. And that's the way a Tei was David was everybody for the I mean the vast majority I should say were turning against David. He said, David, I'm with you. So the timing of this commitment was when David was least popular. Telling you what we need in America today are Christians who are committed to Jesus Christ, whether it's cool or not. Whether it's popular or not, either Jesus is who he claims to be, and we need to be committed to him, or he's not, and we can walk away. Amen or not. And so atei, the timing I thought was interesting. Then I thought something else about the timing here, the chronology of his commitment. It's when David was least popular. And second of all, it was when he first came to know David. David said, you just showed up. He says just yesterday. And again, if he's being literal, that's even more incredible. But if he's being figurative, it's just recently you showed up here, and he already knew immediately. He just showed up and he knew immediately that is the man I'm going to follow. That is the king. He knew immediately David was somebody he could trust. He knew immediately David was somebody he could commit to, and he sold out to David right from the get-go. And again, I got thinking about our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what I think the best time is, you know, the best time to dedicate your life to the Lord Jesus Christ, best time to dedicate your life to the Lord Jesus Christ is right when you get saved. I've seen people get saved and they just kind of flounder along and play play a little bit and just Christianity is a little little game we play, little charades we put on. And then God finally gets a hold of them, and several years go by, and they say, All right, I'm selling out for the Lord now. And I'm glad they do that. But how much better, just right when you get saved, just say, I'm all out for Jesus Christ. Amen. That's why I think, that's why I think a person, when they get saved, they all get baptized right away. That's number one, that's how they did in the book of Acts. And number two, get out and say, Listen, I'm not ashamed. I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm buried with him I raised the walk, newness of life. I'm raising the banner. I want everybody to know I'm a disciple of Christ. That's what baptism is. Why put that thing off? Why put that off? Why put that off? We a fella. And he's a good guy. Um And uh he got saved years, this was years ago. He got saved and baptized, boy, he was excited about it, but he just played Christian. Does anybody know what I mean when I say play Christian? And just playing, showed up at church, you know, but it was just, uh, I tell you, got in some trouble with the law as a Christian. I tell you, God broke them. And he came and of his own free will, of his own volition, he said, I want to apologize to the church. He stood up in front of the church, told everybody, it was in the news, he told everybody, uh, I've been messing around, I've been playing, it's time to get serious. And he did. He got serious for the Lord, man. He started soul winning, started living for God. Went off to Arizona, worked in a bus ministry out there, a mechanic, and uh God got a hold of him. Would you agree with me? It'd been better do that right when he first got saved. Amen. I'm glad eventually did. Sometimes people get saved as a young person. They just horse around, horse around. Then kids show up and all of a sudden, whoop, I better get serious about this. I get a little older, or a doctor says, oh, we found some cancer. Whoop, I better get serious about this. Old Atai, bless his heart. He met David, he says, ah, there's a guy I can sell out to. There's a guy I can follow him. And we meet the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought to say, hey, there's a Savior I can commit to. There's a Lord I can serve. And so the timing, the chronology of his commitment. David was concerned, you know, you're a man, you're already in exile. You sure you want to be out here running around? Uh you got the family and all of that and uh uh you just showed up. You said maybe you ought to stay back in in the city. No, no, no, I'm staying with you. Your popularity's low, but I'm sticking with you. I just got to know you, but I'm sticking with you. Then notice, thirdly, I notice the character of his commitment Some characteristics of Atei's commitment here in verse number 21. What an amazing statement. Look what he says. Atei answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth. And as my soul, as my Lord the King liveth, surely, notice what he says, in what place my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or life. Even there also will thy servant be. First of all, I put this down. This was a completely voluntary commitment. I don't see David twisting his arm here anywhere, do you? I don't see David saying, come on, Atei, come on with us. Come on, what are you afraid? That's God, I need you. None of that. In fact, David was trying to what? David was trying to talk him out of coming He goes, no, no, no. It was a completely free will decision. No arm twisting. David's trying to talk him out of it. By the way, if you pay attention again, if you pay attention in the Gospels and you read the Lord Jesus Christ, when somebody started following Jesus, He would almost, it seems on some occasions, he would almost try and talk them out of it. He would say stuff like this, the foxes have holes The bird has nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. His question was, are you sure you want to follow me? You're sure you want to do this? He would say, accept a man, take up his cross daily, forsake him, deny himself, and take up his cross daily. You can't be my disciple. And you look at some of these statements of the Lord Jesus Christ, it's like he's trying to talk them out of it. And saying, and I don't think he was, but he was saying, listen, following me as a disciple is not a game. It's not something we play. There's a price to be paid. There's going to be a heavy cost. Can you drink of the cup that I'm to drink of? He said to the disciples on an occasion. Now, I don't think he was trying to run people away, but I think he was trying to do this. Listen, if you're going to do this, you've got to do it of your own free will, knowing That there's a price to pay to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And things have not changed. In 2022, there's a price to pay if we're going to be a true disciple of Jesus Christ. It's going to cost us some things. And so this is a completely volunteer, a voluntary decision on Atei's part. If Jesus Christ is who he claims to be, then we can give ourselves fully to him. Amen or not? If Jesus Christ is as good as the Bible says he is, Then we ought to sell out and give ourselves fully and freely to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is a voluntary decision on the part of a Te'i. The second thing I notice about this commitment in verse 21, it's very solemn. Did you catch what he says there towards the end of his statement He says, surely in what place my Lord the King shall be. Now look at this statement, he adds to that, whether in death or in life. Even there also will thy servant be. Would you agree with me? That's pretty serious stuff right there. David, if you're slaughtered, I'll be slaughtered right beside you. If Absalom kills you, he's going to have to kill me too. And if we live through this, I'm right with you, David. This was not a flippant decision on the part of Atai. This wasn't some emotional reaction. Oh. Um I know sometimes we'll have revival meetings, you know, and especially if you have a real uh sensational speaker and a very um uh very uh uh um what's the word I want very uh dynamic speaker and man they can tell great stories and just rips your heart out. And you go up and emotionally you respond and you say, oh Lord, that poor little kitten died. I want to live for you. You know, some story they told or something That's not what God's looking for. I think when we decide we're going to live for God, we're going to dedicate ourselves, Lord, we need to stop and think that through and take it very, very seriously. Amen or not? Amen or not. Yeah. Atai, it's very, very serious. Any commitment we make, especially to the Lord Jesus, ought to be prayerfully Thought through and very thoughtfully made, prayerfully and thoughtfully made. Any commitment we make for the Lord. For instance, a person says, I want to dedicate my life to Christ. I think that's something you ought to think through, as I've been saying. Now, if I'm out soul and if I'm visiting someone or somebody comes by and they're unsaved, I'm going to show them as thoroughly and as carefully as I can how to be saved, right from the Bible. And I uh if they're unsafe, I'm gonna put the squeeze on them to get saved. I'm gonna twist their arm, I'm gonna put my heel on their neck, I'll do whatever I No, not really, but I mean I'm gonna put the squeeze on. I want them to get saved. I don't want anybody dying to go to hell. I'm going to do everything I can to persuade them to trust Christ. But when it comes to somebody dedicating their life to Christ, I'll talk to them about it, but I want them to make that decision of their own free will, not because Pastor Leatherman twisted their arm and put his heel on their neck to get them to give themselves the Lord. Follow what I'm saying I even do that a little bit with church membership. I don't run people down and join a church. I want them to join because God stirs their heart and they want to be a part of this. They want to be apart. So dedication. Would you agree with me if a person's going to get married? That ought to be thoughtful. That ought to be prayerfully made. Don't just flippantly, oh, I'm so in love with you. Let's get married right now. You know. Uh you better be careful about that. Come on, help me now. And so folks ought to be careful. That's something you ought to pray about. That's something you ought to In life or death You know, that's what a Te'i said. That's what you say at your wedding mouse. Um I thought uh you know what? I forgot to mention this. Uh Diane was out of town for a little bit with James The other week she went down to visit the grandbaby. She got back and they were talking. And James told me she said she missed him. And he w he she was really happy until he noticed she was reloading the gun. And um So you better think that marriage thing through. That's not a true story, by the way. We just came out of our missions conference when I was studying this, I thought of this. I think we make our faith promise commitment. We ought to pray about that and think that through. Not just flipping, just emotional, oh these missionaries, oh boy, I'm gonna I don't give all this money. No, no, no, you better pray and seek the Lord and make sure you know what God has. And so Abs uh at I, you voluntarily, David, I am choosing to do this. Come after me. You're trying to talk me out of it? Nope. My mind is made up. I'm doing this. I've taken this very, very seriously. I've thought this through. And even if it means death, I'm with you. By the way, does that remind you, can you think of anyone else in the Old Testament? That told someone that I'm going to go with you, that you where you die, I will die, and where you live, I will live? Bruce to Naomi Same level of commitment. Same level of commitment. I believe the Lord is looking for his people to reach that point in their life. Where we are willing to make that level of commitment. What if in America, and anything's possible, but what if in America Christianity was outlawed? Like China. What if assembling like you and I are tonight was suddenly illegal and anybody caught goes to jail, it's going to get fined heavily, lose your home Be banished and spend time in prison. I wonder how many folks would still find some way to get and assemble I believe the Lord's looking for that level of commitment. That level, I really do. He's calling us. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul said, it's not about me. I'm sold out to Jesus Christ. So atai made a voluntary commitment. He made a very solemn commitment. And then last of all, I end with this, he made a very public commitment. This is right in front of God and everybody. David, as the Lord liveth, as my Lord the King liveth, surely in what place my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy sermon be. Everybody heard it. It's Hei. You can say what you want about the guy. We don't know a whole lot, but one thing we see this: he was unashamed of his loyalty to David. He was unashamed. I am loyal to you, David. And again, I think our commitment to Jesus Christ ought to be just as public. I am loyal to Jesus Christ. Are you one of his followers? Oh, uh what'd Peter do? The little maid said, Aren't you one of his followers? Uh uh Your speech betrays you. Oh, I don't even know him. Oh, you don't know what you're talking about How'd that turn out? What did Peter end up doing when he denied his Lord? Wet bitterly How about you and I say, yes, I am a follower of Jesus Christ. My wife and I uh got married. How many people are glad I married my wife? Yeah. And we were on our honeymoon. We went up to uh we were in Tennessee. So uh that s next day it was Saturday, it's Sunday morning, we were going to go to church. We got up and go to church. By the way, you can go to church on your honeymoon. We can. And on vacations. It's awesome. And uh but we're on vacation. I know, but you can still go to church. So anyway, we got up, we're down there eating breakfast, you know, have the little breakfast things there, and uh we're sitting there and we got our little food and we sat down And um we held hands across the table, we both bowed our heads, and I prayed, thank the Lord for the food and for a new life starting out, and oh thank you for I'm so in love, you know, and got off the track. Amen And uh so we're done eating, and we're done praying, and we start eating, and this guy across the lobby there gets up and he comes walking over. And I'm thinking, uh oh. And he came over, he put his hand out, and he says, I just want to say thank you. It's good to see a young couple who's not afraid to pray publicly. I said, well, thank you. Thank you. That's a small thing. But we ought to be public. I don't mean put on a show. I don't mean blow our own horn. Look at me. I'm a Christian. But we ought to be public about our loyalty to Jesus Christ and how we talk and how we live. All of that. Someone said, Well, my relationship with the Lord is personal. Well, it is. Amen. Jesus Christ is my personal Savior. And sometimes I hear voices when I'm preaching, but I just block them out. Our relationship with our Lord is very, very personal, but you know, it's also very public. For instance, let's go back to the marriage illustration. Would you agree marriage is a very personal thing? My wife and I, it's very personal. But you know, it's also very public. When we got married, we stood in front of everybody and said, I do. We wear wedding bands. Everybody sees, oh, that's a married man right there Why? Because it's public also. And so my relationship with the Lord Jesus ought to be very personal. It's between him and I. That's right. But it ought to be very public. On how I conduct myself, the way I talk, people see it. Yeah, I'm not ashamed of Christ, giving out gospel tracts. I had a fella just recently, just this week, I was at the hospital. uh visiting Denise uh earlier in the week and a fellow came out and said, Are you a preacher? I said, How could you tell? He goes, I could just tell You ever had somebody walk up, are you a Christian? That's a good thing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to learn from a Tei and this tremendously loyal man. To King David. I pray you'd help us to learn some of these characteristics of his commitment. Lord, I pray, Holy Spirit, you'd help us incorporate that into our commitment to the Lord Jesus. I wonder with our heads bow and eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, you know, God spoke to my heart tonight about my commitment to Christ And I need the Lord to help me. I need to grow in that. Maybe there's some things I need to adjust in my life. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God spoke to my heart tonight. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. God bless you That's what God does. He speaks to our hearts through the Word of God. So maybe tonight we just want to hit an old altar and say, Lord, here it is. Show me. Here's what I need to do Help me to do what I need to do. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's playing the invitation hymn. And how about on a Wednesday night? Just then