No, I will. Verse 1, Psalm 145. I will extol thee, my God, O King. I will bless thy name forever and ever. Now let me just say, while we're reading this, think about this. This is David's final So he's sharing his heart. We're seeing into the heart of David as he's about to go out of this life what's going through his mind, what his focus is, where his mind's at He goes on, verse 2: Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works. And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts, and I will declare thy greatness. They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and full of great and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints shall bless thee. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom and talk of thy power to make known to the sons of men the mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. The Lord upholdeth all that fall. And raiseth up those that are be uh bowed down. The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them their meat in due season. Thou openest thy hand and satisfyest the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, and to all that call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him. He also will hear their cry and will save them. The Lord preserveth all them that love him, but all the wicked will he destroy My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever. Isn't that a tremendous, tremendous psalm? Let me ask you this, and we'll pray and get into it. But what do you pick out of that chapter, what we just read, what do you see is on David's mind as he's about to go out into eternity As his life about ends, there's something on his heart and mind. Anybody see think what I'm thinking? It's the Lord. This whole thing is David and the Lord. This whole psalm is now he references other men, but the whole the only people in this psalm being addressed is God and David. And his focus here. So let's pray, and we'll look at David's final psalm. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this last lesson. In the life of David, I pray that his legacy would affect us and our walk with you, our faith, our frame of mind. God, all we've learned from him, I pray, would last. And that uh I would like to believe, Lord, that maybe I'm a better Christian because of the life of David, his influence, and or maybe my faith is a little stronger because of his testimony. I pray that would be true of our church. And so Lord, as we look at this, fill me with your Spirit. God, please give me wisdom in preaching. I pray you'd speak through me and that we could, when our time comes and our race here is run, Lord, I ask that we could end strong like David did. And so blessed now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 145, as we said repeatedly already, is most likely the final psalm penned by King David You would look above verse number one. We have a little title given there. And it says David's Psalm of Praise. That is a title that was given to it at some point by Jewish scholars, apparently. It's the only psalm in the 150 Psalms in our Bible, it's the only one with that title. There's several that say David's prayer, but there's the only one that says David's Psalm of Praise. And the implication to me, that little statement David's Psalm of Praise. This is David's Psalm of Praise. That tells me this is unique from all the others. This is David's statement. When David's going to have a psalm of praise, this is it. And this is a unique psalm out of all the others. I got studying a little bit and uh come to find out that this is actually an acrostic psalm. Now, what in the world is an acrostic psalm? Now you don't pick this up in the English. We don't see it in the English as it's translated from the Hebrew into the English. But in the Hebrew language, I'm told uh reliable scholars. We're told that it is actually the Hebrew alphabet, each verse And the Hebrew verses don't break down exactly the same as the English, but in the Hebrew their phrases go by the Hebrew alphabet. The first one begins with the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, all the way down through the end of the Hebrew alphabet. So it's a poetic type structure to the Psalms. Again, you don't see it in English. There are actually nine other psalms that are what we call acrostic psalms that have that same type of thing. Psalm chapter 9, 10, 25, 34, 37, Psalm 111, 112, 119, and here Psalm 145. So it's unique in that aspect. Now I thought this was interesting What did the ancient Jews, how did they see this psalm, this last psalm of David, and they all recognized it as David's last psalm And what the Jewish scholars would teach way back yonder is they would have their people, the Jewish people, would recite this psalm twice every morning. They were instructed by the scholars, by the Jewish leaders. They were instructed to quote this psalm, recite it twice every morning and once every night And then they took it a step farther, and again, this is Jewish tradition, but they said if you would recite this psalm three times a day, you would have greater joy in heaven. Now, I don't know whether that's, you know, I don't know where they came up with that. But what that does tell me is this. The Jews respected this psalm. They held it in high esteem. They quoted it, they recited it twice every morning, once every night, and then they tried to, if they did that consistently three times a day, they considered they were going to have greater joy in heaven Humanly speaking, humanly speaking, David would have had many reasons to justify Giving up and quitting. And I think we talked about this before. But you think over the life of David, different events that took place. Humanly speaking, David could have become very easily a very bitter man. Can anybody think of any events that took place in David's life that if he would have led it could have made him a very bitter man? Anybody think of anything in David's Rebellion of Absalom? Something way early before that. Yes, King Saul hounding him. For months on end, several years, just running him down and and accusing him of things, trying to murder him. I don't know about you. In fact, there was one point where David, I think, just about gave up when he says, I'm going to the Philistines. I'm done with this. David could have very easily become a very bitter man. People said hateful things about him. People tried to murder him, his own son. But David didn't, here's the thing, David did not allow the injustices in life, he did not allow the actions of other people destroy his walk and his relationship with his God. He did not allow bitterness in. And we're going to see that here as we look at this. Humanly speaking, David could have easily justified quitting and just walking away, just giving up. King Saul's pursuing him for one thing How about his own failure with Bathsheba? Anybody here ever now I don't want to know what it is, anybody here ever you since you've been saved You messed up a little bit and you just got the idea, man, I messed up too bad. Anybody ever been there? I have. It's just like man, what am I what's wrong with me? And uh we get knocked down and uh we can't get back up. I think one of the most important things in the Christian life is learning to get back up when we fall down. That's so important. David was able to do that. He didn't quit. And we can think of different issues. He could have just rejected the Lord. And there's various Psalms penned by David, and I don't have the references in front of me here, but there's various Psalms by David where he would pray stuff like, How come the wicked and the heathen are being so successful and everything seems to go right for them and it's like you don't even hear me God. Anybody ever been there? You have questions, what in the world are you doing, God? I don't understand And we allow that to get to us, we can end up quitting. David did not allow that to get to him. He did not quit And so here we have his final psalm. He did not quit. He never lost his all and his passion for God. We're going to see that here in this chapter. 70 years. Some tremendous mountaintop experiences, some awful, awful valley, dark, stormy experiences. And he never lost his passion for God. He never fell out of love with his Lord. He never lost his song of praise In spite of everything. And I don't know about you, of all the lessons we had in the life of David, the one that I think is has affected me the most is this idea. David never lost his praise for God in spite of everything he went through. And he ends his life with this phenomenal chapter, praising God, rejoicing in God. David does not die, a bitter, angry, unbelieving old man. He dies an old man, but his heart is filled with joy. His heart is filled with an awe for the God that he has walked with all these years. His mouth is rejoicing, filled with rejoicing, and filled with praise for God. Could have won another way very easily. But he never lost the wonder of it all. The focus of his joy, the focus of his praise in this chapter, this final psalm penned by David, the focus is God Himself. David looked past what other people said. He looked beyond the trials he went through. He looked past the injustices he faced. He looked past his own failures. And he saw a God in heaven. That was an awesome God. And he goes out of this life focused on the Lord, focused on Jehovah. Look verse number one with me, if you would. He says this. He starts off. Now picture this. This is an elderly man scarred up from battle, brokenhearted. I would imagine there's um what do they call them crow's feet in the corners of his eyes from weeping. Um And he's writing down, he's pouring his heart out. Notice his first statement, I will extol thee, my God, O King. I got looking at that and I looked up the word extall at E-X-T-O-L. I will extol thee. That word means to raise up. It means I will lift up on high my God, my king. It means to magnify. I'm going to magnify my God. This is on basically on his deathbed And he's focused on the Lord. He's exalting the Lord. I don't know if you've noticed this, but we live in a day when man is magnified and God is minimized. Anybody notice that? It's all about man. It's all about us. It's all about me. And God in our society, and I hate to say this in a lot of our churches God has been pushed aside, is no longer a major factor in life, is no longer magnified in our lives. He's simply put on a shelf, and when we need him, when things go bad, then we come running to God And that's not the way David was. I mentioned um uh we were down there and I visited some churches low uh uh close by and And not bad. Uh I mean they were they were they were good churches, independent, fundamental Baptists, King James, you know, just where we are on our position But I noticed Sunday night I was going to church and I counted and this was a church we came across just nearby. I didn't know it was there. We were out one day driving, I saw it, we looked it up, King James, Independent Baptist, all right, I'll check it out. I was driving Sunday evening to go to the Sunday evening service, and I counted, I passed five churches. It was about 15 minutes away from where we were standing. I passed five churches One church, a little Methodist church, had about five, six churches, uh five, six cars in the parking lot. This was like ten till six, so I assume their service started at six. I got to the one I was going to, there was no cars in the parking lot. I double checked, made sure uh, you know, what that I had the right charge, made sure I had the right time. Yep, six o'clock and Eventually a few cars pulled in. There was a handful of us in the church. And I please don't mention, I'm not trying to be critical. But when I drove back, I paid attention. Five churches, two of them had cars in the parking lot. Other three were sitting empty on a Sunday night. I passed a bar. It's called the Backdraft or something. The place was jam-packed. I mean parking lot was filled. They were parking in the yard. They were parking in a field behind there. I passed another restaurant jam-packed And by the time I got back home, I thought God has been relegated in our society. God has just been pushed aside, and he is no longer a major factor. We live in a day when God man is magnified and man is maximized and God is minimized. We live in a day when man is exalted and God is debased. David did not let that happen to him. God was just as much his God on his deathbed as he was the day he stepped out on that battlefield and faced Goliath. His faith had not faltered His confidence in God never wavered. His focus on the Lord never shifted. And he went out of this world as strong of faith as he was when we were introduced to him before Goliath. What a tremendous testimony. Did he have ups and downs? Yes. Did he have success? Phenomenal success. Did he have failures? Horrendous failures. But he's able to look beyond that and go out of this life praising God, extolling God. I will extol thee, my God, O King. We praise and exalt the things that we highly value. Right? If we have something we highly value, we talk about it If we have something we highly value, we praise it. We exalt it. I mean, it could be a thing, it might be a person. We exalt and praise the things we highly the people we highly respect. And we'll talk about that. Man, I just respect him. Man, he's a good man. She's a great lady. And we exalt him, we praise them, we lift them up because we respect them. Things that we highly value Things that we are impressed by, we exalt and lift up. I will study David's last psalm, and I come to the conclusion that at the end of his life, David highly valued Jehovah God. He was the most important being in his life. Most important relationship that David had was Almighty God. The most pleasant, the most enjoyable relationship David had. was his relationship with his God at the end of his life. He valued his relationship with God. He praised his relationship with God. He respected his God. David praised and exalted, extolled God for various reasons. Now let me give them to you. Here's where I'm going to preach through this chapter in one message. Believe it or not. Number one, David praised and exalted God for his greatness. Look with me at verse number three. This is David on his deathbed. That great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable One generation shall praise thy works to another and shall declare thy mighty acts. I will speak of the glorious honor of His Majesty and of thy wondrous works. And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts, and I will declare thy what? Greatness David could not get over how great his God was. How great Jehovah was. I looked up the word great. Great is the Lord, greatly to be praised. Down in verse number six, I will declare thy greatness. I looked that word up, and uh it has this idea to be preeminent above all else David said, the greatest thing in my life is my relationship with Jehovah. What God is to me is above everything else. Great is the Lord. The word great means to be distinguished above everything else. In other words, nothing even comes close to my God. It means to be far above the north, to be superior in character. David said, nothing else in this world. No other person, no other thing, no other activity, nothing compares to the awesome greatness of my God. I tell you, we could use a little bit of awe of God's greatness again back in our churches. Man, we love our things, we love our toys, we love our uh our income, we love the our our pleasures, our fun. But I tell you, God needs to be back in the position of greatness in our lives again. That's where he was for David. David goes out of here. Nothing in my life compares. To my relationship with God. All through Scripture, God is declared to be great. If you would, keep your place here. Come with me very quickly. Just back to Psalm 86. Not too far. Just back a few pages Psalm eighty-six. This is a prayer of David. Now the one one forty-five is the pray David's Psalm of Praise. This is a prayer of David. Psalm 86. Look with me if you would at verse number 10. Speaking to God, he says, For thou art great And doest wondrous things. Thou art God alone. Man, what an attitude towards God. What a position God held in his life. Come over to chapter number 96, just a few working our way back to 145, Psalm 96. We don't know who the penman is of Psalms 96, but look with me at verse number 4. For the Lord is what? Great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. Now my question is, how many gods are there? There's only one true and living God. And man has come up with a heap of imaginary gods, right or wrong. I want to hear to tell you, Allah is an imaginary God. Joseph's, the God of the Mormons, is an imaginary God. There's only one true and living God, and he and and uh the psalmist here is saying No other false gods, fake imaginary gods in the world, come even close to what the true God really is. The Bible declares our God to be great above everything else. Listen, you are no fool if you are living to please God. Because He is great, nothing else compares How foolish to live our lives for some temporary things that when it's all said and done amount to nothing Uh uh, what do they say? Doesn't even amount to a hill of beans. And I don't know what a hill of beans amounts to. David, nothing David goes out of this life saying, The greatest thing of my life is God Almighty. He praises his greatness. Come over. Again, the Bible all through here declares the greatness of God. Psalm 135 If God is as great as what the Bible says, would you agree with me? We ought never to be ashamed of our God. We ought never let anything come between us and God. Look at Psalms 135 and look at verse number 5. Again, we're not told who the penman here is, but verse number five, he says, this, for I know whoever this penman is, he says, I know. That the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. Man, what an attitude. Come over one more, Psalm 150. And we go to other passages and the the prophets declare the greatness of God, but just here in the Psalms Psalm 150, the last chapter of the book of Psalms, look at verse 2. Praise him for his mighty acts. And boy, you could talk about that for a while. Praise him according to his, look how he describes our God, his excellent greatness. David goes out. of this life, he passes over through the doors of death. Before he does, he sits down and he pens this psalm. And the very first thing that he praises God for is how great God is. David never lost the wonder of God's greatness. God was great to David in times of joy, just as much David. God was as great to David in his times of joy and in his times of sorrow. Sometimes we'll talk about how great God is when everything's going our way, huh? And something goes a little south on us, something goes a little sour, then all of a sudden, err-rrr-rr David never lost sight of the greatness of God when things were going his way and things were going sour. David never lost sight of the greatness of God. uh uh in times of victory and just as much as in times of defeat. And he experienced defeat. David never lost the wonder of the greatness of his Lord in times of clarity just as much as in times of confusion. There was times David testified he did not know what God was doing. It did not make sense. But behind it all, he understood that our God is a great God. There's a lot of questions I can't answer. There's a lot of situations I can't explain. But I know one thing. Our God is a great God. And we can trust him and we can love him, and we can go to the grave knowing that our God is a great God. David praised God for his greatness. Look with me, verse number 3 there again in Psalm 145. He says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. Look at this. And he says, and his greatness is what? Unsearchable. He's saying it can't be comprehended. Anybody here like me, do you ever just every now and then you kind of get a sense of how awesome God really is? A lot of times, you know, we just talk about and we sing about, but every now and then there's kind of like I don't know what the word is, but it's just kind of a sense that, wow, God really is. Also, anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever have that? When we get this experience, I think when we stand in the presence of God, and by the way, that day's not too far off. We stand in the presence of God. We are going to be absolutely blown away at the immensity and the power and the greatness of our God. David said it's unsearchable. The greatness of God is beyond our puny little mind's ability to comprehend He said, look in verse number four. He says, one generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. This is still in the context of how great God is and what he's done. And he says, one generation shall praise thy works to another. In other words, God's greatness transcends generations. I want to remind you, God is just as great to us today as he was to David back in that day. And God will just as be as great to the coming generations, the young people we're trying to reach, some of them here in the service tonight downstairs, God is just as great for when they their generation as he is for ours. God's greatness, God transcends generation. And I and I understand the feeling and I think this way and say this also. We say, man, I just worry about what kind of world Our young people are going to grow up and and I understand that sentiment. I feel those same way sometimes. But I also remind myself God is just as powerful and great for when they are on the scene as he was when we are on the scene We gotta praise his greatness to the next generation and let them know God has not changed. And the same God that parted the Red Sea is the same God that's going to be on the throne in the next generation. God's greatness is incomprehensible. God's greatness transcends generation. Look at verse 6, the last part. And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts, and I will declare thy greatness. David said, God's greatness needs to be proclaimed. We need to tell this whole world that our God is a great God. We need to tell the next generation. I tell you what America needs, needs to be reminded how great our God really is. Our community needs to see that. Hey, our churches need to be reminded of that. Christians falling in love with the world and falling in love with temporal things and fail to see how great our God is I think his greatness is seen in creation. We were down there on the we had a little house there right on the off the Potomac Little boat dock. I like to go down man, it's beautiful weather. I like to go down on that boat dock and look up at the sky. There was hardly any lights there. Man, just the incredible sky at night I thought, man, what an awesome God that spoke this thing into existence. I think I our young pe our our young people are being told they evolved from a monkey. That is the biggest lie out of hell that has ever come across We've been created by a great, great, great God. And we've got to proclaim that in the face of the lies of evolution, in the face of the lies of atheism. We've got to declare his greatness. I think creation declares his greatness. I think conversion Declares the greatness of God. A life changed. A soul saved from hell and a life changed. A liar becoming honest. A thief becoming an honest worker. A drunkard becoming sober. A prostitute becoming pure. We see the greatness of God in changed lives when they hear the gospel and they believe the gospel That's one of the things I just love about soul winning is seeing God, the power of God changing lives. Getting a hold of a young person, getting a hold of an adult, and changing their very nature. How many people here can testify God's changed your life? Anyone here? That's the greatness of God, does that. I think God's greatness is displayed in his, it will be displayed in his coming. His creation, the conversion, and one day he's going to split those clouds wide open. And every tongue's going to confess, every knee will bow, and we'll see the greatness of God for what it really is So David goes out of this life. He writes pens, his last psalm, no doubt, arthritic hands and feeble And he's writing, pouring his heart out. And he says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He praises God for his greatness. Then I notice in verse 7 through 10, he praises God for his goodness. Look at verse 7. They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all. And his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints shall bless thee. He says, God is a good God. Not only is he great, he's good. Over and over, the scripture declares that God declares the goodness of God. It's interesting in Genesis 1:1 And God looked at what he made, and behold, it was what? Good. Over and over. It was good. It was good. It was good. It was good. You know why everything God made was good? Because God is good. He couldn't do anything other than good. The goodness of God is declared from Genesis all the way to Revelation. Don't ever allow anyone to get you to doubt the goodness of God Our God is a good God. We have a song I heard earlier this summer. I was talking to Brother Mark, see if he knew it, and I forget the name of it. I think it's called God is Good. And man, and there's a little phrase in there where he's saying, God has been so good to me. That's what David's saying. He's lived his life. And he's had horrendous things happen and things that made no sense. But he looks up and he says, God's been good I praise God for his goodness to me. He could have focused would you agree with me? He could have focused on all the negative things in his life, right? He could have obsessed over that. He could have, oh Saul, I'll never forgive Saul. No, he looked beyond that. He said, God's been good to me. God's been good. All through Scripture, the Bible doesn't, the Bible declares God to be good. And God doesn't just do good, he is good. It's his very nature. To be good. I put this down. God's goodness is displayed in his grace. Look with me at verse number 8. The Lord is gracious. He does things for us we don't deserve. He gives us things we don't deserve. Grace is the undeserved blessing and favor of God. And he blesses us. I see his greatness, his goodness is displayed in his compassion. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. I wonder if there wasn't times when after some of David's horrendous failures, wonder if there wasn't some times where he questioned in his heart and mind. How could God love me? What I've done. How could He love me God floods his heart with assurance that God does love him because God is a compassionate God. I'm glad, aren't you glad a God that's all powerful is also compassionate Boy, that'd be rough. God's goodness is displayed in his grace and his compassion. Look again at verse number 8. He's slow to anger. Woo-hoo! Praise the Lord for that, huh? Man, God's had so many reasons to be angry with me. And he's slow to anger. He gives us a chance to make things right. How many people are glad God's slow to anger? David's the end of his life said I've learned one thing about God. He's slow to anger. He don't go off. He don't fly off. Praise the Lord for that. And notice his goodness is displayed in his great mercy. Slow to anger and of great mercy. Then verse 9 says, And his tender mercies are over all his works. I'm glad God doesn't give us what we deserve. Do you ever hear protesters say, we want what we deserve? Brother, you better be careful about that. God's mercies, he withholds the judgment we deserve. In spite of all his trials, David never doubted the goodness of God. Number three, I noticed quickly how many people are impressed with the progress we made thus far. I knew you would be. Look at verse 11. David praises God for his glory. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom and talk of thy power, to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. He mentions twice in that section the glory of God, thy glory. What in the world is glory? What is the glory of God? We talk about it, we sing about it, preachers preach about it, we read in the Bible the glory of God. What in the world is the glory of God? That's one of those things that's hard to explain. You kind of know what it is, but it's hard to verbalize. What I came up with and trying to define and explain what the glory of God is And again, this might, I don't know if this helps clarify the meaning or not, but this is what I came up with. I put it this way, the magnificence of all that God is. Now, what is magnificence? The just awe-inspiring power of God. I put a list of things down. The magnificence of all He is His power. The power that God has is incomprehensible. The magnificence of his wisdom The wisdom of God. By the way, Paul said the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of men. The magnificence of his love, the magnificence of his justice People say sometimes, oh, I don't see any justice in this old world. Stick around. It's coming. It's coming. Our God is a just God. In fact, He is magnificent in His justice. The magnificence of His holiness, the blinding glory of the holiness of God. The magnificence of his holiness. David, he still can't comprehend the glory of his God. All through Scripture, wherever God's glory is manifest, man falls before Him in humility. Every time God's glory is displayed, man falls in humility. Remember when Jesus in the boat and the storm was hitting those disciples and most of them, many of them, hardened, experienced veteran fishermen, been many, many uh probably better actually they fished all night and didn't catch fish. So I'm in a good crowd. But they're out in that ship, and it's the storm is so bad that these guys that have been through s many, many storms before think they're going to die. This is bad. And the Lord's asleep. Anybody remember this? Boggles my mind. He's asleep. And uh so they come, Lord, don't you care if we're gonna perish? I mean it's over, Kabut, we're dead. There's no way we're surviving this. Don't you even care? I love it. I wish I'd love to have seen this. And the Lord steps up, and with all the authority of Almighty Creator God, Jesus Christ speaks. Peace. Be still. How did the disciples react? What manner of man is this? They're humbled before him. Peter said, depart from me. I'm a sinful man God's the po the glory of God's power in one little statement was displayed. Boom! It humbled him. I tell you, we have lost the awe of God's glory. Back in Isaiah chapter 6, King Uzziah died, Isaiah's given an account. And when he died, Isaiah had this vision of the Lord high and lifted up. And a cherubim and uh uh seraphim are are praising holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. And John tells us he saw the glory of God. And his very first response was the fall before God. And the angel came. Remember, the angel came, he said, I am a man of unclean lips. The angel came, took a coal from off the fire, off the altar, touched his lips. Every time God's glory, every time we get a glimpse of the glory of God, we don't bolster our ego up, boy, no, no, no. We fall before God in humility. And in repentance. Would you agree with me? We could use a heap more repentance in our world. I'm talking about in our churches. I think maybe we ought to exalt the glory of God. How holy our God is, how gloriously holy our God is. And Isaiah falls before him in repentance. When God's glory is displayed throughout Scripture, you find people men falling before him in submission. Remember in Acts chapter 9 when Paul is on the road to Damascus and he's killing Christians? He's killing them Men and women, he's imprisoning him, and he's got authority from the council. He has authority to go take men and women and imprison them, and if if he feels he needs to or he he should to to execute them. And en route, anybody remember this? En route, the Lord appears and the glory of God appears. And the men that are with them fall down. And Paul is blinded. And he cries out and he says, And the Lord Jesus says, Paul, Paul, why persecutest thou me? And Paul, in his blindness and overwhelmed by the glory of Jesus Christ, he says, Who art thou, Lord? It's on Jesus Christ, whom thou persecutest. It's hard for thee to kick against the bricks. And what was the very next thing Paul said? Anyone remember? What wilt thou have me to do? The presence and the glory of God, he fell before him in submission. Lord, what would you have me to do? What would you have me to do? I tell you, we get awfully self willed, don't we? My way. I got my plans, I got I learned years ago, and I've failed to live up to it, but maybe this would help and challenge some of us. But I've every single morning, with few exceptions, I've prayed, Lord, today, not my will, but thy will be done. And every time you find somebody fought being exposed to the glory of God, they fall before him in submission Not my Lord, what do you want me to do? How do you want me to respond? God, how do you want me to live my life? How do you want me to behave myself? That's what the glory of God does. It humbles us. It brings repentance. It brings submission. David writes of the glory of God. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom. Then last of all, notice in verse number 14 down through the end. He praises God for his generosity. And again, this would be a series in itself. Verse 14, the Lord upholdeth all them that fall. He raiseth up all those that be bowed down. The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them their meat in due season. Thou openest thy hand and satisfies the desires of every living thing. God is generous. Our God is a generous. He gives and he gives and he gives and he gives and he gives. We probably should do this more often, but I like at least once a year on Thanksgiving week, we stop and we have a service and we don't ask God for anything. We just thank Him And he gives and he gives and he gives. And it would you agree with me? For most of us, it's never enough. But I always got something that I need a little more. Something isn't right, something isn't that. David comes to the end of his life, not a grouchy old, mean, hateful, unbelieving, bitter Man. He comes and he said, God's been awfully generous. God is a glorious God. He's a great God. He's a good God. And he has given and given and given. Verse 14, he gives restoration to those that fall. Do you think David knew firsthand about that? Yeah God restored him, lifted him up when he fell. God is generous in his provisions, verse 15 and 16. He meets our needs, he takes care of us. How many people here? You have more than what you really need of anything. Yeah. God is generous in his righteousness. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. And I put this down last of all. Verse 18 to 20, Lord is right, is is generous in his attention. He pays attention to us. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that Call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him. Would you agree with me? If I fear God, my desires will be right. Don't say I'm just going to give you whatever you want. So if you fear me, then what you want is going to be in line with what I I'll give you God was generous in creation. Did you ever think about that? I thought of this often over the years. When God created the universe, all he I mean, at least in our limited thinking, all he really would have needed to create would have been the sun, and the plan and earth. Right? Maybe the moon to keep the earth the way it is. But we didn't need nine planets to exist. I don't think so. Maybe. Alright, let's alright, I'll give you all guys you don't are don't seem convinced yet. I'll give you this. All he really would have needed to create would have been the sun and our planets to protect all the garbage, you know, the um not the satellites. What are the things flying around out there? Meteorites and all that stuff. Comets. He wondered how to create an infinitely infinite universe with billions and billions of galaxies that have billions and billions of solar systems within the galaxies, right? Are you are you following my thinking? But when God is going to give, he goes over the top. He says, all right, all they really need is this, but I'm going to create a whole universe anyway Now, I may be off on that, but I know I'm not off on this next one. I think God was incredibly generous in creation. I know he's incredibly generous in salvation. You know, nobody is left out. Any single person, young or old, doesn't matter how wicked they've been, no matter how self-righteous they may be, every single person can come to Christ and find salvation. He died for everybody. You say, even people that don't trust them. Yeah, even people that don't trust him. You say, well, then they must be saved. No, if they don't trust them, they're not saved. But he paid the price, so they can be. God is generous in salvation. I think he's generous in creation. Our God is a generous God David ends his life, and we end this study of David's life praising God. God sure is great. God is good. God is generous. God is glorious. David goes out. Isn't that a great way to die? What a great frame of mind to go out into eternity. And declaring to the next generation, hey, let me tell you what I know about God. I read about a lady that somehow ended up she was going to church and she ended up going um she ended up going to a very uh um liturgical church, a a Lutheran church where everything's really uh r ritualistic and everything. She and she's out of a normal Bible preaching church. And somehow she ended up in this Lutheran church. She's sitting there. And everything's very formal and everybody's very stiff And the preacher was given a little lecture, and actually she said he said some really good stuff. And she forgot where she was and she got all worked up. And right in the middle of this very ritualistic liturgical service, she yells out, Praise the Lord! And you and they said in the in a account I was reading, the lady next to her leaned over and said, We don't praise the Lord in this Lutheran church. And the guy on the other side leaned over and said, Yes, we do. It's on page 19 of the book there in front of you. What I'm trying to say is this: we ought to learn to praise the Lord. Say, preacher, if you know what I've been through, you know why I don't praise the Lord. I'm telling you this, God is greater than anything you've been through. God is gooder than anything you can come up with. And David goes out of this life, praising God. One other little story, there was a little fellow, he wanted to go camping, so dad set up a little tent. and uh put a s uh sleeping bag and he said, if you want, you can sleep out under the stars. So he set the sleeping bag up back in the field there behind the house. And the boy who didn't want to stay in the tent, he wanted to stay in the sleeping bag out under the stars So he put him out there and all good and dad goes inside. A little bit later a little boy comes in. He says, son, I thought you were going to sleep on. He goes, no. He said I got looking at the sky and the stars and I didn't realize I was so small. We get thinking we're pretty big, don't we? But we look at the glory, the greatness of our God, we realize we're pretty small. Pretty small. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. Lord, I just hard to do justice to a man like David. And what a life lived. And what a way to go out. What a frame of mind. I pray you'd help us to learn something. From David's understanding of who and what you are, Lord, I pray you would reveal yourself to us in ways that we could get a little bit of this glimpse that David had. How great you really are. God, how good you are, how glorious and how generous. Pray you'd help us. Convict us of our unbelief God, convict us of our self-will. God, convict us of our ingratitude. I pray we can live the rest of our days for the glory of God. And declare to this next generation how good you really are and how great you really are. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many of us tonight With with me you'd say, I really need to get a new glimpse of the greatness of my God. I need to get a new glimpse of that. Anybody like that? I wonder if some would say, you know, I get griping, I get growling. I need God to remind me how good He really is. Not be blinded to that. Any like that? Uplifted hand, sure. Sure. How about God's glory? About God's generosity. Let's ask the Lord to reveal himself to us anew. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.