Alright, 2 Samuel chapter 11, verse number 6. And I'm going to read down through verse 8, as I said. 2nd Samuel 6, down through verse 8. The Bible says, And David sent to Joab, saying Send me Uriah the Hittite, and Joab sent Uriah to David. And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered. And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess of meat from the king. Now just a little rehearse what the context here, what we're looking at, I've entitled this initially the first Five chat verses of this chapter I entitled David's Darkest Hour. And if you remember, this is the time when David uh messed up that committed adultery with Bathsheba And who is Uriah? Somebody help me out here. Uriah is who? Bathsheba's husband. And so David in verse number five finds out that Bathsheba is with child. And so this is going to come out. Uriah, her husband, has been off at battle the whole time David was supposed to be off at battle. And now she's conceived, and uh David has to cover up his sin. And this is the initial attempts of David to cover up his sins. So let's have a word of prayer. And we started this a little bit the other week, and now I want to start looking into how he goes about this. Father in heaven. We ask now you bless our study of your word. And Lord, this is kind of a dark, a dark event, Lord, an unpleasant uh situation here, but you told us that you've recorded, inspired, and preserved these so that they can be in samples to us, so we can learn from this. And so we do ask that you would help us to learn And uh, Lord, your Holy Spirit's the author of this book, and so I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me and teach us in our individual lives. What this means to us and how to apply the principles here. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask you to fill me with your spirit And help us tonight. Teach us. Lord, maybe what we learn here would would help us be able to go forward and deal with the sins that we'd face. I ask you to bless now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. By the way, I wanted to mention this before, it's unrelated, but did you know that on today, October 6th, 1536, William Tyndale was burned at the stake because he translated the Bible into the English language. They had no scriptures in English. Can you imagine that? And it's all in Latin the Catholic Church dominated, and the Catholic Church burned him alive at the stake for the sin of making sure the people had the Bible in their language. Isn't that something? And I thought as I read that today, I it was pointed out to me, and I thought, praise the Lord for our Bible. and the price that people have paid so that we can have this book. And what a tremendous thing. I was up with Brother Hummel yesterday at the Beacon of Truth rally, and they spoke a lot about that about the preciousness of the Bible and how many people around the world do not have the Bible in their language. And uh just the tremendous thought. So anyway, I wanted to point that out today's a significant day really in church history. And I think it's good for us to be aware of that. I think first 2 Samuel chapter 11 and chapter 12. And Psalm chapter 51 are probably some of the best passages in Scripture if you want to study what happens when God's people sin. How it transpires, the steps that lead up to it. Anybody remember how we we looked at that, the steps he looked, he gave attention to something he shouldn't have given attention to, which caused a desire for something he should have no desire for And then and then prompted him to take something he had no business taking. Those same three steps are all through Scripture. If we can get a hold of that And we can be aware of these steps that lead to disaster. Maybe it can help us catch that in our own lives before we get too far down the path. You follow what I'm trying to say So what a tremendous study this is for you and I as God's people to help us avoid this disaster that David found himself in. And then we study this. What we're getting into now is how not to deal with when we do sin, how not to deal with it. And if you'll notice, I said when we do sin, not if we do sin, right? Did you catch that? It's going to happen. If any man says he's no sin, it makes God a liar. We deal with sin. We have to And uh let me say this. Um the difference between a victorious Christian and uh a Christian being used of God that has the joy of the Lord That is victory in his life filled with the Spirit. The difference between that Christian and the defeated Christian who has no joy, is operating in the flesh, is defeated, has no witness The difference between the two isn't that one sins and the other one doesn't sin. That's not the case. The difference is how we deal with that sin when it raises its ugly head. And this is a tremendous, these passages are tremendous to study. How to avoid the trap of sin, then if we do mess up, how not to deal with it, that's what we're looking at here, then chapter 12 is how God. Will chasten the child of God. You know, if a Christian, if we're genuinely saved, if I'm a child of God and I sin, God deals with it. Hebrews chapter 12. He doesn't ignore it. He doesn't just give us a license to go sin. No, he chastens us. In fact, he chastens us very severely, Hebrews chapter 12 says, if necessary. And so how God responds, we're going to see that with Nathan approaching David here a little bit later, and the consequences, the fallout from his sin. But then we're going to go, and that'll be down the road a little ways, but my intention is to go to Psalm 51. And there we have David's confession and repentance. of his sin with Bathsheba. And I think it is a classic, it it is a classic example of how a child of God should deal, uh should should respond to when they sin. How to confess and forsake sin. Psalm 51 is a classic. And so these are very, very significant passages. All the Bible is significant, but these stand out In that particular issue of when a when a child of God, one of God's people, fails, and all the ramifications, all the different things with it. So We're looking at this here now. We looked last week, or the last time we were here, our first point, and the title for tonight is David's attempt to cover his sin. We're continuing that thought Last time we looked at the cause for David's cover-up. Why in the world did he try and cover it up? And the answer is pretty obvious. He wanted to avoid the shame. Of being a man after God's own heart, and here he's cheated on another man, he's uh committed adultery with another man's wife. He wants to avoid the shame of that But uh I think also he might be trying to avoid the consequences that come along, shame being one of those, but there's a lot of other. What did the law require if somebody was caught in adultery? The law required what? Capital punishment, stoning, they were to be killed. Remember when the Pharisees brought that woman taken in adultery? They said the law says she should be stoned. And what sayest thou? The interesting thing in that event was, how come they didn't bring the guy along with her, you know They weren't concerned about the law being carried out. They weren't concerned about justice or God's holiness. They were just trying to trick Jesus. And so the consequence is if this gets out, Bathsheba, what will happen to her? And so David is motivated in a negative way In an unholy way to try and cover this up. And that would be his motive for covering up rather than confessing it. Now, tonight, what I want to begin, and we won't, we're just going to get the first thought this evening. But I want to begin looking at the content of David's cover-up. First of all, the cause. Why would he do this? Now, the content. How did he go about trying to cover this sin up? Whenever we sin. Whenever we sin, and again, when, not if, whenever we sin, we immediately have two options. We immediately have two options. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me. Keep your place here, because I want to look at Uriah here and a few things, but go to Proverbs. And Proverbs chapter 28, there's a verse right about the middle of this chapter that tells us that whenever we sin, whenever a child of God sins, we have two options. And we have to make a decision, which of these two options am I going to choose? Which of these two options am I going to pursue? Proverbs chapter 28, come down to verse 13. Now I have it underscored in my Bible. In fact, this is a good verse to memorize. You remember a few years ago? We tried to memorize a hundred verses that every Christian should have memorized. Anybody remember when we did that? Two people. Okay. But uh this was one of them And this is an important verse. Look at verse 13. Proverbs 28, verse 13. Now look here. I want you to look for the two options we have. Whenever we sin, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. So there's two options given here. They're what? They're pretty obvious. First one, all right, cover it or confess it. And along with confess is for sake, we'll talk about that. So whenever you and I sin, we don't want to, it's got not God's will. We put on the whole armor of God, we hide God's word in our heart that we might not sin against God. We have some personal convictions and personal standards. We try to, you know, keep a hedge about us and do everything we can, but inevitably Satan's greatest ally is the fallen nature that dwells within you and I. And so sometimes that nature gets the best of us. So whenever that sin takes place, I say something I shouldn't say, I did something I shouldn't do, or whatever, just fill in the blank. Alright, I got two options. I can confess it, or I can cover it. If I cover it, this verse says what's going to happen? I'm not going to prosper. I'm not going to grow. I'm not going to have God's blessings. I'm not going to have much of a witness. My ministry is going to be affected. If I cover it But if I confess it and forsake it, I'll find what? Mercy. God can be restored. And God can bring the blessings back. And I can get up and go on. I like what Proverbs 24:16 says. A just man, Paul, is seven times in what? rises up again. He confesses it. He forsakes it. He deals with it. He gets up and goes on. And so David has a choice here. He finds out, gets Bathsheba sends word, I'm a child. Now he's got a choice. In Proverbs here, I want to look at this a little bit, the word cover. It means pretty much what you think it would mean. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. It means to to conceal Or to try and hide it. You put a facade over it. Maybe it's a pile of lies. You try and manipulate circumstances. You try and manipulate the truth a little bit and you twist it around so that that sin is not exposed. That sin is I want to cover it. I want to hide it. I want to conceal it It's interesting, this word is used throughout the Old Testament in a number of ways, but one of them I thought was interesting in Genesis chapter 7, when God f uh the great flood And it says the hills and the mountains were covered by I forget how many cubits or whatever it was, or a certain figure, but they were all covered. In other words, the mountains We're concealed, were hidden, the water covered them. You wouldn't see the mountains. And that's what this verse is saying. He that covers his sin, tries to get where it's not evident, nobody knows, it's all covered up, it's concealed, it's hidden. He says, you're not going to prosper. You're not going to prosper. Hey, uh it's possible, it's possible nobody will ever know about that other than God. But I'm not going to prosper. I'm not going to grow. I'm not going to be spiritually mature. It's going to affect me. So the one choice David had to cover his sin. to make it unseen, to have people unaware of it, then the other is in this verse here, it covers his sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsake it Those two go together, and I think throughout Scripture, those two go together, although they're not always mentioned together. Confess simply means to expose it, as opposed to conceal, it means to expose it. To acknowledge it. Confession of sin is much more than simply acknowledging the fact of sin. Follow what I'm saying? I I witness people and you know go through the plan of Romans Road, usually is what I use, and for all have sinned and come shortly glory to God. Do you recognize you're a sinner? Oh yeah, I'm a sinner The whole world a difference between, oh yeah, I'm a sinner and oh yeah, I'm a sinner. See the difference Confession of sin is not just acknowledging its presence. In fact, people acknowledge their sin's presence and they're very proud of that sin. They boast of it in the world. That's not confession. Confession is to expose it and say, I agree with God. I agree with God's assessment of my sin. When we come and confess our sin to God, 1 John 1:9, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us, confessing my sin to God is not letting God know what happened. I got news for you. God already knows. I'm not giving information to God. God, uh, something happened. What? Uh, yeah. God already knows. When we confess our sin, I'm coming saying, God, you're right. I agree with your assessment of it. I view and consider my sin the way you do. And I expose it to God. And then he tacks in on Proverbs, Solomon tacks in that word forsake. And again, I think you have a hard time separating the two. If I confess myself, I'm not forsaking it. I'm not being very thorough in my confession. Just keeping it. Yeah, God, I'm sinning. Yeah, I stole this. Yep. But I don't go and give it back and ref restore it. That's not much of a confession, is it? Are you with me? And so we have these options. I can I sinned, David sinned, now he has a choice, he has a decision to make. Is he going to come to God and acknowledge it to God? And Expose it to God, which God already knows, and then agree with God and say, God, this is wrong. I need to make amends, whatever I need to do to make it right Whatever it costs me, whatever the consequences are, God I accept that. Or is a choice to cover it and conceal. And of course we know what he did. He made the tragic decision to cover it. Cover it David chose to try and cover his sin. Now, let's come back here, if you would. Look here in 2 Samuel chapter 11. Come down to verse 5. Leading up to our text for tonight. And a woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with child. Now I want you to let's go back in our minds and try and picture the setting here. David gets this word. I don't think I'm stretching my imagination too much to suggest that perhaps David went into panic mode. Anybody think? I I think he's panicked at this point. And what's something that happens when a person panics? They make bad decisions. They don't think things through. They react. In fact, I want to suggest to you, spiritually, when we begin to panic, the flesh takes over. And the flesh says, I'll handle this, I'll take care of that. Rather than stopping back and saying, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to let God lead me, I'm going to follow the Lord's instructions. We panic, the flesh takes over, and we make stupid decisions. And we mess up. I think David is in panic in verse number five. He gets this word. And so he instinctively reacts according to the flesh. Here's the thing, doesn't matter how long you've been saved, doesn't matter how much Bible you know, doesn't matter how strong a Christian I may be perceived to be, I still have a sinful nature that is a threat to my Christian testimony. And David had that also. And in this situation, of course, it began to take over. And here's the thing: one foolish decision often leads to another, doesn't it? We need, I put this down, we need godly people in our lives. So that when we start thinking stupid. Anybody with me now? Y'all are awfully quiet tonight. When we start thinking stupid and we start making bad decisions, we need somebody that we trust, somebody that loves us, somebody that we have confidence in. That can come and say, hey, hold on a second. You need to think this through a little bit. By the way, ideally, that's what the preaching of God's Word is to be Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. That's why church is so important. Paul told Timothy, a young preacher boy, he's tutoring him, mentoring him in the ministry, and he says, reprove, rebuke, exhort With all long suffering. Be patient that the man of God may be perfect early. And so he's saying that's part of the preaching ministry of the church and the pastor and evangelists come through. We had meetings last week. All of that is part of God saying, hey, you ain't thinking right. You need to stop and change. And so we need that. And there was three people in this whole scenario, and we haven't gotten through all the way to the conclusion of this event in David's life, but we're going to see three folks that step up and I think God put in place To help David think this thing through and not respond this way. Now, the first two he disregards. The last one, Nathan, he finally responds to But anybody want to take a guess? Who was the first person I think God sent along to void this whole thing and keep David from going down this road? Anyone remember? We pointed him out a couple weeks ago. Yeah, well, one of David's servants, when David inquired, who is this woman? Remember, one of the servants stepped up and said, David, this is Bathsheba, Uriah's wife. I think that God had that man there, and that was the God saying, hold it, hold it, bringing it to David's attention. He disregarded that. The second one, I think, I may be stretching this a little bit, but I think it's Uriah himself. Because nothing goes with Uriah, nothing goes the way David planned He had this scheme, it's beautiful, I'm gonna bring Uriah back, he'll sleep with his wife, she's expecting, oh, congratulations! I go on, everything's honky-dory The problem was Uriah, and we're going to look at this in depth hopefully next week, but um the problem was Uriah didn't cooperate with David's scheme, even though he didn't know what David's scheme was. And I think that was God providentially bringing this thing to a head so that David would have to deal with it. And then there's a third one, and we all know who this one is that finally points his finger in David's nose and says, You're the man, David, and that is who? Nath Nathan, the prophet, and we'll look at that in depth a little bit later. But thank God for people, for ministries, churches, people with parents sometimes, spouse. That says, hey, wait a minute, you might need to think this through a little bit. And as will and God can use them in our lives. And so here's my look, here's my breakdown. Of David's attempted cover-up. And we're just going to look at the first one here in just a moment. First thing I notice in verse 6 through 8 is the hypocrisy of David. And I'll point that out here, what I see there. And then we're going to notice in verse nine through thirteen the honor of Uriah Uriah is a man of integrity. He's a loyal soldier. And we're going to look at that. And then verse 14, all the way to the end of the chapter, verse 27, the first part of verse 27, we find the hardness of David. He goes from coveting to adultery to cover up to murder. And man, by this point, by the time you get later in the chapter 11. David's heart is so hard, he can callously kill a man, an innocent man, murder him, along with several other people, collateral damage As far as we know it from that, what we're told doesn't faze Dave at all. Do you agree with me? That's a pretty hard heart right there. It's a pretty hard heart. And then the last of all, if you would, just come back to the last verse of chapter 11. Look at that last phrase. But the thing that David had done, what's the last three words? Displease the Lord. And the last thing, uh, observation I make here is the heartbreak of God. It displeased the Lord. The word displease there means to grieve and sorrow and be brokenhearted. What David did broke God's heart. And it's a tragedy. So let's look at the hypocrisy of David real quick. Look here at verse, no, come back here, verse number six. And so David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David. Now, my first, when I read that, my first question was Was this something unusual? Was Joab and say, what in the world are you asking for Uriah for? Why is David sending all the way out here to battle and want Uriah to go back? Um I read what some others said. They said, well, Uriah's probably up on this and Uriah knows what's happening. This may have been a very common thing to send people back and forth and call them back and you know who knows And so I think that in and of itself wasn't out of the ordinary, David calling back a man. And by the way, later on we find out Uriah is one of David's mighty men. And so there could have been any number of reasons in Joab's mind why David's wanting Uriah back. So I don't think that's a real red flag at this point. But look what happens. And when Uriah was come unto him, verse 7, now look, David demanded to know of him three things. One, how Joab did. Number two, how the people, the soldiers were doing. How's the morale? How's things going And how the war was prospering. Are we covering ground? Are we getting victory? Are we winning the battles? So he wants to know, Uriah, hey, um How's Joab doing? How's his leadership? I mean is he is he out there? Is he making good decisions? Is he providing the military strategy and leadership? Uh and uh he's asking that. I'm thinking, uh, you know, I'm wondering what's going through Uriah's mind. Uh yeah, he's doing real good. He always has Well how are the troops? How's morale? Is everybody up? Is there a lot of uh uh wounded? Uh you know, is everybody cooperating? Is there good teamwork? Is there camaraderie Uh yeah, David, they're doing real good, just like they always do. And uh how about the battles? Are we making progress? Yeah, we've been be uh we've been uh winning battles continually. So I'm thinking, and again, this is Total speculation on my part. I'm thinking you're right, it's thinking, why is he asking me all this? Now I said all that to say this. Do you think at this point David really was concerned as to Joab's leadership on the battlefield. No. That's the last thing in David's mind. Is David really concerned how the troops are doing and morale among the troops? No. Is David concerned about whether we're winning battles or not? No. You know what David's doing? He's putting on a front. He's acting like he really cares about this stuff. And when we know from the context, whole situation, that's the last thing in his mind. That is called hypocrisy. That is called hypocrisy. Acting like I'm one thing when I'm really something else. David's putting on a show. He's acting like he's concerned. David, at this point now, has become a full-blown, double-barrel, unadulterated hypocrite. He does not care about any of these things. He is panicked about covering his sin. That's what this is all about. Hypocrisy. You say, uh, what is hypocrisy? Hypocrisy is putting on a show. Um, did you know the word hypocrisy comes from a very similar word as the word actors and actresses? All these movie stars that folks think think so highly of, and they hang their pictures on the walls, and you know, they're great, these great detectives, and they're these special agents, you know, and these uh uh these uh um Arnold Schwarzenegger his big uh guns, you know, he's a great soldier. You know what all that is? It's phony They're not bad at all. In fact, I want to just and you probably know this, but you know when you when you when you watch them on their their talk shows and you think, oh, he's so divine. Oh she's so wonderful Even then they're acting, you have no idea what they are like as individual people. You have no idea. It is all a show, it is all a front, it is all an image. That's hypocrisy And by the way, Hollywood movie stars don't have a corner on hypocrisy. They don't have a corner on Putting on a show and acting. There's pretty uh how many people here ever raised kids? I don't know about you, but my kids are pretty good actors sometimes You get them in there, you're gonna paddle them, you know, they're gonna get this one. They're we wailing like they're dying, and you haven't even done anything yet, you know. Hollywood actors don't have a corner on hypocrisy and acting. Hypocrisy is presenting myself to be one thing when in reality I'm something else. And I want to remind you, hypocrisy is a very real danger to the people of God. See, all those unsaved people, they're hypocrites. I'm telling you right now Hypocrisy is a danger to the people of God. Here we have David, a man after God's own heart. He's playing a role of a hypocrite. He's putting on a show. He's his actions, he's lying to Uriah about what his concern is. He's setting Uriah up David, Jesus warned the disciples. Here's something when we did our study on the Sermon on the Mount a number of years ago, working through Matthew 5, 6, and 7 It struck me, and I'd seen it before, and I've preached on it before, but it really struck me in that study how Jesus warned the disciples over and over and over, and he says, be not as the Pharisees, hypocrites. Now, why would he be telling the disciples, don't be hypocrites, don't be like the disciples and be a hypocrite? Because they have the potential of what? Being a hypocrite. You say, oh, a disciple of Jesus would never be a hypocrite. Jesus said it was a very real threat. Peter, how many people think Peter, especially after Acts chapter 2, Pentecost? How many people agree with me? Peter's a great man of God. Yeah, he's filled with the Spirit, preaches, God's using him. You read Galatians, I think it's chapter 1, 2, right in the beginning of Galatians, Paul says he had to confront Peter to his face. Now he doesn't use this term, but it was because of hypocrisy. When the Jews weren't around, Peter mixed it up with the Gentiles and ate with them and you know just spent time with them and interacted with them. Bunch of Jews showed up from Jerusalem. Whoa! Peter backed off. So no no no, I don't have nothing to do with the Gentiles. That is hypocrisy. And I'm telling you, if The disciples of Jesus Christ, he had to warn them about the danger and potential of being hypocrites. If Peter is struggling with hypocrisy, David is struggling with hypocrisy You think it's a real possibility you and I, members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, be struggle with hypocrisy? Sure. It's a very real danger And by the way, you don't have to be taken in adultery to become a hypocrite. It can be any number of things that would prompt us to be hypocritical, put on a show. I put down three things, and you might want to jot these down, three dangers of hypocrisy. David blatantly hypocrite hypocritical here. I put three down. Number one, I put this down. Hypocrisy produces instability Produces instability. I get that from James chapter 1 and verse 8. It says this: a double-minded man, that's a hypocrite. It's one thing acting another way. He's double-minded A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Would you agree with me? David's acting unstable. Spiritually, he's unstable at this point. Would you agree? Trying to kill people and lying. Hypocrisy will make us spiritually unstable. When we start putting on a show, We start hiding and covering up stuff and trying to act like it's not what it is. I tell you, we're setting ourselves up for real trouble. So hypocrisy produces instability. I put this down. When we are hypocritical, we cannot be trusted. I don't know about you. What we know about David at this point in time, would you trust him? At this point in time, no. Man, he's he's unstable. He's spiritually unstable at this point He cannot be trusted. Number two, I put this down. Hypocrisy hinders my ability to serve God. Can we do anything of eternal value that pleases God apart from the power of the Holy Spirit? No, we need the Holy Spirit. We need the filling. We need the presence, power, Holy Spirit. Everything we do, we need the Holy Spirit doing it. Can I save a soul? No. And so I need the Holy Spirit to work through me as I share the gospel and I present that. I need the Holy Spirit working the hearts saving souls. And if I'm a hypocrite And if I'm putting on this show, this facade, living a lie, let me ask you a question. Can God use me effectively? No. Now he can use his word maybe sometimes. But as far as me serving God acceptably, if the Holy Spirit is grieved by my hypocrisy, I'm not going to be able to serve the Lord effectively. Let me ask you this. If we are living in sin, does God answer our prayers? If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord what? Will not hear me. David said that, by the way. So if I'm being a hypocrite, I know in my heart that I'm just putting on a show, it's just a facade, that's going to hinder my prayer life It's going to hurt my witness. I'm going to be powerless in my witness. Do you know what the number one criticism of the church and of Christians has been throughout church history? That place is full of Hypocrites. You've been witnessing very much. You run across that sooner or later. You know, the fact of the matter is, most of the time we have to agree Hypocrites have hurt the church. Hypocrites behind the pulpit? Huh? Hypocrites in the pew? Hypocrites in the classroom? Choir? Hypocrisy hurts our witness. I've had people say to me, Oh, I go to church, but it's a bunch of hypocrites. Now let me give you a little answer to that might help you Uh we wish it wasn't true, and sometimes all of us are hypocritical to an extent, so I mean it's a reality. But what I say, somebody says, I'm not I never go to church, a bunch of hypocrites there, I like to ask them, do you go to the doctor? Yeah, do you know there's hypocritical doctors? I worked in a hospital. I worked in the surgery department of a hospital. Surgery department. I had a doctor of garbology. And uh I took the garbage out of the surgery department. But I uh I was eight hours a day, five days a week. I worked in the in ER from three o'clock in the afternoon to eleven o'clock at night while I was in college I saw a lot of doctors. I saw a lot of doctors in the doctor's lounge. And I remember several times distinctly where those doctors had told someone that was smoking That they needed to quit smoking or they're going to die. And I saw that same doctor go in the doctor's lound. Now this was back when you could still smoke in buildings and stuff I saw that same doctor go in the doctor's lounge, reach in his pocket, pull out a cigarette, and light up a cigarette. Is that hippo hypocritical or not? But still go to the doctor. And so, hypocrites in the church, what I'm trying to say is hypocrites in the church is not a reason to stay out of church. But nevertheless, hypocrisy hinders my ability to serve God. Hypocrisy produces instability. I put a third danger of hypocrisy down, and that was this. Hypocrisy harms others and hurts the innocent. Look at verse number seventeen. Come down to verse seventeen and we'll look at this again a little later on. I alluded to it a few minutes ago And the men of the city went out and fought with Joab. This is after David sends Uriah back with the instructions to make sure he gets killed in battle. And fought with Joab, and there fell some of the people of the servants of David. And Uriah the Hittite died also. What's that verse telling us? There's a bunch of people who had nothing to do with Uriah or Bathsheba or David whatsoever, and they were killed in David's attempt. And David's murder of Uriah, these others were innocently killed. When we're hypocritical, when we don't get real with God, when we try and cover our sin and We try to uh uh act like everything's all right rather than confess it and forsake it. You know what? We hurt other people. We hurt other people. I put a list down here. Hypocritical kings hurt their nation David's hurting Israel at this point. Saul, we saw what he did to Israel. Hypocritical parents hurt their children. I tell you what, those kids know what we are. Right? We can put on a show. You want to learn a lot about parents in the church? Work in the children's church department. Those kids talk. Sometimes they start talking and say, okay, go ahead. I don't want to hear it. Hypocritical parents hurt their children. Hypocritical pastors hurt their church. We all know instances of that. Hypocritical teachers hurt their class. A hypocritical husband hurts his wife. A hypocritical wife hurts her husband And so hypocrisy hurts others. David is a hypocrite here, putting on a show that he's something, that he cares about something he doesn't care about. He's concerned about something he is not concerned about. He's putting on a show. Covering sin is an act of hypocrisy, and nothing good ever comes out of hypocrisy. Say, preacher, you shouldn't preach about hypocrisy so much. Oh, yeah, Jesus did. Read the Gospels. He says, Woe unto you, hypocrites! He was strong. And David's being hypocritical here. F. B. Meyer, one of my favorite Christian authors, he said, when we sin Too often we're more eager to conceal it from men than we are to confess it to God. And if we're honest, we mess up, we sin, what's the first thing we want to do? Well, cover it up. Covered up Now, not all sin needs to be publicized. Say, brother, Pastor, I sinned. I need to go tell everybody. Wait a minute, hold on. Woohoo. I don't think it's wise to necessarily go out and broadcast. If you messed up, you go out and tell everybody, oh, I messed up. You follow what I'm saying? Here's a good rule of thumb If it's a private sin, confess it, forsake it, and keep it private. If it's a public sin And it's out there, then confess it, forsake it, and then acknowledge it to those who were affected by it. You follow what I'm saying? We don't want testimony time, everybody getting up and hanging all your dirty laundry out. All right? Do business with God Confess it, forsake it, do business with God. Would you agree with me? This is a pretty public sin. Yeah. King fathered a child by one of his mighty men's wives. People are going to know about it. It has to be dealt with. And David's trying to cover it up. So we have to be careful. I know um When I was in Bible time, tr when I was on staff and we trained the evangelists and I go out for years I went out and helped train the first week And these guys get out there, these young preacher boys, and they want to serve God. They want God's power. They want to serve God. They want to be right with God so bad. And they're so sensitive. Every little sin throughout their lives They're dealing with it and they're they're wanting it to be right. And we'd have testimony times and sometimes they get up and they'd start confessing stuff and it'd be like, you know, the probably best just keep that between you and God But then there's some times it needs to be dealt public. We had years ago a fella got saved and was grown a little bit and he got in trouble with the law. It's in the news and everything. And he came to me and said, Pastor, I messed up. And um and he says, everybody knows about it. He says, um, should I should I address it to the church? And I said, yeah, probably ought to make sure everybody knows that you've acknowledged it, acknowledged it, and you've confessed it and you've forsaken it. And he did. I don't know if any of you remember, it was a long time ago. And uh he came and said, you know, I did wrong. And God used that in his life. And man, he grew like crazy after that. And so you need a little wisdom there. So not all sins need to be publicized, but all sin must be confessed and forsaken. If I'm going to grow in my faith, If God is going to be pleased with my life, and if I'm going to reach the world with the gospel, I must deal scripturally with my sin. And put away hypocrisy. Put away hypocrisy. Don't try and cover it. He that covereth his sin Shall not prosper. And we're going to see that with David here. His scheme does not work. And God has to deal with him. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us When that sin raises its ugly head, when that foolish decision is made, Lord help us to keep that on a short account. Lord, help us to follow David's instruction in Psalm 51 and confess it and forsake it pronto and get up and go on and serve you. I wonder how many this evening, I know this is might be a little sensitive, but I wonder how many this evening say, preacher, since I've been saved, I've Had to deal with that sin nature of mine. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now, probably if we didn't acknowledge that, we're not being honest. We're pretty ignorant. Because it's there. Now what we maybe need to do is just commit, say, God, by your grace, I want to commit myself that when it does raise its ugly head, when it needs to be dealt with, I want to confess it. And forsake it and not do what David did and try and cover it up or ignore it, try and disguise it somehow, but deal with it. And God will help us God will help us do it if we determine to do that. Father, bless our invitation now. You know our hearts. You know where we're at spiritually. And we ask that you would help us grow and give us the character and integrity to be honest with you about ourselves. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand