2 Samuel chapter 11, I'm going to read the first five verses of this chapter and this event in the life of David. Probably one of the most life-changing events in his life, um up to this point anyway. I'm gonna read all five verses, but We're only going to look at verse 1 tonight. Verse 1 is kind of an introduction to this significant event that takes place in the life of David. Notice it says, and it came to pass after the year was expired. At the time when the kings go forth to Badonos is probably springtime, we assume At the time when the kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the children of Amnon, Ammon, and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in an even tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof, he saw a woman, saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Elaam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? And David sent messengers and took her. And she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with child. Well, stop there. We're probably going to spend several messages on this and the following chapter, uh chap following verses This event in David's life. I just want to give an introductory thought tonight, but I've entitled this section as we work our way through this. I've entitled it David's Darkest Hour. David's darkest hour. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, we come to you tonight and uh with our Bibles open, And Lord, we're looking at a very sober, sobering passage of scripture here. In many ways very disappointing. And um but Lord you've recorded it for us and you've told us that you've given this to us by inspiration, by preservation, for our benefit. That we can learn from this. And so I ask, dear Lord, tonight that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me and teach us in each of our individual lives the lessons that we need to learn from this. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me and let me be that conduit through which you can help us through. We ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. This event that we just read here in the life of David. Begins a series of very, very painful and heartbreaking events in the following chapters In fact, I get my assessment of this is after this point, what I just read here tonight, after this event, nothing is the same in David's life again. And if you look at the following chapters, it is heartache, it is pain, it is disappointment through all of it. And um This is a this is the consequences of this event here. David never escapes the consequences For the rest of his life, now get this, for the rest of his life, he has to deal with the fallout from this decision he made right here I heard a preacher years ago say this, a long time ago, and he made this statement and he was illustrating a scriptural truth, but he said this. He said, before you decide to engage in a sinful activity, stop and think about its consequences. Stop and think about the people who are going to be affected and hurt by your decision to engage and indulge in this forbidden activity. He said, think about how it will affect your ministry. He said, think about having to go to your pastor and tell your pastor what happened, or your spouse, your children. Whoever you, whatever minister you may have, a Sunday school class or as a pastor, the church. And having to deal with the consequences Of a decision to engage in a sinful activity. The Bible, the interesting thing about the Bible is it never covers up the blemishes of its heroes. And the Bible has heroes. Read Hebrews chapter 11. You have a list that God holds up. The whole chapter almost is a list of men and women that he holds up as examples of what it means to live by faith and act on faith. But yet never God never covers up the blemishes of his heroes. He presents them as they are. David, as great a man as he is, God doesn't cover this up, he doesn't brush this over. God, in his wisdom, by inspiration, says, hey, here's what happened. And this is how it happened. And this is the consequence of what happened. The Bible is brutally honest. And the Bible is tremendously transparent. And he shows us life, and God shows us life as it is. And mankind as he is. The Bible never tries to cover up, the Bible does not cover up the sins and failures of God's people. And neither does the Bible cover up or minimize the consequences of his people's sins. He doesn't play it down, he doesn't whitewash it. He doesn't excuse or justify. God tells us: here's what happened, this is how it happened, and this is the consequences of it. And he just lays it out there. By the way, sin always has consequences. Sin always has consequences. I don't know about you. I made this statement in various ways numerous times over the years, but it's disturbing to me to read how sinful A godly man can behave. And David is a godly man, right or wrong. He's a godly man. We're told he's a man after God's own heart. He sometimes described as the sweet psalmist of Israel. You read through the book of Psalms and Scores of these great chapters that you and I read, and we find encouragement from and we get direction from and we get wisdom from. They were penned by David The sweet psalmist of Israel. It's just disturbing to think how sinful a godly man can behave. David was a man of great faith, a man of great courage, in many ways, a man of tremendous discipline. And yet he sinned, and he sinned terribly. David was not some pervert. David wasn't some pagan like the some of the Philistines and had these perverse worship and just these ungodly lifestyles. That was not characteristic of David He was a good man. He was a godly man. He was a man of faith, boldness, discipline. So I studied this. This is David's in his mid-50s at this point. He's a grandfather. Been walking with the Lord a long time. Been faithful to the Lord a long time. Yet it's disturbing how a godly man can make such a sinful decision It's disturbing. I've said this before in various ways. It's disturbing how foolish a wise man can be. We saw that as we studied Ecclesiastes and David's son Solomon. And how foolish he became, probably in his fifties, later in his life David as great a man as he was. I'm just tenice introduction to when we get look at really what happens here and the lessons we learn from it But David, as great a man as he was, he was not exempt from the power and the subtlety of sin. Satan and sin and the flesh is so powerful and is so subtle and so tricky. And even the greatest men and women of God are not exempt from it. And by the way, you and I are not exempt from sin's power either. We're not exempt from sin's subduity. The same sinful nature that dwells in the most wicked heart you can think of dwells within your heart and my heart. Do you ever think about that? Some of these you read about some of these horrendous things that people do, unthinkable, unspeakable things that people do. And in reality, the seeds of that behavior Rest in your heart and my heart. That's where it all comes from, the sinful nature of man. Now, as I was studying this, I thought, well, how does somebody respond? As we uh are reading through the life of David, we're studying the life of David, we're just so impressed. He's not perfect. We've seen some struggles he had, some bad decisions and some bad actions, but he recovered And man, he's at the pinnacle of his life spiritually. And then we read this, and then chapter 10, chapter 11 hits us, and it's like, boom, right here it is, all of a sudden. We have this action by David. And I thought, how does a person respond? How does somebody respond when they're reading this? Well, I think there's two responses a person could have when they read of David's sin here. One is They could respond this way, well David's sin excuses my sin. If David did something like that, well then I'm no better than him. And we can use David's sin and David's failure as a an excuse. excuse or as a uh uh uh justification for our own failures and our own sins. Now if we're gonna take that approach if we're gonna say well David sinned that way so you know whatever If we're going to take that approach that, okay, this gives an excuse for me. If he can do it, then I can do it too. We better be prepared to deal with the same consequences David dealt with, then also And so that's a foolish approach to say, well, if he did it, then it's all right with me. Well, if he failed, well, then the second approach we can take, and this is the one that I'm taking in our study of this. Is that David's sin, I put it this way, first of all, David's sin excuses my sins. We can have that approach, which is foolish Or we can have the approach that David's sin exacts or requires greater caution in my life. In other words, I study and I see what happened to David. I study and see what David did. And I want to step back and say, whoa, if somebody of his caliber can fall in this way, how much more careful do I need to be? In my own life. And I want to suggest to you and I that we take that approach in studying David's darkest hour. Are you with me? So we're going to approach this thing as looking at, all right, what can I learn from this? What principles are here? What lessons are here in this to help me? If someone like David, a man after God's own heart, can make such a destructive decision, how much more careful do I need to be? Can I give a little bit of advice? Don't ever make this statement, oh, I would never do that I'm not perfect, but I would never do that. Anybody ever hear something along those lines? Maybe we've said it I can't believe they did that. I can't believe they acted that way. I would never do that. I'm telling you right now, don't even say that. My mother used to say to me when I was young, don't never, she said, never say. Never. I said, never? She says, never. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at verse 1. Oh, we got time there. So come back if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Wow, David did all that. I would never do that. I would never do what David did. Be very, very careful. About making that statement. First Corinthians chapter ten and verse number twelve. Now verse thirteen is a great But such is common to man. God is faithful, not suffer to be tempted, above the able with the temptation, also make a way to escape me able to bear it. Alright, great verse. But Back up to verse number 12. Now this applies to what I'm saying. Don't ever say I would never do that. Look at verse 12. Wherefore, let him that thinketh, he standeth Take heed, lest he what? Fall. Oh, I'm standing. I would never do that. You better be careful. You think you're standing, you could fall tomorrow. Amen or not. Don't ever make that statement. Come over, if you would, to 1 Peter chapter 5. We have two approaches. We can look at David's failure here. One is, well, that justifies failure on my part. If he did it, I can do it. And by the way, later on we're going to find out, Nathan the prophet said to him, David, you've given occasion to the enemies of God to blaspheme. You've opened the door up here for further sin And so we don't want to do that. We don't want to respond in that way. What we want to do is respond and say, hey listen, I see what happened to David here. I need to be very, very careful. If he somebody of his caliber Can fall for this than man. How much more do I need to be careful? Look at 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 8 The Bible says, be sober, be vigilant. Somebody asked me. Somebody answer, help me here. When he says be sober, what does he mean by that? We know he's not talking about drinking and getting drunk. He's not talking about that. What does he mean by sober? Be serious. Be alert. Be sober. Listen, you better pay attention. Don't get fuzzy on your thinking here. Be sober. And then he uses another word. Now he's being a little redundant here, but he's doing it for emphasis. Be sober, be what? Vigilant. What is vigilant? What is it? On watch? Be on guard Man, don't let your guard down in you just watching all the time. Being aware. Um And so he says, be sober, be vigilant. Why? What's the big deal? Why are we being so cautious here? Why are we so why are we on red alert? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. David Was devoured. He paid the price the rest of his life. He's affected by this one decision. Now, I'm not changing the Bible. Y'all out there in the internet world, I'm not changing the Bible But I'm trying to make an application here. Okay, let me offer a suggestion. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, now the devil, can I inject this in? Your adversary the flesh As a royal lion walketh about seeking him and devour. You know who the devil's greatest ally is in the bat spiritual war against you and I? You know who his greatest ally is? It's our own sinful flesh He's got a man inside the gates, so to speak, on his side And so, don't ever say, I would never do that. Instead, we learn from this, come back if you would there to Samuel. If we learn from this, And we say, you know, if somebody of David's caliber could do this, I have got to be cautious. I'm not going to say I'm standing because I could fall easily tomorrow. I've got a devil out there that is like a roaring lion that's trying to take me out and my flesh is on his side It's interesting, we go back and rehearse the life of David, and we remember that as a young man he killed a bear and a lion. He had to deal, combat, so to speak He had an issue with a bear and a lion, and he killed both of them. How many people agree with me? Pretty impressive, right? Yeah. Young man. It's like Isaac back there. A bear comes out of the woods to attack the sheep and a mountain lion and he goes out with his bare hands and kill them. How many people would be impressed with Isaac? Yeah. And then he's still a young man and he goes and takes uh some goodies to his brothers and check on them, the instruction of his father. And here's this giant out there challenging the nation of Israel and in front of tens of thousands of Israeli soldiers He steps up and says, I'll take him on, and he kills Goliath with a slingshot and a stove. Agree with me? Impressive. Wow, this guy's amazing He killed a bear, he killed a lion, he killed a giant, he's not even 20 years old yet. And then King Saul hires him on military staff, on staff there. And he kills tens of thousands of Philistines. I mean, just kills them. This guy is a warrior. And then for two and a half, three years, or however length of time it was, Saul, the king of Israel, with the entire Jewish military. is hunting David down, and David successfully eludes them every time with God's help, and he survives this manhunt The guy's amazing. His abilities to confront challenges, his abilities to confront enemies, his abilities to conquer his foes is phenomenal Then he becomes king and he has a seven-year civil war on his hands and he deals with that successfully and finally brings the nation together. And what I'm getting at is every one of the challenges, every one of the foes. Enemies that David faced, he was able to deal with and to conquer successfully, but this one. And now he's dealing with an enemy that got the best of him. And that enemy was his own sinful nature. His own sinful nature. Now, give me a th let me give you three thoughts here from verse number one that I noticed. And that hopefully will help us as we set the stage for David's darkest hour, the events leading up to it, and the situation that he was in that uh enabled and nurtured. This horrendous event. Number one, I put it this way, I want us to notice the timing of David's failure. The timing of David's failure. Came to pass after the year was expired at the time when the kings go forth to battle. All right, we think that's probably springtime because uh you it would be easier to battle in the spring. You'd have uh the grasses to feed the horses and and the supplies and all that would be better than in the wintertime. So but the point is Is this a period in David's life, in his in the nation of Israel, the life of the nation of Israel, where they're having military victories. You go back to chapter number 10 And they had military victory after military victory after military victory. There are no serious threats to the security of Israel at this time Now are there battles? Yes. Are there wars? Yes. But they're handling them very easily. In fact, look there in verse 1. He says David sent Job, his servants with him, and all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Amnon and beseeched Rabbah. So they're just having victory after victory after victory. They are conquering their enemies with relative ease. So there's no real military stress on him, a threat to the nation. There's no insurrections going on, there's no rebellions taking place. There's no outstanding trials that David is facing. There's no real difficulties he's dealing with. There's no challenges. Now, I don't know about you, but when things are going bad or I'm a little concerned or fearful about a situation, I tend to pray more When there's difficulties going on than when there aren't, right or wrong? How many of us, now be honest, how many of us, we kind of coast along sometimes in our Christian life until something comes up? Oh no And then we want to then we make sure we get right with God and we read extra Bible verses and we go to prayer meeting extra time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And trials and difficulties and challenges and threats and fearful things tend to humble us and drive us to the Lord. But what happens when all of those things are removed? We tend to get lax. We tend to back off a little bit. Now it ought not to be that way, right? But that's the way it is. And a lot of times these struggles, these battles, these difficulties and challenges and trials, they bring us to our knees before the Lord, and we stay close to God, and we're very, very careful. Because we don't want to displease God. We need Him. But when everything is going well, all of David's objectives have been met, achieved. Temple with everything's in place to build the temple. Of course he can't, Solomon's going to, but he's got everything in place. The nation is unified. The tabernacle's back in Jerusalem. He's got his houses built. All his objectives have been achieved. All his goals have been met. He's at the height of prosperity. And I tell you it's when in times of ease that we need to be on red alert I'm going to suggest to you, this is something I learned studying this, and this this dawned on me. You know what? When everything's going well and I have a tendency to coast along a little bit, that's probably the time I need to pray a little more extra. It's probably the time I need to work on getting more memory verses memorized. What's the old saying? Make when the sun is shining. Maybe we'd be able to deal with our trials and our difficulties a whole lot better if we'd stay close to God before they show up. Now, I don't know. The Bible doesn't say that David slacked off in his personal walk with God. The Bible doesn't say he was coasting along spiritually. But I do think it's interesting that his darkest hour, the worst decision he makes in his entire life, happens when everything is at peace and prosperous and everything's going well. There's no disturbances going on. In times of ease, be on red alert. In times of prosperity, be extra diligent. Neighborhood Bible Time finished up their summer last Friday night. They did their last closing programs. Saturday, the guys packed up all their stuff and they flew back to their homes for a week or two before school starts And right now they're all back home. I was talk uh communicating with Brother Toots uh the other day a little bit, and uh they're all back home and they're all set there, and I'm telling you from ex- Experience working with them for years, now is the most dangerous time of their summer spiritually. Before they headed out, brother, they were scared to death. I know, I've been there. They're terrified. I'm going to travel the summer and be my responsibility. I'm telling you, uh I had the privilege for years under Brother Homster and a little bit under Brother Coots uh to come out and be the speaker for the first week of training. They had three weeks of training. And I had the privilege to go out for that first week. And you know what my job was? To get these guys right with God before they got all their training and headed out And we um we'd preach the devil out of them, and I tell you, it's one of the easiest things I ever did in my life because they were all terrified. They wanted to be right with God more than anything else. Man, they would come and they're con they're coming into me confessing sins and it's like, man, you know, you need to go to God with that And they're just they're just they want so careful for everything to be right and everything to be in place, and I need God's power and I need God's wisdom, I need God's blessing But 14, 15 weeks later, after now all that's behind them, and they come back, and you know what the temptation is? The kick back. And Brother Holmes here used to get on those guys. He'd say, you keep up your daily devotions? You keep up your soul winning, don't you slack off, don't you back off, you press on, press on, press on, because that's such a dangerous time. I found anybody here ever uh let's see if anybody can relate to this. You have a revival meeting, God stirs your heart, man, you make some great decisions And then you get back home, and the following week it just seems to dissipate. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Because in the heat of the moment, we want God's blessing so much, but then we relax. And the the Bible doesn't say expressly that that what that's what happened to David, but I just notice there's nothing real serious going on in the kingdom or his life at this point He's got it pretty good. He's at the height of his prosperity. He's at the height of his his life spiritually. And this happens. So number one, the timing of his failure. Listen, what I'm saying is this, if things are going good for you right now, watch out. Get close to God. Don't let that personal walk fade away. Don't let that prayer time get cold. Don't let your soul winning drop off. You stay after that. And don't let it slack down. Number two, the second thing I notice in verse number one is uh first of all the timing of David's failure, but second of all the territory of David's failure. And what I mean by that is where is he at when this has taken place? Well, he's back home in Jerusalem for the most part by himself. Look what it says there. At the time when kings go forth to battle. When who goes forth to battle? What's it say? Talk to me now. When kings go forth to battle, who's the king of Israel? David. At the time of year when the kings go forth to battle, that David went out with them and led them into battle. No, doesn't say that at all. That David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel. And so David uh uh sends Joab out there. I'm just gonna sit this one out, fellas. I'm just gonna stay back here at the palace And uh I've been fighting my whole life. Uh you guys go out there. We're we're whooping them left and right. We're ha we're having victories with ease. You guys don't need me. You just go on and you do it And David sent the others. I think a key factor in David's sin with Bathsheba is that he was not where he was supposed to be. Even Ahab, if you'll read the life of Ahab, even Ahab led the nations out into battle. Now he was a coward and he was a weasel, but he went out to battle with his armies. But this one time, one time, they said, nah, I'm staying home. I'll just sit this one out. A key factor in David's sin with Bathsheba is that he was not where he was supposed to be. He was not in his place. I remember Dr. Creed said years ago, I heard him, he just made this statement, and for some reason it stuck in my head all these years. This is a long time ago. He says He says, you cannot be in where you're supposed to be spiritually if you're not where you're supposed to be physically. You go somewhere we ought not to be, then you're not where you ought to be spiritually. You stay away from someplace I should be They're not where you are, not spiritually. He's supposed to be at war out leading the troops. Even Ahab did that Now, I thought this was interesting. There's three times when David's back at home. We've already looked at two of these. Now we're looking at the third one. Where David's back at home and he makes a significant decision. If you would, come back a few pages to chapter number seven. David is in his palace. The palace has been built and the ark is in Jerusalem and things are going pretty well. They still got some battles they're dealing with, and things are coming together. It's not quite there yet. But in chapter 7 of 2 Samuel, it says this, and it came to pass when the king sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest round about from all his enemies The king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of Cedar, look at this, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. Now, this is what I picked up from this, putting these three events together. This first time, David's back home and he has rest and he's in his palace, and his thoughts and his focus is on the Lord. He's thinking, oh man, I want to build a temple for the Lord. I want to build a house for God. Now Mathan says, yeah, do it. We've already studied this. Yeah, do it. And God says, no, no, no, you're not doing that Solomon will do that. I don't never really ask for a temple, but if you want to do one, Solomon will do it, not you. But here's the point. Here's David at home. At rest, very similar setting as to chapter 11, that time his thoughts are on the Lord. I want to do something for God I want to do something for the Lord out of appreciation and love for what He's done for Him. I want to do something for Him, I want to build a house for God. The second time we find David at home is in chapter number nine. Come over there. 2 Samuel. And verse 1. And David said, Is there yet any? Now this is a time of peace. The battles have settled down. And he says, David said, Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul that I may show kindness for Jonathan's sake? So the first time he says sitting at home He gets thinking and he goes, I want to do something for God. His thoughts are on the Lord. The second time he's at home and it's no battles going on at the time and Apparently a time of rest so to some extent and he gets thin he says I want to do something for someone else His first focus is on the Lord. The second time, his focus is on others. I want to be show kindness of God to somebody. Is there anybody left of the house of Saul? I want to show them kindness How many people agree with me? Those are pretty good, right? Focuses on the Lord, he's at home thinking, oh, I want to do something for God. Second, focuses on others. I want to be a blessing to others. And then the third time comes. And in chapter 11, he's at home. He sent everybody off. And his focus now is not on the Lord. And it's not on others. It's on who? It's on himself. He gets all caught up in what he wants and gratifying himself. Now I got thinking, what's the difference between these three? The first one is the Lord. He's focused on the Lord. The second one, it's others. And this last one is all self and flesh and sin. I think the difference was the territory he was at. He wasn't supposed to be at home then. Wasn't supposed to be there at that time. I wonder how many people have messed up their testimonies and hurt themselves the rest of their lives because they were not where they were supposed to be. Or they were somewhere where they ought not to be. Listen, if there's any question, boy, I don't know if I ought to be in that situation. If there's any question about it, my advice is stay away. Hey, I wonder if I should go to church tonight. My advice is go. Go. I got thinking as I was studying this, I wonder how many people have messed up their Christian life. Sometime when they sat home from church, when they should have been at church and they stayed home and they did something stupid. I have no statistics on that But I know this, what Dr. Crete said, you cannot be where you should be spiritually if you're not where you should be physically. First time he focused on the Lord, the second time he focused on himself and the third on the others, and the third time he focused on himself. So number one, the timing of David's failure, it's a time of prosperity, time of ease, of victory, things are going well. He apparently kicks back, uh relaxes a little bit, lets his guard down. It's uh the territory, he's alone in the palace, he's somewhere he ought not to be. He should be out there on the battlefield. He should be out there leading the troops. And my third and final observation is the attitude leading up to this failure. His attitude. Look what it says here. It says, at a time At the time when the kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel. According to that statement, we can assume whose idea was it? That David stay back and the others go. It's David's. He sent them. It was his decision. Then go on. David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. All right, they're having victory. It's just going on. But look at this last statement. I underlined this last statement, and there's one word I underlined multiple times. But David, what's the next word? Tarried still at Jerusalem. Now that word tarried caught my attention I thought, huh, what does it mean to tarry somewhere? Well, I did what I always do. I looked it up. I looked how it's used other places and what the word means it came from, what it means in English. And I found this out. The word tarry means literally what the word comes from means literally in its most Basic definition is to sit down. David tarried at Jerusalem. Now, expanding on that, it means to remain inactive And here's the one that got me to be idle. David said, I'm just sitting down and I'm not doing nothing. I'm just gonna set back here. I tell you, what's the old saying? An idle mind is the what? Devil's workshop. Now I don't know I'm I'm not blaming the devil for all this. I know he had a part in it. I'm blaming sinful flesh, the sinful heart. And I want to suggest to you an idle mind, an idle hands Open the door for the flesh to take over. Now, there's a place for rest. Now, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. There's a place for rest. But I'll tell you, we ought to be busy about the Lord's work. We ought to keep ourselves busy. We ought to stay focused. How many times somebody sit down and say, ah, I'm just going to take it easy today, and end up watching something on TV they ought not to be watching Huh? End up reading a book or listening to music or doing something they ought not to do. When they should have stayed busy, they should have stayed busy. David said, Ah, let those guys go do that. I'll just sit back here and and take it easy. I'll just be idle. He tarried at Jerusalem. Now this is what I get from that. This was a conscious decision that David made. Joab didn't say, oh David, you stay back here. You've been working so hard. You stay back there. You just tarry. Take it easy. Sit down. Do nothing. We'll go fight the battles. That's not what took place here. Nobody came and told convinced David he needed to stay here. This was a decision he made. This was something that he concocted in his mind to stay back and not go to battle. Now that raises a ton of questions in my mind. And I can't answer them definitively But I'm just going to throw this out. This is a question that comes in mind and we may never know till I I'm never I won't ever know. Maybe not even when I get to heaven, I won't care. But I wonder if David had a reason for staying back home. And I wonder if that reason wasn't Bathsheba. I don't know, it doesn't say. But I know this was his idea. I know this was his decision to stay back. They say, preacher, you're reading too much into it. That's a very real possibility I wouldn't argue with that at all. But I'm wondering why in the world would he now, at this time, decide to stay back. It was a conscious decision. Let me give you a statement. I would encourage you to jot down. This is a important truth, I think. Spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. Spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. As a man thinketh in his heart, what's the next phrase? So is he. It all begins in my mind. My actions, my behavior, my decisions are a result of my thinking, my attitude. My thinking processes produce decisions I make. My thinking processes produce the actions I take. My thinking processes produce the behavior I display. And so David's attitude, I believe, was behind what led up to this horrendous failure. Joab is out at war with Ammon, and David's at war with his might. David's out there, uh Joab's out there besieging uh Rabbah. He's out besieging Rabbah, and David's sitting back tearing in Jerusalem, being besieged by his flesh, we're going to see. And so it's an attitude. I'm going to end with this. If you would take your Bibles, come with me to the New Testament and 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Paul understood that spiritual battles are won and lost in the mind. Paul understood that. In fact, in Romans 12, all you're finding Second Corinthians ten, Romans twelve, one says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your what? Mind. He said, conformity to the world is a result of the way my mind is, the way my mind thinks. I've said when this first contemporary Christian movement started coming out, contemporary Christianity came out, I said that is not just a different style of music, it is a whole different philosophy of Christianity. It is a different version, it's a different thinking about what biblical Christianity is. And it begins in the mind. And we have to, Paul said, be not confronted, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. You keep that mind stayed on Christ. You keep that mind focused on the Lord. Now look what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse number 4. Paul understood this Verse 3 says, For we walk in the flesh, we do not warp the flesh. Look at verse 4. For the weapons are of our warfare. Now David's at war. These next few verses we're going to look He is at war with his flesh. There's a spiritual, mental battle going to be going on between David and his opportunities in front of him. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal But mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Now look what Paul says in verse 5. Casting down imaginations. Where do imaginations take place? The mind Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. Everything David is about to do is against what he knows God wants him to do. But he didn't cast down those imaginations. Now look at this last statement. And bringing into what? Captivity every thought. To the obedience of Christ. I put in the margin of my Bible, control my thinking, discipline my thought life. David's failure was the timing of his failure was things were going pretty good. He's relaxed probably. The territory wasn't where he ought to be. Sit back here And then his attitude is he's just relying, he's just thinking, I'm going to stay home. And he tarries there, and he doesn't think clearly, and he makes poor decisions. So my challenge to us tonight is the next several weeks we're going to look at this dark hour in the life of David. Now Lord will and none of us Would ever get involved in something like this, but we must never say I would never do that And we you say, well preacher, things are going pretty good for me. I ask people how you do it. I I talked to a preacher earlier in the week. How's it going up there? Oh, pretty good. Talked to a preacher up in Pennsylvania And uh how's it going? Pretty good. I was studying this, I thought, and uh he asked me, how are things down at Mountain Lake? I said, Going really well. We're gonna have a good summer, people getting saved, and good folks coming out and And I thought when I was studying this, I thought, yikes, we better be on our guard. We better be diligent. We better be sober. We've got to keep our minds stayed on Christ. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us be on guard, be sober, be vigilant. Lord, we got the enemy of the devil, we got the world, and then we got our own sinful flesh. So help us to keep our thoughts, our minds. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, uh, I need God to help me bring into captivity every thought and intent of my heart. Anybody like that? That's the battle And I'm telling you, if you're not struggling there, then you don't understand what's happening. You don't see that. And so that's where daily devotions, that's where walking with God, that's where keeping myself away from garbage That affects my thinking. It's where all that comes in. So maybe tonight on a Wednesday night, we want to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, I want you to take control of my mind. Help me be disciplined here. It's hard. It's not easy. The Holy Spirit of God can help us and enable us, empower us, and we need his filling. Father, bless the invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are clear.