You didn't see that one coming, did ya? All right. Second Samuel chapter eleven. We are looking at a case study on how not to deal with your sin. You want to find out how not to, if you sin, or let me put, let me rephrase that, when you sin And you want to know how not to deal with it. This is a classic study here on how not to deal with sin. Of course, David Um we we called it his darkest hours. The first five verses are without a doubt, at least in my mind, the darkest hours of David's life. Now he failed later on in life and it was very grievous Um but uh this is this is um this is a pretty dark time for David. And surprisingly, um Of course we're so familiar with it, you know, it's hard to s you say, well, why would you be surprised? But if you didn't if you didn't know how this played out, if you were reading it for the first time, at least in my mind I would be surprised how David responds to when he does sin. I'm shocked that he did. But then how he responded to it is just as surprising to me as to the to the the deed itself. And so we're looking at David's attempt to cover his sin. And uh we've been looking at this and I want to pick up where we're going to study tonight. And um Beginning in verse 14. I'm going to read all the way down to the last, the first part of the last verse of the chapter. But verse 14, 2 Samuel 11. It came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. I underlined that in my Bible. That's amazing. And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten and die. Is there any question in those instructions as to what David wants to happen? No. Who's going to read this? Who's the only one going to read this letter? Joab, he's the only one. By the way, I just thought of this. I'll throw this out. If you don't ever want anybody to know something you said, don't write it down. That's pretty good advice, huh? It has nothing to do with the message, but I thought of that. So it's very clear what David is instructing Joab to do here And it came to pass when Joab observed the city. So Joab stops and he looks at the situation, looks at the city. All right, there's the hottest battle right there. That's where it's the toughest. He assigned Uriah unto a place that he knew the valiant men were. And the men of the city went out and fought with Joab. And there fell some of the people of the servants of David, and Uriah the Hittite died also. Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war. I find it interesting how Joab reports to David the death of Uriah. And he charged the messenger, verse 19, saying, When thou hast made an end of telling the matters of the war unto the king, now look at this. And if so be that the king's wrath arise, And he say unto thee, Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city where ye did fight? Knew ye not that they should shoot from the wall? He's telling them, say this. If David says that, then say this. Who smote Elimelech? Or David is he's anticipating David saying this. Who smote Elimelech, the son of Jerob Bisheth, and did not a woman cast a piece of millstone upon him from the wall that he died in uh in Tabez? Why went ye nigh the wall? Then say thou, thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. So he's anticipating David making a fuss about his actions. So the messenger went, verse 22, and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for. And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us. And came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them even unto the evening entering of the gate. And the shooters shot off the from off the wall upon thy servants And some of the king's servants be dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. And David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto Joab, let not this thing displease thee. For the sword devoureth one as well as another. Make thy battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it, and encourage thou him. Can you hear David go? Uriah's dead. Whew. His scheme has been accomplished. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, she mourned for her husband. And when the morning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. Isn't that tragic? And the last statement there, and we hopefully have time to look at that, is the saddest statement in the whole chapter, I think. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. Displeased the Lord. We're looking at David's attempt to cover up his sin. And uh tonight we're going to look at the part where David's heart is hardening. If you remember, we noted first of all, well, well David steps into sin. First of all, he gave attention to something he ought not to have given attention to. If he saw Bathsheba bathing, he shouldn't have given attention to that. Second of all, then he desired something he shouldn't have desired. He wanted her. And she wasn't his to want Then he took her. He took something that he had no business taking. And so that was the steps into sin, into his fall. And then his attempts to cover his sin, rather than acknowledging it right away, finds out she's with child. Eventually she tells him. And rather than acknowledge it, confess it, and deal with it the way the Bible tells us to deal with our sin, David decides he's going to cover it. He panics. He's going to try and cover that sin up. The very first act on David's part to cover his sin was to play a hypocrite He acted like he cared about Uriah. He acted like he cared about what was happening at war. He called Uriah back. Do you remember we studied that hypocrisy of David And covering sin of necessity requires hypocrisy. Because the fact that I'm trying to cover up something means I'm putting on a show that something is something it's not, right? You follow So we already looked at that. Then we looked last week at the honor of Uriah. What a tremendous man Uriah turns out to be. Loyal and character and discipline and uh integrity. And now tonight we want to look at the hardening of David's heart. The hardening of his heart. We didn't pray yet. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you to bless now our study of This very unpleasant portion of Scripture in this dark period of David's life help us to learn from it. Lord, I pray you would help us to learn to avoid this type of situation at all in the first place. And then, Lord, when if and when we do sin, Help us to learn to deal with it the way you tell us to and minimize the damage and be able to actually grow from it. So fill me with your spirit. I pray, Lord, I yield my will to you. And pray that you would help us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've said this often. I said it when we're studying Ecclesiastes, and I've said it throughout David's experience, and I believe it, I bears repeating tonight, I think, but to me it's disturbing to see how foolish a wise man can act. Who do you think of immediately in that? Solomon, you think of Solomon, or and Saul even to begin with. But Solomon, you read Ecclesiastes, here's the wisest man, had supernatural wisdom given to him by God, and yet he plays such a fool. Um it's disturbing to see how weak A strong man can be. And who comes to mind on that? Samson. I mean, here he had supernatural strength of God. And yet, when it came to the women of Philist the Philistine women, he was weak as can be. And it's disturbing, this brings us here, it's disturbing how wicked A godly man can be. And that brings us to David. Remember, we're told in Acts that David is a man, what? After God's own heart, you can't get much more godly than that. You can't get a higher complement In the Christian life, and in in a as a child of God, as God, one of God's people, you can't get a higher compliment than the as a man after God's own heart. That's a woman after God's own heart. But yet Here we have adultery, deceit, hypocrisy, and now murder. And so it's disturbing. Up to this point David has been really pretty tender-hearted. If we would go back, if we took the time, we'd go back to 1 Samuel 24 and verse 5. And do you remember when Uh King Saul was pursuing David out in the wilderness, and David's fleeing for his life. And Saul's literally trying to kill him. Saul is trying to do to David what David just we read he just did to Uriah. in a sense. And so David has this opportunity. Saul is sound asleep and all his his Secret Service men and his guards are asleep. And David sneaks down there And what does David do to Saul's garment? He cuts the hem of his garment off there. Rather than killing them, his guys were telling him, kill him, are you nuts? Here's your chance. He goes, no, I'm not going to touch God's anointing. And then if you look there in verse 5 of 1 Samuel 24, it says, David's heart smote him. That he had done this to the king. All he did was cut the piece of garment off just to prove that he could have killed him. And that that bothered David's heart. I don't know about you, but that's pretty tender-hearted To just cut your enemy, a guy's trying to kill you, and all you do is cut a piece of his clothing, and then you feel bad about that, you feel guilty about that. So David, up to this point has been very, very tenderhearted. Up to this point, David has been a genuine worshiper of God. I mean, he is in love with the Lord. He is he is the real thing. There's nothing uh There's nothing phony about David's spiritual walk with God up to this point. Remember what's the one of the first things he did when he got Israel together? He got them all unified. What was the first thing he did? Who remembers? He brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. Very first thing. He wanted God to be in his rightful place. Up to this point, up to this point, David has been very faithful to the Lord. But something has changed. Something is different. Now, this there's a tremendous lesson, a very important lesson, I think, for us to understand. Even the best of God's people Still have a sinful heart. Even the best of God's people still have a sinful nature. Romans says there is none righteous But then he's then he then he re-emphasizes that statement. What does he say? There is none righteous, no, not one. Would that include David? Yes. Jeremiah 17, 9. I just read it last week, I think, in my devotion a week or so ago, just recently. I read it in my devotions. The heart is deceitful and what? Desperately wicked. He doesn't say the drunkard's heart or the fool's heart Or the thief's heart. He says, the heart, period, across the board. Any person that has a heart, that has any type of nature at all, there's a sinful nature there. And so even the best of God's people have sinful natures. Even the best of God's people have the potential to do, to commit the worst of sins. The seeds of every sin that David committed, those seeds lie within your heart and my heart also. So we have to be very, very careful in our own walk with God. Amen? Because we know the potential, we know the dark potential that rests within Our own nature. We know that's there. And also we have to be very, very careful about our attitudes towards others. Did you ever hear somebody say, or maybe we've said this, oh, I would never do that. Huh? I'm not perfect, but I would never do that. Yeah, my mom always said that. Never say never. And that is one never that it's never a good idea to say. I would never do that. I am sure that there were many times before this we could have asked David, maybe We could have said, David, would you ever do and then describe what it, would you ever do that? I'm sure he would say, oh, I would never do that. Maybe he would have said that. And so we need to be aware of the latent wickedness that rests within every one of our chests, within our nature. So we have to be very, very careful. First Corinthians chapter ten and verse twelve says, Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth Take heed, lest he what? Fall. So what we need to do here is when we look at David, and it's already been horrific. What we've studied up to this point now, it just goes over the top. And we have to be very, very careful to say, hey, Lord, teach me from this. How I can avoid making horrific states mistakes. I think that's why this is recorded for us. So we can learn from this. We can apply principles and put up shields against this type of thing. So what happened here? David's heart has become hardened. His attempts to cover his sin up to this point have failed. And it's interesting, and I could almost preach a message on this, but it's kind of interesting. Uriah's integrity was an obstacle to David's plans If Uriah would not have been a man of character, David's conniving would have never taken place. He would have went home, he would have slept with his wife, and David's sin would have been covered, at least as far as his scheme was concerned. But Uriah being a man of character was an obstacle to David's conniving in attempts to cover his sin. And so that tells me that people of character are good for a society. They're obstacles. To the continuation, the attempts to deal with things in a wrong way. You follow where I'm trying to go with that? And Uriah's integrity, Uriah's character was an obstacle to David's attempt to cover his sin. So now David steps it up a notch and his heart gets hard. His heart gets hard. Up to this point, all we wanted to do was make sure nobody knew Now he's crossing a line where he is taking not just a life, but he's going to take several lives. That's a hard heart right there. I put down, just before we outline the passage here what we're getting to, I put down four characteristics of a hard heart. I just sat down and I thought, what are characteristics of someone with a hard heart? You might want to jot these down. I think they might be helpful. Number one, first characteristic I put down for a hard heart is a focus on self. A focus on self. I think this is probably the most characteristic. Most obvious characteristic of a hard part, become consumed with themselves. Who is number one in David's mind right now? It's David. It's David covering his sin. It's David trying to save face and avoid this. He is consumed with himself And the number one characteristic, the starting point for a hard heart, is when everything becomes about me. When it is all me, it's all self A hard heart is a selfish heart. If you would keep your place here. We're going to look at this here. We're going to break it down a little bit. But if you would, come over to the book we end up often, the book of Proverbs. And I want you to see a verse in chapter 14, Proverbs chapter 14. The number one characteristic of a hard heart is an obsession, a focus of self, a selfish heart. Is a hard heart. Proverbs chapter 14, and come down, if you found it there, come down to verse 14 I have this underline underscored in my Bible, and I have a little phrase circled in my Bible Proverbs 14, 14. The backslider in heart, so let's use the the by the Bible saying backslider. Let's think about a hard-hearted person. The backslider in heart shall be filled. What's those next three words? Four words with his own ways. I circled that. One of the first characteristics, one of the most obvious characteristics of a hard heart. is when I am filled with my own ways. I have to get my way. What I want, when I want, the way I want, doesn't matter what it costs, doesn't matter who it hurts. Doesn't matter what the consequences are, me. That's characteristic of a hard heart. Say, preacher, do I have a hard heart? Well, we have to ask ourselves, am I consumed with myself? Is it all about me? Is it all about my agenda and what I want? That's a characteristic of a hard heart. Number two, I put down a second characteristic of a hard heart. A hard heart forsakes the Word of God. David is acting as if God's word isn't even true. He's completely disregarded the clear instructions of the Lord. He's completely disregarded how God says we're supposed to deal with these issues. And he's acting as if the Bible is a meaningless book, as if it's irrelevant to his life. And whenever you and I get a hard heart, that Bible is suddenly going to be less important than it was when our heart is tender. You know what happens? We start missing our Bible reading. Day, two days, three days, a week, month. Then it sets in the car dash for till next Sunday and pull it out One of the things when folks come and they're struggling with different things, uh often one of the first questions I'll ask them, are you reading your Bible every day? Anybody want to guess what the answer is? I'm going to say 100% of the time Well, not like I should be. I tell you, when we start neglecting our Bible, when that thing sets there for days and weeks and God forbid months and we're not even looking in it. We're not even letting the Lord speak our hearts. I tell you what, that's a good indicator this old thing's getting hard on me. This old heart's hardening up. Miss church. Now I know I'm preaching to the Wednesday night crowd, but still. Start missing the preaching of God's word. We start missing our daily devotions. Prayer goes and uh is non-existent, church is unimportant. So, first characteristic I put down for a hard heart, my observation is a focus on self. Number two, a forsaking of the Word of God. Number three, an inflexibility with sin. And what I mean by that is a hard heart gets itself set, gets its heart, it gets set on doing something, even if God forbids it. And that's going to happen. I'm going to do it regardless of what the cost is. Regardless of what, I will not repent. I want this sin. And we have something in our life and we know it's wrong, and we know it's sin, and we refuse to face it, and we refuse to acknowledge it, and we refuse to forsake it That's a clear indicator that my heart is getting hard. A refusal to forsake sin, an inflexibility in sin. And then I put down number four, the fourth characteristic of a hard heart is feelings become calloused. Suddenly you really don't care. About what how my actions affect others. I don't care how my actions affect my family. I don't care how my behavior hinders other people from coming to Christ unsaved, go unreached because of my hard heart and my sin. Ministries become damaged, a name becomes stained. And so, number one, a focus on self. Number two, a forsaking of the word of God. Number three, an inflexibility in sin. And number four, the feelings are callous. And I see that in David. Right now. So come back if you would to 2 Samuel chapter 11. And I want us to notice three things in this passage we just read real quickly. I'll try to give these as quick as you can. Look back at verse 14, chapter 11, verse 14. It came to pass In the morning, this is when David had brought Uriah back, if you remember, and he tried to get him to go down and spend the night with his wife. He slept out with the soldiers. He said, I'm not going to do it, I'm not going to do it. So David sends a mess of meat down with them, and he gets them drunk. If you would look there in verse 13, it says he did eat and drink before him, and he, David, made him Uriah drunk Can you imagine David getting a man drunk? A good man. So not only does he first he tries to defile Uriah by getting him drunk. And by the way, drunkenness is defilement. Not only does he get him to try to defile him or get him drunk, now he tries to destroy him. So it came to pass in the morning, that didn't work, he still went down not to his house, Uriah, that David wrote a letter unto Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. And he wrote in the letter, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, retire ye from him that he may be smitten and die. Came to pass, when Joab observed the city, he assigned Uriah to a place where he knew the valiant men were, and the men of the city went out. fought with Joab, and there fell some of the people out of the sir of the servants of David, and Uriah the Hittite died also. I see number one, David's commitment to his cover-up His first attempts to cover up his sin did not succeed. So rather than give up this attempt and say, all right, I just got to deal with this and confess it and forsake it, he's committed, no, I am not admitting this under any circumstances. I'm going to do whatever it takes to cover this sin. So he's a commitment to cover his sins. By the way, that would be a characteristic of a hard heart. God has been intervening. God has been placing roadblocks. Uriah's character, as I said before, was an obstacle to David's attempts to cover his sin. But at this point, nothing is stopping David. Nothing. Whatever he has to do to keep this under wraps, he's doing it. Now, here's a question for you. What we just read, there's an interesting thing, and we could spend time on a lot of these things here. But here's an interesting question: Did David trust Uriah? Yeah, did you catch that? I think we touched on it last week. But look what it says, and I underlined this in my Bible David wrote a letter to Joab, and God makes sure it's included in the Word of God and sent it by the hand of Uriah. You talk about cruelty This man's loyalty, this man's faithfulness, this man's love for his God and his king and his nation. And David sends the letter telling how he's to be murdered by the guy that's going to be murdered. David knew Uriah was a man of character. David knew Uriah was a man that could be trusted. David knew he was murdering a good man. Do you get any impression here that David cared? No. He's committed to this cover-up. Here's a second question. Was Uriah trustworthy Yeah, so David trusted him and he was trustworthy. So guess what Uriah does? He goes back Reports back to the battlefield, reports to his commander, Joab. He says, I have a letter here from the king, and it is still sealed. Uriah never looked at it. That tells me that Uriah probably didn't know what David was up to. I don't know. There's a lot we're not told here. But David's commitment to his cover-up, and he even sends the letter instructing Uriah's murder by the hand of Uriah. David is, I put this down, David's heart is so hardened at this point, he's willing to murder a man that trusts him completely. Number two, I see first of all David's commitment to covers sin. Then in verse 18 through 21, I see Joab's concern. Now there's a little difference And uh he's he got in on it. He knew what David was trying to do. Maybe I'm I may be wrong on this. I don't think so. I never hardly ever think I'm wrong, but um That was a joke. Thank you for laughing, Wilbur. But uh look at verse 18. Look how Joab responds. All right, Uriah, he did, Joab did what David instructed him to do Did it perfectly. And uh Uriah's been killed. We got that at the end of verse 17. Bunch of others got killed along with it. Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war. So he's sending his weekly report back or whatever And he charged the messenger. Now here's special. He pulls this messenger aside and says, now listen, when you get back there, this is what I want you to say to David. I think, my impression is he's sending reports back on a regular basis. Just which would be normal in warfare, sending reports back to the king. But this time, he pulls the messenger aside, he charges the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of telling the matters of the war unto the king, when you've given a report on the status, and if so be that the king's wrath arise, And he say unto thee, and then he gives his hypothetical statements of David, he's saying that this is what the king says to you, and he gives a lengthy Statement here that he thinks the king might say. That tells me he's going to great lengths Concerned that David's upset. Did you get that there? If so be that the king's wrath arise. Now this is my thinking. If Joab knew what David was up to, He knew that this was a plot to kill Uriah, and maybe he did. I may be missing something here. We're not told. Why would he be worried that the king would be upset? If he found out Uriah was killed. You follow my line of thinking here. Why would he say that if he was saying, go back and tell him Uriah got killed? He wouldn't have to defend himself. He wouldn't have to give this long uh anticipated an answer to an anticipated upset king. If he knew that if he was oh yeah I know what David's doing. He's trying to kill Uriah You wouldn't be worried about the king getting upset. You would think the king would be glad. And so I'm not convinced that Joab was in on this. In fact, to me, he seems to be concerned about David's reaction when he finds out Nerah is dead. He goes, as I said, great light to defend his actions here We're not told, there's a whole lot we're not told about Joab's awareness of this, but here's something I do know. It is possible for a person to have a very, very hard heart and the people around them not be fully aware of that. Uriah was probably not aware of what David was up to. It appears to me Joab didn't know. I would imagine people in his court had they weren't stupid. They had to see some things going on. But it's possible for a person to be completely out of the will of God and have a hard heart and be able to put on such a show that the people around them don't even know it. Who do you think is the person, this is my opinion, who do you think is the person in the Bible that has the hardest heart in all of history? The most hard-hearted person in all of history. Judas. You're going to be hard-pressed to find somebody more cold-blooded. More self-centered, hard-hearted than Judas. In fact, Jesus said repeatedly, He is a devil, he is a devil, he is a devil. Now this is interesting. We talked about it in Bible Institute on Monday night. But when Jesus said One of y'all at the Lord's Last Supper, one of y'all is going to betray me. And what did every disciple say? They said, oh, it's obvious it's Judas. Did they say that? No. They all said, is it me? Is it me? Is it me? Not one of those twelve disciples thought it was Judas. And yet you have the most cold-blooded, a devil-possessed man posing as a disciple. Jesus knew it the whole time from when he chose them. And yet nobody around him knew it. Isn't that something? Isn't that something? So it's possible for us to put on such a show, it's possible for us to put on such a front. That what we are inside and what we are perceived outwardly can be two very different things. Now, I don't say that. I'm not preaching that so that we can go around and figure out who the hard-hearted person is in here that's disguising it. You understand, that is not how we apply this truth. How do we apply this truth? We say, is it me? Right? We do what the disciples did. I want to make sure that I'm for real. I want to make sure that I'm tenderhearted. I'm not consumed with myself. Stay close to God. Stay in his word. Walk with him. And so I don't think, and I could be wrong, and I wouldn't argue with anybody over it all, but I don't think Joab was in on this. I really don't. Last of all, my last observation in David's hardening heart is verse 22 down through verse 27. It says, So the messenger went and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us and came out unto us into the field, and they were and we were upon them even unto the entering of the gate. In other words, we followed them all the way up to the gate, which You knew you don't do, because they're going to be up on that wall pouring boiling oil and throwing stuff and shooting down on you. And the shooters, verse 24, shot from the off the wall upon thy servants. Some of the king's servants be dead. That's a tragedy, isn't it? Some wives back home, husbands were killed for no other reason than David's trying to murder Joab. Some sons. brothers are dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead. Look, you know, you think, man, there'd be a s a sting in his conscience here. There would be something would sting when he hears that. I don't see any sting at all. And David said unto the messenger, Thou shalt Thus shalt thou say unto Joab, let not this thing displease thee. This is one of his mighty men who was just killed in a bonehead move. As far as militarily is concerned. And he says, don't let this thing displease thee. Tell Job, don't worry about it. Ah, the sword devoureth one as well as another. Thing is, Uriah wasn't just another soldier. He was one of the mighty men. Make thy battle more strong against the city and overthrow it and encourage that. Oh, don't won't worry. Forget about it. You know, things happen Just get back out there and deal with it. You know what that sounds like to me? A calloused man. That something can happen like this and you would respond this way. David's callousness, no remorse, no remorse for Uriah, no remorse for his family, no concern about Bathsheba You don't find anywhere David comforts her in her mourning of her husband. Just a callous, cold, hard heart. No remorse for innocence killed. You know, you have to wonder, and this is just my thinking, but I have to wonder when he got back to the room after the messenger sent back and he said there was others killed. Did that bother him? That some people were killed that wouldn't have had to be? We have no record of it. We don't see it. One of the worst things that can happen to a Christian is to develop a hard heart. We have got to fight that with every ounce of our spiritual being. We have got to pray. We have got to humble ourselves. We have got to stay close to the Lord. We have got to keep a short account. Because if our heart gets hard, There's no telling what we end up doing. There's no telling. Now my last in this message and next week it the tone changes a bit here. It's been a pretty dark Several weeks looking at this. Next chapter, things start turning around. Next chapter, let me put it this way. Next chapter, God steps in And whenever God steps in, then things change. Then things change. But at the a at the end of chapter eleven, that last statement I put this as the title. We had first of all David's hypocrisy, then we had Uriah's honor, then David's hardening heart And then the last one, the last little phrase there, but the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. I put it this way, the heartbreak of God. That word displease, you ought to study it sometime. Look it up. It means to grieve deeply. To sorrow. In fact, it comes from one word where we get our word tremble and quiver. Did you ever see a child that they're so brokenhearted, they're so sad, and they're crying, and their little lip quivers? That's the idea behind this. Now God doesn't have lips. They wouldn't quiver, but God does have a heart, and it is absolutely broken. Over what this man, who is a man after God's own heart, has just done. You agree with me? It's terrible. That a Christian would do something that would hurt their family. Do you agree with me? That's a terrible thing. Or would hurt people around them, or hurt their church or their ministry. They would do something that would hurt that. We all say that's a terrible that's That's a terrible thing. But I'll tell you what the terrible thing about sin is. It breaks God's heart. We're going to study Psalm 51 in this whole thing before we leave this whole episode of David's life. It'll be a little while yet, but we're going to get there. And David begins his prayer of confession when he finally faces it and deals with it the way God says, he makes this statement against thee And thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. You know what got David is he realized how much it broke God's heart. How much it broke God's heart. I make the statement again: one of the most dangerous things for a Christian is to develop. A broken heart. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I mean a hard heart. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to be very, very careful. Help us, Father, to walk with you I pray that you would give us tender, sensitive hearts to our own shortcomings. Help us, Lord, to be on our guard, be in our place. And avoid the tragedies that carelessness will bring about. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, this whole thing was not very pleasant. But God has dealt with my heart and spoke to my heart how important it is that I stay close to the Lord and I stay tender-hearted. Now, God forbid any of us would go to this length But I'll be honest with you, sin of any sin is a grief to the Lord and must be dealt with very thoroughly. Is there any say, preacher, God's dealt with my heart, God's helped me through this? And I want to learn from this. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe just the invitation would be just come an old altar and say, Lord, keep me close to you, Lord. Keep me on a short account Help me to be tender-hearted and sensitive to your spirit's dealing. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.