2 Samuel chapter 5. I just want to read three verses here from 2 Samuel chapter 5. It says, Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron. Now that's where he'd been stationed. This seven and a half years when uh Judah anointed him as king, recognized God's choice, and he'd been ruling from Hebron. So all these tribes of Israel, these other eleven came to David to Hebron where he was, and they spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. What does it sound like is happening here? They say they come to David and say, listen, we're flesh and blood here. What are they doing? They're uniting together. They're coming together. This is what we've been watching for. Also in time past, this is what they're saying, also in time past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that led us out and brought us in Israel. And the Lord said unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over Israel So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and King David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord. And look at this. And they anointed David king over all Israel. They anointed David king over Israel. Now the entire nation has recognized God's choice God's anointed one to be king over them. And so I was going to preach on this, and I was going to skip chapter four. But as I was studying, there's some things in Chapter 4 I want to bring out that I think will be very, very helpful. It kind of leads up to this So tonight is kind of the introduction to the message that we'll pick up next week, Lord willing. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Our study of David's life, and as we have this real turning point in um in his life and uh in the nation of Israel. as uh you set up the king that Jesus' throne will be named after. And I pray you'd help us to learn from this And help us to glean from these passages that we're going to look at principles for our lives, promises maybe that we can claim, warnings that we need to heed Some examples to follow. I just ask that you would help us, Lord, from this passage of Scripture. Lord, that we need your Holy Spirit to apply this, and so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Again, with all my heart, I plead, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you'd teach us and challenge, convict, and encourage and direct us. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I entitled the message, it was in the bull and David, king of all Israel. But I'm going to kind of give a subtitle to that and look at chapter number four I just kind of summarized the whole chapter and I've I've kind of given it this. The fallout continues. The fallout continues. And what I mean by that is the fallout from Abner's sin and rebellion against God in setting up a counter-kingdom against David previously. We looked at that quite a bit The fallout from Abner's sin, the fallout from his rebellion, uh continues on here as we see in chapter number four. Now Verses 1 through 4 of chapter 4, and we'll kind of buzz through them, but I notice that there's bloodshed and death. continues on. Look with me at verse 1 of chapter 4. And when Saul's son, who was that? Who would this Saul's son be referred to here? Ishbosheth. He's the one that Abner set up over the other eleven kingdoms, challenging David's uh David's throne. And when Saul's son, Ishbasseth, heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, look at this. His hands were feeble. And all the Israelites were troubled. Uh, this bad news for this coalition of rebels uh against God's anointed, uh their main guy, the guy that put this all together, that was leading them, is gone. Ishbusath wasn't. He was kind of a puppet king, I think. And so they're troubled. And look at verse 2. And Saul's son, now look at this, had two men that were captains of bands. The name of the one was Ba-Nah, the name of the other was Rechab, the sons of Rimen, a Berathite of the children of Benjamin. For Beroth was reckoned to Benjamin. And the Barathites fled Git Tam and were sojourners there until this day. So he gives a little background of these Barathites. And Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son that was lame of his feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled And it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell and became lame, and his name was Mephibosheth. Now he's going to play a role a little bit later on in David's reign. Then verse 5, and the sons of Rimmon, the Berathite, Rechab and Dana, went and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbasheth, who lay on a bed at noon Now, just a little aside, I don't know what he's doing, laying in bed at noon. Forgot to set his alarm, I guess. And they came thither unto the midst of the house as though they would have fetched wheat. Look at this. And they smote him under the fifth rib, and Rechob and Bana, his brother, escaped. For when they came into the house, he lay on his bed in the bedchamber, and they smote him and slew him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and got them away through the plain all night. And people agree, that's kind of gruesome. Pretty brutal. These guys are cold-blooded. They come in, they hear that Abner's dead, the whole eleven tribes of it of Israel under Ishboshat, they're all, man, this isn't good. I would venture to guess that they are anticipating maybe David coming in like a flood And boy, they're going to pay a heavy price for a seven and a half year war and total rebellion against his authority. They don't know how David's going to react. So two of these fellows say, listen, I'm reading into this a little bit, I'm just surmising here a little. But I think two of these fellows read in and say, listen, we better get on David's good side. He's going to come over here. He's going to be furious. We're going to pay a price for this rebellion. So they take it upon themselves. When and deal with this puppet king, Ishbaseth, and they kill him in his bed, and then they behead him Now I thought this was interesting. I was looking at that and thinking about that. Here, Ishbassath, though he didn't lead the rebellion against David, he did cooperate. in the rebellion against David. As we said, this seven and a half year war going on, as him as king. Now Abner's the driving force, but he's right there part of it And now that turns around, that rebellion against David turns around, and now he experiences rebellion against himself. And I think there's a lesson to be learned here for all of us, and that is this, the that inescapable law of life. Now see if you all are thinking what I'm thinking. Isprazath rebels against David. Lo and behold, he has two men rebel against him. What i what what undeniable rule of life do you think I'm thinking of here Bingo. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. There is a law in life, physically and in the spiritual life. That is, whatever a person shows, we're going to read. Take your Bible, if you would. Keep your place here, and come with me back to the New Testament. And I want you to notice this Galatians chapter number six. Now, this is a verse That I think one is good to underline, but more than just marking it in your Bible, highlighting your Bible, is taking, given serious consideration to. Galatians chapter 5 And verse number seven is what I want. Galatians chapter five, verse number seven. Simple little verse, but I'm telling you. This is a truth that is undeniable. Galatians 6, verse 7. Give everybody a chance to find it there. Notice what the Bible says here. Not deceived. God is not mocked. I mean, people agree with that. God is not mocked. Now look at this. For whatsoever a man soweth, That shall he also reap. Ishbosath, under the leadership of Abner, showed rebellion against God, showed rebellion against the clear will of God. The clear word of God. David is the John-chosen anointed king of Israel. They went against that. Lo and behold, that thing turns around. He has two men come against him. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Now this is an old saying. The first time I heard this, I was a new student down at Tennessee Temple University, and we had a preacher in chapel And uh I remember the fella uh and uh he preached a message and he gave this little statement that I don't believe was original with him, and I've heard it many, many times over the years, and I've quoted it many times over the years But I would encourage you to get a pencil or paper and jot this down. In fact, this would be a good statement to put in a fly leaf of your Bible. And again, you've probably heard this more than once, but it's very, very true. Here's what it is: Sin will cost you more than you want to pay. Sin will cost you more than you want to pay. Boy, it looks so great. Seems like such a great idea at the time. What could go wrong? But brother, it costs far more than you want to pay. I tell you, Ishbosath cooperating with Abner in rebelling against God's anointed plan cost him more than he wanted to pay. Here's the second one. Number one, sin will cost you more than you want to pay. Number two, sin will take you farther than you want to go. Ah, just play a little bit. Well, we're just and next thing you know, you are out there in a mess. Sin will cost you more than you want to pay, it will take you farther than you want to go. I guarantee you, Ish that never entered his mind that he would have his own men cutting his head off on his bed Number one, it costs you more than you want to pay. Number two, it'll take you farther than you want to go. And number three, it will keep you longer than you want to stay. It will keep you longer than you want to stay. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Ishverzet You want to show rebellion against the will of God? You want to show rebellion against the throne of God? You want to sow rebellion against the clear word of God? All right. It's going to cost you. And it's going to take you way farther than you want to go, and you're going to it's going to keep you there a whole lot longer than you want to say. How many folks ever heard that statement before? Man alive. There is tremendous truth in that. I tell you, we could avoid a lot of heartache. We could avoid a lot of grief if we just stop and think about that for a moment or two before we make some decisions. So I see the bloodshed and the death, this fallout from Rebellion against the Word of God and the will of God. God, now let me get this statement here: God can, and God does forgive us when we confess and forsake our sin. Now that's an important truth. You say, man, I messed up, I did wrong. We confess it. Proverbs 23, 18, don't quote me on that reference, says this. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. So I come to God, and God, I sinned, I did wrong, I confess it, I forsake it, and God can and will forgive us. Anybody here familiar with 1 John 1 and verse 9? Whoo! Man, that's the Christian reset button. That's one of the first verses a new Christian ought to learn. If we confess our sins, Jesus Faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. How many folks are glad for that verse? Woo! So God can and God does and God will forgive our sin. If we confess it, forsake it, God will forgive us for it. But The consequences and the fallout from sin can last for years and sometimes last for decades and generations. Fallout from that, the consequences from it. And at one point, at some point, when David was set up as king in Judah, Abner, we don't know all the details, but he approached Ishbosheth, Saul's son, and said, Listen. We're going to set you up as king and that fateful decision that fateful decision To pursue a course of action contrary to the clear will of God Cost Isbasath so dearly. Years later, seven and a half years later, his life is taken in a very violent way And so the fallout continues with bloodshed and death. But then I noticed verse 9 through 12, and again, like I said, I was going to just skip over this, but I got the more I read it, the more I thought, well, there's some lessons for us here. There's some things that would help us. In verses 9 through 12, we have David's response to Ishbasath murder is really what it was. Look with me at verse number 9. Or I'm sorry, verse number, let's start at verse 8. And they brought the head of Ishbashath unto David to Hebron. How did they do that? Was it in a bag or what, you know? I can try to visualize this in my mind. Listen, if I have an enemy and you decide to go kill them for me, don't bring their head to me, all right? I'm not interested in it. These guys, they bring the head You know what my response is, Yuak, and said to the king, Behold, the head of Ishbashath, the son of Saul, thine enemy, which sought thy life. That's true. And the Lord hath avenged my Lord the King this day of Saul and of his seed. Now, I don't know. I don't know all the details. I'm just. Going by my uh what I see here, and I think these guys are trying to get in with David. I think they're just trying to befriend David, but they're making the same mistake A fellow earlier when Saul was killed made. Anybody remember that incident? Look what happens. And David answered Rachab and Banah his brother, the sons of Rimmon, the Berathite, and said unto them, Now just picture this. They've got uh Ishwash's head probably dripping you know, holding them by the hair, maybe I don't know how they're doing it. And uh they're all excited, you know, boy, we're gonna he's gonna be so proud of us, he's gonna reward us And he said unto them, verse 9, As the Lord liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity. When one told me, saying, behold, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I took hold of him and slew him in Zagli. Who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings. How many people see these guys' faces all of a sudden dropping? This is not what they anticipated. All of a sudden it's dawning on them, we're in big trouble. How much more, verse 11? When wicked men Have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed. Shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hands and take you away from the earth? Wow They knew it was over then. David commanded his young men, and they slew them and cut off their hands and their feet and hanged them up over the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbashath and buried in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron. Wow. And I notice, the thing I notice here, and David says so much, Is that David responded to the death of Ishbazeth in a very similar way to how he responded to the death of Saul? Now both these men pursued David. Both these men were out to kill him, uh, one way or another. You're not Istrahs isn't leading a kingdom that's seven and a half years at war with David. Without realizing he's out after David. But yet David responds in such a gracious way. Notice, he blesses those who opposed him Now, what caught my attention was in verse number 11. How much more when wicked men have slain. Now, notice how he describes Ishpash, a man that's been fighting against him for seven and a half years. Who would have no doubt rejoiced in David's death. But look there in verse 11. How does he describe Ishbazeth? What's the term he uses? A righteous man. Now that's not what these two guys thought. They would have viewed themselves as being righteous for bringing vengeance on this guy that caused so much trouble. But David doesn't respond that way. I thought that's interesting. He blesses the one who opposed him. He says, this is a righteous man. I'm getting the impression, seeing how David responded to Abner when Abner came to make a league with him, when Saul died, and now Ishbasheth, both all three of these men were out after David's scalp. And yet when every one of them died, David honored them. David blessed them. David spoke highly of them. And he condemned those who took their lives. This is the impression I get, David loved his enemies, at least within the people of God. He doesn't say one negative thing about King Saul. He doesn't say one negative thing about uh Adner. He doesn't say one negative thing About Ishbaseth. Now I don't know about you. You're probably a better Christian than I am, but I don't know that I would have called him a righteous man. In fact, I would have been very tempted to point out to everybody, make sure everybody knew exactly what Ishgosat did wrong and how he mistreated me. Now, isn't that the way we are? Somebody does us wrong. We want to make sure everybody knows exactly what they did to me. Now my question is, how does that help anything? It just makes people think ill of them. Doesn't solve anything. It doesn't correct any problem. I just want to make sure everybody thinks about that person the way I think about them. David doesn't do that. So he, I get the impression he loved these guys even though they were his enemies. Now here's what I've taken away from this. I think David had a grasp on a spiritual principle that centuries later Jesus would describe as a characteristic of his disciples David had this, David had a grasp, like I said, he had a grasp on this characteristic that Jesus said, if you're my disciples, this will characterize you. Go with me, if you would, to Matthew, chapter number five. I think it's interesting. We end up, studying the life of David, we end up in the Sermon on the Mount, over and over and over. Now, I think there's a reason for that because we're told in the Bible that David was a man after what? God's own heart. Now that has a lot of implications. And in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is speaking to his disciples, and he's saying, This is what a disciple is like. This is how a disciple behaves. This is how a disciple responds. to various issues of life, and he spends three whole chapters, the longest sermon of Jesus recorded in the Bible. And he's describing the characteristics Now I'm a little ahead of myself in the statement, but I want to make it right here. Can I suggest to you that a disciple of Jesus Christ is a man after God's own heart? Or woman, whatever the case may be. The only two I know of, man or woman. Um Say, what does it mean? I say I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I suggest in our study of David that perhaps that would mean that's a person after God's own heart sees people the way God sees them values people the way God values them. Matthew chapter 5, if you would notice with me, verse number 43. This is fairly early in the sermon. Again, these are not evangelistic statements. The Sermon on the Mount is not an evangelistic sermon. He's not trying to get people saved. He's teaching what it means to be a disciple. And in verse number 43, notice what he says: ye have heard, this is Jesus speaking, that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. That's pretty much the world's attitude. That's pretty much the world's perspective. That's pretty much the principles, the values that the world lives by. You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. You poke me in the eye, I'll poke you in both eyes. Love your friends, hate your enemies. You've heard that said. That's what you're being taught. That's the values being instilled in you But look at verse number 44. But I say unto you, ah, now we're living by another standard Now we're operating by different principles than what we've been taught, than what we've been told. I say unto you, what's that next word? Love your enemies. When I was studying, when I saw how David responded to the death of Ishbasheth, then I reflected back on how he responded to Abner and how he responded to the death of Saul, and I thought, this guy loves his enemies. Love your enemies. Look at this. Bless them that curse you. And Israel says was out to kill them. David said, This righteous man died innocently. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. That's what they were doing to David. That you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. Now, Jesus isn't saying here that you have to do this to be a child of God. He's saying you have to do this to display the fact that you're a child of God, to show those characteristics of your father. For he maketh the Son to shine rise on the evil and on the good And sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. Anybody here ever think, anybody here ever ask yourself this question? I don't know why God don't just kill that guy My God, why why don't you just But God operates by different principles than we do. And you know, God does good things for some awfully bad people That you may be the child of your Father in heaven. For he maketh the sun to shine on the evil and on the good. Sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. And if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? And the answer to that question is what? None. That's not going to reward us for only loving those that love us. No reward in that. That's just common that's just normal. Do not even the publicans the same And if you salute your brethren only, what more do you have than others? Do not even the publicans? Be ye therefore perfect. Now, that word perfect doesn't mean sinlessly perfect, it means mature, complete. Even as your father, which is heaven, is perfect. So I don't know about you, but I look at David's response here. Now David wasn't perfect. We've seen that already, and we're going to see that again. But he got a hold of this concept of discipleship, what it means to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the challenge to me and us is this. When I step back away from myself and look at myself and look at my actions, do I see the heart of God in my life and in my actions? Do I see this characteristic of a disciple of Jesus Christ, someone who has a heart, is a man after God's own heart? Do I see these characteristics in my life? David had it. David was a man after God's own heart. David displayed the heart of God. Which when we look and see here, lo and behold, are the same characteristics of a disciple. Brings me this conclusion. A disciple is a man after God's own heart, a true disciple. I'd like to think of myself as a disciple of Jesus Christ. But I read what the characteristics of a disciple are, and I think, hmm, I've got some work to do. Can I get a witness? I've got some work to do. Now you look at all this and we see David that now and this was originally my message going to be Chapter 5, where David is becomes king of all Israel. They anoint him. But we'll look at that later. But as I look back up to David's experience from when he's were first introduced to him as a young boy there on the battlefield with Goliath up to this point, years later, where he becomes king of Israel I noticed some things. Now he wasn't perfect. It was developing. But I notice he's shown tremendous amount of patience. Tremendous amount of patience. Man, he tolerated, he could have dealt with Saul. He tolerated Saul chasing him all over the place for months, probably a couple years. Colery, he was very patient. When uh Saul was dead and he could have marched in and declared himself, he was very patient. He waited on the Lord. Fifteen and a half years, at least. That's what one Bible scholar suggested. From when David was anointed to be king, eventually king, to when he actually, in chapter 5, 2 Samuel, he actually became kings, perhaps 15 and a half years. That's a while to wait for something. Fifteen and a half years. David was patient I look at that and then I look at myself. Um I need a little more work in that area. If I have to wait fifteen minutes, I'm irritated I see David displayed tremendous amount of grace, compassion I mean he helped remember he helped cities that were being threatened by the Philistines Risk his own life, his own men, what little resource he has, he goes and helps them, and they turn on him, and he never says a word about it, never holds it against them. That is grace. We see it over and over and over. Compassion, respect that he's shown to the office. And really it spilled over not just the office of King, but even to the individuals that certainly weren't very respectful. But yet he showed respect. And I thought, what what was it that produced this What was it that produced this behavior on David's part? And I think it was this. I think it was a growing faith in God. His faith in God's plan, his faith in God's control, his faith in God's wisdom. Was growing and developing. And it enabled him to respond to people, not with vengeance and not responding kindly the way they treated him, but to respond to people in a very spiritual, mature godly way, even to those that did him wrong. I think underneath it all was a growing faith in God. He was, here's our theme, he was pressing on in faith. But people would undercut him, people would turn on him, people lie to him And he pressed on. Matt and I have been talking about this since Sunday. He dropped the shoulder and went up the gut. He just kept on for God. He didn't lose focus. He didn't get derailed. Can I end with this statement? God keeps his promises. God said, you're anointed, you're going to be king. God kept his promise. And David was learning That I can trust God. I can have faith in Him. He will keep His promises. He will keep His promises. God can accomplish His, God can fulfill His promises Even when Abner's rise up and fight against his declared will. The king of Israel can turn against God's promise and God's man and God can still accomplish his promises. God can still fulfill his promises. We live in a messed up world, amen or not? Man alive, huh? Sometimes I I I I about quit watching the news. I quit reading articles. I just tremble. I read them, man. I just get sick to my stomach almost. Literally And I want to remind us that in spite of all that we see happening around us, in spite of all that's going on, God still keeps his promises. None of them are going to fail. We may feel like David out in the wilderness being chased around by a madman with an army at his disposal. But God still keeps his promises. God still keeps his promises. God can fulfill his promises in spite of man's sinful rebellion. And so my object in life, and this is what I'll end with, my object in life is this: cooperate with God. We can just do that one thing: cooperate with God. Trust him, follow his instructions, and God will see us through. God will see us through. Amen? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to learn from David Lord, I think I speak for all of us, no doubt, surely, both here and online, I think I speak for us that we sincerely want to be your disciples. We sincerely want to live according to your principles, not what we've been heard, not what we've been told, what we've heard, but we want to live by what you say. And that standard and those principles that you've given to us. So help us, Lord, to cooperate. Help us, Lord, to trust you. Be patient. Be gracious. Have compassion. Lord, we believe that you will do what you said you would do. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't even say, praise here, God's challenged my heart, my spiritual state of being. God has challenged me. I've got work to do. I've got some uh deliberate I have to be deliberately make some decisions and work on this. Any like that? Any at all by the uplifted hand? My my heart certainly has been Now David's far from perfect. We're going to see that, but boy, he showed us something here that can help us and challenge us. Maybe it starts with just kneeling at an altar and saying, Lord, teach me, help me. Show me where where I need to do. Show me what to do. Show me what not to do. Help me. I want to cooperate with you. And God will help us. Father, bless our invitation. Now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.