1 Samuel chapter 30, I'm going to begin reading in verse number one, and I'm going to read down through verse ten. Now we're not going to preach all this. I'm just going to look at the first about four verses, but I want to read the whole context here. 1 Samuel chapter 30, verse number 1, the Bible says, And it came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziglag on the third day that the Amalekites had invaded the south And Zaglag, and smitten Zaglag, and burned it with fire, and had taken the women captives that were therein They slew not any. Now note that. They slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away and went on their way. So David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captives. And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep. And David's two wives were taken captives, Ahinoim, the Jezreelitis And Abigail, the wife of Nabal, the Carmelite. We remember Nabal in that whole incident. And David was greatly distressed. Now look at this. For the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. But David encouraged himself in the Lord as God, and David said to Abathar the priest, Abimelech's son, to Abathar the priest, Abimelech's son, I pray thee. Bring me hither the Ephod, and Abathar brought thither the Ephhod to David, and we'll talk about what the Ephod is probably next week And David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And he answered him. God answered David. Now if you remember, when King Saul prayed to the Lord, did God answer him chapter before? No. Two chapters before, no. But he answered David. Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, without fail, recover all. So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Basor, where those that were left behind stayed. But David pursued, he and four hundred men, for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint they could not go over the to the brook Bessor. I've entitled it David's Distress from first number four there, where it says Verse number six, and David was greatly distressed. David's distress. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word tonight. I pray you'd speak to our hearts And I pray you'd fill me with your Spirit. I pray your Holy Spirit would take this event here in the life of David so many thousands of years ago, but apply it to our lives today, young and old. And we can learn from this and be better Christians, be stronger in our faith. So again, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me With your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. David is before too long. I mean, it's not far off if you read a chapter two ahead. David is about to become king. It's not far away. Now he doesn't see that at yet at this point, but it really isn't. But he's not there yet There is a uh he's not quite at the point where he's ready to take uh the throne and be crowned king of Israel. God knows that. Uh he's still got some growing to do And I just want to say a word about spiritual growth and spiritual maturity. There's two things I believe are necessary to grow spiritually, to grow to mature. in our faith and especially in a position of leadership. Two things are required. Number one, it requires time David was anointed as a young man. Approximately nine years, best I can figure, about nine years have transpired From when David was anointed to where he is crowned king of Israel. Nine years. He didn't get anointed and boom, instantly king. There was a lot of growing. There's a lot of development that has to take place So spiritual growth, spiritual maturity takes some time. You have a little baby, it's born, they're not just boom, instantly ready to drive, ready to go out into the world, work a job Takes time for that child to grow, takes time for that child to develop. There's a real danger for a young Christian, a new Christian, there's a real danger of getting ahead of themselves. In their spiritual development, in their spiritual growth. Back in Timothy, 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse number 6, Paul cautioned Timothy, he was talking about pastors, he used the term bishop there. It says if any man desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work. And then he goes down, he starts giving some qualifications for somebody to be a bishop. It's another word for a pastor. And he gives the qualifications, and one of them, when you get down to chap verse number six of 1 Timothy chapter 3, is this and not a novice Lest he's lifted up with pride. And he's cautioning Timothy, listen, don't put somebody into a position they're not prepared for yet. They've not matured through yet. It's going to take time. It takes some time. So, spiritual growth and spiritual development, spiritual maturity, particularly in David's case, to take the position as king of Israel. It's going to take some time. Takes time. However, time itself is not all that is needed to develop spiritually, to grow spiritually. Um I I've been in this a while. I've met some folks saved a long time that were awfully immature Just because someone saved a long time doesn't mean they've grown much, that they've developed much. There's a second uh ingredient. There's second um thing that needs to uh that has to be in place for a person to grow and mature spiritually. Number one, time. It takes some time. It's very unusual for somebody to get saved and become spiritually mature very, very quickly. Usually takes time. And the second thing is this trials. Trials. I've found that ease and prosperity do little to develop spiritual maturity. You get someone, everything goes their ways, there's never a trial, there's never a heartache, there's never a difficulty, there's never um uh a a storm they have to go through. Generally, they are very weak spiritually, very immature spiritually, they begin to develop an entitlement mentality. Uh they think uh they think that this is the way things are, they're very soft. Uh the term that's popular now is this, snowflakes Anybody here hear that? I'm afraid. I'm afraid we have developed in America a generation of what they call snowflakes. They've had it so easy, so good, everything their way, everything they want for so long that they never matured. Would you agree with me? We have a society that's very immature Anybody agree with me on that? Mayonna lie, when you're laying in the street screaming and kicking your feet and hollering, it's not much different than that little kid in Walmart that didn't get the candy bar screaming and hollering and kicking and throwing stuff at mama And so two things are necessary. One is it takes a little time to develop and grow in my faith, but it also needs to be some trials there where I learn to trust God and I learn to develop and I learn that everything in life doesn't go my way. And that's what David has been going through. He's been experiencing some tremendous trials. He's had lessons on disappointment. Has anybody here ever been disappointed in life? Something happened, something disappointed, yeah. David went through that and he learned from it. Now think about this. He did he kills Goliath Tremendous miracle of God, David with a sling, one stone, kills Goliath, chops his head off. Well he didn't chop it off, he cut it off with a sword. And uh carrying it around, slinging it all over, showing everybody and the enemies fleeing. And uh and Saul says, I'm gonna make him my chief of staff. He's my top military guy I would imagine David's pretty excited about that. What a promotion, what an honor. And he gets in there, and the first thing that happens is his king turns on him. You talk about disappointing And David had to learn about disappointment. Listen, there are disappointments in life. God allows them to help us grow through it and get stronger. And so David learned a lesson of disappointment. David learned a lesson of betrayal. Betrayal. Uh uh the Zephites, remember we were talking about them. They betrayed him. He learned a lesson of betrayal. He learned a lesson about loyalty. He learned lessons about vengeance. Nabal, goodness gracious, what he went through with that. And I believe he learned something from it. God's developing. God sends this storm. God sends this trial. God sends this temptation. God sends this difficulty. God sends this disappointment. Boy, oh man, that's a rough God. God mustn't love you. No, he loves us very much. And he allows us to go through these so we grow and develop and mature. He went through, he had to deal with respect. And now, I said all that to get us to this point, now he is learning about failure. David has leaned on his own understanding. He had been trusting God pretty good up to this point. Twice he could have killed Saul. He did. He learned there with Nabal to trust God and let God take vengeance. He knew about faith and killing Goliath and the Philistines. But man, now he made a mistake. He messed up and he decided and he leaned on his own understanding and he did things the way he thought it should be done, not the way God said it should be And now he's learning how to deal with mistakes and how to deal with failure and the consequences of that. Number one, here's my outline. I got two points tonight. I'm going to save the third one for a separate message But I want us to notice first of all the invasion of the Amalekites. Look at verse number one here. Chapter 30. It came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziglag on the Now where were they coming from? Somebody talk to me. Y'all just sitting there with your teeth in your mouth tonight. Where is he coming from? Where was David at? Somebody help me. Yeah, Achish was uh remember he he fled to the Philistines, he's hiding out down there in Zaglag and he's attacking all these little towns. Uh the Philistines don't even know what he's doing. Then also Philistines and Israel go to war. They're about to go to war. David gets kind of drawn into that thing, he's either going to have to fight his own people or fight the Philistines when he's surrounded by him. He's in a pickle Finally the Philistines says, We ain't taking David with us. He'll turn on us in the middle of battle. Send him back. So he goes back to Zaglag. So that's where he's coming. He dodged a bullet up there. He was in a h he was in a tough spot And uh he got out of that. So now he comes back, and look what he finds. Uh his men were come to Zaglag on the third day, and uh uh that the Malachites had invaded the south. And Zaglag and smitten Zaglag and burned it with fire. So we have this invasion of these Amalekites in this town where David's been staying, kind of his hideout there of sorts. David comes back and he sees they've invaded this place. Here's the thing. David's been leaning on his own understanding. God said, you stay in Judah Uh, you trust me, you're gonna be king. David says, if I stay here, I'm gonna die. I am not doing what God says. I'm going over the Philistines, the enemy of God, people uh enemy of God's people, I'm gonna I'll be safer with them. He goes over here, and so far that scheme has worked pretty good So far it's worked out. He's there wiping out these little towns. He's getting all these spoiled. He just about got sucked into that war, but uh providence of God, he got out of that. Whoo So far, his leaning on his own understanding has worked out pretty good. You know, sometimes we can get out of the will of God, and for a while, everything will go just fine. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that got out of the will of God and for a period of time it went alright? I may have asked this before, but can you think of anybody in the Bible for a period of time things went real good? For a while. Anyone think of anyone? Who? All right, Samson. We had mentioned him before for a little bit. It kind of caught up to him. I was thinking of two others in particular. Moses, I was thinking of the prodigal son. Man, it went pretty good for a while, didn't he? He got his inheritance And uh he went to the far country and man he's living it up and and uh riot is living and going on until the money ran out. I think we talked about this before And then everything fell apart. Uh I thought of Jonah. It went pretty good till that whale showed up. Storm and the whale showed up. Boy, that fell apart pretty quick. And the point is this, I had some years ago, I had a young person say this to me. They said, you know, all my life I've been taught you shouldn't drink, shouldn't smoke, shouldn't carry on, do all this stuff They said, uh now I'm adult, I look around, I see people doing all that, and they don't have any problems at all. Their their life isn't much different than mine. And I said, yes, so far, up to this point, I said, the story isn't done yet. And so uh uh so David's been getting along pretty good, but now things are falling apart. Now he's having trouble. Uh and also the other thing I noticed here, notice how suddenly Things in life can change. How many older folks you found that? Boy, things can change overnight in life. Anyone been paying attention the last four months? Anybody dream in January that we'd be in the situation we're in now? I'm telling you, things can change overnight. David's Whoo, that was close. I almost had to go to war with Israel. I was in a pickle. Oh, I'm going to get back to my wife and family, back to Zaglag, where it's safe, and boom, nothing is the way he anticipated Nothing is the situation what he expected. And I'm telling you, the longer you live, the older folks here will tell you, or young people in here, older folks will tell you, you better be paired. Things change in life suddenly and unexpectedly. So many times. Man, we've got it planned out, and we know how we're gonna do, and I got this. And uh here David uh things changed pretty quick for David. Uh I thought about in in doing and studying that, I thought about Job. There's a little phrase in chapter 1 of Job, chapter 1 or chapter 2, early on in the book of Job, and it says this, and there came a day And everything in Job's life changed. His property was gone. His kids are killed. Boom! Suddenly. I thought about Lot down in Sodom. Boy, he's sitting in the gates. He's established himself as a leader in this wicked city. He has uh you know, he's got his kids, are married, the g uh have the uh in-laws, he's got everything's going good. And one day two angels showed up and they said, You better get out of here. The wrath of God's falling on this place I'm telling you, things can change awfully quick. So David comes back and uh he dodged this bullet up there, he gets down, he's anxious to get home, and he finds out these Amalekites have uh raided his town. Now I put three things about this these Amalekites, this situation here, under the invasion here. First of all, the predatory Amalekites. If somebody is a pre if something is a predator, what does it do? It's a hunter. If it's a predator, it preys on other people. It doesn't prey like this, it preys It wants to kill. It wants to eat them. The Amalekites were predators to say the least. I got studying about the Amalekites. I found out they were not good people They were very, very bad, to be honest with you. They were enemies of everybody. Remember that kid in school that everybody hated him Anybody remember that there was always a kid in school. Everybody hated the kid. He was obnoxious, rude, hateful, and uh and just uh terrible. That that kid was an Amalekite Everybody everybody hated the Amalekites. They were they were violent, they were lawless. Um they were predators. Uh they uh they lived they the the I've got to study the Malachites They lived just for the uh the thrill of plundering other people. It didn't matter if it was the Philistines, it didn't matter if it was the Moabites, it didn't matter if the Israelites, they didn't care They were just outlawless. Take your Bible if you would. Turn with me back to Deuteronomy chapter number 25. Is everybody awake out there? Alright, good. Deuteronomy chapter 25, and look with me at verse number 17. Israel had a history with the Amalekites, and everybody around the Amalekites. had a history with the Amalekites. And as Israel's coming out of Egypt and they're making a way, they had a uh the run-in with these Amalekites, and Moses in Deuteronomy is Speaking to the Israelites, and he's reminding them of what happened with the Amalekites. Look what he says there, verse 17, Deuteronomy chapter 25. He says, Remember what Amalek, that's the Amalekites Did unto thee by the way when you were come forth out of Egypt. Look at this. How he met thee by the way, now look, and smote the what? Hindmost part of thee. What does that mean? Alright, yeah, here's the Israelites. They got the whole nation of Israelite, they're making their way out of Egypt through the wilderness. And the Amalekites, they don't just come and say, hey, you know, and confront them. Those little sneaky rat finks, they sneak around the back and they start picking off people in the back. Uh did you ever see wolves chasing elk or something out west? You ever see that on a video or something? What do they do? They always come around the back and they sneak up on them and they get those things running. And then look at the next statement. What else did they do? They came from behind, little cheaters. And uh then what did they do? They got the what? The the old people the feeble people. People that were sick or couldn't move had arthritis in their knees and one eye could see and the other one couldn't and You know, they they uh they were cheaters and uh bad and they sneak up from behind, they pick off the feeble folk And uh behind thee, uh when thou were and when thou wast faint, they waited they waited until they were weak and weary and faint. And uh and look at the last statement. That tells you a lot right there. They what what else about them? They feared not God. Brother, you better watch out for someone that doesn't fear God. And so these are bad people. And look what God says. Therefore it shall be, verse 19. When the Lord thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, now talking about the land of Canaan, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee for inheritance, possess it. Look at this. That thou shalt do what? Blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. Thou shalt not forget it. God's saying, listen, Israel, when you get to when you get to the promised land, you block those Amalekites out. Don't you forget I'm telling you, these are bad people. God doesn't just arbitrarily say, I'm going to blot these people out. There's a reason. And uh these these were troublemakers, they were violent. Um look here, come back to uh Samuel here. Look, God uses some words here that I got looking up and and give you a little insight into what they did, how how they uh operated here. Back there chapter 30, verse 1. First hand, look. It says, on the third day that the Amalekites had invaded the south. I got curious about that word invaded. I looked it up. It comes from a word that means this. To strip down bear. You get a car, it gets stolen. My dad had a Bronco, got stolen twice. And they got it back first time about a month later, they stole it again. The second time they got it, that thing was stripped down just to the frame. They had pulled everything off of that And that's the idea. When the Malachites came into Zaglag, they completely stripped that city down to nothing. Then it goes on. The word invaded there means to, and actually that comes from the word that's translated other places to flay somebody. If you're going to flay somebody, what does that mean? Anybody know? It's a very violent thing. It means to p peel the skin off of them. To flay it. To peel the skin off. You guys shoot a deer. When you get it in the garage, you pull it and you pull that skin off. You flay it. That's the idea. When they got that city They just stripped it. They just flayed it. It has the idea to leave nothing behind. So they get into the city. This is where David's family is. This is where David's possessions. All his men and their families are here. The Amalekites come in, probably knowing that David was gone with his men, and they absolutely strip this city. But notice it says something else. They uh invaded the south and Zaglag and smitten Zaglag, and look at the last statement. They burned it with fire. Not only did they take everything they had, then they destroyed everything they couldn't take with them I saw I tell you what when I was studying this, I'll tell you what it made me think of. I saw a picture, it's been a week or so ago, of uh Minneapolis after the riots. Did anybody see those pictures? And what those streets looked like, and the buildings were all burned out and gutted and everything was just in shambles. I think that's what Zaglag looked like when David came back. These Amalekites absolutely destroyed it. Absolutely ruined the place. Can I say this? The Amalekites are not extinct. There's still some folks around with that same mentality, that same attitude that the Amalekites had. We see it in society, I just referenced it. I'm convinced a lot of this stuff going on in our cities, the destruction and rioting, isn't over white or black or principles or anything. It's just doing it for the sake of destroying whatever I can It's just an animalistic instinct to destroy, just the thrill and the the uh uh uh uh lust of destroying and destruction. Because they can get away with it. That's the Amalekite mentality. I'm going to say this. I hate to say this, but it's true. There's some Amalekites in churches Some Amalekites in churches. They'll get in. They won't they'll all their own purpose is cause trouble. Their whole purpose is stir things up, mess things up, ruin it, destroy it. I thank God for our church But I've been around long enough. I've been in situations where there are Amalachites sitting in the service, and they're just out for trouble. And so uh these Amalekites here, they're predatory. They're just looking out to kill and destroy, uh devour, steal, and kill and destroy. Then the next thing I notice here is the providence of God. Now this gets interesting. Look at verse 2. Alright, the Amalekites, they invaded, they stripped the place, they burned it down And then it says, verse 2, and had taken the women captives. Now that's interesting, that were therein. And then he makes things, the Bible makes this statement. They slew not any, either great or small. Now, I was reading about this. I want to see what some other commentators said about it, and some of them suggested that the Amalekites' attack of Zaglag was retaliation because of what David was doing on the little cities around. I don't think that's the case. They could care less about those cities. And if it was retaliation for anything, they would have killed everybody So the interesting thing is I see the providence of God here in that they didn't kill any of the wives, they didn't kill any family members, they didn't kill any children, they didn't kill anybody. They kept them alive as captives. And that, as far as I can study the Malachites, that is totally out of character with the Malachites. They come in, they just kill everything. It moves, kill it. So why in the world would they do something that is so contrary to their character, their practice, their history, and rather than slaughtering everybody, they kept these. And uh unusually at at least they would kill the married women. It might take the young girls and the kids, him back as slaves or whatever But this is so out of character. Anybody want to take a guess as to what prompted them to not kill off the whole population? What do you think? Maybe they want okay, they might have wanted to do that, throw him out. You know what I think? I think God kept them from doing that God would not let them lay a hand on those people. In fact, later on, we're going to see David recovered everything, all the possessions and everything. The Amalekites never gave anything up I tell you what I see here. I see God stepping in and overruling the wickedness of men You know God can take the wickedness and bring the wickedness of men and get praise out of it somehow. Do you know this? The devils in hell cannot do anything beyond what God allows them to do. And the Amalekites may the may be the most violent people on the planet at that time. They could be the most perverse, wicked, lawless, ungodly people you can imagine. But I tell you, when God says you don't cross this line, they don't cross that line. And God says you don't touch, you don't kill these people They don't kill that people. I see God graciously stepping in and overruling them. I put it this way: even the devils in hell are subject to the providence and sovereignty of God You say, oh preacher, I'm scared to death. What's going on? Oh preacher, what's happening in our country? Oh preacher. And I tell you, I don't like it either, but I know this. God's still in control. God's still God, and he may be allowing a lot of bad things to go on in his wisdom and purpose, but I know this: nothing's going to happen beyond what he allows it to And we can trust him. Again, Job. God allowed Satan to do a lot of bad stuff to Job and his family, but he could not go beyond where God said enough. And so I see the hand of God here in sparing this. And then quickly I notice, first of all, these predatory malachites, then the providence of God keeps them from killing the any of the any of the folks And then the perplexity of David, and this is gets where it gets kind of sad, look with me if you would, at uh verse number uh three. So David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captives. And so the perplexity of David, I got that word behold, and behold, it was burned with fire. That tells me there's a little bit of shock on David's part. They're coming back, they've been traveling three days, they're tired, they miss their family, they're anxious to get back home, and they come up over a rise in the hill, and they look down at Ziglag, and their place is inside Smoked, the place is destroyed, everybody's gone. As far as he knows, at this point, the family's dead, his wives are dead, their people are dead. And it absolutely slams him. He's shocked by it. I think verse number three is a turning point in the life of David. I think it's a wake-up call. David realizes all of a sudden this was a bad idea to get involved in this, to get involved over here. And here's the thing, this is what I was saying at the beginning. God uses trials and heartaches sometimes to turn us around. God uses trials. Sometimes God will let something happen to shock us And wake us up and say, hey, what in the world have I gotten myself into? What direction am I going? I've seen it so many times. And David, this is a wake-up call for David. So number one, I have the invasion of Malachite. Let me give you my second thought here real quick. I noticed the intensity of David's distress. Look at verse four. Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voices, their voice, and wept until they had no more power to weep And David's two wives were taken captive. He names them there. Verse 8. And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him. Because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters. No doubt in my mind, this is the lowest point in David's life. Go with me real quickly. I want to shut down here But go with me real quickly to Psalms chapter 40. Psalm chapter 40. What a great verse. This is one of the first verses I memorized after I got saved. Psalm chapter 40, I want to begin reading in verse number one. Now we know this psalm was written by David. don't know for certain that it was written on the occasion of what we're reading here, what we're studying. I think it was I I could be wrong, but um I'm I'm not use I thought I was wrong one other time but I was mistaken but um Notice what he says here. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. We're going to see that in next week's study. Look what he says in verse 2. He brought me up also out of a what? Horrible pit. And out of the miry clay, you know what I have a sneaking suspicion David's referencing He came back to Zaglag, his wives are gone, his family's gone, all his possessions and all his entourage, all their families are gone, and at first they think They and they no doubt they thought our families are dead. Everybody we know and love has been slaughtered. And who knows what the Amalekites have did to them. He's in a horrible pit. And then he says, a miry clay. You know what the miry clay is? That's the bottom of the horrible pit. This is the lowest point that David David's life. This is perhaps the lowest he can possibly go. I tell you, uh uh God's giving a wake-up call to David. I put two things real quick under that. First of all, he lost his loved ones. I would imagine David's mind is racing what they did to his wives. He lost his loved ones, then he lost his loyalty. Look at verse 6. And David was greatly distressed. Why? For the people spake of stoning him. Not only did he lose his loved ones, now those that were loyal to him are turning on him. You can't get much lower than that. As my oh oh by the way, this was kind of interesting, and this is just speculation. But notice it says they the for the people spake of stretching them because the soul of the people's greed Because every man, uh, people was grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters. Notice it doesn't say their wives. I thought, why wouldn't they be grieved for their wives? Their sons and daughters. I think, I don't know this, I I have no idea the answer to this, but I think maybe they they were convinced their wives were dead There's no way. There's no way those Amalekites are going to let our wives live. Now they might have the kids. Maybe we can get them These people are at the end. He's lost the loyalty of the people that loved him dearly. They followed him into danger numerous times. But I tell you, when their family's gone, now they're turning on David. Did you ever hear this statement? Blood's thicker than water. Anybody over here say, well what's that mean? That means family ties are powerful. Family ties are true. And when these men that were with David, and some of them are pretty rough, remember back when they first showed up, that was a motley crew. But David loved them and he trained them and he developed them into a fighting force They loved David. They followed him into battle, but this was too much. And they're turning on David. I had a preacher tell me years ago. He says, um, this is kind of preacher thinking. But he says, don't get too high when your church thinks you're great And don't get too low when your church thinks you're terrible. He says, because they're going to think that like every other week it's going to change. He says, one week you're the hero. Next week you're the goat. He said, just Keep your eyes on the Lord and keep going forward and God will take care of you. I don't know what I am this week, so uh But uh David David is uh uh they're turning on him, they're turning on him. Now let me end with this. One more passage, if you would. Go back to Hebrews chapter number 12. God's developing David. He made a terrible mistake. And God, in his mercy and grace, allowed David to experience the consequences of it. But God intervened and didn't let them kill his wife's. He didn't let them kill their children. In fact, they end up getting everything back, even their spoils, they get it all back But God is working in the heart and life of David, and I am convinced this is a major, major turning point. Look at Hebrews chapter 12, and notice with me verse 5. It says, and ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint When thou art rebuked of him. Boy, David is being chastened, and he is being rebuked. Look at this next verse. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. Now, that word chasten means to correct To discipline, to correct, bring them back around on the right direction. But look what he says. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And what's that next word? Scourge it. How many people here know what scourging is? Remember when Jesus was crossed, they scourged him, catanine tails? Man, that is violent. That is bloody. And this verse says that whom the Lord loveth, he chastens, he disciplines and corrects, and he scourgeth them. You know what that tells me? Sometimes God will go to extreme measures to turn us around, to get us back on the right track We had a fellow, and I use him every now and for an illustration, and he kind of went off track. I I didn't have him back. But we had a fellow at one time early on when I was here, he was recommended by another preacher, had him in He was a tremendous singer, tremendous piano player, but he had a prosthetic leg. Anybody was anybody here back then you remember him? And um yeah, I think he was down in the Baltimore areas where he's out of But uh he was staying in the mission house. We had lunch together, we got talking, and I I was curious what happened about his leg. So I kind of maneuvered around and finally he said he got saved as a young teen. Lived for God. God called him to ministry. But he says, I got my driver's license and I got away from God. And he said, he made this statement. I made a lot of bad decisions He got in with the crowd, some motorcycle guys had some motorcycles running around. They got out drinking one night. Christian got out drinking one night. And he said, God wouldn't let me alone He said, that night I had a horrible wreck. He said, I lost my leg from the knee down. They had to amputate it. And he and he said this: God got my attention. God got my attention. He got things right with God. He repented of all of that and um had to go through therapy of course and got the uh prosthetic leg put on there, learned to walk with that. And um, you know, he went back, tried, and uh was serving the Lord at that time. And he made this statement to me. He said, every morning when I get up, I pull that thing on. He says, It hurts. He says, every day I get up, I'm reminded that making a bad decision and getting out of the will of God costs me dearly. You know what that was? That was scourging. God says, God knew it would take that guy losing a leg. For him to get right with God. God knew that David needed to go through this horrible experience, this horrible pit, this miry clay. He's going to get right with God. How much better it would have been, how much easier it would have been if David would have just trusted God and stayed where God told him to stay and did what God told him to do. But he leaned on his own understanding, got out. Brother, it just about cost him everything he had. Let's learn to trust God. Amen. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not into your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, He'll direct your paths. He'll direct your paths. And David's learning that. David's learning that. God's correction can be severe. God knows how far he needs to go to get our attention. It's better just to trust them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these experiences of David in this horrible pit that he went through, distressed. And help us to learn from that, Lord. Help us to trust you. Help us to let you lead us and direct us. I'm glad you love us enough, Lord, to correct us. And Lord, if I'm talking to somebody that's under the chastening hand of God right now, I just pray you'd help them to trust you and let you have your way. And restore and get back to where we need to be. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, Henry would say, Preacher, I got a situation. I'm tempted to lean on my own understanding. I'm tempted to do it this way. I know what God says But you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I'll just trust the Lord. Let him lead me and direct me. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. I just need to learn to trust God. God bless you. Number of hands around. Maybe online. God's dealing with your heart. Let's just make this old altar a place, a turning point in our life. We say, God, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to let you lead me and direct me.