First Kings chapter number one, we're studying the life of David. We're down to the final, uh, I believe the final months of David's life at this point here, what we're looking at. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. I'm really tempted to read all the way down through verse number 31 just to keep the whole context. But I believe what we'll do is We'll read down through verse number uh we'll go to verse number 10. We'll just read that portion for tonight. And we're going to take several weeks here and look at this. Verse 1 of 1 Kings chapter 1, it says, Now King David was old and stricken in years. And they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat. How many people are cold? Yeah. Wilbur and I were talking about it. I turned the heat up a little bit. And so uh he was covered with clothes, but he got no heat. Got no heat. Wherefore his servants said unto him Listen to their solution. David's getting old, he's getting feeble, he can't get warm. This is their solution. Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let there be sought for my Lord the King A young virgin, and let her stand before the king, and let her cherish him, and let her lie in thy bosom, that thy Lord, my Lord the King, may get heat So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the coasts of Israel. And they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and brought her to the king. And the damsel was very fair and cherished the king and ministered to him, but the king knew her not. Then Adonijah. The son of Haggith exalted himself. Adonijah, we'll look at this in a future message, but he's the fourth son of David. And he was born during the time when uh the eleven tribes were refused to come and submit to David as king when he first was anointed by Judah, that seven-year period, that's when Adonijah was born. He was a son of Haggh, one of David's wives. He exalted himself, verse 5, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him, and his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man, and his mother bare him after Absalom. And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zariah, and with Abiathar the priest. And they, following Edenijah, helped him. But Zadak the priest and Beniah the son of Jehoiada and Nathan the prophet And Shimei and Re-I and the mighty men which belonged to David were not with Adonijah. And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the stone of Zoheleth which is by Engrogel, and called all his brethren the king's sons, and all the men of Judah the king's servants. But Nathan the prophet and Beniah and the mighty men and Solomon his brother he called not. We're going to take several weeks and look at this, but uh we're going to consider the insurrection of Adonijah. This is the second son of David that has tried to overthrow or usurp the throne. And so we'll look at this. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our study of this event in the last months of David's life. I pray there'd be lessons here that we can learn from. I pray that our faith in you would grow and be strong, that we could incorporate Characteristics, positive characteristics that are presented here into our life. And Lord, we just ask that you would help us. Please fill me with your spirit, I pray. Please speak through me tonight. I pray your will be done in each and every one of our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. 1 and 2 Kings are considered historical books, along with 1 and 2 Samuel and the Chronicles. It is a can first Kings here particularly and 2 Kings is a continuation of 1 and 2 Samuel. They're talking about the history of Israel. And um and uh particularly the kings of Israel. Um about 400-year period is covered in 1st and 2nd Kings. So we're transitioning over from 2 Samuel into 1 Kings. 1 and 2 Samuel, again, are historical books, and they covered primarily, 1 and 2 Samuel cover from the birth of Samuel the prophet Remember Hannah prayed and God heard her prayer and gave her Samuel and that begins 1 Samuel and then it continues all the way through almost to the very end of David's reign as king. It spills over into the first chapter and a half of First Kings, and then David dies, and then it picks up with Samuel uh or Solomon and goes on from there. So that's a little Background of the 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings. That's where we've been most of our study of David 1 Kings 1, verse 1 through 1 Kings 2, verse 11 are dealing with the final days of David We are in the last, I believe if I've understood, my chronology is right here looking at it, I believe we're in the last months of David's life. And the few and the events that take place there. David, I say this often, David was a passionate man. And David lived a life of passion. If I was, you know, if I was doing David's funeral, I would emphasize the fact that he was a passionate man. And by that I mean, and I've said this repeatedly By that I mean is when David was doing right, he did it with all his heart. Whatever he was doing, it was 100% all out, full passion, he's doing it If he's praising God, he's praising God with all his heart. I have a unique perspective on the platform here, and when we're singing congregational songs particularly on Sunday mornings, it's interesting to watch the crowd and how people sing congregational songs Some people will just stand there, and I'm not being critical, I'm just making observation. Some people are in congregation, they'll just stand there and You know, they won't or sit there, they won't say anything, won't move the lips. Others will get their hymn books out and um they'll just kind of look at the hymn book, you know Maybe move their lips. Others will sing along. And we have a lot of people. I think we have really good congregational singing in our church. And folks sing. And every now and then you have a couple that just sing with all their hearts. You know, there we go. I mean they just sing out they don't care. They're just singing to the Lord. I uh they sing passionately. And uh if I was If I had a congregation, I was sitting on a platform, and I think if David was out in the congregation, I think he'd be one of those singing, just belting it out, singing with all his heart. David was a passionate man. When he was praising God, it was 100%. When he was killing Philistines, it wasn't one or two here or there, it was tens of thousands. If he's killing a giant with a sling, he's not just kind of skipping around. Man, he's running out after that giant thing! Everything he did was wholehearted, 100%. The tragedy of that, as I've said often before, is that when David was messing up, he was messing up totally He was 100%. David was a passionate man. He lived life with a passion. And I think that's a good thing. We can keep it on track. Keep it in check, I should say. David's life was filled with drama. There is always, seems like right from the start, there was drama. In David's light. He went from having great faith in God to great failures before God. He went from being a fugitive running from King Saul to being one of the greatest kings that Israel ever had, from a fugitive to a king. He went from being a man after God's own heart to being a man after his neighbor's wife. Bathsheba. He went from bringing the tabernacle into Jerusalem, the capital of Israel, to causing the death of 70,000 Israelites. Drama, uh intense emotion, conflict constantly uh surrounding him between King Saul and it wasn't, I don't think David was instigated conflict. I think his passion for the Lord attracted conflict David was a man who was passionate. He lived a passionate life. He lived a drama-filled life. And his 40-year reign as king is coming to an end here. His 40-year reign as a king. He has to deal with one more dramatic event, one final dramatic event, and that has to do with his fourth son, as we said, Adonijah And his attempt to usurp the throne. Now, I think I'm going to be, you may dispute this, but I think I'm going to be uncharacteristically short tonight It's true. I think so. Because I was going to just skip over the first four verses, just kind of mention this abbot this little girl Abishag and David uh being cold, bringing her in. But I got reading it and looking at it, and um I I decided to include it in our study. And so I want to zero in on that And then, Lord will, on next Wednesday, we're going to pick up on Adonijah and really look at this fella and what took place there. So here's my outline. The three points that we're going to look at over the next couple weeks. The first thing we're going to notice is David's declining health. David's declining health. That's verse 1 through 4. And in verse 5 through 10, we're going to notice Adonijah's defiant insurrection His Adonai's defiant insurrection. Then verse 11 through 31, we're going to notice Nathaniel's diplomatic intervention. So in other words, David's health declines. Adonai just sees that David's health is declining. Maybe they're distracted with caring for their king and his health, and Adranias says, here's my chance. He steps up, attempts to take the throne, declares himself king, exalts himself. A lot of the leadership in Israel go along with Adonijah, some key people, some surprising people But Nathan the prophet sees what's happening. He knows that God has ordained Solomon to follow in David's throne. And so Nathaniel steps up, but he does it very diplomatically. He's very smart on how he goes about undercutting Adonija's insurrection and really keeping it from becoming a civil war in a lot of ways And so let's look here at David's declining health. His declining health. Look at verse number one. It says, now David was old and stricken in years. And they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat. So David is old and he's stricken in years. That phrase stricken in years has this idea, they got away from him. He got no he got he got old and before he knew it, he was down towards the end of his leg. We were talking today, uh uh yesterday, I think it was, or today. Might have been last week, I'm not sure But I was talking with Ed Davis, and uh we were talking about getting old. And I remember Dr. Creed was with us one time, and uh he and I were talking, and he said, Brother Dennis, He says, I was in good shape, and when I turned 80, I got old all of a sudden. And David got old all of a sudden. He is uh he is stricken in he is old and stricken in years. At this point, David is 70 years old. Now this time in A at this point in the game, that's an old man in this time. Yeah, we'll come back to 2 Samuel chapter 5. Just come back a few chapters here, 2 Samuel Chapter number five, and we can we can determine exactly how old David is here. 2 Samuel chapter 5, for whatever it's worth, 70 years old. He was seven years older than me at this point. Verse 4 of 2 Samuel chapter 5, it says, David was how many years old? 30 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned how many years? 40 years. 30 plus 40, he's 70 years old. Come over to 1 Kings and come over to chapter 2 and verse 11. First Kings chapter two and uh verse eleven, I It says, and the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron, and 33 years reigned he in Jerusalem, total of forty. He was thirty years old when he began to reign. So we have two passages here that make it very, very clear to us, David's exact age. Now his body is getting frail It is wearing out. We have no indication here in any of this passage later on that his mind is get slipping. As far as I can tell, right up to the end, David's mind is very clear. He's making sharp, common sense, reasonable decisions. In fact, he's writing some psalms just weeks and months before he passes away. And so his mind is very sharp. His mind is very clear. But his body is wearing out. His body is getting old Now, as I was looking at this and considering David's condition, I couldn't help but think at the end of Ecclesiastes. Remember when Solomon, at the end of Ecclesiastes, very uh artistically describes the failure of the body. He says the ch the grinders are missing. In other words, teeth are falling out. And um uh you heard about the fellow that uh was had March Madness teeth, he was down to his final four and um but uh And he goes through and he describes it. Well that's what is happening to David. His legs are weak. His voice is no doubt crackly at this point. His hearing may be diminishing. And uh he's he's getting frail. He's getting frail. And David is freezing. It says not only is he frail, he's uh he is uh well stricken in years, but they covered him clothes, but he gat no heat How many people can relate to that? Can't get warm no matter what. And um I'm not there yet. I'm hot all the time. But uh he so he's frail, he's freezing. I put a few thoughts down about David's condition here. Number one, I put this down. Time and age is a no-respecter of persons. In other words, the time we have, we are going to age whether we want to or not And he can fight it, and you can ignore it, and you can deny it all you want. We are the age we are I thought it was fun when the Harpers were here, Ms. Harper kept telling everybody she was twenty nine and she just laughed. And um You know, and uh that's the way we are, you know, we try and deny it. We try and do you ever see these movie stars? I think it's actually very sad where they get these injections in their face And they do all these things to avoid showing their age and and sh and allowing wrinkles. And I think if you see the picture sometimes, uh it it it it does more harm than good And they almost get hideous in some of it. And it's the human tendency to try and ignore the fact that time does not respect anybody. Age does not respect anybody. I really, honestly, sincerely thought it would take longer to get to this age than what it did. And it just comes up on you. I know the crowd I'm talking to. I know you relate to what I'm saying. And David, man, we're studying his life, and he's vibrant, and he's alive, and he's defeating the Philistines, and he's I mean he is just everything. Then all of a sudden we get to chapter 1 and verse 1 of 1 Kings, and now he's old and well-stricken in years, and just like that So age, and I put down time and age are respectors of no person. The rich get old and the poor get old. Time gets away from kings and it gets away from peasants. The young and the old time doesn't respect them. Saints and sinners. You know what I noticed? I found that Christians die just like sinners died. Unsaved guy. There's no respect. You say, well, uh, no, no. Age and time is no respecter of persons. Um Aging and death is inevitable. Even a man after God's own heart is going to age. And he's going to come to the point where this whole body gives up the ghost. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 27 is a passage that everybody ought to take very, very seriously. It is appointed unto man wants to what? Die. And after this? The judgment. It's appointed. It's inevitable. Um Aging and death is inevitable. God has a point. God knows where that point is. God knows at a point in time. We don't. I'm glad. I wouldn't want to know even if I did have that option I was talking to Brother Ed last night, and most of us know he fell and broke his his uh uh femur. It's actually what broke yesterday. And we were talking at the hospital today before they took him back to surgery up in Morgantown. And we said, you know, we never know what another day is going to bring forth And this was about noon when I was there with them. And we said yesterday at noon you were sitting home eating lunch. Had no idea you'd be here in the hospital facing surgery 24 hours later, right? And that's life. And here David is, old and and aged and and feeble. Aging and death is inevitable. Aging and death are inescapable. Take your Bible with me, will you? Keep your place here. Come over to Ecclesiastes, right after Psalms and Proverbs. Come to Ecclesiastes in chapter number eight. And surprisingly, Ecclesiastes talks a lot about aging. And about death, and of course it's not something we dwell on, and we don't want to be morbid about it, but it is reality. And we're foolish if we ignore it. Notice Ecclesiastes chapter 8, and look with me if you would at verse number 8 Ecclesiastes 8. 8. He says this, there is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit. In other words, when it's time for my soul for me to go on home to heaven, when it's time for me to pass over Jordan, so to speak, there's nothing in the world I can do to stop that, to keep that from happening. There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit, neither hath he power in the day of death. There is no discharge in that war. You're not getting out of that one. Neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it. So Ecclesiastes saying that, you know, aging, uh, getting aged and uh coming to the end of life is inevitable, it's inescapable. I put this down. Time and age are final. David doesn't, I notice here, David doesn't get any repeats. What do the kids, how do the kids call it? No do-overs. How many people here think if David could, he'd go back and redo that deal with Bathsheba? Anybody here think maybe? Yeah. How about go back and redo that census nonsense Ain't a lot. I don't know about you. There's a heap of things. If I go back and do over again, uh if I could go back, I'd do them differently. Can I get a witness? Anyone here? Yeah Somebody said to me years ago, and every now and then here, so well if I can do my life over again, I wouldn't change a thing. And I always think, well, they didn't learn a thing the first round, did they? I'm sure if David could, he would there's a lot of things he'd have done differently, just like you and I would. But here's the here's the rub. You don't have that option. We can't go back and undo or redo things. There's no do-overs. The world says, here's the world's philosophy. Life is short, live it up Do you ever hear people talk about having a bucket list? I got a list of things I want to do before I kick the bucket. Life is short, get that list in. Do all the it's it's like if it's like if uh man if I don't get all these great things into my life here, then I'm really gonna miss out on the afterlife. Listen, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we ain't messing out on nothing. The world says life is short, live it up, go for the gusto. No boundaries But the wise man says, life is short, live it wisely. Because you don't get to do it over. Live it wisely. Time and age are final. How many of us, as I just said, I wonder how many of us would look back over our lives and said and say, Boy, I wish I'd have thought that through a little bit. For I made that decision. I wished I'd uh I wished I'd have been a little bit more careful there. I wish I wished I'd uh waited on the Lord and and trusted what God said And um, you know, life is short. And uh we've got to spend it wisely. We've got to think things through. Listen, don't just waste it. Don't Anybody here? This is the way I see to illustrate the brevity of life and we don't can't do it over. And what we got, that's all we have. And it goes by quick, and then we're out in eternity And uh the best way, I think, to illustrate that is having so much money. And if you got a if you got a pocket full of money, you've got a wallet, big blot of money there. You tend to be a little more generous with it, don't people usually, well, I got plenty? You just kind of throw it out there. But then that wad gets smaller and smaller and smaller And suddenly say, man, I need to be careful how I'm spending this money. I'm running out. And that's a lot like the days of our lives. When we're young, we just pff do whatever. We only think about the consequences. We don't think about how it's going to cost me down the road And then we get older in life and we look at this and say, man, I wish I'd have been a little bit more careful with that. We had a boy, I've told this illustration before, but we had a boy in our youth group in Indianapolis, good kids. And uh he was in an awful car wreck when he was about 14 or 15 years old. Somebody had hit their car, and it affected him, physically disabled him for the rest of his life. And he got this got this monstrosity of a settlement from the insurance company and the people that hit them And this kid is set for life. He's like fifteen years old and he is set for life. He's never going to need money, his life. And it's in an endowment type thing, a trust. burn it up. He gets so much at a time. And so we would and uh I mean he's a good kid. Love the Lord. I uh he was he was great But we would go off on these trips and we would go down to King's Island in uh Ohio, down south of Indianapolis. It's about a two, three-hour drive down there, if I remember right And we go down, spend a day, you know, we'd have something special, we go down there. And so we traveling down there, we get loaded up on this bus. We had this old RV that was fixed up into a bus and it had captain seats. It had about 20 big captain seats all the way down through there. It was great luxury. Kids are climbing in there. We get up on the interstate round four uh on uh in Indianapolis and uh I think it was four sixty-five is the beltway around there And we get on the interstate going down to King's Island. We wouldn't go two exits and the girls would be saying, Pastor Dennis, we need to stop. So we just started. And so we'd pull off the exit. Everybody'd pile off. Steve would go in. He'd come back out with 10, 6 packs of Coca-Cola. fifteen bags of chips. I mean just he bought everything in there and uh get on there and of course he was everybody's best friend at that point, you know, everybody was his best friend So he's sharing all that. Then we go about five more exits and somebody says, Pastor Dennis, I need to stop. I said, we just stopped. I didn't have to go then, but I do now So we're stopping every five exits. And uh and every time we went stop, Steve would run in and spend all his money on stuff. And every almost every time we did this We got to the King's Island and we're waiting in line to buy the tickets, and guess who comes up to me and tells me, Pastor Dennis, I don't have any money to buy my ticket. Anybody want to guess? It's old Steve. I said, Steve, you ain't got more money than anybody. So where's your money? I spent it all on the way down here And I often thought about that. That's the way a lot of people live their lives. They just burn it up, burn it up, burn it up, burn it up, burn it up. And they come to end their life, come before the Lord. I have nothing to offer the Lord, just wood, hay, and stubble. I invested nothing in eternity. I invested nothing in anything of eternal value. It was all just fluff and wood and hay and stubble. It was just fun, fun, fun bucket list. David didn't live his life that way. Now he had his ups and downs. And he had his successes and failures. But I want you to think with me a little bit about David's life. He's now old and well-stricken. He's up in years. His strength is leaving. His body is weak and frail. But think with me for a moment, a couple things that he left behind That he invested his life in some things that outlived him. For instance, and we don't think of this much, but the fact of the matter is he really contained the Philistines During his reign, and you find little problem Israel having with the Philistines after David's King uh uh after David's administration. Now he didn't totally eliminate them, but brother, he sure he sure kept them in their place, and Solomon had little or no problems with the Philistines And future kings had little or no problem with the Philistines. David took care of the enemies for the next generation so they would not have to fight those enemies. Now they had their own later on. The Moabites and a whole slew of others became issues. But David did what he could to protect the next generation from battles he had to fight. You follow where I'm getting with this? And I think you and I need to take a stand on some issues so that the next generation doesn't have to fight those same battles we do. You follow what I'm saying? You know, the issue of the Bible I think we ought to take a strong stand on that old King James Bible, because I don't want the next generation to have to fight like crazy over that book and just be settled. You follow what I'm saying? Or uh, you know, uh free grace and uh you know this issue with Calvinism. And yet you can never mention any number of things But David, he contained the Philistines pretty well. Solomon did not have to deal with that. And so he invested his life there, no longer a significant problem for future generations. Not only did he contain the Philistines, he centralized their worship. I think one of the most significant things David did And his time as king is when he brought that Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, the very center of the national life of Israel. And made the nation of Israel, their life as a nation, revolved around that Ark of the Covenant, that tabernacle in the middle of the city, in the middle of the country. That was a tremendous unifying thing. That was a tremendous thing where it unified their worship of God and brought that nation together in a powerful, powerful way. And that would outlived him. Of course, later on, Solomon comes and builds the temple right there on the very spot. And that brings us to the third thing I think about that David did in his lifetime. beyond himself and for the future is he uh he uh he acquired the materials for the temple. He got everything together. He invested milli no doubt millions and millions of dollars in supplies of materials. And when it was Solomon's time to build the temple, everything was right there. All the materials were there, all cut to cut to specks. And all Solomon had to do was bring some wood in and bring some different things in and just assemble it. And David invested in the future. Don't you think we as a church ought to invest ourselves for the next generation so they can take up the ma uh mantle we have, they can take up the patan, so to speak, and go on with the gospel and go on reaching their world and go on influencing their community and us put things in place to enable them to do that? I don't want the next generation to have to restart and renew a church or replant a church. They ought to take what we got and be able to run with it. And that's what David did. I just this just dawned on me. I don't know why. I was reading through um just in the last month, I was reading through uh Kings here in my devotions and um uh Solomon It says he spent uh he spent uh and I don't have these numbers right, I don't think. I think he spent thirteen years He spent seven years building the temple and spent 13 years building his own house. And at first, for all these years, I read that, I would be very critical of Solomon. And I thought, man, he spent more time on building his own house than he did God's house. That sounds like misplaced priorities to me. And then this last time I read through and it dawned on me. The reason he was only seven years building the temple was because David had already gotten everything together for him. His house he had to build from scratch. But David in his wisdom invested his life The few years he had, the 70 years he had, 40 as king, he took that, invested it in the next generation, in the future of the worship of Jehovah, in the future of the faith of God's people. And so Solomon was able to step in there and put that thing together and go forward. And I thought that challenged my heart as a pastor on our church. And we invest ourselves and don't just squander our time on ourselves and on meaningless stuff, but invest ourselves on things that are vital and important and things that the next generation can benefit from and help them. In their lives and their ministries. David's well-stricken in years. He's aged and well-stricken in years. But he used that time that went by so quickly. He used it wisely. David was old and stricken in years. If you would, if you're still there in Ecclesiastes, come back to chapter 7, if you would. Ecclesiastes, come back to chapter 7. And notice what Solomon his son says. And again, we're not trying to be morbid here, but I think there's a tremendous principle, a tremendous lesson here. Chapter 7, and look with me if you would at verse number 2. Solomon says, it is better to go to the house of what? Mourning. What would the house of mourning be? Funeral home, the home of someone passed away. I did a funeral last Friday for a family, and uh it was mourning, the death of a lady's mother. It's better To go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. Um anybody here rather go to uh a party than a funeral? Solomon says it's better the other way around. Better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. Why? For that, the house of mourning is the end of all men. And the living will lay it to what? Lay it to his heart. In other words, he's going to think about this. Hey, I'm not going to live forever. I'm not promised tomorrow. I better use my life wisely. I better invest it wisely and not just be a fool Notice the next verse. Sorrow is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance, the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools in the house of mirth. Now he's not saying that, oh yeah, let's all go to the funeral, it's going to be great. He's not saying that. He's not saying there's no place to have a feast. In fact, he talks about that other places. No, it's a place, there's a place for enjoying one another and having a good time. But I'm afraid we live in a society where partying is top priority. If it ain't fun, then I'm not interested. If it ain't a big time, then I'm not going. And you really, you know, you ought to stop and think about it. You know, there's some things more important in life than having a big time. Because this life goes by so fast, and then we're out into eternity. Life is short, live it up, par day, hard day. Or life is short. You better be wise on how you use it and how you spend it. And that's what Solomon is saying here in Ecclesiastes. David's an old man now. He's at the end of his life. There's some things, I guarantee you, if he could go back, he'd redo them. But he can't. And we can't either, and so we got to be wise. And so come back here to 1 Kings. Now, one other thing I want to notice here, and I don't know, I tried getting some application out of this But it says at the end of verse 1, it says, But he got no heat. He could not get warm. And I would imagine they piled blankets up on him and turned the fireplace up in full blast. And he's just laying there shivering to death. Just like my wife. Shivering. And so they come up with this idea. Their servant, they're concerned about him. This is our king, and he's told all the time. Listen to their solution. Wherefore his servants said unto him, hey, we got a great idea. Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin. And let her stand before the king and let her cherish him. And the idea is snuggle up and hold them And let her lie in thy bosoms that my Lord the King may get eat. How many people think that's a great idea? How many people think that's probably a terrible idea? At at the very best it's inappropriate. Would you agree with me on that And so all the others said, No, that's stupid. Don't can't do that. No, look at the next verse. They all think it's a great idea So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the coast of Israel, and they found this gal, Abishag, a Shunammite, and brought her to the king. Now, the Bible goes almost out of its way here and makes this statement, and the damsel was very fair. What does that mean? She was pretty, she was beautiful, she was very attractive, pleasant, gal. And cherish the king and minister to him. And it has this last statement here, but the king knew her none. And I got looking at that and I thought, that's a terrible thing. What in the world are they thinking? And I did a little research, and lo and behold, you know what I found out? That was a very common practice in that time and age. That was what they would do. They'd get a young lady, guy's old, he's told, and they would do exactly what this said here. This was not uncommon. I don't know about you, but I think it probably ought to be uncommon. I don't think that I would not advise that to your grandpa in the nursing home. Oh, he's always cold. Let's get a young chick And by the way, I think it's uh you know, and I don't know the answers to all this, but it says there, it says she was very fair. I mean they're pointing out the fact that She's a very attractive woman. And my thought was this, who cares if all she's doing is keeping them warm? What does it matter what she looks like? So I don't know. But I do know this. At the end it says the king knew or not, and that tells me there was no intimacy between the two. For whatever that's worth. I don't know if it was on inability on David's part, or maybe I thought best, maybe he learned his lesson. Maybe he got burnt before and he said, listen, I'm not going down that road. I'm not doing that. I'm telling you, purity is top priority. Say, yeah, but I'm cold. It's better to freeze to death and keep yourself pure. Amen. So I can't defend this, I can't perfectly explain it, other than apparently it was a common practice But it's what they did, and David kept himself pure there one way or another. So they're attempting to keep David comfortable in his final days. And for the life of me, I could not figure out a good application on that last part. But I do know this. Life is short. It goes by so fast. And let's not waste what we have left. Because one of these days, we're going to be old and well stricken. These old bodies, if they aren't already, they're going to assume old bodies are going to start getting feeble. Can I get a witness? And so let's make sure we live for the Lord, invest in the important things. Don't it's not wrong to have a good time. I'm I went fishing last night, I enjoyed myself. But brother, top priority is investing In the future and for the glory of God. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from these last months of David's life. And Lord, like him, we all have things we sure would like to go back and redo, but we can't. So help us to take what we have left. Help us to invest what we have. Some maybe have many years ahead of them. I pray you'd help us to use it for the glory of God and for the good of others. And just be a blessing to people and get off of ourselves. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I want to say, say, preacher, you know, I'd sure like, for one of my life that I have, I'd sure like for it to count for the Lord. I'd sure like to let my years to count to the Lord and be a blessing and a help to others. Well, there's some here say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be able to move more conscious on how I can use my days and my time to help and be a blessing to others. Any like that by the uplifted hand, my hand's raised. Now maybe, maybe you're here tonight or you're listening online. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm telling you, the most important issue in life is known for sure that my sins are forgiven And when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Because we never know what a day may bring forth. We have no idea when that end comes, young or old And we have got to have our soul's salvation settled. Not hope so, not think so, but know based on the Word of God. There happened to be any in here this evening, say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. When I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. God will help me get that settled. Any like that by the uplifted hand. How about it? Any at all, preacher, pray for me I've got to get that settled. Father, bless our imitation tonight. This Wednesday night, have your way in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.