We're gonna start in verse number uh let me get here first verse number thirty one. 1 Samuel 17, verse number 31. David and Goliath, one of the great stories of the Bible. 1 Samuel chapter 17 verse 31 says this And when the words were heard which David spake, what were those words? Anybody remember that David's going around saying to everybody Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? What are we standing around here for? We need to take care of this. And when the words were heard, which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul. And he said for him. Now I'm wondering if David saying this wasn't stirring things up a little bit. And that's how it got to Saul. You know, there's thousands of soldiers here, and probably tens of thousands. So, you know, for it to make its way up to Saul, I think old David's causing quite a ruckus. Verse 32, and David said to Saul, let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. Thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock, and I went out after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he rose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him. My servant also slew both the lion and the bear And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. Do you hear a little indignation in David's voice there? David's kind of ticked at what Goliath is saying and doing. David said, moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the pole of the lion and out of the pole of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the Lord be with thee. And Saul armed David with his armor and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he armed him with a coat of mail. David girded his sword upon his armor, and he essayed to go, for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off. I called it, for lack of imagination on my part, I just entitled this section, David's Commission, where he is being sent out now. To go and confront Goliath. Let's pray, and uh we'll try and pull a few things out of this. Father in heaven, I pray that you would bless our study in your word tonight, particularly this event in the life of King David. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would take these truths that are given here and present and apply them to our lives. Lord, that we can live for you. We can live by faith and be bold in our faith. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray that you would fill me with your Spirit, dear God, and you would speak through me, and you would help us and challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I know we already looked at uh an earlier part here, but I'm really challenged by how David responded to the unfair and the untrue accusations of his oldest brother Eliah. If you remember back up there, Eliab in verse number uh twenty-eight, he makes all these accusations. He attacks David's character, he accuses them things, he attacked his motives. And uh he uh really was unfair. Uh we were talking before about Elijah, he's being the firstborn And uh he's pretty good looking. Samuel thought he was the guy, if you remember, he was the one to be king, he was the one to be anointed, he was the one to replace King Saul, and God says, Oh no, no, I'm not looking on the outward appearance, I'm looking on the heart. And we got the idea that Eliab had an entitlement mentality. He was entitled to this. He's the firstborn. He's the best looking. He's this and that and the other. We live in a day and age now where people have an entitlement mentality, right or wrong? What do we mean by an entitlement mentality? Ah, it's mine, it's owed me, I deserve it. But God looks on the heart And God saw in the heart of Eliab something that disqualified him from being king. And of course we surmise that was pride. We see it in uh and Eliab's response. Yet how David responds to that is what is what uh captures my attention, is what intrigues me. David didn't come out swinging. He didn't fight fire with fire. How did David respond? He did. He didn't retaliate in any way. He didn't say, oh yeah, well, he didn't retaliate in any way. And I like this. He remained focused on the issue at hand. And that was fighting the liar. This guy, this uncircumcised Philistine, needs to be taken out. That's the issue. Whatever you're accusing me of or throwing at me, uh Eliop had completely lost sight of what was at hand here. But David didn't. He stayed focused. And this is what I want to bring out a little bit. I kind of rushed through it last time, last week, but this is what I want to bring out here. I think David wisely knew Who to fight and who to ignore. Eliah was to be ignored. Goliath was to be the one to fight with. And I'll tell you, that is a tremendous thing if we can learn in our Christian lives who to fight with and who to ignore. Uh one of my favorite uh preachers, Curtis Hudson, I say it often, but he had a little statement I heard him say one time years ago, he's preaching a message I don't remember what he was preaching on, but he made this statement and it stuck in my head. He said, there are some things in the Christian life that we need to just ignore. Some issues, some fusses, some other things going on that we just need to ignore them. He said there are some things I'm going to just ignore. He said there are some things that I'm going to fight about, but I wouldn't die for I'll fuss about it, I'll fume about it, I'll make a noise about it, but I'm not going to die for it. He said, however, there are some issues that I'll fight to the death over. I will die for. And I think that takes tremendous wisdom. And I think on the part of David, he had that wisdom. Listen, fussing with an older brother who's calling them names, making these accusations, that is something you just ignore. Now there are other things. Maybe an issue comes up. Maybe something's going on. Boy, I'm going to squeak about it. I'm going to holler about it. I'm going to make some noise. But I'm not going to get engaged in it However, there are some things that we ought to be willing to fight and die for. Fundamentals of the faith, we could go down the list. And so David very wisely knew which of those were what. I put this down, we will never win the battles that matter if we're constantly fighting insignificant battles. So we need to choose our battles wisely. And the enemy is the devil. That's who the enemy is And we need to stay focused on that. So we come to our text now here, and David is now, as we're working our way through this chapter, David is now a step closer to confronting Goliath He's been introduced to him. He showed up on the battlefield. He's checking on his brothers at his father's instructions. He sees Goliath out there. He hears what he's saying. David is appalled. at what's being said, he's appalled at how the Israeli army is responding. And he starts uh uh you know going around challenging people. Listen, somebody needs to do this. Who is this guy? Why are we letting him get away with it? Now King David is taking a step closer to actually engaging Goliath. The story itself is transferring from David and Eliab. Which is what we just looked at. Now it's going from David to Saul. And then it's going to go from David and Saul. It's going to transfer over to David and Goliath. And as I was reading this in study less, I thought it's kind of sad, but it took more effort I guess you could put it this way, so to speak, it took more effort on God's part to get David out to Goliath than it did to kill Goliath. He had to get past his brothers, he had to get past the army, he had to get past Saul, and finally, after all of this, he gets out there and kills Goliath in a matter of moments. And I found that to be true in the Christian life, and I I won't include myself in this, but you know what I found out? God has given to us a tremendous commission. God has given to us a great commission. That is to take the gospel to every lost person locally and around the world. That is our job. Can I put it this way? That is our Goliath. That is the issue at hand. That is the focus. That is the challenge to us. Get the gospel to every single person around the world, across the street, down this road, around the entire world. And I found that actually leading someone to Christ often is not that difficult. I'm convinced, with all my heart, I am convinced that there are people in Mountain Lake Park If somebody would come by tonight with an open Bible, show them how to be saved, I'm positive there are people who would trust Christ and be saved tonight. In a matter of moments, in in Garrick County, around the world, in Kazakhstan. If somebody could go with the Bible in their language, sit down with them, show them how to be saved, I believe people would turn and trust Christ The hard part isn't getting people to trust Christ. You know what the hard part is? Getting Christians to go give the gospel to them. That's the challenge. Getting David from the side of the mountain to out confronting Goliath, that's where the challenge was. He had to get past all these obstacles. But once he got out in the battlefield with Goliath, man, it was just like that. It was over. And so you've got his brothers, you've got the army, you've got Saul all trying to exquench him and keep him back And we've got everything in the world trying to keep us from going out and doing what God's called us to do. And so we see this progress. He's getting closer. Now I've got three points here for this this evening. I'm just going to get to the one. And the first thing I want us to see tonight in verse 31, 32, and 33 is that David presents his case to Saul. Notice again verse 31, it says, And when these words were heard, which David spake, they rehearsed them to Saul, and he, Saul, sent for him. Now a couple things I notice here. Number one, David waited for Saul's call. David didn't go rushing in Say, I demand to see Saul. I demand to talk to the man in charge here. We've got to do this. No, no, no, he didn't do that. He just waited. David did not demand to speak with Saul. He was very, very tactful about that. He knew how to wait on God's timing. Who was the authority in all of this? Who was the one that well God's the ultimate authority, but who was the one in charge here? Who was the one responsible for what this army does and doesn't do? It's King Saul. And David, I think we see here another characteristic of David that is tremendous. And we see it played out later on in his life. But David had tremendous respect for authority. David recognized King Saul is the one that is answerable to God. He's the one responsible for this. And so he didn't start throwing demands and making all this. David just was going about saying, hey, you know, is there not a cause here? Things are getting stirred up. But he waited on uh Saul to invite him. Here's the thing. David knew how to wait on God's timing. And that's an important lesson he was going to have to learn as king, is to wait on God's time. The second thing I notice here is that he did not directly rebuke Saul's cowardice. Look what he says in verse 32. And David said to Saul, Saul sent for him, he shows up. This is what David says. Let no man's heart fail because of him. Now what I noticed here was this. He doesn't say this, let not your heart fail because of him. Who was the one that set the tone for the cowardice we see throughout the army? It was Saul. Saul was the one that should have been out there. Saul was the one that was leading the charge. David could have come up to him and said, Listen, your heart's failing you. Stop doing that. I'll take over for you. Well he didn't say that. He said, let no man's heart. I think it was tactful on the part of King Da on the part of David and that he didn't come out and and just blantly rebuke Saul. He just said it in a general way. But he got the point across. The interesting thing here is you have a young shepherd boy. He has more courage, he has more faith in God than the commander-in-chief. I mean this guy is the commander-in-chief of the Israeli army, and here's a young shepherd boy shows up on the scene And he's the one that has more faith in God, has more courage to go out and confront him than us. But David's very, very respectful about it. He's very, very humble about it. He doesn't come up, he doesn't openly rebuke King Saul But he says, let no man's heart fail him. He shows tremendous respect. Then the other thing I notice here, he doesn't dictate what should be done. Notice what he says. He says, Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. He's offering his services. He's not saying, send me, I'll do it. This is what you need to do. He doesn't do that at all. He says, listen, don't let anybody be afraid of this guy. I'm willing to go out there. Here I am Uh uh I'm I'm willing to go if if you make that decision. Um somebody said this. I came across this quote this past week I thought was pretty good. He said some people have to be the bride at every wedding and the corpse at every funeral. What does he mean by that? They got to be the center of attention. They have to be the one in charge. They have to be the one that it's all about. I saw a little cartoon here this past week. Somebody had posted on the computer. A guy's doing an x-ray And it had the silhouette of the fellow being x-rayed, and inside the silhouette of the sky it said me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. It's all over inside. Me, me, me, me, me And the doctor s uh is has the clipboard and he says, Well your problem's obvious, you're full of yourself. And I look at David, and here David has tremendous faith. David is absolutely confident that he, anybody could, and he could, if needed be, go out and kill this guy. But yet he comes across very humbly, very tactfully, and very graciously. David was not full of himself. David was simply concerned about the issue at hand, and he made himself available. And something else I noticed here I thought was interesting along those lines. I can find at no point does David ever refer to Goliath as a giant. David never calls Goliath a giant. David never refers to Goliath as a champion. All he ever refers to Goliath as is what? What does he use? This Philistine a couple times, but most of the time he says this uncircumcised Philistine. In David's eyes, Goliath was no giant. In David's eyes, Goliath was no champion. In David's eyes, he was a fly on the window. And from God's perspective, David saw Goliath from God's perspective. He saw him the way God did. And when God, hey, when you've got an omnipotent God, there are no giants. Right? When you've got an omnipotent God, man has no champions. This guy is nothing. This guy is a fly, a flea on a dog. Compared to the power of Almighty God. And yet everybody else is, oh, this giant, oh, this champion David said, I don't see a giant, I don't see any champion. I see an ungodly, immoral, perverse, wicked man that God has judged. And needs to be dealt with. As far as David was concerned, Goliath was no different than any other Philistine out there. He was no stronger than their weakest soldier. And so David doesn't command to speak to Saul. He waits until he's invited. He doesn't directly rebuke Saul's cowardice. He just kinda in a general sense, don't let people be afraid. And then he doesn't dictate what should be done. He doesn't say, Send me out there, you need to do this, we need to do that, no, he says, Listen, I'm here. If you want, I can go out. And so the first thing I notice here is David waited for Saul's call. The second thing I notice is this: David listened to Saul's caution. Look what Saul says here. He says in verse 33, and Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. Thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. What is Saul doing? Saul is making the same mistake Samuel made, the prophet. Remember when Samuel came to anoint the next king? And uh what did he go by? What was Samuel's criteria when he thought who the next king should be? Yes, the outward appearance. Remember, God rebuked Samuel for that. He says, man, and speaking of Samuel, you're looking on the outward appearance. King Saul is making the exact same mistake that Prophet Samuel made, he's looking on the outward appearance. He sees this giant of a guy that's 11 foot something, uh, who knows how much he weighed. I mean, this guy's massive. He's got these incredible weapons So he's looking on the outward appearance, and he's looking at King David. And apparently, obviously, King David, not King yet, David is just a youth. He's just a boy. How old was he? Thirteen, fourteen, maybe fifteen at the most? He's a youth. And so all King Saul can see is the outward appearance. He sees this massive guy, he sees this little guy, he makes the same mistake that prophet Samuel said. So he saw how young and how small David was, but what he failed to see on David's part, he failed to see the size of his faith. He saw the smallness of his stature, but King Saul could not see the massive faith that David had. He could not see how large David's God was And so he looked on the outward parents. Then King Saul looks out on the battlefield and he sees how huge Goliath is, but he fails to see how small he is in the eyes of God. And I tell you, if you and I aren't careful, we make that same mistake that all of these do. God, boy, I hope you'll get this. If you don't get anything else, I hope you'll get this. God is not impressed with the externals. God is concerned about our heart. And you know what we spend a lot of time doing? You know what we spend a lot of effort doing? We put a lot of effort into looking good. Now I'm not talking about combing our hair, brushing our teeth. I hope you'll do that. I hope you I use I'm telling you all this personal stuff. I used the last of my cologne tonight. I am out of it So I need to go buy more. I read in my devotions this morning, ointment and perfume rejoice the heart. So please use deodorant and use comb. Brush your teeth, comb your hair. But what I'm talking about is we put a lot of concern. We're very, very concerned about how we appear to others, what other people think of us, right? We want people to think I'm a good Christian. We want people to think I'm a godly man, I'm a godly woman. We want people to think, boy, I I've got strong, great faith. Listen, God is not concerned about the externals. Now we ought to have a testimony, but that testimony, that external testimony, ought to be the result of an internal reality And so all Saul could see was the externals, a little boy, a big soldier. And he failed to see beyond that. And we make that same mistake ourselves. We get so worried about looking like a giant rather than being What God wants us to be. For instance, today, our independent fundamental Baptist churches, we have ma, a lot of places we have massive buildings. Big structures, giant buildings. I got I can take you to some churches, and I'm not being critical. I mean, if God bless and God leaves, praise the Lord for that. But I can take you to churches, I I'm thinking of one church right now, and I've preached at it a number of times. It is a massive building. They have massive facilities, and there's probably less people there than what's here tonight in that building. And we think because we got stuff, because we have giant buildings and we have giant budgets, that does not equal the presence and power of God. There was a day in the independent fundamental Baptist movement where we met in storefronts, we met in little rented buildings, we met in little out uh little outbuildings somewhere, and the power of God was upon us. And I'm afraid sometimes we've grown too big, we've become giants in our eyes, and we've lost the presence of the power of God, and maybe we need to get back to being a little boy, just having some faith in God and having the power of God upon us. Am I making any sense? Saul completely missed it. The bigger is the better. The more is better. God says no no no that's not the way I look at it. Today we have giant buildings and giant budgets and little power. Now we've got a building project going on and we're trying to raise money and I believe the Lord is leading us. We've spent more time in prayer with the deacons and trustees on this project than we have any other decision we've ever made. And so we're trusting God, and I believe it's something, but we must never think that because We've got a bigger building, we've got more of this or more of that, that somehow that is the equals the power of God on us. As a pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, my heart is burdened that we have God's power here And I'd rather meet out in the bus barn and have the power of God than have all kinds of buildings and just go through the motions. Amen or not? We want to see people saved. We want to see lives changed, and only God's power can do that. Having a bigger building won't do that. And Saul completely missed that. Here was a little boy. Here was the power of God. Here was the power that would defeat their enemies. And he completely missed it. You can't do that. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Acts chapter 3. This is a passage that has stirred my heart. Acts chapter 3 You have uh Peter, the Holy Spirit has just come down in Pentecost. This is the early church. They have zero buildings, they have no buses. They have no budget. They have no gospel tracts. They have no nothing. But they got something. In the world's eyes, they were a little David. Up against the giant Goliath. But look, I want to begin reading in verse 1 of Acts chapter 3. And I hope I can tie this in here. Now, Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour, and a certain man, lame from his mother's womb, was carried. whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them who entered into the temple. Who seeing Peter and John about to go in the temple, ask an almost. Now look what Peter says. Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Oh wow, this is going to be great. These guys are going to give me something. Look what Peter said. Silver and gold have I what? None. Huh. Just a little financially, they're just a little boy. They're just a youth. But such as I have, I give thee, in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping up stood and walked and with entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. I want to suggest to you that lame man, that lame feet on that man was the giant. And his th thought was, you've got to have money to beat this lameness. You've got to have giant amounts of money and you have to have this and you have to that and Paul and uh Peter says, listen, we don't have any of that. But what we do have, we'll give you. They had the power of God upon them. And what I'm asking Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and what I'm praying for in my own self and for our church is that as we try and expand and do these other things. Let's first and foremost ask God to put his hand of power upon us. I'm just talking to you a little bit as pastor now. I tell you something I'm very, very concerned about. Is that we've not had anybody in that baptistry for a long, long time. And that's not something money can buy, and that's not something money can produce, and that's not something a program can produce That's something only God's power can do. And you know what that tells me? That tells me we need the power of God desperately. That tells me we need revival. That tells me that we need God's hand upon us again And that's heavy on the heart. And as I read this and I studied about Saul, and he looked at this big giant, oh, this little boy, and all he saw was the externals, and he failed to see the power of God that was latent in the heart of David. Because of his faith and his confidence. And he says, oh, you can't do that. And I'm telling you, we need the power of God here. It's not going to come with a new building. It's not going to come with a bigger budget. It's only going to come when you and I want it more than anything else in the world. We get like they were in Acts chapter 2, where they just fell before God in prayer. More than anything else, they wanted God to use them. More than anything else, they wanted God to have them. So I'm asking our church tonight, would you pray with me? Would you ask God to do what he needs to in my heart and our hearts, where his power and his presence can be upon us again? Is anybody with me? Anybody with me on that? Now we can see God changing lives and saving souls. I'm confident of this. The gospel has not lost its power. I'm confident of that. And we're doing it. We're getting out on a weekly basis. I've been out, not this week, last week, knocking on doors. I'm trying to get out there even on my own. Just get out and knock on doors. Thursday night, Saturday the buses are working But we need God's power. We need God to do something. Maybe I need God to search my heart. My prayer is this. I pray there's nothing in my heart that's grieving or hindering. The spirit of God. You follow what I'm saying? And so I saw what I I saw how Saul responded, and I thought, no, no, no, we need what David has. We need what David has. I don't want to be like the Israeli army. With no results. I wanted to be like David, have the power of God and see it happen. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd challenge us and you would help us. I pray you'd convict us and stir us. I pray you put in my heart and in the heart of this church a desire to be used of you more than anything else. Lord, it's so easy to get cold. It's so easy to get indifferent. I pray you'd stir us and help us. Maybe somebody could grab Jennifer so we can have a good invitation, or Catherine, maybe you could come up. I really want us to pray. As we go into Bible time in just a week or two, we go into the summer. We got some big decisions to make as far as assistant coming in. Really need God leading. We really need God's presence and power. I hope you'll join with me in prayer. Father, bless now our invitation time, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.