Chapter seventeen, if you would, take your Bibles and turn there. First Samuel seventeen. How many people notice something different about the front of our church when you look in? So everybody said the cross is gone. Trust me, it's going back. Trust me. And uh you pray we can get that thing done. And uh, Lord will, and we have a few folks lined up to get baptized, and we'd like to I'm looking forward to baptizing in a new baptistry. 1 Samuel chapter 17. How many folks? I would like to just real quick, just to get us started, uh name your Name one of your favorite characters in the Bible. Anybody just one come right to mind favorite characters in the Bible. Dorothy Paul, the Apostle Paul, what an amazing fellow. Peter was incredible. Joseph, I like Joseph, what a man of integrity. Jesus, there you go. And uh you're not going to beat that. Yes. Nehemiah was diligent and um I like Nehemiah. I enjoyed preaching through that many years ago. Dale, did I see your hand Joseph, yes. Any others? David, yes, I agree. I'm that's what I was getting at. Carolyn, what were you gonna say? Joseph? Job! Yes. Well, your heart goes out to Job, doesn't it? Man. And uh so there's a lot of people in the Bible, but Uh in and and it seems like whoever I'm studying at that time they become my favorite one until I study another one. But with no doubt about it, David is one of my absolute favorites. I look forward The getting to heaven and seeing David. I just I'm just curious what he looks like. You know? And um And what he's like. I've always said about David, anytime I'm studying him, it just stands out in my mind that David was such uh I I I think of David, I study David, and to me he's such a passionate man No, he's so passionate. Whatever he's doing, he's doing with all his heart. And it is just gung-ho. And uh that played out good and bad, you know, but uh just sincere and just real. Uh with few exceptions, I don't see anything phony about David. He was as genuine as you can get. There was a period of time there he tried to hide some sin. Uh and that didn't work out. But um I like David, and we're studying the life of David. We're at go David and Goliath, and we've been grinding our way through chapter 17. This is such a fascinating portion of scripture and events that uh we're just almost word by word working our way through. But I want to begin reading in verse number 40 Uh let me get my notes here. Verse number 40, I'm going to read down through verse 47. Now we already looked at a good portion of this, but I want to get our thoughts together. It's been a week or two since we've been here And I like outlining, and so I'm going to just reiterate what our outline is of this section here. Verse 40 says, and he, David. took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had, even in a script, And his sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistines. We approached up to Goliath. And the Philistines came on and drew near unto David. And the man that bare the shield went before him. Joe Goliath has this shield bearer going out before him. It's his massive shield that he's walking behind. And when the Philistine, verse 42, looked about and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of fair countenance. And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog? Thou comest out to me with staves? You could put that in Orlingo. Goliath said, Seriously? You're coming out here against me? For he was um the sabs and the Philistine cursed David by his gods And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield But I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand And I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcass of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth, and not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. What an amazing conversation. Let's pray, and we're going to look at this here. Father in heaven, I pray now as we uh look again at this passage of Scripture, you'd challenge us to have faith in you. Lord, as I studied this, David's confidence challenged me to be a little more confident in my faith and not to waver and not to doubt. But to trust you fully and go forward. So please fill me with your Spirit as I try to preach tonight. I pray you'd speak through me, give us open hearts, and I pray this uh would help us to live victorious Christian lives. I pray in Jesus' name. Uh I ask it. Amen. Alright, David is engaging Goliath. And as far as I can tell, this record here that we just read This is the first time and the only time that David is addressing Goliath directly. All the previous statements of David, all the previous conversations have been David with his brothers, David with the Israeli army, David with Saul. And he's heard Goliath running his mouth out there. He's heard what Goliath had to say. He's seen and heard what everybody thinks of him and how intimidated they are. I mean, this guy is the champion. This guy is it And now David is engaging Goliath himself. Now, our outline, and we started it, and just if you like jotting down outlines, here's what it is. Our first point was this: we noted David's arsenal. He had a sling, he had a staff, he had uh five stones and a little script, or uh his version of a backpack maybe And that's his arsenal. And we said that this David's arsenal, first of all, was a very peculiar arsenal. This isn't the type of weapons you take out into battle, particularly against a giant That is a hardened warrior, highly trained, very powerful, very effective warrior. Um this is very peculiar what he would choose. However, it was his proven arsenal David knew how to use a sling. He knew what that staff could do. He was comfortable with this. This is where he had experience. And so we notice David's arsenal. Then we noted in verse, the second part of verse 40, down through verse 44, David's approach. And um uh David, first of all, we in verse 40, the second part of verse 40, verse 41, they postured themselves for their attack. David drew near, Goliath drew near, and uh if you remember, I thought it was interesting. I'm not sure of all the significance of it. But the phrase when it says that David drew near is a different comes from a different word than when it says Goliath drew near. Uh when it says David drew near, it means he got up close and personal to Goliath I mean he got up uh uh my sons put it this way, my one son, we were talking about something, he says, mate, he got up in my grill. My grill. I don't know it New lingo for today. But David got up in his grill, so to speak, and he drew near. It said it means he got real close. When it says Goliath drew near, it kind of has this idea. He just kind of lumbered out there And uh the idea is, what I got from that is David knew David had a plan. He'd seen this guy, he knows he knew how to deal with bears, he knew how he knew how to deal with uh lions and he knew the approach and this guy he's approaching it the same way he approached these beasts he did before and he said I'm gonna get up in his grill And Goliath, I think, at this point is not even aware of who it is coming out to challenge him, or even if anybody is coming out to challenge him. He's just lumbering out there like he'd been doing every day for about 40 days. And so they approach each other and they posture themselves for this attack. They posture themselves for this attack. We pointed this out, there's tremendous confidence in both sides. David, and we're going to see this here in a little bit in a little more detail, but David is absolutely confident this guy's going down. And there's no doubt about it that Goliath was absolutely confident whoever they send out against me, they're going down. There was total confidence on both sides. It was the source of their confidence that's going to end up making the difference in the outcome But they were both equally confident. So there's tremendous confidence on both sides. And then we said that there was tremendous contrast on both sides. These are the exact opposites. Goliath is huge, David is small Goliath is experienced. David is a youth. Goliath is heavily armed. David has a slang, a few stones, and a staff. And so you have this tremendous uh contrast here. So they position themselves. Then Goliath pronounces his disgust. He gets out there and he tells David how terrible he is. He questions him, he curses David, he condemns David, and he goes on through there. Now is where we're picking up tonight. That's what we already looked at. And this is our third major point. First of all was their arsenal. The first point was David's arsenal, and then it was David's approach, and now we have David's announcement. And that begins in verse number 45. Notice what he says here. Then said David to the Philistine, This is the first and only, as far as I know, and last time David addresses Goliath And he makes some tremendous statements. In 1932, though, Game 3 of the World Series was being held in Wrigley Field, Chicago Do any baseball fans know who the famous batter was that was about to step up to the plate? Not Billy Sunday, Babe Ruth. And the score is somebody all around them, right? Were there some of you at the game there? 1932. It's tied up, it's 4-4. The score's tied four four. Babe Bruce steps up to the plate, and I was reading about that. I wasn't there. But um Apparently, this is in Chicago. Babe Roots is for the Yankees, and they are taunting him, and they're just going at it. And he's yelling back at the plate. And they said he was actually in the batter's box yelling stuff back to the dugout, to the Chicago uh dugout, and they're going on and on. First ball is a strike, second ball is a strike, he let it go The third one, he made his famous move. What was it? He points out to the center field. He said it's going there. He displayed absolute confidence. It's one of the greatest hitters, if not the greatest hitter that ever played the game. And he steps up there and he points to center field, and lo and behold, smack, and that ball goes out past the flagpole in center field 440-some feet. Now that was a tremendous act of confidence. But as I was reading this passage here, what David says to Goliath In my mind, is one of the greatest expressions of confidence in all of Scripture. Think about what he is saying. Think about this setting Now of course our Lord, when our Lord spoke, it was total confidence, there was no doubt. But David steps up and he makes some He makes a tremendous statement here, again, that are that are absolute confidence on the part of David. Now think about his situation. The overwhelming odds are against him Now I'm using my sanctified imagination here, but I see Israeli soldiers in the back behind the line. They're taking bets on Goliath and David. And David is not the moneymaker here. You know? He is absolutely overwhelming odds against him. He's incredibly underarmed. Couple rocks and a sling, come on. This guy's got shields and swords and helmets of brass and he's got a coat of mail and a shield guy going out in front of him. I mean, come on He has zero moral support. I find nobody in the Israeli army in the background saying, get him, Dave! You can do this. Come on, we're behind you. As far as I can see, when I'm reading this, what I hear behind David in the Israeli army, what I hear are crickets There's nothing. Nobody's saying it. In fact, I see some of the guys back there, oh, this is gonna be bad. This is terrible. And David goes strutting out there, goes running out there, absolute confidence, and he makes these statements Um, no one's standing with him, no one's supporting him. I don't think anybody even believes he's going to survive this thing. And David gets out there and he addresses Goliath, and when we read this, think just kind of picture this in your mind as we read this. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield. But I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day the Lord will deliver thee into my hand. And I will smite thee and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcasses to the hosts of the Philistines. this day unto the fowls of the air and the wild beasts of the earth and all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. Now I don't know about you, but anybody here ever been in a situation that was intimidating? I don't think so Oh yes it is. Um that was a little intimidating to me right there. Anybody here been in a situation that's intimidating? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I don't know how you are, but when I'm in a situation that's very intimidating, I don't tend to speak very confidently. Sometimes you get tongue-tied. Get a little hesitant. Uh uh uh I'm gonna kick kill you, Gilaga Goliath. Right? I don't see David's tongue tied at all. I don't see any hesitation. I don't see any stuttering or getting hung up on his words at all. Remember when God was calling Moses to lead the nation of Israel? Moses says, I can't speak. I stutter. He was scared. He was intimidated. His words got tied up. But you don't see any of that on David's part whatsoever. There is total confidence and total boldness. I like David. He challenges me. To be confident. I thought of when I was studying this and going through this in my mind, I thought of in Acts chapter 4, I think it's verse 29, 30, and 31. Where the Little or New Testament church, they're just exploding. The power of God is upon them. But there is intense persecution. They are being imprisoned, they're being beaten, some of them are being killed for no other reason than doing what we do on a regular basis, preaching the gospel and witnessing to people. And they are beginning to get intimidated by this giant of persecution that is coming down on the church, that the church is facing. And they made a tremendous prayer in verse 29. They said, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word of God as we ought. And then, of course, God answered prayer and it says the place was shaken where they were assembled together and they were all filled with the Holy Scott, and it says they spake the word of God with boldness. And I thought of that when David came out. And David comes up there, and he's in a little squirt, he's got a couple rocks and a little sling. Goliath is this giant, he's got all this stuff. And David, you, I'm gonna take your head off. I'm just impressed with that. Anybody notice I'm impressed with that. If I was in a play, I would want to be David in that situation. First thing I notice here under his announcements, first of all, David announces his authority. He announces his authority. Again, look at verse 45: Thou comest to me with a sword and a spear. With and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. He's announcing his authority. Now I thought it was interesting. Now we thought we won't take the time to go back and rehash what What Goliath said to David. But Goliath is cursing David. He's using probably profanity. He's speaking horribly to David. He's cursing. But David doesn't respond in kind. You don't find David calling Goliath names You don't find David cursing Goliath. He doesn't, what I'm trying to say is this: David doesn't, David doesn't come down to the level of the giant. In the way he spoke and the language he used and his whole approach. And I think that's a caution for you and I in this old sinful world. We have to be very, very careful that we don't respond to the world in kind. The world is not our friend. The world is not going to speak kindly to us. The world is going to curse us. The world is going to blaspheme our God. This world is going to be filled with rage and anger. You read it all through Scripture towards the people of God. But we must never respond back to the world that same way. David spoke with confidence, he spoke with firmness, he spoke very directly, but he did not use any of the type of language or the approach that Goliath used. No name-calling, no profanity. But he announces his authority. The thing I noticed here under this thought is he recognized the gravity of the situation. David is acknowledging, I think, to Goliath, and he and I think there's a reason for this. The first thing he comes up, and I'll just put this in my own words, the way I see it, the way I understand it. David is saying something like this: listen, Goliath. There's no doubt about it. You're tough. You're big. I understand the situation I am up against Probably the mightiest foe in existence against Israel. He's not minimizing what he's up against He's saying something, he is listening, I understand you are powerful, you are a deadly enemy, you are very, very skillful. And he's making it clear, I know exactly what I am up against You say, well, what's the significance of that? Why would that matter? David's not running out there with some fairy tale, ignorant idea that, oh, he's just easy, he's just a wimp, he's nothing David's confidence is not in some imagined weakness of Goliath. His confidence is in the very real omnipotence of God. You follow what I'm trying to get at? This wasn't some ignorant little kid running out against something that he had no idea what he was up against. David knew exactly what he was up against. He knew exactly how powerful Goliath was. He knew exactly how deadly this man was. He knew exactly how skillful this warrior was. He wants to make that clear. I know what I'm up against And I think we must never minimize the enemies of our soul. Don't ever think, oh, though, oh, the devil, he's just a little wimp. Now, compared to God, he is. But I'm telling you, the devil is no match for you and I by ourselves. Peter said he's a raging, he's as a roaring lion. Walking about whom he uh whom uh he may devour, seeking whom he may devour. Uh so we must never minimize the enemies of our soul. We must never minimize Satan himself. Listen, he is a powerful, powerful foe. We must never minimize or think that this world, oh this world, I can live in this world and and not stain myself and I can play with the world and I can play with the sins of the world and not get hurt. Listen You're a fool if you don't understand how dangerous the world we live in is spiritually And even our own sinful flesh, the three enemies of the Christian, the world, the flesh, and the devil, listen, we are crazy if we don't understand how sinful our flesh really is. I say this often, but we ought to be very, very careful about this type of statement. Oh, I would never do that. Oh, I don't know how they could do that. Listen to me. The sinful heart that's in that person, the heart that's in me is just as sinful as wicked as the heart of that person that I'm talking about. And David's not walking out on this battlefield, and he's not approaching up to Goliath with some ignorant fantasy idea that this guy is nothing, this guy is a wimp. No, he understood. He is powerful, he is deadly, he is skillful. This is a very, very real giant in front of me. And here's what I'm getting at. We must never minimize our enemies. What we need to do is maximize our God. See what I'm saying? And so, yeah, the devil is real. He is powerful. He is skillful. He is deadly. The world is real. The world is powerful. The world is skillful. The world is deadly. My heart is deceitful, desperately wicked. It is powerful, my sinful nature. It is deadly. So I don't minimize those things, but what I do need to do is maximize God, and He is greater than my sinful nature, than this wicked world, and the devil, the enemy of our soul. So David walks out here and he recognizes the reality or the gravity of the situation. I'm not going out against a kitten. I'm going out against a very real, deadly, dangerous giant. But then he recognizes the gravity of the situation, but then he says he represents the God of creation Look at what he says here. Look at the next statement. Thou comest to me with a sword and a spear and a shield. Alright, Goliath, you're dangerous. You're good. I'll give it to you. You're powerful. There's no doubt. You're deadly. But I come to thee, not with a shield, not with a sword, not with a spear, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. Now, I think it's interesting he uses that phrase, the Lord of hosts. That's not just an empty title that David is using to describe God. He uses that phrase for a very specific reason. He is sending a message, not just to Goliath, But to all the armies of Israel behind them. That phrase, uh Lord of hosts, is used two hundred and sixty-one times in the Old Testament. And it refers to this. It's used in various settings. And it refers to this. When God is referred to as the Lord of hosts, it has this idea. He is the Lord He is the God. He is the ruler over all of creation. It's one of the most magnified names of God, references of God in all of Scripture The Lord of the hosts. The stars are referred to as the hosts. And Jesus Christ, God, Jehovah, is Lord over all of creation. Now think about that. Here you've got Goliath. How tall did we say Goliath was? 9, 10 foot in that range there, 9, 9, 9, something like that. So here's, listen, you're skilled, Goliath, you're deadly. You're a real deal. There's no doubt about it. You're a real threat. But I am coming to you in the name of the Lord of hosts. I was reading one guy writing about this. He s he described it. He said, Don't call it David and Goliath, call it David and the dwarf. Compared to God. And David comes out here, listen, I'm coming to you, not not not with a sword and shield and all that. I'm coming to you in the name of the Lord of hosts. the fact that God rules over all of creation. Sometimes it's used to refer to the fact that God rules over the angelic hosts. Now, angelogy is a fascinating study. Angels are powerful, powerful beings. There's several places in Scripture where one angel slaughters tens of thousands of the enemies of God's people. One angel. And so he's saying, Listen, I'm coming to you not in the power of an angel, I'm coming to you in the name of the Lord over the angels. He rules over creation, over the angelic host. He rules over the armies of man. The most powerful forces that man can put together, I'm coming to you in the name of the one that rules over all of that. That is God over all the armies of the nations. He's God over all over the armies of Israel in particular. So David's coming out there with this powerful statement. He says, I'm acting on behalf of the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, and the God of Gods. There's no higher authority than the one that I'm approaching you in the name of. When we are in the perfect will of God as David was and he knew he was. When we are in the perfect will of God and we are fully surrendered to God, this is an amazing thought. We have the supreme ruler of the universe on our side. When we are in the perfect will of God. When I was in Bible college and we were studying, and I knew this was true, I've said this many, many times over the years, but I knew it was true before I got to Bible college that when I got saved, the Holy Spirit of God moved within me. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Right now, the Lord of hosts, the God of all creation, dwells within your body in the person of the Holy Spirit. Dwells within my body. How many people agree with me? That's mind-boggling. In my physical body right now, and when I'm in the perfect will of God, when I'm exactly where God wants me to be, and I'm fully yielded to him, my heart is clean and pure. I have the God of hosts, the Lord of hosts. Behind me, I'm in his name. I'm operating in his name. I like what Lester Roloff said. He says, he says, when I am in the will of, I am immortal when I am in the will of God. I am immortal when I'm in the will of God. Now that doesn't mean, you gotta qualify that a bit, that doesn't mean that Maybe God's will is for my life to end and go on, right? It's possible. Missionaries have experienced that But what he's saying is this, when I'm in the will of God, when I'm in the perfect will of God, there is nothing the world, my flesh, and the devil can do against me. When I'm in the perfect will of God, I have the presence and power of God. So David walks out there, where does he get this incredible confidence He has this confidence because he's coming in the name of the Lord of hosts. There is no power in existence greater than the power that he is operating in the name of at this point. Um I would say at this point, David and and he and it's true, at this point Goliath is dead meat Right? He's coming out there in that power with that authority. It doesn't matter who's in front of them. They are not going to make it. We have the supreme ruler of the universe supporting us. There's no room for intimidation. Goliath's confidence was in himself. David's confidence was in the Lord God. How many people ever thought, how many people ever said this? Oh, I got this. Oh, I got this. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And afterward you found out, I didn't have that. You know, that's self-confidence. And the person that has disappointed me in my years of my ministry the most is me. When I've trusted in myself. There's sometimes I get a message together and I think, man, I did a good job. This is a great message. I really put this together. And I get up there and I lay an egg. And that was terrible. And then other times I put something out, oh, this is horrible. This is the worst message ever preached in the history of mankind. But I gotta preach it. So I preach it and man, God gets in it, and God does a great work. And you know what I found out? It's better to trust in the Lord than to trust in man. It's better to trust in God than to trust in myself. And that's where David's at. I like Proverbs 3. 26, for the Lord shall be thy confidence. He shall keep thy foot from being taken. Proverbs 14, 26. The fear of the Lord is strong confidence. David wasn't afraid of Goliath. He was afraid of disobeying God. Psalms 20, verse 7, some trust in chariots, some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord. David had a sling, he had five rocks, a staff, and a little backpack. You know what? David wasn't trusting the sling. His confidence wasn't in the stones. His confidence wasn't in the staff or his backpack or his ability to use that. His confidence was where? Was in God. Was in God. And so he makes this tremendous statement, and he says, he says, I'm representing the God of creation, Goliath. So he announced his authority by recognizing the gravity of the situation. He represents the God of creation. Then he reminds Goliath of his blasphemy. Did you catch that at the end of verse 45? He makes these statements about the Lord of hosts, and I'm coming in the Lord of hosts and of the armies of the world. In the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel. And then he tacks that little last statement on, whom thou hast what? Defied. Now why did he say that? Goliath knew he was defying him. He's been saying it every day for 40 days. I think David is coming back, and he is maybe this is me, so I could be wrong, I doubt it, but I could be wrong. I think David's kind of putting it at Goliath a little bit here. He's just referenced the God, the Lord of hosts. That's ruler over the armies of the world and the armies of Israel and the ruler of the whole universe. And it's like, by the way, Goliath, you defied him. It's kind of like this, one brother going to the little sister saying, you're in big trouble. That was a no-no. And I think David is maybe taunting him here a little bit. The word defy means to blaspheme. And David's reminding him the life. Listen, and I got wondering, I wonder, now we have no idea, I can never prove this. This is just total speculation on my part. But I think when David's making this statement, I'm coming into the name in the name of the Lord of hosts, the Lord of the armies of Israel, whom you defiled, I wonder if in the back of Goliath's mind A little doubt doesn't spring up. Huh. Maybe I messed up. I w I don't know. I'm wondering if a little bit of fear doesn't just Creep down Goliath's spine. I've defied this God whose he just described. I don't know I don't know. I know this, it's not bad to remind the world of the seriousness of their sin. I know that's not a bad thing. I know the prophets of God all through the Old Testament, as they're approaching Israel, they constantly reminded Israel of the seriousness of their sin. And I'll be honest with you, I would never want to sit under a pastor that did not remind people of the seriousness of sin. And I'll tell you, our nation is hurting because sin has been whitewashed and it's been justified and excused and played down. Sin is our worst enemy. And Satan, and here Goliath has defied this God, and David is reminding him, Goliath, you defied him, you blasphemed this God. And so he reminds Goliath of his blasphemy. So David makes David comes out and he gives his speech, this announcement, total confidence And he announces his authority. I'm coming to you in the God of hosts. Then he announces his anticipation. Look at verse 46, the first part. For this day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. And I will smite thee and take thy head from thee. And I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines. I underscored a word that's used three times in that little phrase. Did you catch it? I will. I will. God will. The Lord will. David is absolutely certain that God's going to take care of this guy. That word will, the Lord will, I will, I will. That is a term of certainty. There is no doubt in David's mind how this is going to turn out. And I can tell you there's some things in life, there's a lot of things in the future that are uncertain. Do you agree with me? Boast not thyself in the mark, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Oh, I'm going to go here and buy and sell. I'm going to go there and buy and sell. Listen, don't be so certain as the Lord wills, is how that's going to take place. But there are some things that we can be very, very certain about. When God says that something is going to happen, mark it down. It's going to happen. And if we will trust God and obey God If we will simply follow God's instructions, trust Him, follow His instructions, then in the end, God will give the victory. We can be certain of that. Oh, if I do it the way God says, I don't know how that's going to turn out. Tell you what, do it the way God says, and it'll turn out just fine. Amen or not? What does Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 say? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. And what? Lean not into thine own understanding and all thy ways acknowledge. And he will direct thy paths. I can be confident of that If I trust God and follow his instructions, God will work it out. It's going to be just fine. When I went off to Bible college in August of 1981, last century. My dad dropped me off and he went home. Beginning that next week, I think we got in got in town on a Thursday, if I remember correctly, got settled in, registered everything Friday. Dad went home Monday. And I was there by myself. I didn't know anybody within 500 miles. I didn't know nobody. But that next week I got a letter from my dad. It was almost always on a Thursday I get a letter from my dad, handwritten. And I don't know what all he said, but I do remember this. He signed his name, and under his name, down at the bottom, he put P. S. Philippians 1. 6. Does anybody know what Philippians 1. 6? He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ, or Christ Jesus. And the next week I got another letter from. He said whatever, told me what's going on. And under his name he put P. S. Philippians 1, 6. And for up until about five years ago, every week of the year I get a letter from my dad, and every letter ended with Philippians 1. 6. And after a while, I'd read that and I got, and after a while it kind of sunk in. What God began in me, he will finish. And I can be certain of that. And there are some things in life we can be certain of. And David walks out here in total confidence. I'm coming in the name of the Lord of hosts, and this is going to happen, Goliath. And he was totally certain of that. And then last of all, David announces his agenda. This is all his announcement to Goliath. This is his one and only speech to Goliath. He tells him uh he uh uh he um he announces his authority, he uh uh announces his anticipation. And then he tells him what this is all about, his agenda. Look with me at the last part of verse forty-six. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. What is David ultimately, what's David's ultimate relationship with the nation of Israel going to be before too long? He's going to be their king. And remember back in our study of this portion when Jesse sends David into the battlefield, remember we were saying this is more than David being prepared to be king This is Israel being prepared for David to be their king. And David says here, there's a tremendous lesson going to take place here. Uh there's a tremendous there's I have an agenda in doing this. First of all, I want the whole world to know there's a God in heaven. I want this whole world to know that God is all-powerful and God can conquer the enemies of the world. You see, there's a whole lot more at stake here than just David beating a giant. There's a message that needs to be sent, not just to Israel, but to the whole world, and that is this: the character of God is at stake. The ability of God to give victory and defeat this world is at stake Goliath directly challenged God. And David said, wait a minute, God's name is at stake here. And I want the whole world to see and know that God is greater than anything man can produce. David was not out to get a name for himself. He was out to get a name for God. And that challenged me. Why do I do the things I do in my Christian life? Why do I teach a Sunday school class? Why do I work a bus route? Why do I give out gospel tracts? Why do I sing in a choir? Why do I sing a special? Is that so people think that I'm really something? People say, oh, Brother Letterman, you're amazing. Ooh. If that's our motive, that's all we're getting out of it. But David's agenda, David's motive wasn't for people to think, oh David's amazing, what are for he's a jelly good fellow, for he It's not what he was out after. You know what he wanted people to say? Not that David is amazing. He wanted to say, whoa, God is amazing. That all the world may know that there is a God in Israel. A whole lot, there's a whole lot more to Christianity Than simply living it up while we're down here on earth. I tell you, I have a I have a serious problem with this modern contemporary Christianity, that it's all good times rock and roll. I'm telling you, we are in a spiritual warfare that has eternal consequences And David wasn't out there to dance a jig and to have a party. He was in a spiritual warfare, and what was at stake was the name of God and the character of God and the witness of God of creation. And he took that very, very seriously. And he approached that and he said, I want the whole world to know. And then I want the nation of Israel to know there's a God in heaven. They had forgotten that under King Saul. And David's going to be an authority here in a little bit, and they're going to be reminded in a powerful way that the God of Israel is the God of all the earth. And so there's a whole lot more at stake than just a little story and round in, round, in, round, in, round. That's a fun little thing, but I'm telling you, the name of God is at stake here. And it's incredibly important. Amen? So finally, next time Goliath has gone down. How many people can't wait for Goliath to go down? We've been building up and building up and said, when is he going to die already? And hopefully next time he might. We'll see. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for David's faith and his confidence in your power. And your will for his life. And I pray that maybe some of that confidence would spill over from the pages of Scripture into our heart and soul. And as we go out tonight, maybe we swing by the market or the gas station tomorrow back to the workplace, dear Lord, I pray you'd fill us with your Holy Spirit and that you would grant unto us that with all boldness We can live and speak your word as we ought to. That this world could see that you are true, you are real, and you are powerful, and you are holy. And they would see us and see Christ in us. I pray you'd embolden our witness. I pray you'd purge us of our sin and our unbelief and our and uh the weight that so easily beset us. And God help us to be wholehearted for you and learn from David. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say tonight, along with me? Racher, I I need more confidence from God. I need more boldness to live for Him. There's areas in my life that are nowhere outside of the will of God, and I need that right so I can stand true for God in an old sinful giant world. That's opposed to him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. And I'm I'm praying too. I want God's boldness. I want that confidence. That focus that David had, that passion for the Lord. Now Father, a lot of hands raised, and uh you know our hearts. I just pray, Lord, maybe now is it's kind of hard to give an invitation, but just at our pews there. Lord, just make that an altar. God, we put ourselves anew on your altar, and we pray you take us. And this old sinful world and the devil assaults us and blasphemes you and our own flesh turns on us. I pray you'd help us to be very strong and confident in your power, and that we're in your will, and that we would please you and be a testimony for you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.