I want to begin reading in verse number 13. I'm going to read down through verse 23. We started this last week. My intention was when I first planned out what was going to preach, I thought, well we we should be able to get all those verses. Well we got part of the first verse last week and we're going to get part of the first two verses tonight, but I I think it'll be helpful. So look at verse 13 It says there came a messenger to David saying, the hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. And that's what we looked at last week. How could that happen? We looked at some suggestions. So, and then verse 14 it says, And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem. Here's his response to the news that Absalom is has this insurrection against him Arise and let us flee, for we shall not escape from Absalom. Make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly and bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. And the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint And the king went forth and all his household after him, and the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house. And the king went forth and all the people after him and tarried in a place that was far off. So he got out of Dodge, he got out of town. He got a good ways out till they finally uh settled down and and set up camp. Verse 18, and all his servants passed on beside him, and all the Cherithites, and all the Peleothites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men, which came after him from Gath Passed on before the king. So he has this quite an entourage, leaving the city with him. Then said the king to Atai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou also with us Return to thy place, abide with the king, for thou art a stranger and also an exile. Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with us, seeing I go whither I may Return thou and take back thy brethren. Mercy and truth be with thee. So Atei, this non-Jew, is committed to David. Atei answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth And as my Lord the King liveth, surely in what place my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. And David said to Atai, Go and pass over. And Atai the Gittite passed over and all his men, and all the little ones that were with him. And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness. So it's quite a crowd, quite a significant number of people that were loyal to David and followed him out of the city. There's a lot loyal to Absalom. We looked at that before, but there's a significant amount that are staying faithful to David. So let's pray, and we'll look at this a little bit more. Father We ask now as we study this dark time in Israel's history, Absalom rising up against his father in rebellion and insurrection. We pray that we can learn from this in our own lives, and Lord, that we can learn to be faithful to you. And so, Father, I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit be the teacher tonight And that you'd speak to our hearts, open our eyes to see how these passages and these principles apply to our lives I pray you'd speak through me as my prayer as always. And so have your way. Help us to have faith in you and again to be open to your leadership. In Jesus' name. Amen. So David is uh Absalom has been plotting, he's been planning this overthrow of his father. Um, and now it's happening. In verse number 13 it says A messenger came to David. Now, I'm going to touch on this here in a little bit, but um I don't think David saw this coming, to be very honest with you. The more I study it, I think uh it was hid from David's eyes And uh he got he got caught uh broadsided here a little bit. Now last week, if you remember, we looked at how in the world does Absalom win the hearts of the people away from David I mean he's the darling of Israel. He's their champion. He's their national hero. And for Absalom to be able to turn the hearts of the nation of Israel away from David to himself Can anybody here think of anything noble or anything Absalom accomplished that benefited the nation of Israel in any sense? We have no record of anything The only thing he's done, the only record we have of him is he killed his brother in revenge, and he criticized his father. And that's it. And in doing that, he's able to turn a significant percentage of the population against David. And so that that baffled me as to how in the world he could pull that off, other than the fact that God was allowing this because of David's saying consequences. We gave some suggestions. I'll just list them. We suggested maybe because David had lost his moral authority. People did not respect him because of the incident with um uh Bathsheba and Uriah Uh maybe when he was distracted with his sin, he neglected his responsibilities and uh he deteriorated in the eyes of the people. We suggested, this is kind of a little Probably wouldn't be too significant, but but Joab's harshness could have been a factor. Joab was a cold-blooded man, harsh. Some of the Israelites perhaps were still loyal to King Saul after all these years And David is under the judgment of God. God's chastening them. And so no doubt all of this is part of God's chastisement for David's sin, the consequences, the fallout, as we've been saying. And then our last suggestion was this. Absalom was very persuasive, and I'm sure that was a huge factor. You know, sometimes um uh politicians can get pretty slick in their speeches. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And you listen to that guy and you think, man, that guy's right on target with me. Amen. Amen. He's right there. Then you hear him speak to another crowd, and it's a whole nother story. And so, no doubt, Absalom was pretty slick, and he was able to convince folks. Now, I want us tonight to look at this verse number 13 and 14, and I want us to look at the departure of David. David gets word, and I mean, in no time at all, he's packing his bags Now can you picture this in your mind? I was studying this. I was trying to just picture in my mind what's happening. Now I have no idea what his palace looked like, the inside, his living quarters, all that. But he gets word of Absalom's uprising and the number of people that are behind it. Can you see David running through his quarters yelling at the family and the kids, pack the stuff, we've got to go. And pulling the drawers open and slinging his stuff in his Samsonite suitcase, you know And uh just grabbing stuff and throwing it together and say, we gotta get out of here and we gotta get out of here now. And that's probably pretty much how it happened And he's scrambling, he's sending word out to uh key servants, key administrative people, and uh telling them, we gotta leave, we gotta leave now. And uh so my question was this, as I was looking at this. It says, and David fled. He said, let us flee. Now here's my question. Why in the world did David run? Why didn't he stand his ground and fight and defend himself? Um He is in Jerusalem. Jerusalem was a tremendously fortified city. Jerusalem was a strong defensive city. He had built walls He'd been there a long time. They had taken, they had been attacked by the Philistines more than a few times So Jerusalem was a strong, fortified, defensive place to take a stand, in my mind. In fact, if you remember back, I think it's chapter five They ridiculed him saying uh uh saying, oh yeah, he's got blind people and lame people and he says, yeah, this place is so defensive so fortified blind people and de and lame people can defend it So why didn't he why didn't he put his feet, uh why didn't he dig his heels in and say, no, he's not taking this place, he's not overthrowing this government. He had Jerusalem as a strongly defended city. That was a place. He had a lot of loyal people. We're going to see that as we work our way down through here. Some tremendous soldiers Who were intensely loyal to him. We saw a Tei. I have no doubt in my mind. He could have summoned his men around him And they could have taken a stand. He's got men with him that have killed thousands of Philistines He's got some soldiers that are experienced, highly trained, veteran soldiers to hand-to-hand that are highly trained in hand-to-hand combat. And so my question is why would David flee? Why wouldn't he dig in and take a stand and uh defend um his his king? His position as king. I want to give you some suggestions, and that's my message tonight, some reasons I believe that David Fled instead of fought. Number one. I put this down. I wonder, and in fact he suggested here in verse 14, we'll look at it. I think one of the reasons he didn't fight, instead he fled out of the city, was to avoid innocent civilians being injured or killed. There's no doubt in our minds David loved the people of Israel. David loved God's people. And you look at his life as we have been, if you've been paying attention, if it came to an enemy of the people of God. He was all for it. Sword out, head off. The enemies of God's people. But when it was God's people, he's not touching them. Remember when Solomon, when Solomon, remember when Saul was chasing him all over the place? He had two opportunities to take Saul's life. Now Saul's trying to murder him. He could have claimed self-defense very easily. It would have stood up in any court of law. But David says, I'm not going to do it. That's God's man. I'm not going to touch God's people. And I think, and we'll look here in a moment, and it's suggested in the scriptures, I think David would be, was more willing. To humble oneself and step out of the picture, so to speak, at least momentarily, rather than have God's people be injured. Now that's a good principle. Sometimes we want our way and we want our position and we want our agenda so bad we don't care who gets hurt in the process of holding on to my agenda. You follow what I'm saying? This is my way, this is my position, this is my agenda, I want it done. I'm gonna keep this, I'm gonna hold on to it And it doesn't matter who gets hurt. It doesn't matter what the what do you call it? It doesn't matter what the collateral damage is. I'm holding on to what I got. And David wasn't that mind. He goes, I don't want any of God's people to be hurt. If you would. Look at verse 14 there. In the middle he says, Arise, let us flee. For we shall not else escape from Absalom. Make speed to depart. Now look at this, lest he overtake us suddenly and bring evil upon us. And look, smite the city with the edge of the sword. Now remember, Absalom killed his brother. Absalom lied to a lot of people And David knew Absalom, and he knew that Absalom would have no problem whatsoever in slaughtering innocent people if that's what he needed to do to get that throne. And David said it's better for me to step out, step aside, uh, rather than to fight God's people. Urban warfare, I put this down, now I'm not a I'm not a military tactician of any wildest imagination. But I know this urban warfare increases innocent civilians. When they're fighting in the streets and they're fighting house to house, and probably that's how this would have come down, there's a lot of people going to get hurt. Innocent people. There's a lot of children and ladies and and elderly. That are going to be what you call what's the term I just use it? Collateral damage And David says, I don't want that. I don't want that. I'll flee. And you think about that. Here's the king of Israel. He's carrying his bags, and he's run out there. Later on, we're going to see he's leaving barefooted Would you agree with me? That's a little humbling for a king to be run out of his palace, out of his city, barefooted, hauling his baggage with him. And so David was was willing to humble himself, if that's what it took, to keep people from being hurt. Another thought along these lines is, who was it that Absalom had an issue with? Who was Absalom's issue with? David. That's who Absalom had a problem with. Absalom's after David. And so I think David is uh is uh he's trying to keep this issue, this conflict He's trying to keep it only between the people who it directly uh addresses. I don't know if I'm saying what I what I I don't know if I'm communicating what I mean by this. In other words There was no reason to involve all the people of Jerusalem into an issue that Absalom had with David. He maybe said something like this, listen, this is Absalom's problem with me, not with the people. I'll leave. And I think there's an important lesson there for you and I, and this is very, I think very practical and very needed, this understanding. If we have an issue with somebody, If we have a problem with somebody or somebody has a problem with us, I believe the Bible very clearly teaches we ought to keep that just between the people it involves. There's no reason to involve people who are outside of what the issue is. There's no benefit involving more people than what is absolutely necessary. And I really believe that is what David is doing here. Listen, these people of Jerusalem, we get out of here. Absalom and I can deal with this. There's no reason getting on on there. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here, because we're going to look at more. But come with me to the New Testament, to the book of Matthew. Very first book of the New Testament, and chapter number 18. And Jesus taught this principle indirectly. He pointed this out that uh if we have a problem with somebody, if there's an issue with somebody Only involve those who it is absolutely necessary to be involved with it. No reason bringing others in. Look at Matthew chapter 18. Look with me at verse number 15. Now notice very carefully the progression as we read down through here. Verse 15, Matthew 18. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, Alright, think of David and Absalom. If thy brothers shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him. What's the next word? Alone! I underlined that in my Bible. If Randy and I have an issue, who should be involved in that issue? Randy and I. Right. Period. Hello. Now he goes on. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then go on social media. And tell everybody, oh, how terrible this person is and how they did you wrong, and how awful they are, and what a terrible person they are. That's not even in the Greek. Look what he says. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee what? One or two. Would you agree with me? That's not a lot. One or two is not a lot. In fact, he says here, he says, take one or two, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And the only reason you're bringing these is you went one, say, listen, we gotta straighten this out, we gotta straighten this out, and then say I'm not straightening it out. So then you bring one or two with you so they can be witness, say listen, I'm trying to make this right, I'm trying to straighten this out, I'm trying to We want to be Christian about this and how do we straighten this out? And you got one or two there to be witness of that. So if if that if he if I go one on one or he comes to me one on one and we can work it out Then nobody else out there even knows there was an issue. They have no problems with him, they have no problems with me, we've solved it and we can go on. Nobody's hurt, no drama. The problem is some people like drama But uh no, no, it was between us. We got it settled, praise the Lord, we can go on, give God the glory. That doesn't work, alright. One or two. No more than absolutely necessary. Got witnesses, all right. Let's work this out. And verse 17: if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it to the church. Then you need to bring it out and involve more people. But do you see what the Lord is teaching here? The first thing you do isn't go to the church. The very first thing right off the bat is tell everybody you possibly can and let everybody know about this and involve people who are not a part of it. You begin with the most minimal amount of people necessary to resolve this. And if necessary, you bring in a couple more, but no more than absolutely have to to try and resolve it. And the last resort is then, all right, we've got to deal with it publicly. And I think that's what David's trying to do here, at least to an extent. There's no reason to involve all of Jerusalem. If I've if Absalom's coming after me, then let these people go. Let's get out of here. So it doesn't hurt them. They're not innocent people hurt and killed. I put this in my notes. Stay off the phone. Stay off the social media. I tell you, I see sometimes, and I can get on a little bit, promote stuff at church and talk to the boys a little I see people putting stuff on there, and I think, man alive, where is your brain? The world has no business knowing this kind of stuff. This has nothing to do with anybody And David very wisely, I think, packs his bags, says, Let's get out of here. We're not going to hurt these people. It doesn't involve them. So come back here with me if you would. And uh it it says, and David said, Lest he overtake us suddenly bring evil upon us and smite the city with the edge of the sword, which brings me To my second reason, I think, David fled rather than fought, and that is this. He wanted to avoid unnecessary destruction of Jerusalem itself, the city David loved Jerusalem. Jerusalem was the center of Israel's nation. That was the capital. Remember when we studied a few months ago when David moved the ark? To Jerusalem and the tabernacle, and then he got the idea we're going to build a temple here. Jerusalem was vital to the spiritual well-being of the nation of Israel. The tabernacle's there. The Ark of the Covenant is there. That's where everybody came to bring their sacrifices and bring their offerings, as instructed back in Leviticus. And Jerusalem was very, very important to the well-being of the nation of Israel. And Absalom comes storming in here with his armies. David takes a stand. He says, Alright, we're gonna, we're not taking over this city, I'll tell you that. And the next thing you know, they're fighting in the streets, as I said. Who knows what happens to the tabernacle? Who knows what happens to the ark? Remember in just a little bit, let's probably in a few verses um which will probably be several months Uh we're going to see where they tried to bring the ark out back with David. If you read ahead there, and David's crossing the ring, and they're bringing the ark out. He says, No, no, no, no, no, don't bring the ark with us good. Night, get that thing back there where it goes Back in the tabernacle. I think he remembered back under Saul. Remember when they took the ark out to battle how that worked out? That was disaster. He understood the significance of the city of Jerusalem in the life of Israel, and he would not, he would step down, he would humiliate himself Rather than let the city of God be destroyed. He's not going to do it David, here's the thing. David was in love and lived for something bigger than himself. It was God's glory, and it was the good of God's people, it was more important than anything he held on to or anything he possessed. And so rather than destroying the city of God, he's going to pull out. To destroy Jerusalem would have been to destroy the heart of Israel. Now look at the contrast. Do you think for one minute Absalom uh cared at all for the well-being of the people of Jerusalem? No, he'd been lying to them for months For years maybe. He didn't care about Israel. He didn't care about Jerusalem and the tabernacle. People coming in from all parts of the nation to worship and bring their offerings. But David said, no, no, no. I got to get out of here. We don't want this place destroyed. He says there again in verse 14 at the end, bring evil upon us and smite the city. He says it specifically, the city. With the edge of the sword. Jerusalem was the place that God chose for his tabernacle. I got verses down here. 1 Kings 8, verse 44 through 51. uh chapter 11, uh 32 and 36, chapter 14 of 1 Kings, 2 Kings chapter 23, 2 Chronicles chapter 6. Second Chronicles chapter twelve, all say this. God speaking most of the time, saying, Jerusalem is the city I have chosen. David said, That's God's city, not my city. I'm not going to be a part of this city being destroyed. And so he fled. Now we don't have a city in the New Testament. We don't have a city. Vatican City means nothing to us as Christians. No more than Moscow or London or Johannesburg, South Africa, or Cumberland, Maryland. We don't have a place like that. Do you know what we have? We have a church, the body of Christ. That's the focal point of our spiritual life, right or wrong. That's where we assemble together. That's what we're a part of, the body of Christ. And I want to suggest to you the well-being of a church and the spiritual health of a church is far more important than any individual agenda I may have myself. Or position I may hold in myself. You follow what I'm saying? I think we ought to be very, very careful, just like David respected the city of Jerusalem and the nation of Israel's well-being, I think you and I as Christians ought to have tremendous respect for the body of Christ. And be very, very careful how our own pride and our own self-will, and we can hurt the body of Christ. David said, I'll step down, I'll flee, I'll get out of here. If that means I can keep the uh Jerusalem from being damaged. And so what a tremendous respect he had for the city of Jerusalem, what a tremendous respect he had for the people of Israel. And so I think those for those two reasons he fled rather than fought. Let me give you another reason. Now we're not sure what all is going through his mind at this point. This is all pretty sudden, comes on him But I put this down. I wonder if he wasn't buying himself some time. In fact, it kind of implies it there He said, Make speed to the part lest he overtake us suddenly and bring evil upon himself. I think the rebellion, David's awareness of it, like I said, David's awareness of the rebellion was pretty sudden. I think came out of the blue and caught him, blindsided him. And the thing is, I don't believe David was prepared to face the opposition from his family. This is his son. That's turning against him. Do you think for one minute, if this would have been Goliath's brother doing this, do you think for one minute David would have fled? I don't you'll never convince me of that, brother. He'd have been out there after them. But this is his son. And I don't think he was prepared to face opposition, internal opposition Now there's no doubt in my mind David was well prepared to face external opposition. You read it, the Philistines come in, whatever, brother, he was they're going down But his son, internal, one of God's people, one of his immediate family, he goes, I need to get out, we need to think this through. We got to get out of town. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 10 in verse 36 he was talking to the disciples and he said this and some some might be able to relate to this a little bit He says, our foes, he says, as a disciple of mine, sometimes your foes will be they of your own household. Sometimes a person gets saved and sells out for Christ and they're going to live for God and their family. Turns against them and says, oh no, no, that's not what we're doing. I had a fellow one time, I had a lady tell me one time her husband got saved and uh she booted him out of the house and she said to me, she goes, I didn't marry no fundamentalist Baptist And I mean turned against them vehemently. And sometimes opposition against us as Christians comes within our own household. And what I'm saying is this, that is tough. You know, you get some old uh you get some old uh there was a guy in town or I mentioned him occasionally, but he uh he told me he was an ambassador for the Antichrist. And I really think the Antichrist could have done a lot better than that. But uh this guy was rough You know, somebody like that starts calling me names and turning on me because I'm a Christian or you know, mocking me or whatever, give me a hard time because I'm a I'm a Christian, you know, that's like, alright, whatever But I tell you, you get a family member, and that gets tough. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I'm just wondering if David didn't have got the news, his mind's really. Alright, we need to get out, we need to buy us some time. We've got to see how we're going to deal with this. We've got to think this through a little bit. And I found it's usually best to give things a little bit of time before we react to stuff. Anybody here, can I get a witness? We're a small crowd Wednesday night. Let's just be open and this is transparent time, okay? Anybody here ever somebody say or do something and you didn't think it through and you just reacted? And you made things way worse than what it would have been if you just held your peace and sat back and think it through a little bit, give it a little bit of time. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody? Yeah I think that's what David's doing. He says, let's give this a little bit of time. Take your Bible with me. I got two passages I'd like for us to look at along these lines. Proverbs. How about that? Proverbs. And look at verse chapter 25 of Proverbs. We end up in Proverbs a lot. Chapter 25, look with me if you would at verse number 8. Proverbs chapter 25, verse 8. I think David is following the advice that his son Solomon is going to record under the inspiration of God. Verse 8, Proverbs 25. Go not forth, what's the next word? Hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof When thy neighbor hath put thee to shame. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, this is what I wrote, wait, exclamation point. And then I wrote this: take my time. And my advice, and following David's example in this scriptural teaching, is we've got to learn to not react to other people doing things against us or in opposition to us. Think it through a little bit. Stop and buy yourself a little bit of time. And don't just react to things. How many times we get ourselves in trouble because we react to stuff. I got one more passage. I see a good example of this in Matthew again, if you would. And chapter number one. And this is an instance where it was really good that he didn't react because things weren't the way they appeared to be. Matthew chapter 1, and look with me at verse number 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, now you need to understand an espousal was as close to marriage as you can get. In fact, if you're going to break up an espousal, you had to get a divorce. It was that binding. So they're all but married. So he's a spouse. Mary was a spouse to Joseph. Now look at this. Before they came together, she was found with child. Now, at this point, that's all Joseph knows. Now, we're told she was found with child what? Of the Holy Ghost. Joseph doesn't know that. Now put yourself in Joseph's shoes. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man. And not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. Now, that's his reaction. Would you agree with me? That's not an awful reaction. He says, oh man, my w my espoused wife is with child. What in the world? And he loves her, no doubt, and so he's a just man. He said, I don't know, I'm just going to privately divorce her. We're not getting married. I'm not I'm not doing this. Now that is his reaction in my mind. Now I don't know, but Joe, that's a that's a pretty mild reaction. Now I'm not going to ask any of the guys here if you would react that way if you were in his shoes. I know knowing what I know about a lot of guys That would have been a knockdown, drag out, ugly, ugly scene in a lot of situations. You agree with me? Man alive. But Joseph does something that changes everything. Look at the next verse. Verse 20. But while he what? Thought on these things. You know what he did? He bought him some time. He got out of the city. He didn't fight. He stepped back and said, all right, wait a minute, we've got to think this through a little bit. And while he's thinking it through, while he's taking his time, he's not reacting, while he thought these on these things. Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife. Then it's explained to him For that which is conceived in her is the holy of the Holy Ghost. I see Joseph going like this. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. My stepson is going to be the son of God. Changed everything. Now what if he'd have blowed up? That's not really a word, blowed up. What if he'd have Reacting, blown up. What if he'd a blew his top, throwing things, slapping her around, just going on? What if he'd have done that? He'd have made a bad he he'd have been in the wrong, right? He'd have been in the wrong. If he'd have fought that, he'd have he'd have lost his integrity But he stopped, calmed himself, all right, let's think this through. And then it thought. And I think that is a little bit what David is doing. When he says we need to get out of, we got to get out of Dodge, let's get out of here. Let's get out good ways, get some distance, and so we can think this through a little bit and see how we're going to approach this. This is David's son. By the way, later on, if you'll remember, he gave very when they did engage Absalom, because he pressed on them, when he did have to engage Absalom in in warfare He gave very explicit instructions to Joab to not do something to Absalom, and that was what? Don't kill him! David did not want to harm his son. So he doesn't want to hurt the people of Jerusalem. He doesn't want the city damaged. I need to get some time to think this through. This is my son. I certainly don't want him harmed. Let me give you a fourth reason, real quickly. Supposing he, now David's a military man. He's highly skilled in military tactics. He's highly skilled in strategy. So I'm thinking, excuse me, I'm thinking David Is thinking, you know, here's my point. Maybe there's a better chance of success if it does come down the military. I might have a better chance of success out in the open country I can set up perimeters. I can get high ground. I can we can approach this thing a whole lot differently out in the country than we would in the city And so David, as a highly skilled tactician, military tacticians, a highly skilled in military strategy. His objective at this point is keeping my family and my people safe And we can do that better out there in the country, out of the city, out in the wilderness, than we can here in these confined. I'm pinned. He can surround me And um and uh he thinks he I believe he th he viewed it as uh a greater chance of success in the open country Subjective at this point, safety and security. And so they get out of town. Let me give you a fifth reason I think he fled rather than fought. And I like this one. It was the I think it was easier to identify his loyal supporters. In other words, he packs up and moves out a good distance out of the city. Whoever comes with him, see if you agree with me on my thinking here, whoever comes with him is probably going to be pretty loyal to him. They're not going to leave their homes and their pack their bags on the spur of the moment and go running out with David and live in the wilderness if they're not loyal to them. And what David needed as much as anything at this point was to know who was going to be loyal to him. Remember Ahithophel, his counselor, his right-hand man, he turned key on David and he went with Absalom And I'm thinking, David's thinking, listen, I don't need any more of that. And I get out of here and we go, and remember, he said they went a good distance out of the city. And whoever's going to come all the way out there and live in the wilderness with me is probably not turning on me, is probably not a traitor. Traitors are unlikely to pick up and leave town with David. And you know what I found? I found that trials test our loyalty. Trials test our commitment. Now let me ask you a question: what is loyalty? Somebody comes up to you and says, I don't, I'm learning the English language. I don't know what loyalty means. What would you tell them? What is loyalty? Alright, what is it? Got your back. I've got your six, man. You ever hear that? I don't know what it means, but I hear him say that. Stan standing with them. What else? Anybody? Loyalty. If somebody is loyal, what are they? This what? They'll stick with you to the end. They've got your back. They'll stand with you. This is this is the definition I come up Loyalty, listen to this, a consistent allegiance or support to a person or institution For instance, a country. Be loyal to my country. Be loyal to my school. Be loyal to my church. Be loyal to my friend. Be loyal to my spouse, my family, My brother, my sister A consistent allegiance, not on again, off again. But brother, I'm there with you. We're through this. Thick or thin. Where you sleep, I sleep. Where you die, I die. We're right there. Do you see what Akai said in verse 21? He captures loyalty as good as you're going to ever get. He describes it. Verse 21, Atai answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth, and as my Lord the King liveth. Surely in what place my lord the king shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. That is loyalty. And David needs some loyal people, and he's got a bunch of them. But he finds out by leaving town, by getting out. Like Jonathan and David. Jonathan stuck with them. Uh I thought about um uh Naomi and Ruth. Because thy people be my people. Your God's my God. You talk about loyalty. And Naomi earned that loyalty from Ruth. She respected her to the point where she was intensely loyal. I put this down, above all else. I hope you'll get this. Above all else, our loyalty is to Jesus Christ. If I have to choose between being loyal to my nation or loyal to my Savior, I am loyal to my Savior. If I have to choose between being loyal to my school or loyal to my Lord, I'm loyal to my Lord. Above all else, a loyalty to Jesus Christ is paramount. And that's true in friendships, and that's true in churches. Now I believe I think we have a p folks who are very, very loyal to our church. I want to be loyal to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church But I tell you what, if this church starts changing its doctrine or changing its standards or something, brother, I'm more loyal to the Lord than I am to my church. I'm not trying to encourage disloyalty to the church, but I'm trying to keep our priorities right And David needed people who above all else were going to, in this situation, he needed folks that were loyal to him. And I think getting out of town helped him. By the way, if you think about it, when Jesus was betrayed by Judas And taken down to the high priest and they do their phony court, their phony justice system, corrupt And then they send him over to Pilate, and it's not much better, and they start beating on Jesus, and they start falsely accusing him. How did the loyalty of the disciples hold up? Not good. In fact, the testing, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, tested the loyalty of his disciples, and it didn't hold up All of them forsook him. And so what I'm trying to say is this, when people go through a hard time, when Churches are under persecution or whatever, that a lot of times is going to test the loyalty of people. Testing trials will test our loyalty. In fact, discipleship at its very core is loyalty to Christ. I want to go to another verse, if you would, real quickly, and I'm winding down. Go to Luke chapter eleven with me. Now there's a ton that we could go to. I'll just I just picked a few out Where Jesus is describing to his disciples what discipleship is, what the requirements of being a disciple is. Now, when we look at these, think a little bit about loyalty and what he's describing. Look at Luke chapter eleven and verse number twenty-three. Luke eleven, twenty-three. He that is not with me is what? Does that sound like loyalty? That the Lord's asking for? Listen, if you're not with me, you're against me. Jesus looking for loyalty. Come down to chapter 14. And verse number 25, particularly, these next few verses, Luke 14, verse 25, and there went great multitudes with them. And he turned and he said unto him, he wasn't looking for great crowds, he was looking for loyalty. He was looking for disciples. And look what he says. If any man come to me, now look at this. This is strong stuff If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, and his own life also What's his last statement there? Can my not be Do you know what he's asking for? You know what he's demanding? Loyalty. Loyalty. Listen, if somebody is more loyal to their spouse than they are to the Lord, they can't be a disciple of the Lord. I'm more loyal to my children than I am to the Lord. Here's the problem. Sometimes Christians will compromise their obedience to the Lord to please their children. I've seen it. And even my own life also. Discipleship at its very core is loyalty to Christ above all else. Now, let me throw this out here real quick. He's not saying we should despise our family. These are the dearest people in life to us. Our spouses and our children and our brothers and our sisters, these are the dearest people in life to us. And he says, you've got to be more loyal to me than you are to them. He's not saying dis he's not saying go home and hate your wife. He's not going to go home and hate your children. That's not what he's saying. He's saying our loyalty to him, our love for him, must be supreme above everything else. In fact, he goes on, elaborates here a little bit. Look with me at verse and verse 27. And whosoever doth not bear his cross And come after me, cannot be my disciple. Look at verse 33. Likewise, whosoever he be that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. That's loyalty. You pack your bags and you come on out with me. He says, I'm going into all the world. I'm going to foreign nations. I'm going to cities and countries that have no gospel. And you're my disciple, you pack your bags, you come on out here with me. Just like when David left the city of Jerusalem and these people came with him, he's finding out who's loyal to him or not That's when the Lord calls us, instructs us to go with him. He says, Lo, I'm with you always. He sends us all the world. He's saying, he's looking to see who's loyal. I'm not saying it's God's will for every one of us to go to these places, but it's God's will that every one of us be willing to do whatever the Lord instructs us to do. Amen. And I think that's what David is doing on a human scale, what the Lord instructs us to do in our spiritual lives. David doesn't fight. He flees. He doesn't dig his heels in and say, come on, Absalom, I'll take you on. I've been killing giants before you were even existence. Absalom, I've killed more Philistines than you've ever seen in your life Come on, Absalom. You want to take me on? Alright, come on. No, he didn't do any of that. He says, pack the bags. Come on. Ladies, kids, get together. Come on. We're getting out of here. We're not gonna we're not gonna hurt these people. Not gonna destroy this city. I need it I need we need to get away. I need to think this through a little bit. This is Absalom. How am I going to deal with this? If we do need to get engage in in conflict, well I'd rather it's better to do it out there than here By the way, going out there, I want to see who's with me and who's not. I think David was very, very wise And getting out of the city rather than fighting right then. Later on he's forced to. Absalom presses the issue and David has to respond. But not now. Not now. Loyalty. Soldier told his was that they were in war and they were deployed overseas and he told his con his uh what do you call your other soldiers with you? Not comrades, uh what? Comrades, is that right? His other troops, his buddies. We'll say buddies. He said he's bragging. He says, I never go out with another girl if I'm within 50 miles of my home. So he was loyal to fifth within 50 miles to his wife. He was outside 50 miles and anything goes. I'm telling you, the Lord's not looking for that kind of loyalty. There's plenty of Christians that are loyal to the Lord on the church property. Ah, we're loyal to the Lord when the preacher's visiting. Babe Roos was in his final years as a champion baseball player outstanding And as he got older in the last, I believe it was the last year of his life of his uh not his life of his career, and one of the last couple games, he was obviously over the hill. And one particular game he had struck out every time he was up to bat. He mishandled the ball numerous times. And by the time the game was winding down, every time he stepped out there, the whole crowd started booing and hissing and yelling insults at the great babe Ruth. When and uh when he was coming back off the field, he was obviously discouraged and his head was hanging, and he was walking slow back to the dugout and everybody's yelling at him, calling him names They tell us that one little boy jumped the rail and went running out to Babe Ruth and grabbed him around the the leg and sobbing just held on to him They say that Babe Ruth picked him up and hugged him. The boy hugged Babe Ruth. And he set them down and they held hands as they walked back to the dugout and everybody's yelling, calling them names. And Babe Ruth had one loyal fan. Little boy. Everyone turned against him. I tell you what the Lord's looking for. This whole world is turned against Jesus Christ. They're trying to overthrow his throne. The devil and the world wants the throne of Jesus Christ in our lives. And they're mocking them. You can't hardly go to the market without hearing Jesus Christ's name used in in uh blasphemous ways, right or wrong. You know what he's looking for? He's looking for some loyal folks that'll come out with him This world rejects him, we say loyal to him. Amen. Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty to Christ. That's what we need. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us to learn from David's experience here and help us to see how it applies to our day and age and our situation. And I'd pray you help us to be wise. When issues come up and not involve everybody that has no business, a part of it. Help us, Lord, to not react, but to think things through a little bit and take our time and wait on you. And Lord help us to be loyal to you, to be loyal to you. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, One thing I need to do from tonight's lesson is I need to learn to wait and not react. Anybody like that? Preacher, pray with me. I've got to not react. My hands raised There's some here tonight say, preacher, I have a tendency to drag people into things that really it doesn't even affect them. It's none of their business. But I have a tendency to draw them in, and I need to stop that I need to just be careful. I keep it. Don't make a mountain out of a molehill. Just keep that thing between whoever's a molehill. Anybody like that? Preacher, I need to be careful about that. Sure, sure. What about loyalty? What about loyalty? Maybe we tonight say, you know, I've really got to be loyal to my Lord. Not be ashamed. Be loyal. Where he sends me, I'll go. What he instructs me I'll do. Loyalty. Father, bless her imitation, I ask now. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Listen