A mark or something on both of these, because we're going to be jumping back and forth as we go through the lesson. It's two inspired accounts. of David's charge to his son Solomon. And 1 Kings chapter 2 is where we're going to start there. I'm going to read a section of this. Then we're going to go to 1 Chronicles chapter 28. I'm going to read about the whole chapter. I'm going to read quite a bit tonight to start us off just to get the whole context, and then we're going to break it down, and it's going to be a couple weeks study just working our way through This uh David's charge to Solomon to be the next king. Second Kings chapter number two. Everybody give everybody a chance to find it. 2 Kings chapter 2. If you found that, say amen Alright, it's about half the crail. Let me begin reading. I want to begin reading in verse 1, and I'm going to read down through verse 9. Now, this is the brief The uh is briefer a word? The briefer account? The more brief account? More brief is how you would say it. of David's charge. Look at verse 1, 1 Kings chapter 2. Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon his son, saying. Now let me just stop there. And I thought of this before when I first started studying. I didn't comment on it in my notes. But I just want to say this here I I think it it can be a good thing if we know that the day of our death is approaching. Um let me let me just stop here. Let's throw to this. When I was uh chaplain with hospice uh year many years ago and uh my responsibility was to go and help Patients, terminal patients who had six months or less, were diagnosed, six months or less to live, and they didn't have a church, they didn't have a pastor, and they wanted some spiritual counsel. And so though I would get called, I'd go talk to him. And and I I love the ministry. It was very rewarding. Led many people to the Lord. But um Sometimes they would it would i they were of course troubled and I always tried to convey this idea. God has given you the opportunity to prepare For your day of death. A lot of people don't have that opportunity. Doctor says you've got so many months to live, so many weeks to live. This is your opportunity. You can prepare for that. You can prepare to meet your God. You can prepare. And so many trusted Christ. So David is in that situation. Now he does he's saved, of course. He knows the Lord, but um to use New Testament terminology, but nevertheless his days drew nigh that he should die. Now, verse 2 I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man. David is speaking to Solomon. And keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses. that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way, To walk before me in truth with all their heart, with all their soul, there shall not fail thee, said he, God, a man on the throne of Israel Moreover, thou knowest. Now David is speaking to Solomon, he's given his charge. Now notice what he says. Moreover, thou knowest what Joab, the son of Zariah, did to me and what he did to the two captains of the hosts of Israel, and unto Abner the son of Nur and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew And shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his feet. Uh sounds to me like what Joab did bothered David still. I think this had been eaten at David the whole time, what Joab had done. Now Joab was kin. And he was very loyal to David initially, and so David was limited what he could do, but he tells Solomon, look what he says. He says, verse 6, do therefore according to thy wisdom, look at this. And let not his whorehead go down to the grave in peace. What's he suggesting Solomon should do? He should kill him. He said, Don't let him get away with this I thought that was interesting. We're going to talk about that a little bit in a future message. Do therefore, verse 7. But show kindness unto the sons of Barzili, the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table For so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom, thy brother. And behold, thou hast with thee Shimei, the son of Gera, Benjamite of Bahuram. Which cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim, and he came down to meet me at Jordan, and I swear to him by the Lord, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword Now therefore hold him guilt hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man and knowest what thou oughtest do unto him. But his whore head bring thou down to the grave with blood. And What these people did bothered David. Did you get that? This was eaten at him. I mean, he didn't do anything at the time. He was very gracious, very kind, but on his deathbed on his final charge, this is eaten at him. And so he tells Solomon to deal with these people. So David, verse 10, so David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. That's a very brief account of what David charged Solomon. If you would, now keep your place here because we're going to jump back and forth a little bit Come over to 1 Chronicles chapter 28. 1 Chronicles chapter 28. I want to read the whole chapter. I know I'm reading a lot tonight But I want us to get the whole thing and then we'll build on it. We'll start chipping away at it. 1 Chronicles 28, verse number 1. And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes and the captains of the companies that ministered the king by course. The captains over thousands, and the captains over hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men And with all the valiant men under Jerusalem, he's calling everybody together, military, political leaders, all the staff there in the palace. I mean everybody. He gets all the leadership together. Then David the King, verse 2, stood upon his feet and said, Hear me, my brethren and my people As for me, I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and for the footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building. But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a house for my name, because thou hast been a man of war and hast shed blood. Howbeit, the Lord God of Israel, chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For he had chosen Judah to be ruler, and of the house of Judah, the house of my father, and among the sons of my father he liked me, to make me king over all Israel. I like that little phrase, he said, God liked me. And of all my sons, verse 5, for the Lord hath given me many sons, he hath chosen Solomon, my son, to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel. And he said unto me, Solomon, thy son, he shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father. Moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever. If he be constant to do my commandments and my judgments as at this day, Now, therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the congregation of the Lord, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God. He's addressing Solomon directly now. That ye may possess this good land and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you forever. And thou, Solomon, my son, know that the God of thy father Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searcheth all hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts If thou seek him, he will be found of thee. If thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. Take heed now, for the Lord hath chosen thee to build a house for the sanctuary. Be strong and do it. Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and the upper chambers thereof, and the inner parlours thereof, and the place of the mercy seat. And the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, of the courts of the house of the Lord, and all the chambers roundabout, of the treasuries of the house of God, the treasuries of dedicated things Also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service of the house of the Lord, for all the vessels of the service in the house of the Lord, he gave up gold by weight for things of gold and for instruments of all manner of silver. Service, silver also for the instruments of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service, even the weight for the candlesticks of gold. And for their lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps thereof, and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for the candlestick, also for the lamps thereof, according to the use of every candlestick. And by weight he gave gold for the tables of showbread for every table, and likewise silver for the tables of silver, also pure gold for the flesh hooks, and the bowls and the cups and for the golden basins, he gave gold by weight for the silver. for every basin, likewise silver by weight of every basin. And for the altar of incense refined by uh refined gold by weight, and gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims that spread out their wings and cover the ark of the covenant of the Lord All this, said David, the Lord made me understand in writing by his hand upon me even all the works of this pattern. Wow, he went to great detail. Getting everything together. I mean he had it all laid out. But I thought it was interesting, verse 19, he says that God told him, notice how he says it here The Lord made me understand in writing by his hand upon me all of the works, even the works of the pattern. The layout, the design and the layout of the temple was not David's idea God instructed David how this temple was to be laid out, how this was all to be done. I find that fascinating. Now a couple verses and we'll quit reading and look at some stuff. And David said to Solomon, his son, verse 20, Be strong and of good courage and do it. Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord thy God, even my God, will be with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord. And behold, the courses of the priests, the Levites, even they shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God, and there shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship, every willing servant of man, for uh uh for any manner of service, all also the priests and the people will be holy at thy commandment. David not only prepared the materials for the temple so Solomon could build it But he trained the people that would still be there to support Solomon and help build this temple. I tell you, David goes out with a bag. Now I want us to look at his challenge, his charge to Solomon. We're going to break that down a little bit. Let's pray together, and we'll start looking at this. Father in heaven, as we look here at the final comments of David before he goes into eternity, final days of his life, and the transition from David's administration to Solomon's administration. Help us to learn from this Lord. Help us to Glean some principles that that you can apply to our lives. So I yield myself to you. I present my body, Lord, anew I ask you to fill me with your spirit, you be our teacher tonight and apply some of these thoughts to our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In everyone's life, in everyone's life there come there come significant events. that alter our life. Can anybody think of any in particular? Events that come in our lives that alter our lives. Uh having a baby. That's on my list. How many people hear your life changed when children showed up in the house? Yeah. I think your life changes more when the kids show up than when you got married. So that's a life-changing thing. Somebody else said something else. Salvation. That was the first one I put down. How many people hear your life changed when you got saved? Anybody? Yeah. Life changing event. Salvation. Having children. I put marriage down, changes things. I put uh having a child. Anyone else? Any anything anything else you think of that can be life-changing event Death of a loved one. I put that down. Like how about how about for a child the death of a parent? That would change their life. Some of you maybe, uh as a child, maybe you had a parent die. That changes the life Uh uh, you know. Uh death of a spouse can change a life, particularly earlier in life earlier in the marriage, the more uh uh dramatic effect it has Uh death of a spouse, um a parent maybe for a child, anything else? Sicknesses? Oh yeah, something like that. Maybe uh sickness comes in or something that affects me, handicaps me in some ways, and and I face that. I have one or two more down here. Anybody else? Death of a dog. Yeah, it depends. Could be for the good or bad, depending on the dog, I guess. But that would be affect you. I put down moving as a child Living in one area, you got all your friends and everything, and then you move and all all new friends. I tell you, I've seen it more than once Where young children live live in one area, they're doing good, they got friends at church, they got good friends in school, they move to another area, and they're not careful on the friends they meet And their whole life changes and they get in with the wrong crowd. And so that can happen. Yeah, divorce of parents split up. That had a profound impact on my life. Mom moved out And so altering significant events that take place in life that affect us. David had numerous significant events in his life that changed his life. Anybody any come to mind? In David's life. Hmm? When him uh his sin with Bathsheba, that definitely changed his life. There there was a difference after that in David's life than before. I was what's that Absalom's rebellion against him, absolutely. Saul trying to kill him was significant His victories. I put this one down. Samuel, the prophet Samuel, anointing him as king. I don't know what his dreams were before that as far as what he wants to be when he grows up But whenever Samuel comes by and anoints him to be king, now in David's mind, from that point, from a young boy, from that point on, in his mind, it said, Oh, God has chosen me to be a king. You think that would have a profound effect on him? Sure. Uh I thought the battle with um uh with uh Goliath, that was a turning point He's just a shepherd boy before that. After that, he's a military hero. And Saul puts him in in a place of leadership. Saul turning on him affected his life. His sin with Bathsheba affected his life. The death of King Saul affected his life. And so we we look in our lives and we see these significant events That had a profound effect upon us. That changed our life to an extent. In some places, some cases changed our life dramatically. And we look at David's life and we see these same things, not the same events, but the same effects that various uh events had on his life. And I think we're approaching one here You say, well, yeah, he's going to die. That'll change your life. I'm talking about transitioning his authority, his administration And handing it off like a baton, so to speak, handing it off to King Saul. Do you think that affected David's thinking? This had been his life for 40 years. And he viewed it, if you you read his statements he makes, he viewed being king as a phenomenal honor. He abused it a few times. But I think overall his approach to being king of Israel was a phenomenal honor, and the promises and the covenants that God had made with David concerning the future kingdom of Israel and the coming Messiah that would sit on David's throne. And now he's handing all that off. I think we're at a significant point in David's life. I really do. I believe David wanted to have a smooth transition He knows he doesn't have long to live. We saw that in Kings. He knows his death is very near. And he wants to transition this thing over. Now he's already had a few issues with Abijah. Um at no Adonaiah. And he had to, of course, Absalom was an issue. But now it's coming down to the end. And he wants this thing to go smoothly. And I think that's where, like I said, we're going to jump back and forth here a little bit But actually, in 1 Chronicles, the very first verse, I think that's why he's pulling in all these leaders. He's pulling in all, and if you notice there, he's even pulling in staff. From his palace where he lives, just folks that served. Top to bottom, all points in between. He's getting everybody together, all injured Jerusalem. He says, I need to, I'm going to challenge Solomon. I want to talk to everybody. And uh if you notice there it says he stood up in one of the passages, uh verse 2 of chapter 28, then David the king stood upon his feet. I think it's significant it says that because he's so frail. His weight his his strength is waxing old. Uh he he's his strength is gone, so he's making a deliberate effort To get up, to look like a king, to speak like the king, and address all these. He's wanting a smooth transition I tell you, I mentioned this before, I've said it often, a transition time can be a very dangerous time in life. In the life of a church, in the life of a nation, and in a life of an individual, that transition. David's wanting it to be smooth. He wants it to be right He loves his country. He loves Israel. And so he declares, if you would, chapter 28, 1 Chronicles, look at verse verse 4. He declares publicly, and I sense here a tone of authority. He's speaking publicly, he's speaking with very firmly with authority that God has chosen Solomon to be the king. No more question about that. No more debating this. No more little insurrections anymore. God said it. God chose them. This matter's settled. Look what he says there in verse 4. Howbeit the Lord God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For he had chosen Judah, the tribe of Judah, to be the ruler of the and of the house of Judah, the house of my father, and among The sons of my father, he liked me to make me king over Israel. He says, All right, God chose me. You all know that. Then look what he says. And of all my sons, the Lord's given me many He had chosen Solomon, my son, to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel. And he said unto me, Solomon, thy son, he shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him. to me my son and I will be his father. Do you think it was clear in everybody's mind who the next king was to be? That settled it. That settled it. God had chosen Solomon to throw uh to uh follow David on the throne of Israel. Now, uh a smooth transition I think we've picked up two things here. If you're going to have a smooth transition in a ministry from one administration to another, in a church, from one pastor maybe to another, two things are necessary for a smooth transition. I put this one down. Number one, you've got to clarify what the will of God is. You've got to determine that it is the will of God. Now, I'll just say this, just for my own sake and for everybody. I don't plan on going nowhere till I don't plan on going nowhere. Y'all are stuck with me, all right? I'm planning. Um I I was wondering how what kind of response I would get on that, but uh I am planning on going nowhere. But whenever that time comes We want to be sure that however takes place is the will of God. Right? And not just the pastor. I mean in any situation. You've got to determine it's the will of God. I think sometimes we lean on our own understanding, we we look at material things, we look at all this, and we try and decide, oh, what's the best thing Now to some extent you've got to run a church a little bit like a business. We're handling money. We do business. So there's some business principles involved in some of the aspects, but uh we we ain't a business in God's eyes And we want the will of God. And so there's a transition going on here, and David makes it very clear to everybody what God's will is, it's Solomon to be the next king. And so I think number one, the will of God is necessary if you're going to have a smooth transition. But I also think there needs to be character on the part of those involved And by that I mean this. They have to submit to the will of God. They have to have enough character to say, okay, we're going to do God's will first and foremost. You follow what I'm trying to say? Um Adonijah did not have character. He he waited until David was very sick, and then he says, I'm stepping in. If you're going to have a true smooth transition, you need people of character. And so David's concerned about this transition taking place here. And then he addresses Solomon with a charge from the Lord. Now, if you would, come back to Kings. Now keep these close. We're going to jump back and forth. And notice in verse 1 of 1 Kings 2. It says, Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. Alright. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, Now Kings just gives us a very brief account of it. 1 Chronicles, we have much more is going on around this than what Kings tells us. But notice It says that the last part of verse 1, and he charged Solomon, his son, say it. So he uses this word charge, this charge from the Lord. What Does it mean to charge someone? Say, well, I went down and got gas and they charged me $75. That's not what this is talking about. He's not charging What is it? A commission? Uh anybody else? What he says he's charging Solomon. He's giving him orders? A commission, a challenge. I put it this way. I was looking up and how it's used different places. This is the definition I came up with. An obligation. He's placing upon Solomon an obligation To put certain things in place and keep them in place. The word charge itself, that we get the English word charge from, the word itself means to affix firmly into a very specific place. He says, Solomon, you're going to be the next king. There are some things you must put in place and you must secure them in place. That's my charge to you. Certain actions that need to be taken, certain principles that need to be put in place, certain priorities that need to be established. And if this kingdom is going to have God's blessing, and if this kingdom is going to be successful in the eyes of God, these things must be in place. This is a serious thing that he's saying. And so he's giving them a charge. I see three areas that David charged Solomon as Israel's next king. We're going to try and look at one tonight. First thing he charges them, number one, is to do right. Do what's right. How many people agree with me? The king of Israel ought to do what's right. In fact, the king of any country ought to do what's right. Uh in fact, the president or prime minister of every coun any country ought to do what's right. And so he challenges him, he charges him to do right. You put in place the principle, the practice of doing what is right, and you secure it. Then the second thing I notice, which we're going to look at in the future, probably a ways, but he challenges them to carry on. He says I put all this material in place. I have the plans, the design, the architecture all laid out for the temple, all the furniture in it. I have all the materials to the very weight that's needed As God instructed me, now you take this and you carry on with this job. You go forward with it. You build on it. We'll look at this, like I said, in more detail later, but I think David is concerned that Solomon is even more successful as king of Israel than what David was. He wants this thing to be even stronger. He wants this country to be even more blessed of God. He's concerned, now again, I don't want to get hung up on this, but he's concerned that the next generation Has the blessings of God on them. And he charges Solomon, you do what's right, you take this baton, and you run with it. Brother Holmeshire used to tell the Bible time edge, he says, you take the ball and run with it. Whatever you whatever you show up at a church, whatever the condition is, you take the ball and run with it. David's saying, listen, I put all this together, you take it and run with it. You go with it I don't know about you, but if the Lord tarries fifty years from now, I'd like to see Mountain Lake if I if I'm still around, I'd probably not. But uh 50 years from now, wouldn't it be wonderful if Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church was even doing even better than it is now Even stronger on our doctrine, even stronger in our outreach, even greater vision to reach the world. That doesn't just happen. Has to be a charge. There has to be some things put in place. Then the third thing I notice here, and we'll look at the verses on this, he charges Solomon to have faith in God. To have faith. You trust God. God will not fail. Did you see that there in verse number 20 of 1 Chronicles 28? He says, uh Solomon, be strong and of good courage, do it. Fear not, nor be dismayed, for the Lord thy for the Lord God, even my God, will be with thee. You know what he's saying? He's saying, You have faith in God. You do what they you do what this charge, you carry out, you do right, you take the ball and run with it, and you trust God. You trust God. I think that's a pretty good charge to me And so let's, in a little bit of time we have, let's look at this matter of doing right, David's charge to do right. Notice verse 7 and 8. We're in 1 Chronicles 28 here. Look what he says. Moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever if he be constant to do my commandments and my judgments as at this day. Verse 8. Now therefore, in the sight of Israel, all Israel, in the congregation of the Lord, and the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God. And then come back, if you would, to 1 Kings, jumping back and forth. Notice what he says. In verse 2 of 1 Kings chapter 2. 1 Kings 2:2. I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man. And keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments, his testimonies, as is written in the law of Moses. So he says, do right. I thought it was interesting there in 1 Kings, verse 2 of chapter 2. He says, Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man. The word strong means to fasten yourself or bind yourself, make yourself unmovable. The whole idea is this. Solomon, you plant your feet on the Word of God. And you be strong. Don't you let people push you around. Don't you let the polls dictate to you what your policies are. You do right. You be strong. You plant yourself on the Word of God. You bind yourself to the Word of God. And don't let the winds of doctrine push you around. And don't let circumstances dictate to you what's right and wrong. You be strong. I tell you, we could use a little bit of that strength in 2023 and not let the winds of change and popularity and social media and all this stuff dictate to us what's right and wrong. We plant ourselves in the Word of God and we be strong. Now I think it's interesting. He says the word strong there has the idea of to make unmovable, but it doesn't mean to not be teachable. It's possible to be strong and stand firm on the Word of God and yet be teachable And still be able to learn and say, you know, I I could learn a little bit more from the Word of God. I found a lot of times people who consider themselves know-it-all don't usually know it all. So he's not telling Solomon, don't be teachable. In fact, I thought it was interesting, after David's gone, one of the first things that happens to Solomon is God appears to him and God says, Solomon, you ask anything from me, I'll give it to you. And Solomon could have asked, he could have asked for what? Riches. He could have said, oh, I want to be rich. But he didn't. He says, this is a great nation. These are a great people. I'm just, I'm using my own words here. I'm just ignorant. And God, what I need from you more than anything else is I need wisdom. If you give me wisdom. And God says, because you didn't ask for riches, but you asked for wisdom, very wise request, I'm going to give you wisdom and riches. And so Solomon was very firm for the most part. David's challenging him, but he was also teachable. He was willing to learn and be instructed. He said, God, I need you to give me something I don't have. And so David challenges him, this matter of being strong. And I like that next statement here, and this seems to be more appropriate in our day and age, maybe. And show thyself a man. What in the world does he mean? Show yourself a man. Well, I think what he's saying here is, Solomon, it's time to grow up. You're not a boy anymore. You're not a little kid crawling around on the tile of the king's palace. Solomon, it's time to grow up. Solomon, it's time for you to take responsibility. Be a man. Show yourself a man. I think he's saying I think he's saying to him, this is the way I put it, Solomon, time to put the Binky away. How many people know what a binky is? Yeah, I see little babies with binkies, I always try and steal it from them. Time to put the binky away, Solomon. Be a man. Show yourself a man. Uh it's time to take the training wheels off. Now I'm not a big motorcycle guy, but I saw a guy the other day. He had a what looked like a motorcycle except that had two wheels on the back, triceps, uh uh uh, what do you call them? Tright, he's driving, and if you have one, God bless you, I'm just trying to be silly. But uh I thought, man, that's a motorcycle with training wheels, is what it looks like to me Solomon's telling, David's telling Solomon, Solomon, listen, you're going to be king of the nation of Israel, the people of God. You need to be a man. You need to grow up. You need to take responsibility. You need to take the trading wheels off. Solomon, it's time to put the toys away. Take this seriously. It's about uh the uh I put it this way, it's about to get real, Solomon. You gotta be a man. You gotta be a man. I'm here to tell you, living the Christian life and being what God wants us to be is not a game. And it's not for babies. And it's not for uh it's not for immature babes. God says that you and I as Christians, especially I think in our day and age, it's time for us to grow up. It's time for churches, it's time for homes, it's time for God's people to grow up and take responsibility for actions and do what God tells us to do. That's what he's telling Solomon. I like what Paul said in Corinthians. He said, When I was a child, I spake as a child, but when I became a man, what did he do? Put away childish things. It says it's time to grow up, it's time to take our Christianity seriously. It's time to take right and wrong seriously. We won't play around Anymore. That's what he's telling them. No more playing around. The last thing Israel needed was an immature leader. They had already had one in the previous administration. And it about destroyed the nation He says, no more of that, Solomon. You show yourself a man. You take responsibility. The last thing Israel needed was a weak leader. Now they're going to have some in the future. Ahab and a bunch of others were about as weak a leader as you'll ever find. You watch this. You have a nation with a weak leader, it almost always ends up in war. He says, Solomon, you need to be a man. You need to be a man. Our world is in desperate need of some mature Christians Our world is in desperate need of strong believers. And what Solomon was ch what David was charging Solomon, I believe, is a charge for you and I today. We need to grow up and be mature, take seriously our Christian wall. And do what God says. So he tells him do right. Now I'm not going to get through all this, but I notice, first of all, in this matter of doing right, he tells him he needs to be careful with the Word of God. Are you in 1 Kings there? Chapter 2. Everybody doing alright? Everybody alright out there? How many of the people, the hamburgers, are coming back and uh haunting you? Hot dogs, okay, good I had several people say, oh, now I need to take a nap. So that's what I'm worried about. Look at verse three. First cr uh first Kings Chapter 2. And keep the charge of the Lord thy God. Now look, I circled this word here, to walk in his ways and keep his statutes. I think it's interesting, and we'll notice over in Chronicles, that he begins with Solomon's relationship with the Word of God. When he challenges Solomon, the very first thing he addresses is Solomon's relationship, for lack of a better word, with the Word of God. And he says, you need a walk in the commandments of the Lord. The word walk means that what he's saying to him, I think, is this Let God's word direct your actions. Let God's word affect your decisions and your behavior He says, don't go by your own reasoning. You walk in the Word of God. You let the Word of God govern the direction of your administration, the direction of your life. Let the Word of God decide that. Not the world. Not your own reason. Well, you know, this situation, I gotta, I just think I have to do it this way. Listen, it doesn't matter what I think. It's what does God say That's what he's saying. Anybody here ever get in a situation anybody here ever finds yourself in this in this situation? Your will is one thing But you go to the Word of God and you find out God's will is this. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so now I have a conflict. I've got my will, but I would like, boy, I would really like this. I'd like this is what I think. And God says, oh no, this way. This is the way, walk ye in it. And now I've got to make a decision. And David is challenging Solomon and he says, listen, you walk in the Word of God. That requires what? Die to self? Put away my will, not my will, but thy will be done. And so we have to be very careful. And he's challenging them this. Let God's word govern your behavior, your actions, your decision. The direction of your life. Come over, if you would, to 1 Chronicles. We're jumping back and forth. He expands on this a little bit. And look at verse 7. Read a little bit more detail of what David actually said in this charge. He says, moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever. If he be constant to what? Do my commandments and my judgments as at this day. Kings, records David saying, Walk in it, but David also, apparently, also said, Do my commandments. In other words Do what God says to do. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty simple concept. Just do what God says. Say, how do I be a good Christian, preacher? Uh do what God says That's a would you agree with me? Pretty simple concept. How many people would agree with me? Not always easy to carry out. Ah David's charging them, saying, God chose you for this. You do what God says. You do what God says. Pretty good charge there. Then notice in verse number eight. It says, now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the congregation of the Lord, and the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord. The word keep there means to secure, retain it. Keep it safe. I think this is what he's telling Solomon. Solomon, don't allow yourself to drift away from the Word of God. Don't allow yourself to walk away from the Word of God. If we're not careful, we can drift from the teachings of Scripture and start doing our own things. Right or wrong. We just drift. Very few, I mean it happens sometimes, but very few people just deliberately say, well, I ain't reading my Bible no more. I've had some folks, we had a lady one time, this is a long time ago, she came to church, we got talking, I I don't remember if she made a profession of faith or not, but she didn't have a Bible So um we said, oh, we got a Bible. So we went, got one of our Bibles, gave it to her. She lived down here in Mount Lake Park. And uh she didn't come back the next Sunday And that week she called up the church. She said, I want someone to come down here and get this Bible. I don't want it anymore. He said, What in the world? Well, what's the problem? She goes, every time I read it just tells me stuff that I'm not doing I should be doing and and I don't want this Bible anymore. That's pretty rare But um what usually happens is we just kind of lose interest and over a little bit of time we drift away from it, right? Anybody any of us ever been there? We just kind of get negligent, we lose lose sight. Maybe the novelty wears off a little bit And we start to drift away, and what do we need? We need a moving of the Spirit of God to draw us back and make that alive again and get us back and get that hunger for the Word of God that we once had. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I'm praying for revival. That's our theme this year. God stir us again. And he says, Solomon, I'm charging you. You keep the word of God. You anchor your, you bind yourself to it. Don't drift away from it. Don't walk away from it. You stay true to that book. How many churches have drifted away from the Word of God? And I tell you, I'm I'm as I'm as I want as badly as anybody to have a big crowd. I'm glad for the crowd we had Sunday. We broke 200. Praise the Lord. I'm glad for that. I pray just about every day. I pray, Lord, send a revival, fill this auditorium up. Fill the classrooms up, fill the buses up. I want it full pla full house. But I tell you, when the full house is a higher priority than what God tells us to do, we're drifting from the Word of God. We need to be we need to keep the Word of God more than we have an X number of people coming out. You follow what I'm saying? How many churches have drifted from the Word of God because of the appeal of big crowds? Well, if we compromise this and we change that, and you know, I know the Bible says that, but start doing that, we might get bigger crowds, but I'll tell you, we're failing our Lord. And David said, David said, Solomon, you keep the Word of God. This is it. I tell you there is so much out there to draw us away from the Word of God. I mean books and shows and internet and YouTube's and all of this stuff. I tell you, we better just stick with the old book. That's what he's telling Solomon. He's saying, You keep to the Word of God. You stick to the Word of God. And then he says Uh keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God. Seek means to run to frequently You investigate and consult that book. Solomon, you got a decision you need to make? You go to the Word of God and find out what the answer is to that situation. You got some circumstances you're not sure how to handle, you go to the Word of God, find out how to handle it. You seek to the Word of God. I tell you, we'd be a whole lot better off if we just do what the Bible says Let's take God at His Word. Follow the Word of God. Every time a king of Israel got away from the Word of God, they messed up. Every single time. And God would send them prophets. They'd tell them, repent, turn back to the Word of God, turn back to the Lord God Jehovah. And every time they drifted from the Word of God and they refused to turn back, they messed up bad. I tell you, what was true for Israel is true for all nations. Get a nation away from the will of God, it loses the blessings of God. That's true for churches A church. I would rather have a hundred people on Sunday morning and have the blessings of God than have a thousand people on Sunday morning and lose the presence and power and soul-saving moving of the Holy Spirit. He said, we get away from the Word of God, we get away from the power of God, we lose the presence of God, and we lose the blessings of God. By the way, a big bank account does not equal the blessings of God. Maybe included in that, but those are not synonymous. Same thing with homes. Get away from the principles of Scripture and what the Bible says, and we lose the blessings and presence of God in our homes. And it's true for individuals. You'd be amazed. I tell you, if I wasn't a pastor, I wouldn't hardly believe it. But you'd be amazed how many times people say to me something like this, Preacher, I really haven't read the Bible in a long time. That's just as hard for me to fathom. I don't know why. I mean I'm human. I I could be just as guilty as anybody else, I guess. They say, preacher, not long ago just had somebody say, Preacher, I haven't read the Bible in over two weeks, haven't cracked it open. You know, we we want God's blessing. This David started his charge out. When he charged Solomon as the next king of Israel, the very first thing he addressed was Solomon's relationship with the Bible. And that is where that is where Christian life begins. This is where Christian life ends. Every aspect of success, spiritual success in the Christian life is dependent upon my response to the Word of God. No doubt about it. And so Solomon charges them here. Um David knew that doing right by the word of God And faithful submission to the Word of God was the basis of all spiritual success. Look at verse 8 there in 1 Chronicles. Look at the last part. I love this statement. He says that ye may possess this good land and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you Come back to 1 Kings. I like the way he says it here. 1 Kings 2. 8. I told you we're going to jump back and forth a lot. He says verse 3, keep the charge of the Lord thy God, walk in his ways, keep his statutes, his commandments, his judgments, his testimonies. Those are all synonyms for the Word of God. As it is written in the law of Moses, look at this, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest. Did you notice the condition of spiritual prosperity, of spiritual blessing is conditioned upon keeping the Word of God or following the Word of God? David knew if he was going to have God's blessing, if God was going to bless Solomon's administration, the nation of Israel under Solomon, they were going to have to stick to the word of God. He knew that. That's the basis of all success. Joshua chapter 1, verse 8 and 9, if you would, turn there with me. Back towards the front of your Bible. It's the sixth book of the Old Testament. Here you have another transition. It goes very smoothly, first of all, because they knew what God's will was. Moses to Joshua. God had made that very clear All involved had element of character. They did what was right and they followed the Lord's leadership. So Joshua is now the head of Israel. He's the leader. He's not king, but he's the leader. God's using him to lead them. They're about to cross the Jordan River. It's been a long time. Long time coming. And notice he says in verse number 7. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left hand. Does that sound a whole lot like David's challenge to Solomon? Man, it's almost verbatim. And notice what he says. To the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to what? Do according to all that is written there. Same thing David said. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Haven't I commanded thee, be strong, of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. I mean, this is David's charge to Solomon. And he says, you stick to that word, you do what it says, and you'll have spiritual prosperity. You'll have God's blessings on you. I believe that's a principle that applies all through the ages. Psalm 1 verse 1. Blessed is the man. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth away in the sinners, nor sitteth in the seat and score both. But his delight is in the Law of the Lord. In his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the waters, whose leaf shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. It's a principle all through Scripture We trust God. We stick to the Word of God. We keep it. We do what it says. And God will bless us. You say if I do that, I'll be a millionaire? No, he didn't say that. I said God will bless you Some people would be a curse to be a millionaire. But God bless us spiritually. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to cherish reverence Trust and obey this old book. Help us to love it and jest it, meditate on it, memorize it, live it. Lord, we want your blessing on our home, our church, our lives, our nation. Help us stick to this book. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I could do a little better job in keeping and doing the Word of God? Anybody here like this, Preacher, I could do a little bit better job And getting that thing in my heart and life and letting it control me. Sure, probably all of us, if we're honest, we raise our hand. We can just get a daily time down. If we just get that in place But then memorizing and what it says do it. Father bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name.