Alright, 2 Samuel chapter 15. And I'll read this section here again, if you'll bear with me. Verse 13, it says, There came a messenger to David saying The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem, Arise and let us flee. For we shall not escape from Absalom, make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. And the king's servant said unto the king, now this is where we're going to pick up tonight, so pay attention here. The king's servant said unto the king, Behold. Thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint. I underlined that in my Bible. That's an interesting statement. Verse 16. And the king went forth and all his household after him. And the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house. The king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a place that was far off. And all his servants passed on beside him, and all the cherithites, and all the Peleothites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men which came after him from Gath passed on before the king. Then said the king to Atei the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou with us? Return to thy place, abide with thy king, for thou art a stranger and also an exile. Whereas thou cameest, but yesterday should I this day make thee to go up and down with us? Seeing I go whither I may, return thou and take back thy brethren. Mercy and truth be with thee And ateai answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth, and as my lord the king liveth, surely in what place my lord the king shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. I underline that verse in my Bible. Tremendous statement. And David said unto Itai, go and pass over. And Itai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with it. And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people uh passed over toward the way of the wilderness. David is on the run again. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now Our study of this portion of David's life, and particularly the servants and their commitment to David. I pray we could learn from that I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit once again. I yield my will to you. I present my body And I ask that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and lives and have your way in our lives. Apply to our hearts the truths that you know we need from this passage. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've been looking at this now for several weeks. I think this is our third week on this passage. The first week we looked at, we asked the question my question was how in the world does Absalom win the people of Israel over to himself against David? That is just an amazing thing. So we offered some suggestions And there were conjecture on my part, and supposing that these are the case, I think there's some merit, we gave several reasons why perhaps Absalom was able to win the hearts of the nation of Israel away from David to himself. We noted verse 13 and 14 last Wednesday night, the departure of David. We're going to pick up there again this evening. But what we tried to address last week was why did David not Stop and fight. Why didn't he hold his ground and and uh defend his position as king in the throne and the palace Why didn't he fight to keep Absalom from overthrowing the kingdom? And we looked at that and we gave some suggestions there. Now tonight, I want us to notice the dedication of his followers. Again, if you would, look at verse number 15. It says, And the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint. I think one of the greatest blessings in life, one of the greatest blessings in life is to know that you have somebody that will stand with you when things are going wrong. Right or wrong? I think one of the most encouraging things when you go into a trial or you're facing a difficulty or a struggle is to know that there's somebody or somebody's that will support you and stand with you and uh uh and be with you and uh through your trial Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 13 says this, but exhort one another daily. That word exhort, we talk about it often. The word exhort simply is it's a tremendous word. It means to stand by someone's side. God tells us in Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 13 that as believers, as brothers and sisters in Christ, We are to exhort one another. We are to, to use the definition, we are to stand by one another's side. Or to support each other. The word exhort means to encourage, to lift up, to strengthen, to cheer on. If you ever, you know, sometimes a basketball game or something, they'll have uh cheerleaders on the side and they're exhorting The players out there. Beat them. Go get them. Go go. Ooh, rah-win. You know? Now I'm not suggesting we should say that ooh-ooh ra win here But we ought to be, we ought to be one another's supporters. You and I live in a world that despises Christ. Jesus said it would be that way. And what we need as brothers and sisters in Christ is to be able to stand with each other and exhort one another and encourage one another So David is fleeing. He's gone through one of the darkest times of his life. He's gone through a valley where his own family, his own son Arguably, his favorite son has turned against them and is not only out to take his throne, but is willing to kill David if necessary. And the heartache that that would bring, and the disappointment that would know about David's already dealing with his own actions And now his son turning on him. But yet there's a group of people in verse number 15 and a fairly significant group of people. That say, David, we're going with you. We're going with you. I don't know about you, but that encourages my heart. I would imagine David when he they approached him and said, Dave, we're going uh I don't know if they called him Dave, but uh They say, King David, we're with you in this. We're going with you. We're heading out there with you. And all of that, I would imagine, that encouraged David's heart. Exhort one another daily. We need to be very, very careful. I'm talking to his pastor now tonight. We need to be very, very careful that we watch our words and watch our attitudes, that we don't get critical attitude towards our brothers and sisters in Christ. Now we shouldn't have it towards anybody. But we need to stick together. And as we see the end approaching, as we see the coming of Christ approaching, and this whole world turning against the people of God more and more and more, and the opposition getting more intense. We need to be supporting one another, encouraging one another, and standing by one another. I thought about when I was thinking about this group of folks, these servants, that said, David, we're going with you And then I thought about Hebrews where he says, exhort one another, stand by one another. What they were doing, they were exhorting David. They were supporting him, standing with him. And I thought about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Would you agree with me? That took courage to not bow down when the whole everybody else is, right? But here's the interesting thing. They didn't have to stand by, not any one of those three had to stand there by themselves. They had a brother standing beside them. And that helps. Anybody here ever go out visiting and you it if you have someone with you, you're a whole you're a whole lot more confident. Than when you're just by yourself. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so Shadrach I thought of Shadrach, Mesha, and Abednego They stood with each other. They exhorted one another. They were shoulder to shoulder. And when Nebuchadnezzar confronted them and challenged them, gave them another opportunity to bow down to the false idol, they said this. They said, We Will not bow down. They're supporting each other. They're standing together. I thought about people in my life that have stood with me and supported me. on difficult times, you know, all these years from my salvation growing and and ups and downs. And I don't think I had a better supporter in my life than my father He would write to me and support me and pray for me and I'd call him up sometimes and he would say something to the effect, son, I don't know the answer to your problem, I don't know the solution to your problem But I sure love you, and I'm praying for you, and I support you. And just that there was tremendous, was tremendous. And so David is going through, as I said, one of the darkest times of his life, and he has a group of folks that are with him, that are standing with him. Now, I want to be quick to point out Sometimes we have to stand alone. Sometimes we don't have somebody there with us. Nevertheless, we still need to stand for the Lord. We still need to stand for what's right. We need to stand for our God and our faith. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that had to take a stand, but they had to do it alone? Joseph was one of the first ones came to my mind. I mean, he retained his integrity there in the prison and all that, and he had no brother standing with him. His father was hundreds of miles away There was far as we know no other believers in in uh in Egypt. He was alone. And I tell you, my hat's off to Joseph. He stood true by himself Can you think of anyone else? Daniel. I thought of Daniel. And I don't know where Shadrach, Meshach, well they weren't involved in uh in when they said You can't pray they were out after Daniel. But uh nevertheless, they got the word, Dan. You can't pray to anything uh but uh the the false God. And Daniel bows and prays, stood alone. Any others in the Bible Stephen stood alone. There's one other one I'm thinking of that says no man stood with me. He said makes that statement. Job, that's true, he stood alone. I didn't think of Job Paul is who I was thinking of, because Paul said, I think it's in Timothy, he says, No man stood with me. He was a woe. And so sometimes we have to do that. But that's God's intention is for us to support one another. God's intention is for us to uh uh stand with one another and encourage one another. David had great help with a company of supporters going out with him. Now, a lot had turned to Absalom. Remember earlier it says Absalom turned the hearts of Israel, were turned to Absalom. It's a very real possibility the majority of Israel perhaps had turned to Absalom. We gave several suggestions how that could happen. But there was still a significant portion That stood with David. Now here's what I got thinking. I'm thinking of this different stuff. And I thought, when David first got word that Absalom turned against them, and they told him Israel has gone with him. I wonder if David didn't think for a moment, I'm on my own now. I'm on my own. Remember when Saul was chasing them, he had a band of men out there with him that came with him But I wonder if for a few moments at least, for a brief period of time, if he didn't think everybody's against me Now let me ask you this. Have you ever gotten a position, maybe you're going through something, people are giving you a hard time or whatever, do you ever get in a position you think the whole world is against me? Anybody ever think that? Oh, nobody loves me. Everybody hates me. I'm going to go eat worms, you know. And if we're not careful, if we're not careful, sometimes we can get that frame of mind Lord, I'm the only one standing for you. Lord, I'm the only one standing true. Nobody else is with me We're not careful. Churches can get that mentality. I've heard preachers say this. We're the only church standing for the old King James Bible. Well, we're not the only church standing for the Word of God. We're not the only church preaching the gospel. We're not the only church with convictions and standards. There's a heap of them out there. Now sometimes we feel like we might be alone But we're not. And that's why I like to have these conferences, sword conferences and stuff like that, where we invite other churches in and mix it up a little bit, say, hey, listen, we're in this together. We're all you know we're not the only ones Can you think of anybody in the Bible that got in their head that they were the only ones standing for God? Elijah. Jezebel chased him up in the hills, and um uh and uh he gets up there and he and he gets a pity party and he gets down into depression even to the point he wants to die. He gets suicidal, a prophet of God. And he says, Lord, and it's in 1 Kings 19, I believe, he says, Lord, I'm the only one standing for you. And it didn't take the Lord long to correct him, and the Lord, in so many words, I'm paraphrasing here obviously, and the Lord says, uh no no no-no. You're not the only one. I've got how many? 7,000 have not bowed the knee to Baal. You're not alone. You're not alone. So David is on the run now. He's been run out of Jerusalem. He's departed Jerusalem. But he has this group of followers. who are dedicated to him. Now, here's another question I asked myself. What was it about David that caused so many to be so loyal to him? Why are these people and we're going to look what this dedication to David cost them, what it involved. But I thought, what was it about David that made them so loyal? We looked at some things as to why Absalom could win their hearts away from David, but here's a significant number of people who are staying loyal to him I put a few thoughts down. I put this one down. Maybe they stayed loyal to him because of the sincerity of his faith. In spite of David's sin, in spite of his period of backsliding, I don't think anybody in the world can question David's sincerity. In his walk with God. You know, we can be sincere and still make mistakes, but still be sincere in our trust in the Lord. I put this statement down. Hypocrisy does not generate loyalty. It's going to be hard for people to be loyal to someone who is hypocritical. And I think there was folks that were close enough to David that they uh they saw David's sincerity. They thought This guy is for real in his faith in God. I think, now we studied, we're removed by what, four or five thousand years, just about three thousand years from David. So we're we moved a long way. And we studied David's repentance, his remorse and his repentance, and I don't know about you, but I come away of my study of that that David was incredibly sincere when he humbled himself before God, acknowledged his sin, confessed it, and forsook it. Now we're removed three thousand years. What about the people that were there and they saw his countenance and they saw his tears and they heard the his voice? As he's confessing his sin and he's praying this Psalm 51 prayer of repentance. And I'm convinced there's a group of people said that guy's for real. He messed up, bad, but he's for real and he's sincere and he's making it right I knew a preacher years ago, way back years ago, and the guy messed up. He was an assistant pastor. He messed up, and I've mentioned, I've referenced him numerous times over the years. And he messed up. There's no other way to describe it. He can't defend it. He messed up. But I'm telling you, that old guy confessed it publicly in front of the church. Forsook that sin and he humbled himself. And it was a Sunday night when they dealt with it in the church, large church. And that Wednesday night church service, he was sitting down in his spot in church Thursday night visitation, he was out, he was going out visiting. He lost all his positions, you know, he stepped down, he was, had to step down from all his positions. But for the rest of the time that I was around there, that old guy was in every service, sitting by his wife, he's out visiting, and just staying faithful to God. Now, my disappointment with this failure is real. But I tell you, my respect for his sincerity and his humility in stepping up and going on for God is through the roof. And I'm wondering if there wasn't a group of people that saw David and disappointed, no doubt, but they saw David was sincere and he was honest. And they respected that, and they said, that's somebody I can trust. That's somebody I can follow. God forgave David. Here, this is very important. God forgave David, and they did too. They did too. I think we looked at it just not too long ago in a previous message on David, but in 2nd Corinthians in first in 1 Corinthians, David uh uh or Saul was writing to the church at Corinth And there was a fellow there, if you remember in Sunday school studying Corinthians, there was a fellow in there that was living with his stepmother. Remember that? How many people agree with me? That's weird. Yeah, that's terrible. And Paul Paul said, the Gentiles don't even do this nonsense. And he rebuked them. But then 2 Corinthians he writes back, and we find out that the guy made things right. He repented and he made it right and he's back in the church. And now the church wasn't forgiving him And Paul rebuked the church, and he says, listen, if God forgave him, you need to forgive him too. Because if you hold on to unforgiveness, you're giving Satan an advantage. And so God forgave David, and I think there's a band of people here that um they saw David's sincerity and they they saw that he was for real. And they said, we'll stick with them. We'll stick with them. I put a second reason down, something about David that might have caused them to be so loyal. And it was this, David's commitment to the Lord. Now it kind of goes along with the first point, but I see, again, he he backslid, he got out of the will of God there for a while, but I see no wavering in his commitment to the Lord Now his problem was he tried to hold on to his sin and cover his sin while he's being committed to the Lord. That didn't work But he was committed to the Lord. And I believe these people had a shared commitment. They were committed to the Lord. They saw David, he messed up, but he's still committed to the Lord. And I think maybe that shared commitment prompted them to say, we'll stay loyal to David. I put this down, a lack of commitment does not generate loyalty. It's hard to be loyal to someone who's not committed to the Lord. It's hard to follow some of that, but David was. It's hard to be loyal to someone who's hypocritical in their faith. I put a third reason down they might have uh reason they might have been so loyal to him, and that was his confidence in the Lord. I put uncertainty does not generate loyalty. But David was very, very confident, even when God forgave him. If you remember, we pointed out, David did not argue with God as to whether he was forgiven or not. David didn't doubt God's promise of forgiveness. He accepted it by faith. And David was very, very, far as we can tell, David was very confident in the fact that God forgave him. And that confidence carried a lot of weight to be confident in our walk with God, with few exceptions. David's confidence in God's power and God's goodness and God's will was steadfast. Now there's a few places in the Psalms where David questions God a little bit. Why are the wicked so prosperous Why, Lord, why aren't you hearing me? But overall, for the most part, he was very, very confident in his walk with God. People will follow a man who knows where he's going. And David knew what the will of God was. He knew what Israel as a nation's purpose was. And he was very, very confident in that. And the people rallied behind. A good number of them rallied behind. We had a fellow worked helped out a little bit years ago as an intern on the summer. And uh good guy, good guy, and You know, I just I I I he was just a good guy, young man, just early on growing and learning. But about every three weeks he'd start doubting his salvation You know, and um when he first came he was here for a couple weeks and he came in my office and said, Preacher, said Pastor, I don't um he says uh I got a problem. I said, what is it? He says, I don't know if I'm saved or not. I said, what are you talking about, man? He goes, well, I don't know. I just uh I said talk to him a little bit. I said, well, let's nail this thing down and get it settled, okay? So we went through the plan of salvation yup, I believe, and he called on the Lord. I don't know if some of y'all remember, baptized him. About three weeks went by. He came walking to my office, sat down, he had this funny look on his face I said, what's going on? He says, um, I don't know if I'm saved. I said, what do you mean? He goes, well, I don't I said, why do you think you're not saved? What makes you think you're not saved? Well, I don't know if I really meant it I said, Well why would you have called on the Lord if you didn't mean it? We went through that. And I mean it was like every three weeks, this old boy. And I told him, I said, You're gonna have a hard time providing leadership for people if you don't even know where you're at half the time. You follow what I'm saying? And David was confident, and I believe that confidence, even in his dark period there where he got away, nevertheless, his faith in God, his confidence in God was strong. And that attracts people. Confidence attracts people's trust. I thought about Dr. Lee Robertson, the pastor of this meeting this past weekend. And I appreciate Steve filling in. Everybody said he did a real good job. Pastor Matt, of course, everybody's happy because he preaches short. Did he preach short? No! How about that? I was wondering why y'all were so glad I was back. But we're up there at this meeting, and just about all the staff, just about everybody up there was a Tennessee Temple grad. I thought, oh, happy days are here again. You know, I'm with these old buddies and we're reminiscing and everything. And um uh we got talking about Dr. Robertson. Pastor down there at Highland Park, president of the school and everything. And I've never met a man in all my life that was so focused on the gospel. advancing the gospel. I mean that was his focus. He knew what the purpose of the church was. He knew what the Christian life was about. He knew what this world needed, and he led that church and school in reaching the world for Christ. And man, people followed him. People followed him. And I think David had some of that. And I think that's a factor in while these people followed David. They shared his focus. They clung to his confidence. And uh it made a difference. So, David, the dedication of his people. Verse 15: And the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint. They are committed to him. They are dedicated to him. Now, a few thoughts about what this dedication of David's servants involved. Look with me again, if you would, at verse 15. The king's servants said unto the king, They're coming to David. And they made this statement. They said, Thy servants are ready to do. What's the Lord did? I put this down. This was, first of all, it was a free will decision. They are deciding, we're going with David. They made this decision of their own account This was done voluntarily. David is not putting pressure on them that they need to come. They are not being coerced to follow David. He's not making any threats, he's not making any promises. He's not making anything. They of their own free will say, yes, we are going to follow David out of the city, out into the wilderness, wherever he goes. A free will decision. They had a choice. Now get this. They had a choice. They could either be loyal to Absalom. Now what was Absalom? Let's see if you can guess the word that I'm thinking of. What was Absalom? He was a A rebel. That's the word I was looking for. Absalom is rebelling against God's anointed king. So they have a choice. We can stay here and pledge our loyalty to Absalom as so many others are doing. Now, David's a rebel Absalom's a rebel against God Or we can go with David, who is God's anointed king of Israel. So I'm boiling it down. I may be oversimplifying it here a little bit, but they're making a free will choice of doing that which is right or that which is wrong. I believe it would have been wrong to follow Absalom. He's not God's anointed. He's dishonest. He's deceitful. And so they made a free will decision. They could choose either loyalty to Absalom or the rebel or loyalty to David, the anointed of God. And in this case, they chose David. Here's the thing, dedication, whether it's these folks' dedication to cur uh to uh David or whether it's you and I as believers our dedication to Christ, it must be, and it has to be, and it is, if it's true dedication, it is a free will decision on our part to dedicate my life to Christ. Now when I'm out sold and salvation's a free will decision, right? Right or wrong? We were talking a little bit about Calvinism. Calvinism, one of the elements of Calvinism, if you take it to its logical Conclusion, God chooses some to be saved and God chooses some to be lost. And a person believing on Christ really wasn't their free will, it's pre-programmed by God. They're going to do it no matter what. But the Bible very, very clearly teaches that we are responsible for our decisions, and it's impossible to be responsible for your decision if I don't have a say in my decision. And so salvation is a free will decision. When I'm out soul winning the folks with folks, man, I'll put I'll if I feel like I need to, I'll put the squeeze on them to trust Christ. If I need to, I'll put my foot on their neck and twist their arm. No, I won't do that. But I don't want them to die and go to hell. I'll put the pressure on and try and get them. You know, if they're if I feel like they're right there and they need a little urging, Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I persuade men. But nevertheless, it boils down to a free-willed decision whether they're going to accept Christ or not. However, if you would, now keep your place here and go with me to Romans chapter 12. When it comes to dedication to Christ, I think there's a little different approach. When Nicodemus came to Jesus by night in John chapter 3, And Nicodemus says, you're a prophet of God. No man can do these things that thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus responded back and he said to him, What? Ye must be born again. He doesn't he didn't say you should be. It'd be a good idea, you know, if you know what's best for you, be born again Jesus presented it as a command. Ye must be born again. The Lord put the pressure on him, and the Lord laid it out very bluntly. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. However, when we get to Romans chapter 12, Paul, writing under the inspiration of God, has a little different approach on this matter of dedication. Look at verse 1, Romans 12, 1. We reference this passage a lot. He says, What's the second word? First word, I, what's the second word? Beseech you, brethren. By the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Notice the terminology he's using. Is he using force? Is he using coercion? Is he using intimidation to get them to present their bodies to Christ? Yes or no? No. What's the word beseech mean? Anybody want to take a shot? To beg, plead. He says, I'm pleading with you. And then he makes another statement in there to To urge them to make this decision of their own, I beseech you, by the mercies of God. God has been so good to you. God has shown So much mercy. I'm giving eternal life and suffering the judgment of our sin for us. I'm pleading with you. Present your body, a living sacrifice to God. He's writing to believers, he's not talking about salvation He's talking about people who know the Lord saying, I'm giving all to Christ. I'm dedicating my whole life, my body, everything. I'm dedicating it to Christ. And he says, I beseech you. He's appealing to their free will. And he's pleading with them. I believe that's what God intends for all believers. God's desire for you and I as believers is of our own free will to consciously, deliberately decide: yes, I want to sell out for Christ. I want Christ to have my all Of a free will decision. And what I started to say is I'll put pressure on someone to get saved in ways that I don't necessarily when someone's dealing with dedication to Christ. I'll lay it out there, lay it out there and say, all right, listen, you need to decide. You want Christ to be your all-in-all? You want a sellout for Christ And and do it God's way, live the Christian life God's way, and so it's a free will decision. So I look at these, I look at these folks that are following that are dedicating themselves to David. And I see they're making a free-will decision. It's their own will. David didn't go to them They came to David. David's not twisting their arm. They're making this decision of their own. Second of all, I noticed that it was a short notice decision. Come back there to 2 Samuel with me if you would. Now, verse number 13 says, There came a messenger to David saying the hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. Now, the impression, we're not given any time frames here at all, but the impression you get reading down these next few verses, this is happening very possibly that very day. Maybe it came in at night, that very night. They're responding. They're making the decision. Hey, we're following David We're staying loyal to David. I don't know that they had a whole lot of time to think this through. No doubt they knew what Absalom was, you know, appealing to people and people were liking him and and you know attracted to him, to at to Absalom. But now the word is decision has to be made. Absalom or David. They don't have a lot of time to think this through. In fact, The longer they waited to decide who they were going to be loyal to, the more dangerous their situation was going to be. Absalom's ruthless. Absalom's taken no prisoners And they they there if there's any hint of their loyalty to David, they're in big trouble. And the longer they wait to decide the more dangerous their situation becomes. And by the way, the longer they wait to decide, the harder the decision's going to be. And so this is a short notice decision. You know, sometimes waiting, sometimes waiting to make a decision is very wise. And can I get a witness? Sometimes you ought to think things through. Sometimes waiting to make a decision is very foolish. What's the difference? How do I know in a situation if I should wait to make the decision or should I make the decision right away? Let me give you a suggestion. If I'm not sure what the will of God is, I ought to wait. Some situations I wait until I absolutely have to make a decision. If I'm not sure what the will of God is, then it's a good idea to wait, seek the Lord, maybe fast and pray, get some counsel if I'm not sure what the will of God is. And give it some time. Think it through. Wait on the Lord. Don't be rash in this situation if you're not sure what the will of God is. Can you think of any situations where it would be good to wait and make sure you have the will of God before you make this decision? Getting married was what I thought of. How many people agree? You ought to make sure it's the will of God before you get married. Yeah. Say, oh, but I love him so much Well, you you know it's possible to love someone that's out of the will of God. I know I'm t I know what the crowd I'm talking to say you need to be preaching to teenagers. But the point I'm trying to make is this if we're not certain what the will of God is And it's a good idea. It's very wise to wait. Don't make that decision until I can get it settled in my heart and mind what God's will is. However, the other side of that coin. If I know what God's will is, then I have no business waiting around. I need to make that decision and get it settled. And so sometimes waiting on the Lord is very waiting to make a decision is very wise if God's will is uncertain. But it's very foolish if God's will is clear Then what am I horsing around for? What am I waiting on? Let's go. Decide. Decide for the Lord. Remember back in 1 Kings chapter 18 Elijah, before he got his bout of depression, the chapter before that, he's confronting the prophets of Baal that had taken over Israel. And he puts this challenge out to the people of Israel. And he says, listen, if Baal is the true God, like these false prophets are out there, then serve him. But if Jehovah is the true God, then serve Jehovah. Anybody remember that account? Anybody familiar with that? And then he presents this question to them. He makes a powerful question to the nation of Israel. He says, this: how long halt ye between two opinions? Question, which was was it right to worship Baal? Yes or no? No, that was wrong. Was it right to worship Jehovah? Yes. So God's will was very, very clear. This wasn't something to wait around about. This wasn't something to prolong and postpone. They had to make a decision. Are they going to serve Baal or God? What's God's will? Decide. And so these servants of David, they saw what their options were. Absalom, who's a rebel, dishonest, very deceitful. David, he's not perfect, but he's been sincere. He's been committed. He's anointed of God to me. The decision was very, very clear. God's will was very, very clear. So it was a short notice decision. Number one, it was free will decision. Number two, short notice decision. Let me give you another one here real quickly. It was a costly decision. Look with me here again, if you would. Look at verse 17. It says, And the king went forth, and all the people after him. I mean, this is a large crowd of people, very large. And carried in a place that was where? Far off. Now think about this. Alright, what are we going to do? David, Absalom's overthrowing the king. David's fleeing the city. What are we going to do? Alright, we're making a decision. We're going with David. And I can hear the missus saying to the husband, says, we're going with David. Pack the bags. Get the kids. We're going with David. I can hear the wife saying, you know what that means for us? Now think about this. I put this down. First of all, they're leaving the comfort of their homes I don't know. They've been there a while. David's been king a long time. No doubt many of these have settled in, got nice homes, maybe nice furniture. They've been working and saving and building their homes up and they've got a nice place to live. Maybe they got a pretty late model donkey and um out in the garage You know? And now they're just going to go and leave all this? They're going to be sleeping out in the wilderness, out on the floor, out on the ground. They're leaving the comforts of home. They're abandoning, in many cases, no doubt, they're abandoning their place of employment They're working jobs. There was an economy. There was a workforce. They had jobs and employment. And on the spur of the moment, they're just leaving all that. And so they're leaving the comforts of the home and they got their stuff that they can throw away and man there's the house and they're locking the door maybe They're looking back at everything they've worked for for the last 25 years or whatever, and they're leaving it. And he's not going to show up at work the next day, or maybe he had his own business, carpentry or whatever, or you know, maybe he had a vineyard And he's leaving all of that. That's going to, would you agree with me? That's probably a disruption to their income. What are we going to do for income? Yeah, out in the, I mean, this is a very far off. Who knows where we're ending up? No income, I'm probably going to lose my job and the house. What's going to be if we ever get back here? It wasn't a cheap decision. It wasn't a costly decision. Somebody says, preacher, God's called us to go to the mission field. Man, it's going to cost us something. We've got a house we saved up for, and man, uh, you know, what are we going to do for income? There's an element of faith involved anytime I make a decision to follow the Lord's leadership. You've got to learn to trust God. I'm convinced now. This is my own judgment. I could be wrong, and I'll stand corrected. I'm willing to stand corrected. But I believe there's a lot of people called to the mission field that are not going to the mission field because in their head it's too costly. I'll have to give up too much to follow the will of God. I'll have to sacrifice too much To f answer God's call. I was talking with some preachers, uh in fact when uh we were doing fingerprints and the young men were here from up at New England And they were asking me questions and we got talking about the mission field and churches that don't have pastors. One of the questions was, why are there so few pastors? Why are we struggling to get people to go to the mission field anymore? And my answer was one of the reasons is I think we like it too well where we're at. We're not willing to give that up to go where God is calling in a lot of cases. My respect for these men and women and their families said, David, wherever you go, we're born. And the price they paid to do that. Sometimes the decision to do right is a costly decision. Sometimes the decision to do right is a difficult decision. These people made it. Let me end with this, and I kind of touched already, but I put this down. It was a faith decision How are we going to eat? Where are we going to get supplies? How long are we going to be out here like this? This decision to follow David out far off from the city, this could potentially be a fatal decision. They didn't know how this was going to turn out. Absalom may track David down, kill David, and kill all his followers. When they're going out there, they're going by faith. God, we're trusting you. This is your man. You anointed him. We're staying true to him. We'll follow him wherever he goes. But God, we're trusting you. We're trusting you. And I say again, doing right and following God's leadership and deciding to stand for the Lord sometimes is a difficult decision and it always requires faith. When Shadrach, Mesha, Shak, and Abednego stood there with their shoulders back and their backs straight and their head up and said, We will not bow, they didn't know how that was going to play out. They didn't know if they were going back home to their house that night or not. But they said, if God can deliver us, God will deliver us, but even if he doesn't, we're going to do right. We're going to do right. Element of faith. I read about a young lady, just recently I read an article about a lady, young Christian woman, it gives her name. And she got a basketball full basketball scholarship to the University of North Carolina. Very highly recognized school, basketball team. She had always dreamed of playing on North Carolina North Carolina's basketball team, University of North Carolina, UNC. She always dreamed of playing on the basketball team. True story. She gives her testimony. She got the scholarship. She got there, she played for two years for the basketball team, University of North Carolina. However After playing two years, this is her testimony, after playing two years of coaching change resulted in a change of atmosphere. And this girl made the decision to leave the team. Her dream. She said the first month or two with the new coaching staff was fine. But as time went on, things became different. This is a Christian gal. She said, I started seeing that there were expectations for me to participate in a party lifestyle And condone things that did not line up with my biblical beliefs. I chose not to drink I chose to save myself for marriage. I said no to a lot of things which made the team bonding very challenging. She said the final straw came when the coaching staff announced that the team would be supporting several causes that I could not support as a believer. When the coach came out with a list of causes the team would be supporting, I knew I was not going to be able to compromise and go against my biblical principles And I decided in the light of eternity that basketball was not worth compromising my faith in God. I don't know what was all going through these dear people's minds. But I got a sneaking suspicion. They said If that's God's man, if he's the anointed king, we're staying loyal to God's will. We're not filing a rebel. It is not worth a house. To go against the will of God. It's not worth my safety, it's not worth my income to go against the will of God And I'm telling you, you and I are living in a day and age where Christians have to decide that either we're going to do the will of God or we're not. Either we're loyal to Christ and we're following our King Jesus, or we're going to go along with the King of this world, the God of this world. And these dear folks say we're following David. And that's what we need to do as a church. And my prayer as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, my intention, as long as I have my head about me. is we're going to stand with the Word of God and the will of God and let come what may. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord. To follow the example of these dear folks that said, we're going to pack up on the spur of the moment. We're going to trust God. We're going to do right. Whatever the cost may be. And I pray you'd help us to do that same thing. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, if some tonight would say, you know, preacher, pray for me. I got some situations that try to pull me this way and pull me that way. And maybe you'd say, preacher, pray that I'll stay true to my God. I'll just decide, whatever the cost, I'm going to stay faithful to the Lord. Anything like that by the uplifted hand Boy, they pull, it pulls, it pulls, it pulls, sure, probably all of us face it to some extent. But we just gotta decide If we don't decide, we're going to fall every time. We've got to decide. Father, bless invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand