Well, David's uh approaching the end of his life, as we've been saying here these last several weeks. It's been a blessing to study the life of David from when he's first introduced uh back in 1 Samuel and he slays Goliath there and he just explodes on the scene with a tremendous act of faith, demonstration of faith and confidence in God That has been a challenge to God's people for thousands of years, as David unfearlessly and almost impulsively confronted Goliath. And then all the events of the his life, the great mountaintops of David's uh faith in God. And then the than uh dark valleys of his uh failures and and allowing the flesh to uh influence him But yet through all of that, he's been a testimony of the grace of God and someone that is passionately in love with Jehovah. And now we're coming to the end of his life. And I feel almost, and the coming message is as I was looking ahead a little bit, I feel almost like I'm almost preaching a funeral for him, doing a eulogy of a phenomenal man of God. And I don't know, I don't know if y'all, if I've been able to communicate this well enough that we got to where we feel like we know David. And I know I know in studying his life I've gotten to the point where I almost feel like I know him to an extent. And so he's coming down to the final days of his life. If you remember a few weeks ago we looked at chapter uh twenty-eight and uh earlier in twenty-nine he challenged Solomon. He gives his final charge to Solomon. Solomon's going to take the throne and David is handing the patan, so to speak, off to Solomon, and he challenges him to take it and do what's right and uh and uh carry on what was started by David, fulfill the instructions God has given And then have faith in God, trust God to use them. Then he turns to the nation of Israel, the great congregation assembled there in Jerusalem, all the tribes of Israel assembled together, and he challenges them To support Jonathan. Remember, he's young, he's inexperienced, and he needs the support of God's people if he's going to be able to carry out what God has called him and anointed him to do. And now David, he's given that challenge. And now in our text, verse number 10, we pick up, and David offers up this final prayer. And this is the prayer of David, just perhaps days before he passes away. He says, verse 10, 1 Chronicles 29, wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in the heavens and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. And we're going to look at this in a little more detail as we work our way through it. But I think he's referring to the kingdom of Israel that he is about to s pass away and Solomon's about to sit on the throne. It's God's kingdom, not Solomon's, not David's. He goes on in this prayer. He says, Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thy hand is power and might, and in thy hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? And what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. For we are strangers before thee and sojourners, as were all our fathers. Our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding. O Lord our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee a house for thine holy name cometh of thy hand and is all thine own. I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart have I willingly offered all these things. And now have I seen with joy thy people which are present here to offer willingly unto thee. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers. Keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee And give unto Solomon, my son, a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace. For the which I have made provision. What a prayer. The final prayer of David. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now. Just a little time we take and look at this prayer and teach us to pray, Lord. Teach us how to pray and just teach us to do it. So I ask that you'd fill me with your Spirit. I pray your Holy Spirit would be the teacher tonight, the preacher, and that you would just use my lips, my body, and speak through me as I yielded unto you. So have your way. Help us to be receptive. Help us to grow in our faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, this is the closing scene of David's life And I think what I just read here, what we just read together, I think it's one of the great prayers of all the Bible. And is worthy of every child of God to study this prayer. There's a lot of great prayers in the Bible. Did you ever give any thought to that? I have a book in my library by Herbert Lockier, and he wrote a book on all the prayers of the Bible. And he has uh probably several hundred, a hundred maybe. that he has an outline, a brief study on each of the prayers of the Bible. There's some great prayers in the Bible. Can anybody, does anybody have a prayer in the Bible, recording the Bible, that stands out in your mind. Can anybody think what you would consider a great prayer in the Bible? David Moses' great prayer and a song of Moses was actually a song, but it was a prayer. Any others? Ones that stand out. I put down Psalm 51. What a prayer of confession and repentance. I think every Christian ought to be familiar, very familiar with Psalm 51. The only Christian that doesn't need to be familiar with Psalm 51 is the Christian that doesn't sin. All the others ought to be familiar with it, right? That's a great prayer. Moses' prayer, David's prayer of confession. Anybody think of any others? Great prayers of the Bible. Which one But when he prayed from the cross, Father, forgive them. Is that what you were saying, Chester? The Lord's Prayer. I thought of the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6. In fact, the Lord's prayer is, as many scholars believe, Jesus patterned that perhaps after this David's prayer a part of it. Very similar in wording. Any others? Great prayers of the Bible. Anybody else think of any I listed a few here. I thought Solomon's dedication of the temple, that's not as well known as the Lord's Prayer, but Solomon prays a powerful, powerful prayer. Before all of Israel, when he did it, the temple's finished, just a few chapters into your Bible here, after where we're at, he prays this great prayer, and the glory of God comes down upon the temple that he built And the glory of God and the smoke fills the temple. Man, what a powerful, powerful prayer. So there's prayers all through the Bible. I listed a few here that came to my mind I thought of Isaiah's prayer of surrender in Isaiah chapter 6, when the Lord uh confronts, he sees the Lord high and lifted up And the Lord says, who will go and preach my word? I'm putting it in my own words. And Isaiah praised that great prayer. We always sing it in missions conference. Hear am I, Lord. Send me. Send me. What a prayer. What a powerful prayer. I thought about, as was mentioned, the Lord's Prayer. I thought of the Lord's Prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. When he goes alone, gets alone with God, and he prays, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And I think one of the most heart-wrenching prayers in all the Bible. And the Lord says, Nevertheless Say it with me. Not my will, but thy will be done. What a powerful prayer. I think that's of course in the mind of God it was settled from eternity past, but I think humanly speaking that's when our salvation was sealed. The Lord said, not my will, thy will be done. Boom, it's going to happen. I thought about Paul's prayer in Acts chapter 9 when he got saved. He said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? First, first, almost first words out of his mouth after he saved, Lord, what would you have me to do? Here am I, Lord. What do you want me to do? You saved me. All right, what's my commission? What's my responsibility? What a great prayer. And then I thought of the publican's prayer in the temple in Luke chapter 18. And he wouldn't even lift up his eyes and he smote his breast and he said, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner I wonder how many hundreds of thousands of people have prayed that prayer or a version of it sincerely, trusting Christ as Savior. Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. But here we have David's prayer. J. Vernon McGee, anybody familiar with that name, great Bible teacher of years gone by? Dave Vernon McGee said he believes this is the greatest prayer in all scripture in his mind. David's prayer here at the end of his life Now, I don't think this is David's last prayer of his life. He still has, I mean, we don't know exactly, but apparently has a few days, a little bit of time after this. This is his last recorded prayer What we know of David, well, I'm confident he's prayed privately and personally with the Lord on several occasions. But it's not surprising to me, and this is what got me as I started studying this It's not surprising to me that the man who exploded on the scene with his his his miraculous uh uh killing of Goliath And what an act of faith. It's not surprising me that he goes off the scene with a powerful, powerful prayer. I believe great faith will produce great prayers. When I can learn to have faith in God, when I learn to, I can trust God with my every need, I can trust God with my every fear, I can trust God with my every failure No matter how bad how deep that failure is, no matter how strong my fear may be, no matter how great my need may be, if I have faith in God, I can bring that to the Lord and have confidence. That he can deal with that and take care of it and meet that need and correct that wrong and alleviate that fear. Great faith produces great prayers. The other side of the coin is little or weak faith has little or weak prayers. You show me somebody that doesn't pray. You show me somebody that's prayer life is anemic, if it exists at all, and I'll show you somebody that has very little faith in God. They're looking to themselves. They're trusting in something other than the Lord. Because if their faith was in God, they'd be coming to them in prayer. Are you with me? Follow what I'm saying? David was a man of phenomenal faith, and he was a man of powerful prayer. As I said, it's unlikely this is David's last prayer before he passed away. But it's last prayer recorded in Scripture, and there's a lot to learn from it. I want to real quickly give you a few observations, then in the future messages. We're going to break it down and look at it a little more detail. But just some observations, just backing up and looking at this prayer. Number one, I notice it's consistent with what we know to be true about David. This prayer is consistent with what we know to be true about David. David was a man after what? God's own heart. And a man after God's own heart is going to be a man of prayer. As we studied the life of David, we found that prayer was very characteristic of David. It wasn't something strange. It wasn't unusual to find David praying It was consistent with him. We're not surprised that he's ending his life in a time of prayer. A man with a little heart for God is going to be a man that has little prayers for God. And so it's it's it's consistent. It's what we would expect from David in Psalm chapter number five and verse three. David penned this under the inspiration of God. He said this, My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord, in the morning, will I direct my prayer unto thee and will look up What is David testifying? When does he pray? In the morning. Everybody awake out there? Everybody with me? Okay. He says, in the morning I'll direct my prayer. David prayed consistently in the morning. He got up in the morning and he prayed. I want to suggest to you, good time to pray in the day is first thing right off the bat in the morning. Lift your voice up to the Lord. Lift your prayer up to the Lord. Ask Him for strength for the day. Ask Him for direction and wisdom for all the things I face that day. Look to God for protection and direction in your life. David said, In the morning, my voice shalt thou hear in the morning. O Lord, in the morning will I direct my prayer. In Psalm 55, verse 17, again, David penned this. Under the inspiration of care. Now listen carefully. I'm going to ask you a question about this verse, alright? I'm the sorriest teacher. I always tell my class what the answers are Psalm 55, 7, listen. Evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud? And he shall hear my voice. Here's the question. When did David pray throughout the day? Evening? Morning? What a brilliant congregation! What's that tell me? Prayer was part of David's life. His life was saturated with prayer. He couldn't make it till noon before he's praying again. Before he went to bed at night, I think he got on his knees and prayed. Can't you see the great king of Israel kneeling by his bed at night there in the palace? Praising God for his goodness and crying out to God for help and wisdom. I don't believe for one minute it was unusual for Solomon to see his daddy on his knees praying or on a chair somewhere praying or off alone by a stream or a river praying to God. I think it was very common for Solomon to see his daddy praying. And I think every child ought to see their daddy pray. I don't think it ought to be strange for a child to see their daddy praying. I don't think it ought to be unusual for a child to see their mama praying. Mom or daddy's off in the room praying, the kids are like, what are they doing? I don't know What's daddy doing? I don't know. Daddy, you okay? Yeah, I'm praying. I don't think it ought to be that way. Alright? Are you with me? In fact, I think one of the most powerful things we can do for our church and for our families, our nation, is get back that old family altar. Get mom and daddy together and gather the kids around and read some scripture and sing a hymn and pray. Everybody pray I look at this and I thought, you know, it's not surprising. I mean nobody says, oh wow, look at that. He prayed. No, it's consistent for what we know of David. Prayer was not out of the ordinary for David. Prayer wasn't something unusual. People should not be surprised to see and hear us pray. Now I'm not suggesting we put on a show like the Pharisees, you understand that. But you know, if we're down at 3rd Street Diner, or at Perkins, or restaurant somewhere folks in the town ought not to be surprised to see members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church bow their head and pray They ought to expect that from us. Not that, again, we're not putting on a show, but it ought to be part of our life. I know sometimes a couple get saved or something and for whatever reason it seems like the guys are this way a little bit, but they're a little it's a little awkward to pray with my wife and Kids and say, ah, you know, I'm just kind of not real comfortable praying with them. Well get over it. And just pray. You're not embarrassed to eat with them, right? Not embarrassed to gripe about your boss to them. And so I look at this and I thought, yeah, that's what I would expect from David. He'd be praying, sure enough. And that ought to be true with us. Our family shouldn't be surprised to see and hear us pray. Visitors come to our church, they ought not to be surprised that we pray. Number two, and I just I'm already taking longer than I wanted. I notice number two about this prayer, and we're going to pick this up as we get into depth, but it's coordinated prayer. In other words, it's organized in its layout. I get the impression David thought this through a little bit before he prayed. Maybe it was just part of habit, maybe it's part of his prayer thinking. But it's actually almost categorized this prayer. And again, we don't have time. We'll look at in more depth later, but verse 10 and 11, he's worshiping God. He's telling God how great he is. He's pouring out to God how awesome God is, how majestic he is. And he's just bragging on God to God. And then verse 12 and 13, and he's praising God for things that God has done for him. He worships God for who and what he is. And then he praises God for all these things that God has done for him. And then verse 14 and 15, and he doesn't get into specifics necessarily, but it's a time of confession. He's saying, we're strangers here. We have no power of our own. Everything we gave wasn't ours. It was kind of like the song they sang tonight a little bit And then he ends with his request. He says, Lord, give Solomon my son there, verse 19. Give him a perfect heart. And to keep thy commandments and keep thy testimonies and thy statutes and to do all these things. And he has this thing laid out: worship, praise, confession of sorts. And then a request. I heard an old preacher decades ago, early in my Christian life, early in the 1980s. And he preached a sermon, and I don't know what the sermon was about, but in the sermon, he said that he had heard from an old preacher when he was young about a method to pray. And I wrote it in the fly leaf of my Bible in all these 30 almost 40 years, 35, 40 years, actually 40 years. I've been trying to follow that pattern. And he said, this is the way you ought to pray. You ought to start your prayer with worship of God. Just tell God how awesome He is. And how holy is and how powerful. And then he says, take some time and praise God for all he's done for you. And you can come up, be creative, and come up with all different categories. Of areas that God has been so good to us, physically, spiritually, people is allowed in our lives. You can just go down the list. And then he said there ought to be a time of confession. Confessing sins, pouring out to God, getting things right. And then he said, then you bring your requests to the Lord. And I wrote that down, I typed it up, I've taught it to teens in Indianapolis, I've taught that pattern here, I modified a little bit, I added one in there after confession, surrender, just before I even asked for anything, say Lord, here I am, take me, fill me. Not my will, your will be done. Here's my request. And I've done that all these many years. It's just become mentally part of my frame of mind when I pray. I think it's very, very helpful. Worship. I worship God. I praise Him for what He's done for me. Confession, that's real short time, but uh confession and then um and then the rest. And I see that in David here, and by the way, you study other prayers in the Bible, it's very similar. You find that same pattern. Even the Lord's Prayer, if you look at it carefully, it's laid out that same pattern. So there's structure to it, it's coordinated. Last two, real quick. I notice it's candid. In other words, it's not some memorized poem. It's not something he's scripted that he's reading from a liturgical book. Somebody told me they were at a funeral or a wedding somewhere. It was at a liturgical church. And they said everybody had these little things and everybody read the prayer together. Uh uh we don't do that here. We pray to God, we tell God what's on our heart. We just talk to Him. And there's nothing wrong with this. Don't get mad at me. I'm I'm not preaching against it, but I never taught our boys little poem prayers. God is great and God is good and we thank him for our food Amen. What was the other one at night? Um Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. Bless mommy, daddy, grandma, grandpa, and all the missionaries You know. Now I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm not telling you shouldn't do it. I just didn't I wanted to try and teach my family, just pour your heart out to God. Tell God what's on your heart, what you need. If you did something wrong, tell it to him. And so I see this here. It's not a scripted prayer. It's very candid. He's pouring his heart out to God. Often prayer is referred to as crying to the Lord. Just pour in my heart, God, I need you. God, I need wisdom. God, forgive me. Just telling God what's on my heart. And then last of all, and we'll look at this in more detail, it was clear-cut. In other words, he's pretty specific in his prayers. He's telling God, God, I want you to help my son keep your commands. Finish building that temple, build that thing. And he gives a list of a few things that he prays for the people that they'll get behind us And he has some specific questions. He doesn't just say, God bless Solomon. Of course we want to bless Solomon, but be a little more specific. Lord, just bless all everybody bless everybody in the whole world. You know, well, I want everybody in the world blessed, but what do you specifically need from God? What are you specifically asking? And be specific. And you know what I found out? The more specific I am in my prayers The clearer I can see when they're answered. Lord, I need a thousand dollars. I need $1,105 to pay my property taxes. Now you know if God answers it or not, alright? Now that's not my prayer. I'm just using that for an illustration. Alright? Be specific. Let me ask you this, and we're going to end. What is right now, if you could ask one thing from God that you need or want, what would you ask from God? Right now, you're thinking about it right now. Boy, this is what I would really like. I got two right now on my mind. 3. Then ask God for that. Take it to Him. Be specific. Amen? Father, please help us to learn from this prayer. In Jesus' name, our heads about eyes are closed