Chapter seventeen, we're studying the life of Daniel, and uh we're not studying the life of Daniel, we're studying the life of David We'll study. We're looking at the life of David. David in the lion's den. Just testing you to see if you're awake tonight. The life of David, at the rate we're going, it is going to be the year 2044. when we get done the life of David. But we got hung up here in chapter 17 with David and Goliath. I don't know. That's a that's a great story to get hung up on And uh I'm enjoying going through here and studying this. We're going to read. Uh I better get my notes out here. We're going to start reading in verse 48. We're going to go down through verse 54. We're not going to cover all this tonight. We're going to get one verse. And I s I told my wife, I said, there have been millions of millions sermons preached from the Bible. I understand that, but I'm I I don't know of any, I'm no I don't know I've ever heard a sermon preached from this verse that we're going to preach on tonight, just exclusively that verse. But uh I tell you, there's a lot in it. I want to begin reading in verse 48 and down through 54. So you follow along. Keep your Bibles handy. We are going to be going to a number of verses this evening Sometimes we zero one verse and we just stay there and kind of dissect that. And other times we branch out and we go to other places. Tonight we're going to be looking at a number of other verses. Verse 48 says this, and it came to pass when the Philistine, who's the Philistine? That's Goliath. When the Philistine arose and came and drew nigh to meet David That David hasted and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. And David put his hand in his bag and took thence a stone, I like this next phrase, and slang it. That's West Virginia. David. David was from West Virginia, I think. And he took into a stone and slang it. And smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth And David prevailed over the Philistine with a slang and with a stone, and smote the Philistine and slew him. But there was no sword in the hand of David. Therefore David ran and stood upon the Philistine and took his sword and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. The men of Israel and of Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines. until thou come to the valley and to the gates of Ekron. I think it's interesting. All of a sudden now they're shouting and cheering David on, huh? It's the way it usually goes, huh? They're all quiet before. But uh we'll talk about that later. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way of Sharaim, even unto Gath and to Ekron. The children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they spoiled their tents. And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put the armor in his tent. Fascinating, fascinating event here. And so the title of this, and we're going to spend a couple lessons here working through this passage, but I've entitled this section, David Dispatches Goliath. David dispatches Goliath. Let's pray and see if we can learn something from this here. Father in heaven, Lord, I'm just so fascinated with David and what amazing man he was. Lord, we would like to, at least I think I speak for all of us, Father, we would like to learn from Him and incorporate into our lives and our faith His strengths and some of these characteristics we see in David, this courage and this faith and this confidence, boldness And I pray that you would bless now as we look at a few verses. I pray as I always do, Lord, that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will, present my body. That you would speak through me and our hearts and minds would be open to what you have to teach us individually in our own individual lives. So bless us now and help us, I ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now I got looking back over leading up to this and we had the two two men gave their little speeches last time. How many people remember that? We looked at that. David makes. Goliath makes his statement, and then David makes a statement. So you have these two fellas out in the middle between these two armies in this valley. And you have on one side, you have David. He's not yet 20 years old. He's never worn a military uniform. As far as we know, he's never wielded a sword. He has no combat experience whatsoever. And he's out there. Across from him, looking eye to eye, they're doing the old stare down while they're giving this speech, I'm thinking. On the other side, you have this giant of a man, almost 10 feet tall. He is a highly trained warrior. He is a battle-hardened soldier. And they're about to square off. It's all been leading up to this. And I got looking back over some of the things that are taking place, the previous verses, and I got thinking about this. Now Uh I I could be mistaken. This is speculation here. I could be mistaken, but if I thought I was mistaken, I wouldn't say it, so I don't think I'm mistaken. But I think in my imagination And uh just bear with me, but I think God is messing with Goliath's head a little bit. And I mentioned that to my wife. I kind of bounce my theories off of her sometimes. Sometimes she agrees, sometimes she don't, but I Still say them anyway. But uh I bounced this off her and she pointed out, she goes, God does that throughout uh the army. Sometimes he'll do things and just kind of mess with them a little bit and they'll hear a sound and they'll all panic and kill each other and you know Israel comes in. We've seen that happen a number of times. But I think God is maybe, and I'm trying to I don't want to be disrespectful to the Lord, your reverend, but I think God is maybe messing with Goliath here a little bit. uh messing with his head. Now think about this. Here's Goliath. He is challenging the armies of Israel. Who do you think Goliath is expecting to come out against him? Who would he imagine they're going to send out against him? What kind of person? Saul, or or at least one of their biggest, strongest, mightiest, most fierce warriors, right? I mean, I think we can safely assume that is what Goliath is expecting. The biggest, the best that they got. That's who he is. He's the biggest and best of the Philistines. He's their champion. And so he is expecting Israel to send their champion out. The biggest and the best. What does he get? A kid. And uh we can tell by Goliath's response that we already looked at, but we can tell by his response, he is incredibly insulted by this. This is insulting. And he says, remember he said, am I a dog? You're coming out to me with sticks and stones? And so he's he's all geared up, I'm no doubt. He's all geared up. He's mentally prepared to go against the biggest and best they got And um he is ready to go, and totally unexpected, totally out of what character at all, this little kid comes out with a sling and some stones and a stick, a staff. And so I think that's got his mind really. And so he he's focused on this. Now he's got this to deal with. So it's he's insulted by this, which produces the second thing I think God is doing. in in Goliath's head is he becomes enraged. He is furious that they would dare Well what do you think I am a dog? And now I I picture Goliath, and again, I'm maybe reading into this. I'm using my sanctified imagination here, probably more san imagination than sanctification, but I'm imagining here a little bit. I see Goliath absolutely furious. This is not what he was asking for. This is not what he was after. This is stupid. And uh he is enraged. Now that leads me to this. This is why I said I think God's messing with his mind a little bit. Leads me to this. When are we our best? When we are focused and calm and sure, or when we are absolutely insulted and enraged When are we our best? Yeah, when we're calm. I'm convinced if there would have been a giant come out or or a I should say a champion come out of Israel's army He would have been focused, this is what he was looking for, this is what he was ready for, this is what he was prepared for, and he would have been going into that thing. But this little kid coming out Absolutely insulted him, enraged him, and I'm thinking his mind is not at its best. He's not thinking his best. And God's, I think God's doing, you know, messing with his head here a little bit And so now David, they've given their speeches, and David comes out. Now I'm going to give you a little, I'm going to give you, I broke this section that we read down into four points. We're only going to look at the first one tonight And if you like to take outlines, I know some of y'all like to jot down outlines. This is my outline for this section here. Now our topic is David is dispatching Goliath. He's going to do away with Goliath. He's going to kill him Number one, my first point on verse 48, 49, and 50 is this. David is instant in his attack. He's instant in his attack, and we'll talk about that. My second head is this on verse 51 is David is intense in his execution. And we'll look at verse 51. My third one is this, is David is inspirational in his victory. That's verse 52 and 53. And that's where I was saying, uh I think this is interesting. All of a sudden all his his uh armies are cheering him on after Goliath is dead. Nobody was cheering for him before And his victory, I'm getting way ahead, but I really look forward to preaching on this one. But his victory, his victory inspired others to step out and go on for God. That's an important principle. Now we'll look at that later on in a couple years we'll get there. Number four, my fourth one is this, last 54, is David is insightful in his success. He does two things. He takes Goliath's head and he brings it back to Jerusalem. There's a reason for that, I believe. And he takes his sword and he takes it home with him. And I think when we have victories in our Christian life, when we have victories in our spiritual walk, in our service to the Lord, I think there's some things we ought to do to preserve that and help us in the future. And that's we'll see that when we eventually get to that. But let's come back to our first thought here in verse 48, 49, and 50. And we're only going to look at verse 48 tonight. David is instant in his attack. Now, what do you think I mean by using the word instant? Yeah, he's not horsing around. He's into it. It's interesting if you study, if you ever read through the book of Mark. And I encourage you at some point read through all the Bible, over and over and over. But if you read through the book at Mark, it will say things like this. The Lord instantly did something. He instantly did this. He instantly did that. He didn't mess around. He got right after it. And so here we see David is instant in his attack. You don't dilly-dally around. He's up and he's at it. Now that leads me to my first point under that. He's instant in his attack. Number one under that, verse 48, I put it this way, he goes into action. Look at verse 48 with me again, if you would. It says, And it came to pass when the Philistine arose and came and drew nigh to meet David. Uh, what did David do? What's it say? He did what? He hastened and he ran toward the army to meet the Philistines. Philistine armies over there. The speeches are done. Talk is over, uh, and now it's time to put your money where your mouth is. Right? David's been saying what he's going to do to Goliath. I'm going to feed your carcass to the birds. I'm going to kill you. And we're going to destroy all the fill. I mean, David waxed elegant. He gave a profound, powerful, confident speech uh in response to Goliath's insults and Goliath's uh uh the uh um uh speech that Goliath gave Now it's time for there to be some action. Talk is over, and it's time for action. Which I got thinking. I got looking at that and working on that and I got thinking about that. Um uh ever hear this statement, talk is cheap. What does that mean? When somebody says, ah, talk is cheap, what does that mean? Alright. This is the idea. If talk is cheap, what we mean when we say that is this. If all I'm doing is talking and there's no action behind it, it's of little value. It's a little worth. David gave a powerful, powerful speech, a very inspirational speech, and it was filled with confidence. And it was, I believe, of course, God was directing him to do this. But if all he did, this is the point I'm trying to get at, if all he did was stand out in that battlefield and talk and yell and say what he's going to do, and he never does it It would be meaningless. That that tremendous statement, those tremendous statements he made would all of a sudden be deflated of all any value or significance if there wasn't some action. Talk is cheap. Put your money where your mouth is. Some folks, do you ever hear somebody say this about someone? They're all talk and no action. There's some people like that. They're all talking though, boy, they'll tell you what they're going to do, and they'll tell you what they're going to where they're going to be, and they'll tell you all this stuff, but nothing ever comes of it. I put down a list of things that are true about a person that is all talk and no action. See if any of these apply to us. If a person is all talk and no action, they have a to-do list, but they never check anything off of it. Can I get a witness there? Anybody? Make it are gonna do all I'm gonna uh Patty goes to work. What are you gonna do today? Oh I got I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, So a person has all talk and no action, they have a to-do list, but nothing ever gets checked off. Uh they say what they're going to do, but they never do it All talk and no action, they'll start projects, but they never finish projects. Oh, I'm gonna do this. They'll buy all the stuff and everything, but then it never happens. Uh they'll make resolutions, but they'll never carry out the resolutions. How many people here make New Year's resolutions? Anybody come on, be honest. I do. I make some every year. They last a day or two, usually But we make these resolutions, make the oh I'm uh here how about this one? I'm gonna lose ten pounds by the end of the month. I've only got fifteen more to go. Right? Make resolution. Make promises that we never keep. Here's the one. This is a bad one. They say stuff like this. Someday we're gonna and that day never arrived, does it? This is my same story I tell all the time whenever this subject comes up. Brother Moore in Hagerstown, Brother Moore and I have been saying for however long he's been there, twenty years now or more How many? Twenty years he's been over there. For 20 years, when he moved from Mannington over there, we said, and was every time we talked, Brother Leatherman, we're gonna have to get together for lunch someday. Twenty years later, guess how many times we got together for lunch? Zero. Except when I was preaching over there, maybe or when he was here. But uh all talk and no action. And the thing that impressed me in verse number 48 is David gave, as I said, this very, very powerful statement as he's going out to battle and the Israeli armies behind him, they don't think he's going to live, but man, he makes these incredible things. And he carries through. He does what he says he was going to do. Um I think all of us, no doubt, if we were honest, if all of us to some extent are guilty of being talk without action. Come on, I know there's more than three people here that are guilty of that. Y'all I see I say stuff like that and y'all look at me like so pious, like, oh, I don't know what you're talking about. We're all guilty of that to some extent for various reasons. I put down three types of all talk and no action people. Now I'm not suggesting this is a This is the way we are. But these are three types of people. One type of person that's all talk and no action is what I'm calling a fake. They're fakes. They have no intention of doing what they're saying they're going to do. They are doing what? They are lying. Oh yeah, I'm going to be there, Pastor Letterman. They have no intention of being there Oh yeah, I'm going to do this. And they have no attention. And there's certain elements of society and there are certain people that have no qualms about saying they're going to do something. saying what the how things are going to be with absolutely zero intention of actually doing what they say they're going to do. And unfortunately that's the way human nature is sometimes Back years ago, they used to call them, I don't know, it was probably after my teen years, but they would call them posers. Anyone know what a poser is? I didn't either until I looked it up and found the word. But apparently it means somebody who's putting on that they're gonna be something they're not. So Oh so they're fakes. All talk and no actions. Some are fakes. Sometimes people are all talking no actions, not because they're fake or they're dishonest. Sometimes it's because they're fearful. And they'll say something like, yeah, I'm going to do that. Yes, this is going to happen. Yes, this is the way it's going to uh play out. And then they get in the situation, and boy, it's a whole lot more than what they thought And they get intimidated and they get fearful. Can anybody think of some areas maybe in Christian life, Christian ministry, where someone would say, yeah, I'm going to do that, but then they get fearful and they back out and don't actually do what they're going to say? Soul winning is the one that comes to my mind. And uh and we'll have a sword of the Lord conference and Dr. Smith will get up and boy he'll preach on soul winning or Uh Brother Arthur or whoever, Brother Norris Belcher will be here. This year Brother Mike Allison. Boy they'll preach on soul winning and I'm at and I'm with you. I'm at the altar and I say I'm gonna be a soul winner, I'm gonna try and win people to Christ And we get up and Thursday night comes and it's time to go and it's like I'm gonna stay home and watch NSIS TV show. And so sometimes they maybe mean well and they make these promises, but because they become fearful, they don't carry through and don't do that. I put it this way: their words are bigger than their courage. Their words are stronger than what their faith actually is. Um I thought of another area where this could happen. Every May, the first Wednesday through Sunday of May, we have a missions conference, Worldwide Faith Promise Missions Conference. And Dr. Creed often comes in and preaches here. We have Brother Mike Edwards coming in And uh boy they'll preach on faith promise and they'll stir our hearts and the missionaries and we'll see the presentation, our hearts are stirred, and we'll say, I am going to give X number of dollars over and above my tithe to missions on a weekly basis to get the gospel out and get these missionaries out. Then uh goes a couple weeks, a couple months into it, and all of a sudden maybe there's a little setback, a couple unexpected bills and all of that And uh suddenly it becomes, oh boy, I'm worried. If I put that faith promise in, ooh, how am I going to do this? I know I promised it, but they become fearful. Listen, there's a reason it's called faith promise. It's because we trust God. And you know what I found out? Faith often requires courage. To trust God, to have faith in God. Sometimes I just need to be courageous and trust God and see it through. So some people are all talk and no action because they're fake. They're just dishonest. They have no intention of doing it Others sometimes are uh talk but not action because uh they mean to, but boy becomes fearful and their faith just isn't as strong as they thought, and it's just not They don't have that courage to step out and do whatever it is they said they would do. And then others, folks are all talk and no action because they fantasize. And what I mean by that is they are dreamers. Oh yeah, uh I can do that And they don't and they don't see reality. Jesus spoke about this. He said, before you build a house, you ought to stop and what? Count the cost. And what was he saying? He says, you've got to be realistic about this. You need to see reality. You can't just say, oh yeah, I'm going to build this house and not stop and look and make sure you're able to do What you're actually saying you're going to do. They're dreaming. And all they they anticipate all the circumstances being exactly the way they need to be for this to happen And they're not operating in reality, they're fantasizing about that. I think young people are often this way Oh I'm gonna be a I'm gonna be a star quarterback on a football team. Now it's great to dream and it's great to shoot for the moon. Go for it But uh uh if they're going to be that, then there's going to have to be a lot of action put in and preparation and work behind that, just saying I want to be something great. Isn't going to make me that way. Just dreaming about it isn't going to make me. I've got to put the time in, I've got to put the effort in, I've got to invest time and effort and energy into that to make it happen. You follow what I'm trying to say So there's various reasons why people might say one thing and then do something else. Sometimes they're just dishonest. They have no intention of doing that. And I'm telling you That's nothing short of just flat out sin. To say I'm going to do something and and um I hate to say this. I've been in the ministry now for quite a while. And I'll be honest with you, more than one occasion I've had folks just flat out lie to me, say I'm going to do something, and it was obvious they had no intention whatsoever of doing it Just patronizing me, just trying to say what they thought I wanted to hear. And that's dishonest. And I'll be honest and I'll I'll tell you Most people, I'm sure, I'm speaking for most people, and they say they'd far rather you just be honest with them and maybe not say what they want to hear, but be honest and you just say something and not mean it. Amen And so some people are fake, some people are fearful, some people are living in fantasy. I read about a fellow was writing to what he called the love of his life Betty was her name. And oh, he loved her so much. And he wrote this letter. Listen to this letter. Dearest Betty, I love you beyond words. Webster does not have in his dictionary the necessary vocabulary to explain the depth of my love for you. Thoughts of you dance across the portals of my mind. You are my all-consuming passion. So enraptured am I regarding my love for you that the Pacific Ocean would be like a pond if I had to swim it. I could do it as long as I knew you were waiting for me on the other shore. The heart of the the heat of the Sahara Desert would never stop my progress to you, knowing that you would be the oasis that would refresh me when I arrived. There would be no inconvenience I couldn't endure for you. Climbing Mount Everest would only seem like getting over an ant's hill if I knew you were at its precipice. All I'm simply saying to you, my darling, is that my love for you transcends time and space. Shine Sam. P. S. I'll see you Saturday night if it isn't raining. Well there's a lot of talk. There's not much action behind it, is there? I got looking in Scripture and I found some of these folks that are all talking no action. I found some of them in Scripture Believe it or not, if you will well we turn to Isaiah chapter 29. This is where we're going to look at several verses. While you're turning there, I just want to reference that Genesis, I believe it's chapter 40. Genesis chapter 40, Joseph is in prison. He's been falsely because you're turning to Isaiah 29, but uh while you're turning there, Joseph is in prison in Genesis. And um uh it falsely, you know, you know the story he's down there. And two guys show up in the prison with him, a butler and a baker. And they had a dream. And uh he interpreted the dream for them, and uh the uh baker's uh the butler's dream was good. And he says, you're going to get out of here and Pharaoh's going to restore you. And the butler's all excited. This is wonderful. This is great. And Joseph said to him, he says, when you get out, what did he tell him to do? Remember me before the king before Pharaoh. Now the Bible doesn't expressly tell us that the butler agreed to remember him that he made any kind of promise, but it's definitely implied. And you know the the um uh not the butcher the other uh the baker Uh the baker, he's that was bad for him, his head gets cut off. How many years go by? Two years go by. And the butler all of a sudden then he remembers, oh, I forgot Joseph was in prison. And here he made, and I don't know that he was deliberate, but I believe the butler made uh I'm assuming it's implied that he made a told Joseph, I'll remember you, I'll tell him. And he didn't do it. He didn't do it. So there's just a little example of someone they talked But there wasn't action behind it until much, much later. Now, let's look at a couple others. Isaiah chapter 29. This is speaking of the nation of Israel. And look at it with me, if you would, at verse number 13. Now, some of these start striking home a little bit here, I think, with us. Verse 13, Isaiah 29. Wherefore the Lord said. Forasmuch as this people draw near with me with their what? Mouth and with their lips do honor me, but Have removed their hearts far from me. And their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men. What's he saying here? He's saying, listen, they're saying all the right stuff Oh, they're saying, um, uh, oh, how I love Jesus. And they're boy, they're saying all this stuff how much they love the Lord, but it's all talk and it's no what. No action. Their heart's not in it. They're not doing it. I tell you, I love singing hymns. Anybody anybody here like singing the hymns in church? I don't know how I sound, but I love singing them. I just anybody notice I sing them out. I just want to sing. I enjoy it. But I think one thing there's a danger about some of the hymns we sing, if we're not careful, we'll catch ourselves lying. And we'll sing, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that, oh, I love you, Lord. I surrender all. I wonder if we sang that honestly. If it wouldn't for a lot of people be singing, I surrender most. I surrender Some I think in some cases I surrender nothing. But we say it And so that's the way Israel was. Boy, they they give these great speeches, how much they love God, do all this. But their heart wasn't in it. They had no intention of doing it. Turn over with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 21. I got caught up in this. I was studying this, finding people in the Bible that were all talk and no action. Matthew chapter 21. And verse number twenty-eight. This little story the Lord's given. And he says, But what think ye? A certain man had two sons. And he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I will not. Well, I'll tell you, if that happened in my house. I will not, but what? Afterward he repented and went. Look at this next guy. And he came to the second and said likewise. Uh go work today in my vineyard, he said likewise. And he answered him and said, Oh, I'll go, sir. But what happened? He didn't go. I put in the margin of my Bible, all talk, no action. Well he told his dad what he wanted to hear. It's very impressive. I would believe I imagine for a brief period of time, Dad was awfully proud of that boy. And he realized he he had no intention of doing this. He was all talk and no action. Come over with me, if you would, to Luke chapter 6. Luke chapter 6. And here we have another example. And he's speaking here to his disciples. And he makes a profound rebuke to his disciples. Luke 6 and verse 46. He says, Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? They were all talking, what No action. Oh Lord Lord. It was fun when I it's funny when I worked out on uh neighborhood Bible time, brother Charles Homesher was the director and brother he ran the show. You worked under him, you we you did his way, and it was good. He was great But uh one of the things he used to say to the Bible time evangelists, we called him boss, his nickname was boss. And he said he could tell when he called up one of the Bible time evangelists if they were doing right or not, if they answered the phone and they said, Hey boss He knew they were doing right. But if they'd say, hey, Brother Holmeshirt, he said, there's something up. They're not calling me boss, there's something up. But he would make this statement to the evangelists. He would say, Why call ye me boss, boss, and do not the things which I say. And so the Lord's rebuking the disciples. And if you study this out down through verse 47, 48, and 49, he gives this illustration of a man that built his house upon the rock, and the house stood when the storms came. Florence showed up and the house stood. And why did the house stand? Because it was found upon a rock, and he says, He that doeth my words doesn't just say, but actually has action That's the house that's going to stand. And he says the next one built his house upon the sand. And he's the one that oh, they said all this, but they didn't do what they said. They didn't do what God instructed them, and their house collapsed And so I'll talk, but no action. I got a couple more here, real quick, I want to show you. If you would go over to James chapter number two. Go past Hebrews, get back into James. Actually, on your way to James, if you would, stop at 1 Thessalonians and verse number one. 1 Thessalonians verse number 1. And or chapter number 1, I'm sorry, verse number 5. 1 Thessalonians 1:5. You got it there? Look what it says. This is Paul writing under the inspiration of God to the church at Thessalonia. And look what he says to him. For our gospel came not unto you in what? Word only, it wasn't just talk, but also in the power and the might and in the Holy But also in power and in the Holy Ghost. And in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. What is Paul saying? He says, I didn't just come and preach to you and just give you words. We lived it You saw there was action behind it. We lived out what we were preaching to you. Come with me, if you would, over to James now, if you would. A couple more. James chapter 2, this is a classic passage on talk and action. James chapter 2. Give you a chance to find it there. Everybody doing alright? Everybody hanging in here with me? Look at verse number 14, James chapter 2. He says, and there's some words here that are key to understanding what he's saying here. He's saying, What doth it profit, my brethren? Though a man, what's that next word? Say. I circled that in my Bible. What does it profit a man, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If our brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, if a man what Say thou hast faith, and I have works. Now here's the key. This is the key to the whole thing. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith how? By my works. Is he saying that works are part of our salvation? No, we're saved by grace through faith, not of works, that any man shall boast. But he is saying this: that genuine faith will produce works. Genuine faith will change a person's life and stir, and the Holy Spirit of God will stir and motivate them to live for God and obey God's word and serve Him. And what he's saying here is, listen, there's a certain group of folks, and they're just talking about how much faith they have, how much faith they have, how much faith they have But there's no evidence in their life. There's nothing there. It's not producing anything in their life. And he's saying, listen, is that a display of genuine faith? You say you have faith. Listen, I'll show you my faith, not by my words, but how my life how my life is lived. And so here you have that All talk and no action is an indictment upon somebody that claims to be saved, yet there's no evidence of Christ in their life. No evidence of a work of God in their life And so that prompts us to do as Paul told the Corinthians, examine yourself. You better make sure you're saved. All talk. And no action. Let me give you I I got a couple more, but we're gonna go if you would. I want you to go to one more. I'm gonna finish with this one. Back to Matthew chapter five In 1 John 4, while you're going to Matthew, 1 John 4 20 says, A man says he loves God, but he hates his neighbor How can he love God who he can't see when he doesn't love the person he can see? He's all talk, oh I love God, I love God, but he hates his neighbor He says, that's all talk and no action. There's nothing behind that. Now look at Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 16. It says, are you there? Everybody there? Alright. Let your light so shine before men that they may hear your great speeches. And glorify your Father which is in heaven. Right or wrong? That's the perversion He doesn't say that they'll hear your great speeches, but they'll see your what? Great works, your good works, and then they'll glorify your Father which is in heaven. I tell you what, I tell you, this is what I'm trying to get at. Great speeches do not kill giants. David, and he gave a great speech, and it was legit and it was genuine and it was it was significant But he didn't just stop there. David then went out and did what he said he was going to do. Great speeches don't kill giants. I put it this way, taking out Goliath, dispatching Goliath required a whole lot more than a great speech And I'll tell you this, living a victorious Christian life is going to be a whole takes a whole lot more than simply saying right words. It's going to require some action. It's going to require some effort. Hey, I can I can I can get I can say all the right words I want, but if I don't spend some time every day in the Bible letting the Lord speak to me If I'm not making taking efforts and and taking action to get sin out of my life and live a pure, godly, clean life, if I'm not doing If I'm not taking action against that giant and all I'm doing is talking about, I'm never going to have victory I'm never going to grow. I'm not never going to be a strong Christian. Impacting the world for the gospel requires more than great speeches. Building churches and building bus routes and Sunday school classes and ministries, seeing them grow and God bless them, requires a whole lot more than just talking. Here's the thing, I see some of these young guys coming out of Bible college and they think, well, I can preach a good sermon and I can give a good little speech and then that's all I have to do. That's not the way churches grow Now is the preaching important? Yes, it's the focal point of all of it. But brother, there's a whole lot more that needs to go on. There's a lot of stones that need to be picked up. There's a lot of stones that need to be slang Right? And so David, and you study his life, and I got look in the life of David And I can't find maybe somebody finds something. I haven't come across it yet anywhere where David said something and didn't follow through with action. David did what he said he was going to do. And verse number 48 just struck me. He gave this profound speech. What am I going to do to Goliath? I'm going to do this, and I'm going to kill you, I'm going to kill all the Philistines. But he didn't just say that. He went out and did it. David was not all talk and no action meant. I got a guy I follow on the computer. Some of these guys just get on my nerves. My wife said, Why do you follow him? I said, because they irk me. And hey, maybe he's a good guy. I don't know. I know him. But uh he's going to go start a church somewhere in the United States. He's never pastored. He's never started a church before. He's been out of Bible college a little brief time. And um for the last six months he's been writing on there how you start a church. This is what you do to start a church and you got to do this and you can't do this And boy, he's correcting everybody and telling everybody. Uh a week or so ago he actually moved to the place he's going to start the church. I haven't heard a peep from him yet. You know why? Because there's a world of difference between saying how it is and then actually doing it And I study the life of David, and I see David, and I see him a man, man, he said something, but then he did it. It's one thing to stand there and yell at a giant, in the name of God, I'm going to take your head off. It's another thing to go out there and actually take his head off. And that's what David did. That's what David did. David was not a talk, David was not an all-talk and no-action man, and we should be like David. We should be like David. Somebody put it this way. What the Christian church looks like in a lot of cases to the world. A team goes out on the field on the football field and they get in their huddle. The quarterback calls the play, they say, break! The quarterback and the rest of the team go running over to the bench and sit down on the bench. Then it times out, runs out, and the next play comes up, and they all go back out in their little huddle. Quarterback calls the play, and they all say break, and they all run back to the sidelines, see what's going to happen, and the game goes on. He said, that's exactly what the church looks like to the rest of the world. Our team gets together once a week, the quarterback reads a play out of the game book. This week we're going to love our enemies. This week we're going to witness. Everybody says, Amen. Great play. Let's do it. Then we all go to the sidelines and sit until next week. We never actually do what we say we're going to do. And while we're sitting on the bench, we talk about whether we'll like the play or don't like the play. If we're going to come back next week, we can't wait to get back in the huddle. We can't wait to hear The quarterback call out another play. Boy, he's great at calling out plays. That's the way the world sees us, I think. We all get together in church on Sunday and amen and the preacher preaches the message, yeah, yeah, yes, yes. Then we go out and it has no impact on how we live that week. And we don't kill any giants And we don't see any victories because if we're not careful, we're all talk and no action So the challenge to us is this. And as we look at how God worked through David and did this incredible thing, the challenge to us is: hey, let's get out there this week and let's be doers of the word. And not hearers and talkers only. Amen? Yes, that's true. It could be there. And I also thought of the one where he made uh he c numbered the people and that cost dearly because he did make some statements. Where uh, you know, I'm gonna love you, Lord, I'm devoted to you, and he and he didn't carry through on that. So yes, good point, good point. Yes, exactly. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. Help me, Lord To not just be a preacher of the word, but help me be a doer, to live it, carry it out, put into action what we say. Or there's a lot of giants out there. There's a lot of giants of unsaved multitudes that need to be saved. And it's going to require more talk, Lord. It's going to require some action on our part. So a lot of uh victories need to be won in our personal lives, and we can talk about it all we want, but Lord, we really need you to help us put some action, pick up the slang and the stones, and actually start slanging them. Help us we pray, Lord. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, there are some areas in my life, and I know I got all the right words, I got all the right things to say, but God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart And there's some areas I need to do more than just talk about it. I need to put some action in. Maybe it's personal devotions, prayer time, witnessings, getting some sin out. I don't know. Is there any like that, preacher? God's Spirit has spoken to my heart There's some areas you've got to put some action in. God bless you, a bunch of hands around. And so often we know what's right and we say what's right, but we fail to do it. And that's what we need. That's where we need the Lord to help us. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask, help us to resolve. Step out, not be talkers, but to be doers also. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.