All right, you got your uh got second Samuel chapter eleven. How many people found your place in the Bible there? Alright, good. Let's uh follow along as I read. I'm gonna read down one through five. We looked at verse one last week We're going to pick up in verse 2, and we're going to get probably through verse 2 tonight. So um verse 1 says this, and it came to pass After the year was expired, at the time when the kings go forth to battle. Now remember we pointed this out last week. Look at this. When the kings go forth to battle That David, look at this, sent Joab and his servants with him, and all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabah But David tarried still at Jerusalem, made a conscious decision. I'm not going out to war. I'm staying back. Tarried there means to sit around, be idle, do nothing. I'm just going to sit back. Verse 2. And now as a result of that, that's the setting. That's where David finds himself now. Verse 2. And it came to pass in an evening tide. That David arose from off his bed and walked up on the and walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after this woman. And one said, we're not told who, but one of his servants, one of his household workers there, one said, Is not this Bathsheba? The daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite. David sent messengers and took her. And she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness And she returned unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with child. I've entitled this section here, and we're going to take you several weeks to look at this, but I've entitled it David's Darkest Hour. Now I don't knew as I was going over this again today. This seems so out of character to with with David, doesn't somewhat? Somewhat. Now we saw little hints here and there. And we'll look on them here a little later. But uh just out of nowhere, boom, we have this horrendous failure on the part of David And so last week we looked at the introduction to this, and today uh tonight I want us to look at the inception of this darkest hour, the beginning. How did this take place? How in the world did he end up in this situation making this decision? So let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Bible. And Lord, I'm glad that your word is true and honest. You don't cover up failures or sins. You show the best and the worst of mankind. And I pray you'd help us to learn from both. And I ask you'd help us tonight to learn from this. Teach us, Holy Spirit. The lessons we need from this, the cautions we need to take, the red flags that we need to notice and heed. Lord, maybe the truths that are given tonight here in our auditorium or out across the airwaves, maybe you would use that to help someone avoid a dark hour in disaster. So fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And Lord, we want you To teach us and help us and speak to us through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This is probably, think with me if you will. Let me put it this way: think with me About what is the most famous sin in all the Bible? What would be the one sin that's the most famous, most well known in all the Bible? All right, I I uh uh first I was going to say David and Bathsheba, but then I got thinking about probably Adam and Eve would be the most famous And coming in a close second, I would say would probably be David and Bathsheba. Now, those aren't the only two sins recorded in the Bible. We understand that, right? It's full of them, cover to cover. Anytime you're dealing with mankind, you're going to be dealing with sin, right or wrong. But this one stands out in our minds because of who was involved here, because of how what a prominent place it holds here in the life of David. It's a glaring event in the life of David, but also I think because of David's confession and repentance of it in Psalm 51. What a tremendous chapter that is And so this is perhaps the, if not the most po most famous, I guess you can use that word sin in the Bible. It's a close second. In my mind, I would say this, that most definitely is the most sick most famous sin of adultery in the Bible. You think of who somebody committed adultery in the Bible, David and Bathsheba comes to mind. Now there's others that have done this, but uh this one stands out in our hearts and minds. I'm going to make a few statements by way of introduction, and they tie into what happens here, and I think uh the you'll understand maybe what I'm trying to say here as we get into the passage But let me let me give you this statement. It is impossible to satisfy sin by indulging it. You follow what I'm saying? Say, well, here's this little sin. If I indulge it, then it'll go away and it'll be satisfied and it won't be an issue anymore. What happens when we indulge sin? Does it go away? Is that it? Oh well, I satisfied that sin. Now it went away. What happens? It gets worse. It inflames it. You indulge if you feed sin, it grows It increases, it becomes stronger, it becomes more of an issue. We've seen, I'm I'm getting way ahead of myself here a little bit, but we've seen in the life of David, well I'm going to point out here in just a minute We've seen some little areas here where David indulged himself on some things that God clearly forbid. And he indulged it, and rather than satisfying that passion, it simply inflamed it and he needed more. And he needed more. Did you ever hear that statement? Sin will take you farther than you want to go, it will cost you more than you want to pay, and it'll what? Keep you longer than you want to stay. Indulging sin never satisfies that sin, never quenches that sin, it just inflames it. It just enlarges it. Feeding it makes it stronger and strengthens it. It's interesting in Deuteronomy chapter 22 and verse 8. God is giving instructions to the children of Israel. on building their houses of all things. And he says, when you build your house around the top of the house You are to put, and I think the term, without turning there, but I think the term he uses you're to put a battlement or an embattlement around the top of the house. Do I have my term correct there It's what it is, it's like a guardrail. It's like a building code that your guardrails around a porch or whatever off a um uh uh uh uh a landing or a deck. They have to be a certain height, they have to be a certain uh uh width and and that for safety reasons. God did that For the children of Israel, on their roofs of their houses, they were to have some sort of guardrail or railing around there so that nobody falls off and advertently falls off and injures themselves Now that was for their physical safety. That was for their physical well-being. And God has given to us in His Word some spiritual guardrails Some warnings, some things that need to be in place so that we don't injure or damage ourselves spiritually. Our spiritual well-being is protected. And not only did he give a physical instruction there to protect them physically and us spiritually, which we're going to look at throughout this study. But here's where I thought it was interesting. He also gave some guardrails, quote-unquote, to the kings of Israel. He said, in particular, there were three things that the kings of Israel were not to do. Some safeguards that were to be in place for the kings of Israel to avoid spiritual damage Now, one of those, I see three. One of them was this, they were not to multiply to themselves horses They weren't to build up a huge military and have this massive horses and all of that. They just needed what they were to need, what they were to have what they need and not go beyond that They were not to multiply themselves horses. They were not to multiply to themselves wives. God expressed that very, very clearly, very, very strongly. They were not to multiply to themselves horses and not to multiply to themselves wives. And then he said in another place that they were not to multiply or hoard up for themselves riches There was nothing wrong with them being rich, but they weren't to live for it and to pursue it as a king. Can you see where gaining material possessions could be a distraction to governing The nation of Israel. Sure, they're all caught up in how many horses they have that. You see where having multiple wives could be a distraction on anything you're doing, to be honest with you. Yes And to hoard up and multiply riches would be a distraction. The motives would be suspect. and trying to get money. By the way, kind of ties in, Brother Harding said, you know, you go in, a person goes into office and they have this level of income and they come out and they're multimillionaires But nevertheless, God put these things in place for the kings of Israel to protect them and enable them to be able to govern as they ought to and be the king, provide leadership, spiritual leadership and And uh as they uh uh as was needed. Now of those three, horses, wives, and riches. David did pretty good on two of the three. As far as we know, he didn't multiply up huge herds of horses. He had adequate. He wasn't poor, but as far as we know, he didn't pursue and worship and bow down to the Almighty dollar and riches and gold. But David didn't do so hot in number two. Number one and number three did okay, but he had a problem with number two not multiplying to himself's wives. He started early on. Remember we looked at this before. Got uh Michael Then Abigail. Then after he got into Israel and in Judah there, then he gathered some more wives to him to him. And rather than, and these multiple wives that he brought to himself, and it was his decision, going contrary to what God instructed, The more, and here's the interesting thing the more wives he got, rather than satisfying his passion for women, it inflamed it. It strengthened him. And that passion burned in the heart and soul of David until it erupted here like a volcano. God has given us some safeguards against sin. I put this down. The proper action towards sin And all of us deal with it, right? Amen or not? We all deal with some form of sin. Might not be David's issue right here, but there's multiple sins for us to deal with and struggle with And uh this is just an aside. Let me throw this out. I think it is wise for all of us to study ourselves And learn and understand what our besetting sins are. You follow what I'm saying? There may be one person's sins They may be more vulnerable to specific sins than another person is. They have their own certain specific besetting sins. Everybody follow what I'm saying? And so it's good for us to study ourselves and say, all right, here's where my weaknesses are. This is a besetting sin of mine. In Proverbs, Solomon says, if you be a man given to appetite Put a knife to your throat. What does he say? He says, be aware of your weaknesses, be aware of your vulnerabilities, be aware of your besetting sins. And once you know what they are, if you're given to appetite, then take actions. Put guardrails in place, put things in place to keep you from indulging in that area that you're vulnerable to. Everybody follow what I'm saying? So God has given us Some guardrails. God has given us some precautions, things that we can put in place that help us avoid happening, what happened to David here You say, what are they? Well, there's any number of them. I would categorize them this way. I would describe them as this: standards and convictions. Biblical standards and biblical convictions that govern my actions and my behavior Here's the problem. People mess up, and David did it here, and you and I are just as, if not more, vulnerable than David. Mess up when we make a decision whether we're going to do something or not in the heat of the moment. Follow what I'm saying? We make a decision, well, am I going to do this or not? In the heat of the passion, in that moment, whatever it may be, then we decide whether I'm going to do this or not. Suppose somebody is given to stealing. They have a tendency to steal stuff. And they go in a store and they go up and here they have I was at Walmart yesterday and they're arresting a lady for stealing stuff out of Walmart. I say get her, go get her. I mean as an older lady probably my age. But it wasn't Kathy, but um But if I wait until they're there, and then here's an item, and I have uh there's an opportunity to steal it, and I decide right then whether I'm going to steal it or not, chances are I'm gonna decide to steal it. Right? What God says is what we need to do is put into place some convictions and some biblical standards that decide ahead of time I'm not doing these things, I'm not doing that, I'm not going to behave like this, I'm not going to indulge that. And then when I get into the position, ideally, that decision is already made And I don't have to decide. No, I've already I've got a conviction about this. I have a conviction I don't steal things. How many people are glad your preacher has a conviction he doesn't steal things? And so God does give us some guardrails, some safeguards that we can put in place in our lives. And we study the Bible and we see certain convictions, certain standards, things we make sure we always do, some things we make sure we don't do. We're going to see this in the study, places we don't go, and some places we be sure we go. And that helps protect us. Somebody says, oh, you got all these do's and don'ts. Now Christianity is not a list of do's and don'ts But being victorious in the Christian life often requires some things I do and things I don't do. And so standards, sometimes we buck against standards. Oh, a preacher do this, he wants us to do that, he wants us to dress this way. Listen, uh, all it is is guardrails, it's to help us And we can learn that from David's experience here. So just like God told the Jews when they built their houses and on the roof, make sure you put this battlement up around there so you're safe. He says, listen, make sure you instill in your life some biblical convictions, some biblical standards that are going to govern you and protect you. We need to establish biblical convictions. We need to establish biblical standards for our behavior, for our conduct, and we minimize the opportunities for failure. I've said this many times here. I heard Dr. Robertson say it numerous times when I was down at Highland Park. He would say, young, he'd preach to the preacher boys, he'd teach every Thursday, and he'd say this, young man, get you some standards. And he says, if you don't get you no, he said, get you some convictions. He says, if you don't have any convictions of your own, borrow mine till you get some. I thought that was pretty good advice I see, I look at David here, verse 2 down through verse 4. And I see three steps to disaster. Three decisions he made that led to a horrendous fall. And I think it's good for us, it's good for me, it's good for us to analyze this very, very carefully and very, very closely. to help us avoid the same or similar mistakes. And God didn't record this here just for gossip and just for drama God's recorded this here for your benefit and my benefit so we can learn from it and protect ourselves from heartache and to shame the name and to protect us from shaming the name of Christ. David commits adultery. And adultery doesn't happen by accident. Right I think it's possible and not very likely, but I think it's possible for a person to you know, uh maybe get drunk by accident. They didn't realize what they were drinking or something. Find themselves. But you don't commit adultery by accident Adultery is the result of a series of decisions that are made. And I see three decisions David made here very, very clearly pronounced. Now we're going to look at the first one tonight. And the first decision that I see David made that led to his dark hour and disaster is number one, David gave attention to something he should not have given attention to. David gave attention to something he should not have given attention to. Look with me at verse number two. And it came to pass in the evening tide, as at sunset. That David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he now I underlined and circled that next word From the roof he saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. He saw, he gave attention to something he ought not to have been giving attention to. Now I got two thoughts under that that we're going to look at tonight, and that'll be it for tonight. The first thing I want us to consider is David's bearings. Now, let me explain what I mean by that. The position that David put himself in. I want you to think with me tonight, the position that David put himself in Came to pass at evening time. That's uh as I understand it for the Jews, that was at sunset. It's just getting dark. Now there's something here that I really be honest with you, I don't understand. It says that he arose from off his bed. Rather than getting out of bed, that looks like the time of day you would be going to bed, right? But verse 1 says that he stayed back from the wars and he tarried at Jerusalem. Remember, we studied that word tarried. It means to sit around idle. So the impression I get is that David's just laying around. Now I can't say that dogmatically, but he verse one, he's carrying, sitting around idle. Verse two, he's getting out of bed when the sun's going down So he's in a position here. He's in a compromised position here, just to put it that way. Now, this is where it gets interesting. I want to say, I want to believe that David is not looking for trouble. I want to believe that. And when he gets off the bed and he goes up on the roof, he sees Bathsheba there bathing herself. I want to believe, I want, I want to tell myself, and I want to believe it was his innocent Situation. He innocently put himself in this position. However, there's a lot of question marks in my mind here. And uh it's easy for me to speculate. When I study stuff like this, I get speculating stuff, and I don't have any basis for my speculation, but I Do you have some questions here? One question that comes to my mind is this is this the first time David went up on the roof at night of the evening? Now we're not told, I don't know. The second question that comes to my mind: is this the only time that Bathsheba bathed herself in a position where David could actually see her? Now we're not told the answer to that, and the best we can do is speculate, and we have no basis for speculation. But I think it's interesting in my maybe cynical mind. I think it's interesting to consider the fact that David just happens to stay back from the wars He just happens to be laying around all day. He just happens to go up on the roof at a place where he can see Bathsheba when she just happens to be bathing herself. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a lot of coincidences. Now, maybe I'm reading into it, and I don't know, and I'll I'll be uh I wouldn't fight to defend my position on that at all, but these are questions that come up to my mind. It just seems like a lot of coincidences are taking place. He's not at war. He's on the roof at night when Bathsheba is bathing herself. Now, the other question that comes to my mind, and we're not told here, is where was Bathsheba at that he could see her? Where was she at that his line of vision he could observe her bathing herself? Well, first thought was she must be on another roof across from her. I got looking, it doesn't say she's on another roof. In fact, it doesn't tell us where she was at at all. So again, we have to speculate. I can't imagine that she would be up on a roof in full public bathing herself. I think that's very unlikely. I read what other people much smarter than I had to say. And it's kind of the consensus was, and I I tend to agree with this, is she was probably in some sort of patio area. Maybe an enclosed patio area where she perhaps perceived that she had some privacy But from David's vantage point, he could look down on there and see her. In fact, one suggested she might have actually been inside her house and may have been through the windows or whatever. It's evening time and maybe she didn't pull the shades or whatever. And uh so I don't know. I don't know. There's no I don't think there's a definite answer. You have to realize where these houses were. David's house was in one of the highest places of Jerusalem Ryder's house most likely was down at a lower level. Right. So So the probable is he's looking down on her, perhaps in a patio type setting, perhaps in a situation. I have a hard time believing she's on the roof. Now, regardless of what it was, the fact is he could see her. He could see her. Now here's another question that comes to my cynical mind. Had he noticed this before? Was this uh something that he had been aware of before? I don't know. I'm speculating, but that's the way my mind works. It just seems like too many coincidences for this just to have happened one night. And again, uh maybe I'll get to heaven and David will slap me You know. They'll say you idiot, that was I didn't plan on nothing. I didn't know. It just happened. And that's a very real possibility. But I do know this. This is one thing I learned from this. It is possible, get this. Now, this is the lesson I think we can take away so far. It is possible to put myself in a dangerous position. It is possible to put myself in a vulnerable position. It is possible to put myself in a situation where my besetting sins are not being guarded. are not being sheltered, or not, I'm not keeping my heart with all diligence, controlling the passion of my heart, but I put myself in a position where that passion, rather than being kept imprisoned, restrained, is given opportunity to be fed and indulged. It's possible to put ourselves in those positions We tell our kids, let me rephrase it, it's possible to put ourselves in a dangerous position, is what I'm saying. How many here taught told our kids, I guess it depends where you live, but we caught taught our kids, don't play on the road. Would you agree with me? That's a compromising position. Hopscotch in the middle of Broadford Road. Don't play in fact we told our boys, we didn't we didn't just tell them don't play in a road. We told them don't play near the road. In fact they played up in the front yard one time and the ball kept going out in the front on in on the road and you sa and you say the speed limits here is only twenty-five. I know that means they're going sixty-five And so we got where we say, don't play in the front yard, go in the backyard. Why? Because we don't want them to be in a position where they're vulnerable and in danger of being hurt. Say don't play on the road. We tell our kids don't play on the road. Uh when I played Little League, many, many you say, preacher, they had little league when you were little? Yeah Um they used to say, don't stand inside the backstop. How many people remember being told that? Get behind the backstop, you idiot. Why? Because you get a tooth knocked out, you bust a cheekbone, you get hit in the head with a bat. You ever see those little kids sling those bats? The third baseman's in danger with some of these guys. So it's possible, what I'm saying is it's possible to put ourselves in positions that are not just physically dangerous, but spiritually dangerous. Can I say this? There are some places a believer ought not to go. There are some situations ought to keep myself out of and stay away from David's bearings, his position, he was vulnerable, and this is an area that we've already had hints that he's uh he's vulnerable to And here he is. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Proverbs chapter 7. On the seventh day of every month. I read Proverbs 7. And I'm reminded on the seventh day of every month, I'm reminded that I must be very careful that I don't put myself in positions and situations that I could have great harm done. Proverbs chapter 7, if you would, come down to verse number 6. Solomon apparently, he's well not apparently, he's speaking to his son. Verse 1, he says, My son, keep my words and lay up my commandments with thee, saying, Listen. Son, listen to me. You do what I'm telling you. You listen carefully to me. And you come down to verse 5. He says, Listen to my words, listen to my commandments, my wisdom That they may keep you keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger with flattereth with her words. Now look at verse 6. For from the window of my house I look through my casement And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, that word discerned means I learned from them. I discerned among the youths a young man. Now look how he describes this young man. He's what? Void of understanding. That means he's what? He's a dummy. I saw a young man void of understanding passing through the street near her corner, the strange woman's corner. And he went away to her house in the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night. And behold, there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot and subtle of heart. And then he goes on and describes what happens. This woman seduces him, takes him back home, and destroys him. destroys his life. Now what I thought when I was studying David up on that top of his roof in a position where he can see a woman bathing herself Washing herself, I thought of this guy here. This young man, dummy, walked right into a corner of the city, this street corner in the city, where he knows this woman is, where he knows what takes place there And he puts himself in a position that's setting himself up for total destruction. And the end is death and hell, he says at the end of the chapter. You and I, listen, you and I cannot be stupid in our Christian life. We've got to be smart, we've got to be careful, we've got to be sober, we've got to be vigilant. And we have to pay attention to our surroundings and realize what kind of situation, what kind of position am I in, getting myself into, and if it's danger, get out And so David put himself in a in a in a bad position. His bearings were bad. Anybody here anybody here recognize the name C. I. Schofield? It is not Brian. C. I. Schofield. Anybody recognize that name? The Schofield Study Bible. Classic. Yeah, how many people here have a Schofield study Bible? Hell a couple a bunch. Used to use them all the time. I think we still got some back there. Good study Bible for the most part. It was a foundation for the fundamentalist movement coming out of modernism and liberal denominations. They were going liberal. Schofield put this out. Man, it helped people Do you know Schofield was a lawyer before he got saved? Very successful lawyer, very wealthy lawyer, a very drunkard lawyer. And when God saved them, God delivered them from liquor, sobered them up. I was reading his biography years ago, and in there he referenced the fact that he always felt vulnerable. To drink even after he got saved. Great man with Schofield, Bible, theologian, Bible scholar in every sense of the word And he said that where his office was in Philadelphia, and by the way, I went to school he uh was part of starting uh Philadelphia College of the Bible. And uh he had an office that was there in Philadelphia, and to walk from his office where he did his Bible study and all and teaching whatever, to his house, he had to walk by a bar And he said every evening when he'd be walking home was just when things were heating up at the bar. The music and the drinking and the crowds were there. And he said, every time he walked by, now I'm not giving this perhaps exactly the way he said it, but I think I got the gist of it. He said, when he would walk by there, he felt the old nature being tugged. That old addiction, that old desire, that old passion being tugged back to that former life. You know what he did? He went and into the bar and got a cheeseburger. How many people agree with me? If he did that, it would have probably been a disaster. It's been disaster. You know what he did? He said, he made a decision. He says, I'm not walking down the street. He went two blocks. out of the way that way, walked five blocks out of the way that way, walked two blocks that way, and went home every single day. You know what he was doing? He was keeping himself in a out of a bad position. And that is smart. And you and I as Christians would be wise to do the same thing. If you end up on that television and you end up with shows you know a Christian ought not to be watching, get rid of the television. Don't ha don't put yourself in that position. It's not worth it. And anything else you can need. One thing I think we need to make our folks aware of. And schools that are dangerous to our friends. And that's just going to happen. That if an adult makes an Yeah. We need to teach our children that they gotta be aware. You've got to be aware of what type of situation you're in, how to deal with it. So this has a zillions of applications, but the point is here, we need to keep ourselves We need to be aware of our position. Now, uh number one, uh David's David gave attention to something he shouldn't have not given attention to And that one first thing I said was we need to consider his bearings, the position he put himself in. Second of all, quickly and last of all, I want us to consider David's focus Now he put himself in a position where it enabled him to focus on something he ought not to have been focused on. It enabled him to uh give attention to something he ought not to be giving his attention to is because of where he was made that possible Now let's look at the object of his focus. Come back here if you would. And I want to come back to that word, Saw, that I highlighted as I read this. And walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. Now that word caught my attention, and we're going to look at this later on, a couple studies down About how that shows up other places in the Bible and a couple of other things. But the word Saul, you might want to write in the margin of your Bible, the word Saul there has this idea to watch intently. Another definition was this: to inspect very closely, and it's translated numerous times other places to gaze at. So think this through in your mind. When David's up on the roof and he's taken a nap and he may be overslept, the sun's going down, he's getting up and he's walking up there, whether deliberately or not. He's looking around, he looks down, and lo and behold, he sees what he sees. Now, the Bible uses that word Saul there deliberately, I believe. It does not mean he happened to notice it or he happened to glance by, oh good night. Wasn't that at all? The idea is this: he locked his eyes on it. Boom. And he gazed intensely. He uh he watched uh inspected closely, watched intently This didn't he didn't just casually observe something here. She caught his eye and he stayed focused on her. It's not driving down the road and there's a billboard and it has an immodest woman on there and you drive by and you just happen to see it, that's a whole nother thing. She caught his attention and he focused his eye on her. Job prayed this, and I don't have the reference on this, but Job made this statement. He says, Why should I set my mind upon a maid? And I thought, I wonder if Job struggled with that, that he would make that statement. And the idea was this: I'm not going to focus on, I'm not going to gaze on, I'm not going to put my attention on a young lady That's what David's doing here. She caught his attention and he focused on her. Now there's two things he noticed about Bathsheba. Two things he noticed. First of all, she was bathing. Alright, so The implications that has, and the impact that would have on a man that already has uh vulnerabilities in this area. So he sees her bathing, and second of all, he notices her beauty. Now, this gets interesting. He saw a woman washing herself, so she's obviously undressed And the woman was, now look at the wording that is used here. The woman doesn't say she was beautiful to look upon. It says she was what? Very beautiful to look upon. I looked up that word very, how it's used other places. And it means this: exceedingly. One of the definitions was abundantly. In other words, this woman was exceedingly attractive, abundantly pleasant to look at, was the one definition. When you know God doesn't just say something is very something and not mean it. When God said she's very beautiful, that means she was, this gal's a knockout That's why we would say it. Good night. And that caught David's attention Now, here comes my questions again. And I'll be honest with you, in studying this, I changed my thinking on this whole thing. Here's the big question in my mind. I don't know what the practical applications are, but I think it's important in understanding what happens here. Was Bathsheba complicit? in this event. Was she part of it? My for years always said, well she could have said no She could have screened. She had all sorts of options available to her there, and she didn't use any of them. But I'll tell you this, as studying it for this message tonight and next week and the next week's message, I've changed my position 180 degrees. I do not believe Bathsheba was complicit. And I'm gonna, if you come back next week I'll tell you why I've come to that conclusion. So what's the lessons for tonight? Oh, let me say this. She could have been more careful. I'll give that. She could have been more careful, but that's for another week. For another week. Here's the lesson. Number one Be careful what position we allow ourselves to get into. Amen? You say, oh, that's for kids, these teenagers. They need to be wait a minute, David's 50, 55 years old here. He's a grandpa. Not just for the kids. For mom and dad, grandma and grandpa. And it's not just sensual sins, it's any sin unique. Be careful what position we get ourselves in. Be careful what environment we allow in our holes. Huh? I'm telling you, every the most vile wicked sin you can possibly the the most vile wicked sin that man can possibly imagine is available to be viewed through the television computer and now even your phone. Yes or no? There is nothing, there is no sin in this world that exists in the most depraved heart of man that is not accessible through television, computer, or phone. There isn't. So we need to be careful what we allow ourselves, the situation we allow ourselves to get into. And I think this is a warning that ought to be screamed more than what it is in the churches. So we begin with on our situation we lay ourselves in. And another one, and this is a little aside, and I'll end with this. I think we need to stop and revisit this matter of modesty. I really do. Whether she was deliberate or not. And so he says, Well, you guys are so dirty minded Yeah, and you know what? Ladies are just as sinful as men. Right? And because we're sinners Then we ought to be very careful and I think we need to revisit this matter of modesty within the church. Be careful when you say, Well, I don't mean anything by it, I know. I don't think I don't think they do. I think a lot of times women dress and never even think How it appears. You follow what I'm saying? Was Bathsheba bathing herself? Never even think. Oh, yes, somebody could see. I don't know. I gotta quit. So, one, let's be careful what we allow ourselves to get into, and let's rethink, let's revisit this matter of modesty and give that some attention. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this. Lord, it's reality. It's real. And Lord, we need your help and we need the Holy Spirit to give us wisdom and guide us and warn us, Lord. Give us warnings when we're not paying attention, we start acting stupid. And help us to be submissive, help us establish convictions and standards to avoid this. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher? I really need to pay attention in my life. I need to guard that heart. God's loud and clear tonight, and I need I need to give some attention to this. Anybody like that at all? Sure. Sure, all of us Father, please help us in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together just for a moment. Give me