Came across a statistic that um is really a little disturbing, the American Bible Society uh d does apparently does an annual state of the Bible report and they hired um uh people that do surveys, survey different people and they did a survey of Americans and found that 9%, only 9% of Americans read their Bible on a daily basis. I don't know about you, but that seems like an awfully low percentage of Americans. And when I first read that, I thought, how tragic is that? I know there's a higher percentage of that that claim to be Christians and uh in America. And so And the other thing I thought when I was reading that, uh, a couple thoughts went through my mind. One was I I I said I I said to myself, I'm I'm convinced there has to be more Christians than nine percent of our population, at least claim to be So that means a lot of Christians aren't reading their Bible on a daily basis. The other thing I thought, well, that explains a lot of the mess we're in. I can't imagine somebody that spends time every day reading their Bible and praying would be doing some of the nonsense that's taken place. in our country. And the third thought I had with that was, I'm going to try and figure out, come up with some sort of campaign. I'd call it Read Your Bible and Pray campaign. And just try and promote Bible reading and promote prayer. So I don't know what will come of that, but um I don't know how you feel, but that was uh a little disturbing when I read that. 1 Samuel and chapter number 30, I want to read a fairly lengthy portion. I want to begin reading in verse 9. Now we're overlapping a little bit on what we looked at last week And then we're going to cover some other ground. So I don't know how far we'll get tonight, but if we get to 9. 30, I'm just going to quit right there and stop. Verse number nine is where I want to start. I'm going to read down through verse 20. So David went, he and the 600 men that were with him. and came to the brook Besar, where those that were left behind stayed. But David pursued, he and four hundred men For two hundred abode behind, which were so faint that they could not go over the brook Basar. And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David. And gave him bread and he did eat and they made him drink water, and they gave him a piece of cake of figs and two clusters of raisins And when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him, for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights. David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? And whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, serving to an Amalekite. That's who raided Zaglag and took all of their belongings, their families. uh a servant servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me because three days a gone I fell sick. We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherites and upon the coast which belongeth to Judah. And upon the south of Caleb, we burned Ziglag with fire. David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God. that thou wilt neither kill me nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I'll bring thee down to this company. And when he had brought them down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah. And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day. And there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels and fled. And look at this statement. And David recovered what? All that the Amalekites had carried away. Notice real quick, back in verse number 8, David inquired at the Lord, Shall I pursue? Shall I overtake him? And he, the Lord, answered him, Look at this, thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail, what? Recover all. Happened exactly as God told him it would. David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away, and David rescued his two wives And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all David took all the flocks and the herds which they drave before those other cattle and said, This is David's spoil. I just entitled it, David Recovers All. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight and help us. Father, I thank you, Lord, for David and just these amazing events in his life, these experiences. What a dramatic life he's had And so I pray we could learn from him principles and ways that uh we can apply some of these things to our lives Lord, we need your Holy Spirit, so I ask that you would please, again tonight, speak through me. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew All my heart, I pray you'd fill me with your Spirit. Be the preacher tonight, Lord. Speak through me and help us, challenge us, Lord, to trust you and to follow your instructions. Let you lead us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. David got himself in a mess. We know the situation. He had gone to the Philistines to find shelter from King Saul's attempt to kill him He's leaning on his own understanding. In doing that he went out of the will of God and he violated the word of God. God had told him where he would be, and God had promised him uh that he would be king. So anyway he got there, worked out fine for a while as you remember. And uh finally they go to war. The Philistines go to war with Israel. That put David in a pickle And so he shows up to at least put on a display of loyalty to the Philistines, uh, but he doesn't want to go against his own people. He doesn't want to be disloyal to them. And so God gets them out of it. They send them back And uh he comes back to the town he was staying in and it's wiped out, burned to the ground uh by these Amalekite marauders. as they've come through. They took his family. I don't think David knew that exactly at first. Uh I've got a sneaking suspicion they thought all was dead They find out that their family was not killed, but they were kidnapped, and so David begins to pursue. So he got himself in this mess uh this distress. And if you remember up there in uh verse number um six it says David was greatly distressed because of what he lost and people are turning against him And we pointed out last week that David did three things in his distress that changed the whole situation. Does anybody remember what the first thing was that we said that David did in the midst of his distress. He what? He shut up. The first thing he did was He didn't say anything. They're talking about stoning them. They're going, they're all worked up. He doesn't engage them. He just quiet gets quiet. First of all, he shut up. Then the second one was what? He looked up. He began to pray. And he sought the Lord. He got the priest there and he prayed. Asked God for direction. Asked God to lead him. So he shut up. He looked up, and the third one was he He got up and went after him. He didn't just sit there and he got up and started going. Actually, I think this event here was a turning point, was one of the key turning points in David's life. In fact, I put it this way because of David's response to this crisis It became one of the best things that has happened to him in a long time. One of the best things. A crises can do one of two things for you and I. It can break us or it can make us. Now I know that's a bit of a cliche, but it's true. Reality. How I respond to the situations I find myself in, whether they're my own doing or with somebody else or out of my control, but I find myself in a situation, a bad spot, how I respond to that will very much determine The rest of my life, the future of my life. And because of the way David responded to this situation by keeping his mouth shut, praying, and then getting up and doing what God told him to do He was able to re uh to um uh uh get back uh in tune with the Lord. This could have derailed him for the rest of his life But David responded properly. It turned him back into the right frame of mind, and it put him back into the will of God. So here's my outline tonight. Number one, now again, this overlaps from last week a little bit But I want us to notice David's return to prayer. David's return to prayer. Again, verse number 8. And David inquired at the Lord. I know we already touched on this, but I think it bears repeating. I want to make a statement. I want to encourage you to jot this statement down. I think this is a very simple but important statement. Here it is I must never allow myself to underestimate the importance and the power of prayer. Let me say that again. I must never underestimate. I must never allow myself to underestimate the importance and the power of prayer. Time spent, somebody said this, time spent in prayer is never wasted time. And I tell you, uh the whole key to David's turning around here and getting back into the will of God and getting back. His frame of mind back where it needs to be, where he's trusting God, not his own understanding, it all begins with prayer David sought the Lord, inquired of the Lord. I must never allow myself to underestimate the importance and the power of prayer. I wonder how many of us ever got in a situation. And maybe it catches us, blindsides us, and catches us off guard, as I'm sure this did with David. He gets back and everything's gone I wonder how many of us ever get in a situation, something we didn't expect, and rather than stopping and pausing and spending a little bit of time in prayer, we just react and we go off. Anybody, can I get a witness? Has anybody ever been that way? How many people here will look back and say, you know, I wish I'd have spent a little bit more time in prayer before I made that decision. I'm thinking of several in my own life right now And I tell you, that's what gets us as believers in trouble. We just react, and what we're doing, when we're just reacting, we're really leaning on our own understanding. Well, this is what I've got to do. I tell you The best thing to do is get alone with God. Stop, pause, get alone with God, seek the Lord, and spend some time in prayer. And uh so David did that. He's learned before, back in the beginning of the chapter, he said in his heart, I'll one day perish by the hand of Saul. I have nothing better to do than flee to the Philistines. Oh, I wished he'd have spent a little time in prayer before he did that. But he's learned a lesson. And so too often we just react to an event without pausing to seek God in prayer And uh get some direction from God, gets the uh get some uh our mind clear in tune with God's uh word And uh let me take a little rabbit trail, just a little bit here, and I want to give some reasons why prayer is important. Some reasons why prayer is so important. I was thinking about that survey. 9% of Americans say That they spend some time every day reading their Bible. I wonder how many of that percent spend time praying every day. Praying every day. And I tell you, God's people ought to be praying people. And I would like to think Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I'd like to believe that we're a praying church. We've got a ton of prayer meetings around here, Wednesday night, once every first Saturday, men, second Saturday, ladies, every Sunday evening. uh uh uh every Sunday at five 630, men's prayer meeting. Uh every Sunday morning at 9 30, we got Sunday school prayer meeting. Now I'm not trying to brag. I'm just trying to say we're trying to uh follow God's instructions and spending much time in prayer. As a church. So let me give you some reasons why prayer is important. Some reasons that I'd like to share with you. Number one, I put this down. Prayer establishes A correct frame of mind. I'll simplify that. But prayer establishes a correct frame of mind. And what I mean by that is this: it gets me thinking right. When I stop and come before God in prayer and humble myself before Him and I pour my heart out and I pour my request out and I seek the Lord and I tell him what my situation is. You know what I found a lot of times? my mind clears up pretty good. More worked up. When I was in Bible college, I worked in the surgery department of a hospital, Park Ridge Hospital in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Surgery And um, yeah, you guys, it's been a while, but you guys still know the proper response to that. And uh, oh, I was in the, I think I've told this, I've told all my stories before, but I was in the elevator one time, a lady come in, they're talking, she was visiting a patient or something. I was coming up. I I had a porton meeting. I think I had lunch. And uh I was coming back up the elevator to the surgery apartment, I was standing there and I had all my hat on, you know, the little uh shower curtain thing and I had the little booties and the uniform you know, the O R thing and hella nose on top I had that the overcoat, I had the white coat you would wear when you went out of the department, you had to wear this white coat over you. And I'm telling you, I looked apart. I was looking And a lady got on something and she says, Well are you busy today, doctor? And I said, Oh yeah, very busy. It's a it's a busy day. And uh I got off and I told the head nurse she was w there and I come off and uh and went into the apartment. She was standing there, I said, That lady back there, she called me a doctor. She thought I was a doctor. And she goes, Well, you look like one. I said, I'm a doctor of garbology Is uh I took the garbage out. But anyway, I'm trying to remember why I'm telling them this story. Oh, uh when I worked there, I worked three to eleven So I had classes up till usually about two, run home and uh get c changed and everything. I didn't have a car, rode bike over to the hospital was about a mile away And uh get up there, I'd come running up there, and 3 o'clock, the surgeries are winding down for the day. Sometimes they're busy, they'd go five, six o'clock, and then the evenings were mostly just emergencies would come in surgeries and so I had to be there if they did surgery. I had to clean up all the body parts and stuff left over behind. And um and so it would set empty all evening. And I'd get there, I'd get working and boy something would come up. And I learned something working up there is um I learned sometimes I get all worked up. Anybody here have something come up and they just get worked up about it? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, you just get all worked up and fret and And I would go flying in the back, along the back hallway, had the windows, looked outside, and all the way in the back corner was my office. It was a closet with the mops and everything. I'd go flying back there, and I would many times I would go in and just barge into that closet, close the door, and I'd say, Oh God! And I'd just start pouring out. And how many times God would convict me And I and and he didn't audibly, but he'd say this, Dennis, calm down. Just calm down. And I'd think, uh, all right. And so I just take a breath, I get on my knees, and I just tell God. And I tell you, when I come out of there, My whole frame of mind was different. All that worked up and all that fret had calmed down. And prayer, spending a little bit of time in a in a janitor's closet in a hospital. did more to change the way I was thinking, to get my frame of mind right than anything else I could have done. And so what I'm trying to say is this prayer is good for us. Prayer is uh gets our thinking right. When we pray, if we pray sincerely, and I'm not just talking about going through the motions, but when we pray sincerely and we pour our heart out to God. And we humble ourselves before the Lord, I found what happens is God changes my perspective, and I begin seeing my situation Not from my perspective, but I begin to see it from God's perspective because I got God involved in this thing. You follow what I'm saying? I come out of there, I'm not looking at it the way I said, oh, this is terrible, oh this is, and then I pour it out to God and I put it in God's hands. He changes the way I see it, and I begin to look at from God's perspective, and I say, oh, you know, it's not hopeless. This isn't You know, this isn't the end of the world. God uh can handle this. God can do this. I mentioned my truck uh the other day and um uh about the it's uh it's It's a good truck, except the door don't work and the window don't work and the tailgate is broke and um it doesn't start. But other than that, uh it's anybody notice it's been setting there about a month, same spot And I look at that thing and I think, this thing's a piece of junk, it's hopeless, it's never going to run. I'm just going to set it on fire and call the insurance company and tell them it caught fire. But then I call Tom. I say, Tom, my truck again. So Tom comes over and I kind of like the way I'm trying to illustrate this is I kind of pray to Tom about the truck. Tom, this doesn't work, and this doesn't work, and I tried everything and I went on YouTube and looked at all the videos and none of them work and oh it's hopeless. And Tom says, well, wait a minute, let's look at this I'll try that and he'll clip that and do this and change that. Next thing you know, the thing's running fine. And what and this this is what I'm trying to say. After I talk to Tom about it, I have hope that that thing will rise again someday. That thing actually might run again. Because I look at it after I tell Tom my problems and I t pour uh it out to Tom And put in his hands, Tom says, Well we can do this, that and the other, and I start seeing it from his perspective, and it's not as bad as what I thought And that's the way it is the situation in our lives and circumstances. We look at it from our perspective and say, oh, this is terrible, there's no hope, this is never going to work, this is uh da-da-da But if I come and say, God, this is my situation, God, this is what do I do? And God steps in. And then I say, well, you know what? Maybe it's not hopeless. And what I'm trying to say is this, anytime you get God in the equation, hopelessness flees away. Changes everything. So number one, the The reasons prayer is important is it establishes a correct frame of mind. It helps me get thinking right, gets my perspective right on my crises or whatever I'm dealing with. Number two Dot this down. Prayer gives me directions. Gives me direction. That's what happened with David. He prays him. Lord, what should I do? Shall I go after him? Lord says, yep. Am I going to be able to get my family back? Lord says, yes, you will. And he knew what to do now. He knew what direction to go. He knew what action to take. He had prayed and God directed him. He acknowledged the Lord in all his ways and God directed his paths. And I tell you, how many problems could we have avoided in our lives If only we had prayed first and trusted God and let Him lead us. But we take things in our own hands and we do things without even thinking. about uh uh what maybe God's will is or what God's perspective would be on this thing. Prayer is so important It establishes a correct frame of mind. It gives me direction, especially when I pray with an open Bible. Jot this one down. Number three, I put this down Prayer, I like this one. Prayer produces anticipation. Prayer produces anticipation. How many old when you were little you ever say to your parents, they're going to go to the store. Now we didn't have Walmart back when I was little. Um they didn't have a lot of stuff they have today when I was little. But when you go to the store, uh say something like, Dad, you think I could get you think I could get a new uh glove for Little League? And he'd say something like this, well maybe. Ooh, that wasn't no. And I made the request, and so the whole time I'm in there, I'm anticipating getting what? Baseball Gl. I made the request and I'm anticipating. You know what? When we pray in faith, you know what I found happens in my life When I begin to pray in faith believing, I start looking for something. I start watching for something. What is it? An answer to that prayer. Say, well, I don't know. I don't expect any answer to my prayer. Well you're not praying in faith believing. Now that's not to say God's going to give us everything we want, but it does mean this. If I pray, I can anticipate an answer to prayer. How many people here believe God lies? No, God doesn't lie. If he says, ask, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh it shall be open unto you. How many how many people that sounds like you can anticipate something from God? Yeah I'm telling you, there's nothing, there is nothing like living a life of anticipation I'm anticipating God doing something. I'm anticipating God answering this prayer. I'm anticipating God leading me and directing me through this situation. Man, what a way to live! Anticipation. I'll tell you, when people lose any anticipation from God, boy, they're struggling. They're distressed. And so David prayed and he anticipated an answer. If we really believe that God answers prayer, we'll start watching for answers after we pray. We start anticipating. I've for years, and I've said it in here in prayer, a number of times. I've said, Lord, I would like to see visible answers to the prayers I pray. I'd like to see an answer. I was this afternoon. I was back in my study at the house and working on stuff, praying through some things, and I said, Lord, I would like to see this. I'd like to see you answer this. I would like to not just hope someday maybe, but I'd like to see it happen. You know what that's called? That's called anticipation. Anticipation. I think God wants us to anticipate. How many times did you read in your Bible it says this? Watch and pray. What are you watching for? Watching for the answer. Watching for God's response. I'm watching for God stepping in and getting involved when I pray. And so prayer is important. First of all, it establishes a correct frame of mind. Number two, it gives me some direction in life. Number three, it produces the anticipation I put this one down. Number four, prayer is important because my relationship with God gets stronger. My relationship with my Lord gets stronger. You know what the key is to strong relationships? What do they say it? James says it in his class, I'm sure. Every marriage thing says it when people are going to get married. Uh, Courtney and Carl came in la got married here uh in the Corona marriage and um We were meeting together. You know what I told him over and over and over? You've got to learn to communicate. You gotta talk, Carl. It's not gonna make a bit of sense what she the way she thinks to you, but you gotta try and listen and understand. I said Courtney, Carl makes no sense at all whatsoever to a woman But you've got to listen to what he says. You've got to learn to talk. Uh I like remember Bill Barron. He'd say this. We said, We're not c uh we're not compatible. We can't we gotta get a divorce. We're not compatible. He says no man or woman has ever been compatible. We're on two completely different levels. There's a lot of truth to that, but that can be dealt with by learning to communicate. It's strength. You know, I found out Kathy and I get a whole lot along a whole lot better when we're talking. Now, I never do this, but sometimes she gets mad and won't talk to me. Not very often. It's kind of I better be careful here, Brother Wilbur. But uh but you know what I found out? We're a whole lot closer when we're what? Communicating. Now don't go home and say, oh Pastor Leatherman and Mrs. Leatherman are fighting. No, we're not. But you know, when I pray, what am I doing? I'm talking to God I'm talking to God. When I read my Bible, He's speaking to me. You know what I found? Those that have the strongest relationship with the Lord are those who pray consistently and regularly. Right. It established it strengthens my relationship with the Lord. We communicate one with another. My relationship with the Lord gets stronger. Number five. Jot this down. Prayer is an expression. Now this is a little longer one. Prayer is an expression of my dependence upon and my submission to the Lord. Prayer is an expression of my dependence upon and submission to the Lord. I tell you, Mark sang a song Sunday morning, sang it again yesterday at Linda's funeral. It's a tremendous song, and I found myself singing it the last few days. Lord, I need you. Like the flower needs the rain. Lord, I need you. When I bow before the Lord in prayer, you know what I'm saying? God, I need you. David, when he uh leaned on his own understanding and fled to the Philistines, He didn't have that attitude at all. Lord, I don't need you. I'll go over there. They'll help me. They'll do for me what you promised to do, but I'm looking to them. But I tell you now, when his family's gone, his possessions are gone, he's at the bottom, everybody's turned against him, he's completely alone. He finally looks up to God and says, God, I need you Now, as hard as that is, that's a good place to be, amen or not. And it's an expression of my dependence upon and my submission to the Lord. Lord, I'm depending on you. Lord, I'm looking to you. Number six, I put this down. Prayer is important. Number six, because it's the way I receive answers to prayers. Now, this is profound. Do you know what I found? God doesn't answer the prayers I don't pray. Isn't that amazing? James put it this way: you have not Because you what? Ask not. What do you want? What do you want? What do you want God to do? What do you want God to give you? What do you want God to change? What do you want God to provide? What do you want God to give you victory over? He says, ask me. I found that the only way to get my prayer, the first step in getting my prayers answered is pray. Pray. John R. R. said prayer, uh he said prayerlessness is sinfulness. He said it's sinful to pray. The prophet Samuel said that. God forbid that I should sin against God when I cease to pray for you. I didn't quote that exactly right. So it's the way we receive answers to prayer. How many people think we need some answers to prayer now? Good heavens. If we've ever needed answers to prayer, it's now. We're not going to get them if we don't pray. We're not going to get them if we don't pray. And last of all, and I'll end with this, number seven, prayer ends up changing my life. Prayer ends up changing my life. I found that about as often as God, I ask God to change my situation, about as often as he changes the situation, or maybe more often, he ends up changing me about the situation. God will sometimes change our attitude about the situation. Classic example of that is in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, when Paul is praying that the thorn in his flesh be taken, says, Lord, take this thorn in the flesh from me. Three times he sought the Lord. All three times the Lord said, No, my grace is sufficient. No, my grace is sufficient. No, Paul, you got everything you need to deal with this thorn in the flesh. I'm not taking it away. Why? Because when you're weak, then I can be strong in your life. And the interesting thing is Paul at the beginning of that passage says, I sought the Lord. It's a messenger of Satan to buffet me. But when you get down to the end of that passage, listen to what he says. Most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my infirmities. His whole attitude was changed. His whole perspective on the situation. God answered prayer, but not by taking the thorn away, but by changing Paul's attitude about it. Ends up changing my life, the attitude towards my situation. Maybe my attitude towards others. Oh, so-and-so, God, so-and-so, you need a strike, I'm dead. Rip the child from their womb and sever their arms. Paul would praise stuff like that, or not Paul, David praised stuff like that in the Old Testament. In Psalms. Man alive. He was brutal. Maybe the answer to that prayer isn't having them head chopped off. God answered, God, I wish you'd chop his head off. You know, anybody here ever prayed that? Don't raise your hand. Maybe the solution to the problem isn't chopping their head off. Maybe the solution to the problem is changing my attitude about that person Huh? You know what I've found? It's hard to gossip about somebody that you're praying desperately for, that you're on your knees weeping. God help them. God help her. God, prayer changes our lives a lot of times. Can't pray for someone and be bitter at them. You can't pray for someone and be unforgiving. It's hard to pray for someone and gossip about them. Prayer changes our attitude towards our possessions. Oh Lord, I need a new BMW Z three five speed. Oh God, I need it. I prayed that occasionally over the years. I never got one. But you know what I found out? God kind of changed this in, no, Dan, you really don't need a car like that. And he changes our attitude about possessions. And when we sincerely pray, we ask God for stuff, stuff, stuff, stuff. And sometimes God changes us and we realize, you know, I don't need all this stuff. I think sometimes we're a whole lot happier with less stuff than we are with more stuff. And God teaches us that through prayer. Changes our lives, our attitude towards situation, others, our possessions, and even ourselves. And I think one of the ways to see us for what we really are is when we spend time in prayer. We spend time in prayer. I made this statement. I must never allow myself To underestimate the importance or the power of prayer. David is in the greatest crisis of his life up to this point. They're talking about his own men are talking about stoning them. Everything is taken from him. He is totally alone. And he prayed. And the whole situation changed. His whole frame of mind, everything. So my challenge to us here and those online, our challenge to myself. Let's commit ourselves not just to reading that Bible every day like we talked about, let's commit ourselves to pray, and I mean sincerely, earnestly pray, on a regular basis, when crises come up throughout the day Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you would help us. And I'm asking for a revival of prayer in my own heart and in our church. And Lord, across the body of Christ around the world, our nation especially, teach us to pray, Lord. Prompt us to pray. Convict us if we're not praying like we should. Make our homes homes of prayer. Make our church a house of prayer. We need you to help us, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks, this is all the invitation is, how many folks say, Preacher, I need a revival of prayer in my own heart, my own life, I need revival of prayer. Any feel that way, my hands raised. Maybe we need to ask God for that. Maybe the reason our prayer life is so long, we're not asking Him to revive it and to establish it. Maybe it begins by saying, Lord, teach me to pray. Prompt me. Revive it in my heart and life. If we're not saved, we can call on the Lord sincerely, humble ourselves, acknowledge our sins, turn to Christ. He died for us, rose again. Call on Him to be our Savior. God will forgive and save us. Father, bless imitation I ask now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.