This uh section of David's life, this this period of David's life as he is coming to the end of his life really, and he's giving this charge to Solomon, his son, who is God's appointed um successor to the throne And of course there were several issues. You remember with Absalom tried to usurp the throne and Adonijah tried to sub uh usurp the throne. But God chose Solomon, and so now David is giving this charge to Solomon. We've been looking at two passages One is in 1 Kings chapter 2, here we're, and we're just going to be in 1 Kings chapter 2 tonight. I want to look at a passage here But also in 1 Chronicles chapter 28 is another account of the same charge that David gave. It has a little, covers a little bit more than Kings does. 1 Kings has some that Chronicles does not. And so between the two we get an idea of what the charge consisted of. And I think there's some lessons for us there. So we're in 1 Kings chapter 2. And I want to begin reading in verse number one again. Some of this is a little repetitious, and I'll read down through verse 9. Ready? There in verse 1. Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. He only has a short time to live. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Be strong therefore. Be thou strong therefore, and show thyself a man. And keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments, and his judgments, and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses. that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue his word, which he spake concerning me saying, if thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth, with all their heart, with all their soul, there shall not fail thee, said he, a man on the throne of Israel Moreover, thou knowest also, now here's the section we're going to look at tonight, beginning in verse 5. Moreover, thou knowest also what Joab, the son of Zariah, did to me And what he did to the two captains of the host of Israel, unto Abner the son of Nur, and unto Amash the son of Jether, whom he slew and shed the blood of war in peace. He acted like they were at war, but they were really at peace. And put the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his feet. Do therefore according to thy wisdom, and let not his whorehead go down to the grave in peace. So we noted this before. David says that Joab murdered these two fellows, is what he's saying. kind of descriptive terminology there, but he says he murdered these two boys, and he says, Don't you let this guy die don't you let uh um let not his whorehead go down to the grave in peace. In other words, you need to take his life That's what David said. Do therefore according to thy wisdom, let not his forehead go down into the grave in peace. Verse 7, but show kindness unto the sons of Berzili. the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table. For so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom thy brother. So he's got Joab, he addresses to Solomon. You need to deal with Joab. Then he mentions Barzilei, mentions his blessings. And now he mentions one more in verse 8. And behold, thou hast with thee Shimei, the son of Gerah, Benjaminite. of Bahurim, which cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mah Mahanaim But he came down to meet me at Jordan, and I swear to him by the Lord, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword. Now therefore, hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man and knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him But his whorehead bring thou down to the grave with blood. And verse ten, then David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. So discharged to Solomon. Let's pray And we'll pick up where we left off last time. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this key point in David's life, this transition time. And I pray you would help us learn from it and apply principles to our lives. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would impress upon our heart how this applies to our lives individually. Lord, I yield my will to you again at this hour for this message. I present me my body anew. Lord, give to you to fill me with your spirit and you just speak through me And challenge us, help our church. We're praying for revival. We're praying, Lord, you'd help us to humble ourselves before you and before one another. And we want your grace and we need your mercy and your blessing. And so I ask this, Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. David gives this challenge to His son Solomon. The first one we looked at, and I just summarized it with a simple statement, he challenged him to do right, to do what's right. You're going to be king. You're going to be king of Israel, you need to do what is right. And we spent some time looking at that. And then we said uh last week we picked up his second point, I guess, if you want to put it that way, and his challenge was to carry on. Remember we uh used the illustration of uh a relay race And he says, I am handing the baton of leadership. I'm handing this baton of responsibility and position and authority. I'm handing it off to you, Solomon. Now you need to take that and run and carry on in the direction that God has given us. Um we uh uh he uh clarifies uh just quickly last week he said that he clarified Solomon's purpose. It says, God has chosen you. Solomon, you have a purpose, a clearly defined purpose for your life. And uh we emphasize the fact that I believe every single person, years and years. of studying the Bible, reading it and studying it, years working with people, I am absolutely convinced that God has a plan and a purpose for every single person's life. And that's vitally important for us to understand. There is a reason I'm alive. There is a reason God has equip me with the abilities that he's equipped me. There's a reason he gave me the physical characteristics that I have. And so David emphasizes to Solomon, you are chosen of God, you have a reason, there's a purpose for you. So he he uh clarifies his purpose, then he challenges his commitment. He said there We noticed he told him to take heed. And he said, be strong and do what God has called you to do. I put I've in my notes here. Get her done. What God's given you to do, get her done. And now we pick up here, he confers to Solomon, I think that's where I ended last week. He confers to Solomon the temple plans. And that's over in Chronicles. And he gives to him some pretty specific plans on building the temple. And that's part of Solomon's responsibility. It's part of his purpose was to build the temple. And David did everything he could to prepare him for that. And so he gives these plans that were given to David by God. Now, I want to look here at this passage we just read, beginning in verse number five. David makes, he has some personal issues that he includes in this charge here. Now, these are intensely personal. Everything that he's charged or instructed Solomon up to this point had to do with the nation of Israel in general. Solomon, you need to do right because you're king and your actions are going to have an influence on the nation. I think we mentioned this before, but if you study through Kings and Chronicles, you study the history of Israel, the various kings When the king did right, the country tended to do right. When the leadership did wrong, the country tended to do wrong. Dr. Lee Robertson always said, everything rises and falls on leadership. So everything that Solomon has been challenged or instructed or charged by King David to this point has been a public In a sense. It had to do with the nation and his responsibility as king. But now, these several verses here we looked at, David injects into this charge some real personal issues. And as I said before, I get the impression reading this that two of these three men he mentions here, it ate at David what they did. It bugged him And he's on his deathbed now, and he can't let it go. And he says, Solomon, you need to uh here's what you need to do with these guys. Now here's my question. I have a question I asked myself, and I've come up with two answers. My question is why did David inject these intensely personal, very emotional uh uh issues, people into His charge to Solomon. This has little or nothing to do with the nation of Israel, at least on the surface. So my first when I first I started looking at this and asking myself, why is this, why is David dealing with these people this way? publicly in a in a in an official charge. My first response was this: I wonder if David has become a bitter old man. If these guys have gotten to him, got under his skin, and the things they said and the way he was treated And uh what they did, if this hasn't been eating at David and just stewing under the surface in his heart and mind, and finally he's come to the end of his life And he's allowed this to make him a bitter man. How many people know what I'm talking about? Something gets inside there and it just stews over time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now some people, you know, personalities are different. People are different. Some people, something can happen, they deal with it, they go on, and they never even think about it again. And then other people somebody says or does something or or behaves a certain way and man it just gets down in your crawl and it just sits there and you stew on it for a while Uh you know what I'm talking about? I I hate to admit this, but I'm mine is it it means if something like that happened, if somebody does something, they lie to me or something Man, I tend to dwell on that in my heart and mind. I tend to let that eat at me. Can I get a witness? Anybody else like that? Man, it just it's there. And I God has to help me with that, and I need to just give that to the Lord. And I'm reading what David is talking here and what things he's saying about uh Joab and Mount uh Shimi in particular. And I'm just wondering if he hasn't gotten bitter One of the great dangers as we age, one of the great dangers as we age is becoming bitter. I don't know what that is, but it's a besetting sin sometimes in the latter years of life. Um and I was wondering why that was. I've jotted some things down here that may be some things that might tend to make some of us bitter in our latter years of life. I thought maybe sometimes unfulfilled dreams. Maybe I had a dream for my life and I ma imagine how My life was going to pan out, how it was going to go out, and it doesn't go that way. And now I'm coming down to the end of my life and I'm realizing these dreams are never going to happen And the way I imagined it and the way I planned it isn't going to come together. And if we're not careful, we can get bitter about that. And allow that to eat at us. Sometimes I think bitterness in old age is sometimes frustration with diminishing physical abilities. How many folks here have found that you cannot do some of the things you used to do 35 years ago? How many people find that frustrating Yes. And it's like, man, I want to do this. And it's like, man, I used to I always used to be able to do this, and now I can't. And that frustration becomes anger. And that anger, if not dealt with, if not put off, as Paul tells us in Ephesians and Colossians, if that anger is not put off It begins to smolder and morphs into bitterness. And we become bitter because of the limitations, our physical limitations that come with old age. I wonder if that isn't a factor. I think sometimes maybe years of hurt and disappointment. People said and did things, like in David's case here, people said and did things to us. Rather than dealing with it in a scriptural manner, we let it eat at us, and it gets bigger in our mind, and it gets worse in our mind, and as the years go by, it gets deeper in our heart. Before we know it, we come to the end of our life, and we are so bitter about everything and everybody because of hurts that we've had. Throughout life and disappointments, people have said and done things that hurt us. And we don't deal with it scripturally, and it turns into bitterness in the later years of life. I wondered if, and I'm not saying these are David's situation, I'm just saying these are some reasons that people would become bitter. I think sometimes maybe the fear of death That anticipation that my life, I'm coming to the end of my life, and maybe uh now, Lord willing, this wouldn't be so much for a believer, because believer, for a believer, death is simply a door to eternal life. But I can see for an unsaved person, death is approaching, and that fear, and I tell you, fear is often displayed in anger. The root of much anger is so often fear, and we get angry. When we get scared, we get angry And maybe that would be a factor, that in fear of debt. I read a quote today I was telling Brother Harry, everybody wants to live a long time, but nobody wants to grow old Right? My dad used to say, man, getting old real is he he used to put it this way, getting old is not for sissies He said, and he used to say, getting old really stinks. I said, Dad, there's only one other option. It's either live long and get old. Sometimes I wonder if that fear of death doesn't produce anger, and that anger becomes bitterness, maybe. I think sometimes just physical pain. Just hurting all the time. How many people hurt when you get up in the morning? How many people hurt when you go to bed at night? It's just all the time. And uh if we're not careful, that can get to us. And we get frustrated and angry with that, emotional pain. Maybe the death of a loved one, a family member, someone dear to us. And if we're not careful, we can get bitter with that. I've seen that happen. So I don't know what uh you know whatever here is, but I'm wondering, I'm looking at some of the stuff David says about Abner, man, he murdered these two men and there's blood on his hands. Well actually he says blood on his girdle and his shoes He's saying he's responsible for their murder. And don't let him die in peace. You take him down, and David's implying here, you take him out violently The root of bitterness, I believe, is a self-centered focus. The root of bitterness, self-centered focus. You looked at my notes. I wonder if David's just a bitter old man here. Bitterness is a result of self-centered focus. If you would, take your Bibles here and come back to Hebrews with me. Keep your place because we're going to look at this a little bit more, some. But Hebrews chapter 12 deals with this issue of bitterness. I'd venture to by the way, not just old people, but young people get bitter too. In fact, I want to suggest to you our society is appearing to be more bitter all the time Angry and bitter. And I tell you, it's a self-centered focus. It's a poison. Look at Hebrews chapter 12. Come over to verse number 14 with me. He says, follow peace with all men. Hebrews 12, 14, follow peace with all men. And holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. Now look at verse 15. Now I underlined the first two words of my Bible. Looking diligently, lest Or in the danger of, or this is going to happen, looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any, look at this, root of bitterness springing up. Trouble who? Trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Verse sixteen, lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. Bitterness, the root of bitterness. Esau was bitter when he foolishly and selfishly sold his uh birthright for a little pot of porridge. What a foolish Transaction. And then he was bitter, became angry and bitter. How do I avoid bitterness? How do I avoid it in the first place? And how do I overcome it if it's taken root? Say, preacher, I don't like to admit it. I wouldn't say it publicly, but I'm telling you, I'm dealing with bitterness in my heart and soul. I've got bitterness there. How do I overcome that? Or how do I avoid it in the first place? Well, I think there's two things suggested here. And I won't spend a lot of time on them, but I think one of them is I must be diligent in my spiritual life. Look what he says there. Verse 15, looking diligently. Lest any man fail of the grace of God, looking diligently. That word diligent means applying myself with earnestness. Looking diligently, being very, very focused, very, very disciplined in my Christian life. In other words, I need to make sure that I'm doing what I need to do to stay close to the Lord. And I know I say this all the time, but I say it again, spending time with the Lord on a daily basis Getting alone with God, letting him speak to me from his word, and then pouring my heart out to God. And if I'm struggling, somebody said or did something, I'm angry or bitter at someone, bringing that to the Lord Looking diligently. I'm telling you, the Christian life is not a game. It is not something we toy with or play with. We have got to be diligent in our walk with God. Our faithfulness to church. Now, I know Wednesday night you're here in church. Praise God for it. But we've got to be very, very careful. Keep short accounts with God. If I mess up or something, man, bring it to the Lord right away. Don't let that thing fester. So I need to be, if I'm going to avoid bitterness, I need to be diligent in my spiritual life. And then I notice here he says, looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God. I put it this way: don't neglect God's grace. God enables us to have victory. He says, somebody, preacher, you don't know what he did to me. You don't know what she's done to me. She hurt me more deeper than anyone could ever hurt me. I can never forgive him for what he's done and said. I tell you, you're failing to see the grace of God in your life. I'll tell you right now, this is a little off radar here a little bit. I'll tell you right now, not one of us. Have been sinned against as deeply as we have sinned against our Savior. And He died for us. And His grace, He is full of grace and truth And he's the embodiment of the grace of God. He loves me, and he does not. Aren't you glad Jesus isn't bitter at us for what we've done? And he says, don't you fail of the grace of God. You allow that root of bitterness, you're failing to see the grace of God. Now here's the thing. Whatever that person may have said or done, whatever they may have done that I've that I am using to justify my anger and using to justify my bitterness, whatever that is, God allowed it to come into my life God could have stopped that. God could have kept them from saying or doing whatever they did, but God didn't. And he allowed it in my life. That tells me that whatever they said or did, however they may have hurt me or whatever I'm justifying my bitterness and anger with because of something about them, whatever that is, God allowed it in my life, and that means God can use it to help me be a better Christian, not a bitter Christian. All these things, all things work together for good. All things are allowed into our life so that we can be conformed to the image of Christ. God gives us opportunity when people mistreat us, when people do us unjustly. That is God giving me an opportunity to treat them the way a disciple treats someone He said, bless them that curse you, do good to them that despitefully use you, pray for them that treat you wrong. That's the grace of God. Listen, any old any unsaved drunkard can get bitter because somebody treats them wrong. The most wicked, unsaved person can be bitter and angry because they were treated wrong, but a child of God that has the grace of God, God enables us to be kind and gracious and loving, even the people that treat us wrong You follow what I'm saying? He says, don't fail the grace of God. You're looking at this the way the world looks at it. Yeah, no matter what it's called at the end of the way to Yes, absolutely. It's absolutely. And it's kind of like and you ever hear this saying, a watch pot never boils It just seems forever, and you keep looking at that, it just gets bigger and bigger. It never goes away. But we have something the world doesn't have We are peculiar people. We are not the same as the world. We are fundamentally different than the unsaved world. And we have the grace of God that enables us to guard against and overcome the flesh's response to injustices to us. And listen, we can try and excuse our bitterness, we can try and excuse our anger and our hatred, we can try and justify it all we want because of what somebody else did. But I'll tell you this, we're held responsible before God for how we respond to that. And he's saying here, don't you neglect that grace of God. Don't you fail that grace of God. God allows these hurts and disappointments into our lives. Not to produce bitterness, but to develop us into Christ-like disciples of Jesus Christ. I've mentioned this lady often over the years. She had such a profound impact on my life. I'd like to believe I'm a better Christian because of this woman's influence in my life. It was a dear black lady down in inner city Chattanooga, Tennessee, lived in the ghettos, I mean government slum housing. And every Saturday we'd go by. Her name was Anna Nixon Tate. She was probably late 80s, early 90s. This was like 1983, 84, 85 in that range We go visit her every Saturday in the slum. She didn't have ten bucks to her name probably. Light bulb, literally a light bulb hanging in her living room, a sofa, a bed, a little kitchen table, and that was it And we'd walk in there every Saturday and Mrs. Tate, oh, she called me Brother Danny. Come on in. She's about that tall, white hair, all wrinkled up. She married three times. Her husband's three husbands died. Grew up, she told me one time, I said, Well Miss Kate, where'd you grow up? She goes, I grew up in s you know, she had that Tennessee accent. I grew up in southern Alabama We used to pick corn when I was, or not corn, pick cotton when I was six, seven, eight years old. We'd be out there in that hot sun all day. Mistreated, prejudice, all that stuff, and the deep south, the black lady in the deep south, all the mistreatment she had I'm here to tell you she was one of the happiest Christians I ever met in my life. She'd rejoice and she'd quote scripture psalms, chapters from the book of Psalms, entire chapters. She said, Brother Danny Let me see if I still got this memorized, and she'd read it to me and be word-perfect. You know what? She did not let the grace of God fail in her life. She saw and she would make statements about passages of scripture that was profound. How God had worked in her life and God allowed this and God took care of her there. And she had nothing but praise. I look at the world today, and everybody's bitter and angry and hateful. Here was a woman that had the grace of God all over her. Rejoice and praise God. And I'd tell her, I said, Ms. Tate, your little apartment here is a haven of rest to me. Come in here and I get refreshed and I get encouraged. I wonder if David was just a bitter old man. Angry, let this get under his skin and allowed it to become bitterness in his heart. And he says, Solomon, you don't you you give these guys a violent death Or, that's one option, that's option, that's door number one. What's behind door number two? Is there another possibility what's going on here with David telling Solomon to deal with these fellows the way he does? I think there is another possibility I'm wondering if David isn't concerned about Solomon's future well-being as the king of Israel. David knew these fellas. He'd been dealing with them for years. And I'm wondering if at least two of these three he mentioned here, Joab and Shimei Two of these fellows are very clear and present danger to Solomon. They are a very real threat to Solomon's well-being as king, perhaps even his life. And I'm wondering if he isn't saying to Solomon, son, these fellows, I could deal with that. I knew Joab from a boy. We grew up together. Shemiah, he was the family of King Saul. I've been dealing with them for years. I couldn't deal with them, but Solomon, they're going to be a real threat to you. I could keep them at bay, I could hold them down, but when I'm off the scene, they're going to be a very real and a very present danger to your administration and maybe to your life itself. I'm wondering if that wasn't his thinking. Barzillii was a blessing. David knew that Barzilei and his boys, his family, they could help Solomon tremendously And he wants to maintain, I'm wondering if he isn't telling Solomon, listen, you maintain that relationship with Barzilli. You be a blessing to him, and he'll be a blessing to you. Joab and Shemiah, Shemiah, those two fellows, you've got to deal with them. They're going to cause you problems. One of the greatest challenges in the ministry is dealing with people. Let me let me modify that statement. One of the challenges in the Christian life is dealing with people Most people backslide and get out of the will of God because of their inf their unscriptural interaction with other people That's the challenge in the Christian life. You read the epistles Paul wrote, a huge portion of the epistles is how to get along with people. How to deal with difficult people. One of the biggest challenges in the Christian life is dealing with difficult people. How many people, when I say use that term, dealing with difficult people, you're thinking of someone right now when I say that. We all, it's part of life. It's part of the Christian experience. Some people are a blessing. Some people are not as much of a blessing as others are. And we have to be able to deal with people. We have to be able to interact with people in a scriptural fashion, or it's going to hurt us spiritually. One of the top reasons I believe people quit the ministry is because of difficult people. Sunday school teacher, I can't handle this anymore Pastors. I think I think one reason pastors jump from church to church to church every other year I was preaching last night in Virginia, I was challenging them, I said, you get a ministry, you plant your feet, you stay there. Pastors jump from church to church to church to church every 18 months or somewhere else. I think it's because they have a hard time. They haven't learned to be able to deal with difficult people. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus have any difficult disciples? I think he had twelve. They're fussing and fighting over who's the greatest grown man. One of the top reasons I believe people quit the ministry, typical people, missionaries come off the mission field Paul had continual issues with difficult people. Alexander the coppersmith did me much harm. Be thou aware of him. In the eternal word of God, Alexander the Coppersmith's name is right there for all eternity recorded that he gave Paul a hard time. Demetrius, John said, loves to have the preeminence. He wants to run the show. Difficult people Are a major factor in the Christian life, dealing with Christian people difficult people. Dealing with uh people requires wisdom. If you would, look here. There's a statement David made. Now come back to Kings here. Verse number six. David makes an interesting statement. That kind of caught my attention and got me thinking. Look at verse 6. Do therefore according, this is talking about Joab and he tells them how what all he did all he did murdering these guys Do therefore, verse 6, according to thy what? Wisdom. Then he says, let not his whorehead go down to the grave in peace. He's saying, Listen, you're going to need some wisdom dealing with these guys. Dealing with people in general requires wisdom. Wisdom is knowing when to keep your mouth shut. Wisdom is the ability to pick your fights. There's some things not worth fussing over. Requires wisdom. He says, you do according to your wisdom. Dealing with people requires wisdom. Dealing with difficult people requires wisdom. Now, here's my as I'm reading that, he says there, do therefore according to thy wisdom. When he used that word wisdom, and he's talking to Solomon, huh? What was the first thing Solomon asked for when God approached him as king? Said, God said, Solomon, what would you like for me to do for you? What did he ask for? Wisdom. Didn't he ask for wisdom after these events? Uh well when he first became king, after he was anointed king, God approached him I don't think, I'll double check, but I don't think he dealt with these guys at that point yet. Now he may have, I'm not sure. But here's the point I'm trying to get to I'm wondering if David's saying to Solomon, listen, you deal with these guys according to your wisdom. I wonder if that isn't what prompted Solomon to ask God for wisdom David says, you need to deal with them according to wisdom, and maybe Solomon's thinking, man, I don't know if I have the wisdom that I need to do this. And God shows up and says, Solomon, what would you like? He says, Well, I need wisdom. And so dealing with people requires wisdom. Deal with difficult people requires wisdom. And so maybe this very little statement that David made here is maybe what prompted Solomon to ask the Lord for wisdom rather than riches. Of course, God ended up giving them both. Threats to my spiritual health. These fellows, and I believe this is what's David's motive. I don't think David was a bitter old man. I said all that to say I don't think that was the case. Maybe wrong, but I don't think so. I think David was concerned for Solomon's well-being, and he's saying, you've got to watch out for these guys. They're going to be a danger to you. Threats to my spir threats to the throne of Israel had to be dealt with. They could not ignore it. They could not just Solomon could not just pretend that these guys did not exist. There were very real dangers. They had to be dealt with. They had to be addressed. And that's what David is emphasizing to Solomon. And threats to your spiritual health and my spiritual health. Let's make it practical here. Threats to your spiritual health and my spiritual health must be dealt with. We cannot just float through the Christian life in a world that hates Christ. We cannot just float through a world that is in darkness of sin. We must be alert, we must be aware, we must deal with threats to our spiritual well-being. By the way, we must deal with threats to our church's spiritual well-being We cannot live in a fantasy world and just pretend that everybody loves us and we're all going to win Citizen of the Year Award. There are forces that oppose your spiritual well-being. There are forces that oppose my spiritual growth. There are forces that oppose the well-being and the health and the growth and success. of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and they must be addressed. And that's what David's telling Solomon, I think, here. One of the primary ways of dealing with spiritually toxic people or spiritually toxic forces is biblical separation. Now, to me, I call that the most neglected doctrine of Scripture. Separate from that which is wrong, separate from people which are harmful, biblical separation. I got a couple minutes yet. If you would, come with me to Proverbs chapter 22. Seems like we end up in Proverbs a lot. Very practical. Proverbs 22. And notice with me, if you would, verse 24. Proverbs 22 and verse 24. Now he's very clear here. There's no misunderstanding what's being said in Proverbs 22, verse 24. He says, make no friendship with an angry man. I mean people say, I have a hard time understanding what that means. Pretty clear, isn't it? Make no friendship with an angry man. Why? And with a furious man thou shalt not go. Why? Verse 25. Lest thou what? Learn his ways and get a snare to thy soul. You know what? He's dangerous to you. It'll hurt you spiritually. It'll affect you. He'll influence you. Um did you know that anger is contagious? You can be just as happy as can be and stand in line at Walmart and the person in front of you get mad and before you know it you're mad too It's contagious. Do you ever do you ever have somebody get angry at you and you try not to get angry back? But you did. It's hard. Have somebody mad angry at you and not get angry back. That's hard to do And Solomon is telling us here under the inspiration of God in Proverbs, he says, don't you run with that guy. Don't you be friends with that that gal. If they got anger issues, if they're furious, they're bitter and angry and a and uh and uh uh furious Man, you keep your distance from them. You stay away. Because it'll affect you. It'll affect you. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and go to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And verse number nine, First Corinthians chapter five, verse nine, Paul addresses this issue. Now, David instructed Solomon to kill these guys, basically. You take them down. Don't let their hoary head go down to the grave in peace. You take them out violently. Nowhere in Scripture is God telling you and I to kill those who treat us wrong. Alright? We're not told to do that. But we are told to keep our distance. Notice verse 9 of 1 Corinthians 5. I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company. Would you agree? Stay away from. Don't keep your distance. Separate. Not to company with fornicators Yet altogether with the fornicators of this world or with the covetous or extortioners or idolaters He says, don't you keep company with them. And in the world, they're all around you. You can't, he says you must needs go out of the world. If you're not going to cross paths with them, all you'd have to leave the world. They're everywhere. But, verse 11 Now I have written unto you, not to keep company of any man that is what? Called a brother. Who's he talking about now? Christians. He said, I told you before, don't keep the world out there. They're all like it. We can't help but interact them. But now, if there's a brother Be a fornicator or covetous or an idolater or a railer or a drunkard or an extortioner with such a one. No, not to eat. Keep your distance. Come over, if you would, to uh uh chapter Let's see, come over to 2 Corinthians real quickly with me. And look at chapter 6. It's writing to the church again. Verse fourteen, chapter six, Second Corinthians 6. 14. But be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what shall fellowship hath righteous with unrighteous? What communion hath light with darkness? What concord Or agreement, the word concord means agreement, sort of. What concord has Christ with Belial? That's another term for Satan What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? What agreement hath a temple of God with idols? The answer to all that is none For ye are the temple of the living God, and God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, verse 17 Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, touch not the unclean thing. You know why? Because it's going to hurt you. It's a threat to your spiritual well-being. There are some people we ought not to hang around with, spend time with, because they have a negative, a harmful, toxic influence on us. If that guy is always using filthy language, or that gal at the office is always using filthy language, guess what? It's in your head You know, moment of of weakness or something, man, next thing you know you said something. Say, what in the world? You follow what I'm saying? And so David is, I think he's trying to protect Solomon from folks that are going to hurt him. Folks that are a threat to him. We don't kill them, like David told Solomon, but we keep our distance. And by the way, at no time should we ever be unkind to people. Even to even people that are hateful and bitter and toxic? Yeah, we should be kind to everybody. Is God kind to the just and the unjust? Yeah. God's good to everybody. We ought to be kind, but we don't have to walk arm in arm I think he's telling Solomon, and I'll end with this. I think he's telling Solomon there needs to be an awareness. You need to be aware that there are are dangers to your spiritual well-being. Solomon, you need to be aware. There are people that are a danger to you as the king of Israel. There are forces, there are people that are a danger to us spiritually. We have to be very, very careful. In fact, uh what did John? Is it 2 John? Or 3 Johnny says, if they come by with another doctrine, don't you bid them Godspeed. Don't you invite them in their house. If the Mormons or the Jehovah's Witness or any other cult comes by my house, I don't get him a cup of coffee, sit down in the living room and have tea together. I stand out in the porch, talk to them out there, and I tell them As gracious as I can, I ask the Lord to fill me with his Spirit, I say, listen, if you die believing what you're believing, you're lost for all eternity. You need Christ And so we gotta be aware of that. And then we need wisdom, and we talked about that, and we need to be able to recognize Those who are dangerous, and sometimes it's not so much that they're a danger to us, as they may just be ignorant. They might need some instruction, they might need time some spiritual growth, they might need some help, but some are toxic So we need wisdom to recognize them, and then we need wisdom to know how to deal with them. And then we need confidence. And sometimes it takes confidence and sometimes it takes courage to say, no, I'm not going there. No, I'm not going to do that with you. No, I'm not going to partake of that. And that takes a little bit of confidence. And a person who's not confident in their walk with God, and they're not confident in their spiritual well-being, will often give in and say, well, you know, uh Would you agree with me? It would took some confidence on Solomon's part to deal with these men the way David instructed him to deal with them It's not sissy actions. In fact, he said earlier, remember, he said, be a man. Be the man. Grow up. Take responsibility. Do right. You've got to deal with these issues. Because they're a very real danger to you. So we can't play games. You've probably heard this before, but there was um King that had a palace on top of a mountain. And the only road up there, and it was designed deliberately, the only road up there was very, very treacherous. On the one side was a sheer cliff that if you went off that cliff, it was certain death. The other side was a sheer cliff going up. Against the mountain, and that road circled and and switched back up and back and forth, back and forth, up to the big palace on top. And he needed a chariot driver They put the word out. Said the king's looking for a chariot driver. Tryouts this Saturday at 10 a. m. So three different fellows showed up. He goes, all right, let me see how you do going up here. The first guy wanted to impress the king and he got those horses, he got that chair, he goes, Oh yeah, watch this Giddy up! And they got those and he went right along the edge. Little rocks falling off the tire the wheels right on the edge. And went all the round there and made it all the way up. He said, Look how close I got to the edge, and I got you up here safely. Said, alright, Dex. Next guy came up and said, pfft. I can get closer than that So get it up and man this guy the tire the wheel's half off just about and gets all the way up look at that I got right on the edge and never fell over. See how good I am? All right Last fella, he gets in there, and he rides over against the cliff as tight as he can. He stays as tight against that cliff, going up and away from the edge as far as he can. They got to the top and the king said, You're hired. He said, I don't want anybody playing games with my life. And I think David's saying to Solomon, listen, don't play games. with things in life that are very, very dangerous. And for you and I as Christians, we can't play games with that television. But the activities going on in the world and different stuff. We can't play games. We got to stay close to the Savior. You follow? I think that's what David is telling Solomon. Solomon, don't tolerate these guys. You've got to deal with it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn. From David's instructions to Solomon, help us not be bitter. Lord, if any of us are, I pray you'd bring great conviction until we deal with that and get that out of our system. And then Lord help us not to play games and toy with this world. The stakes are too high. Consequences are too severe. Help us stay close to you, Lord. Help us to be diligent and not fail the grace of God, but trust you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, and I know some of this is between you and the Lord, but wonder if some would say, Preacher, you know, I need to I need to pay a little bit more attention to what I'm allowing to influence me and who I'm allowing to influence me. I want to be a little more careful there and make sure that I'm protecting my spiritual well-being. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I've got to be a little more careful there. Maybe the songs we're listening to, the talk shows, the radio podcasts, whatever I just gotta be a little careful. I need to be careful. Now I'm not gonna have you raise your hand, but maybe there's some say, preacher, I really allow bitterness in my heart. That root is there. I'm urging you, the only person you're hurting is yourself. It's like battery acid on the soul. You're miserable, I know it. I urge you, bring that to Christ and claim the grace of God and forgive. Put it under the blood. Give it to the Lord. Ask the Lord to fill you with Holy His Holy Spirit and fill you with the joy of the Lord. And God will help you. Father, I pray you bless us and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. The invitations here, how about maybe just come to an old altar and say, Lord, give me that wisdom I need to see the things