We had a wonderful time. 2 Samuel chapter number 6. I want to begin reading in verse 1. And when we finish that, I want you to keep your place here. We're going to go over to 1 Chronicles chapter 13 We're going to read a good portion of scripture there, then come back to 2 Samuel. So 2 Samuel 6, get it started. Then we'll go over to 1 Chronicles when I'm done reading here. I'm going to read down through verse 11. Beginning in verse number one, the Bible says again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Bala of Judah to bring up from thence the ark of God whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubims. And they set the ark of God upon a new cart. And brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drave the new cart. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God, and Ahio went before the ark. And David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of firwood, even on harps and psalteries, on timbrels, and on cornets and on cymbals. And when they came to Nakon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error, and there he died by the ark of God. David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, and he called the name of the place Perez Uzzah unto this day. David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? So David would not remove the ark of the Lord unto him into the city of David. But David carried it outside of the house of Obed Edom the Gittite, and the ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed Edom the Gittite three months And the Lord blessed Obed Edom and his house and his household. Now if you would, come over to 1 Chronicles. Go first, it's got 2 Samuel. You come over there, 1 Kings, and you hit 1 Chronicles. And notice with me chapter 13. And I want to begin reading verse 1. This is the Chronicles account of this very same event, but I want to read them both because it gives a little bit fuller description of what's taken place here. Verse 1 of chapter 13 of 1 Chronicles, the Bible says, and David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, and with every leader And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem good unto you, and that it be of the Lord our God, Let us send abroad unto our brethren everywhere that are left in the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites, which are in their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves together unto us. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us. For we inquired not at it in the days of Saul. And all the congregation said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of the people. So David gathered together all Israel. So David gathered all Israel together From Sihor of Egypt, even into the entering in of Hamat, to bring the ark of God from Kirjath Jiram And David went up and all of Israel to Balah, that is, to Kirjath Jiram, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God the Lord that dwelleth between the cherubims whose name is called on it. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab, and Uzzah and Ahio drave the cart David and all Israel played before God with all their might and with singing with harps and with psalteries, with timbrels, and with cymbals and with trumpets. When they came to the threshing floor of Shidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled The anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, therefore the place is called Perez Uzzah unto this day. And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? David brought not the ark home to himself, to the city of David, but carried it aside to the house of Obedidon, the Gittite And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months, and the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom and all that he had. My talk this evening, get started, is uh on David and the Ark. David and the Ark. Now I'm going to do tonight is uh just give the introduction thoughts because I want to spend a little bit of time here on this section and um I think there's a lot here for us to learn. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you Lord for uh the opportunity we had to study the life of David. And Lord, these significant events that have taken place, help us to learn from them. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would Take the truths and the principles here that you've given us in your word. And I pray your Holy Spirit apply them to our hearts and lives as you know we have need. And fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. With all my heart, I ask for that. I yield my will, I present my body, pray that uh I just be a conduit for you to speak through. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. I said this often throughout the study of David, actually over the years. I'm just fascinated by this man, David. And one thing that stands out in my mind about King David is this. He is a passionate man. He uh, whatever he was doing, he did it wholeheartedly He was out and out for the Lord. Psalms chapter 9, verse 1, the Bible says this. This is David writing under the inspiration of God. He says, I will praise thee, O Lord, with my whole heart. I think if David was sitting in a congregation and we're singing the hymns, we're singing out of the hymn book, you know what I think David would be doing? I think he'd be singing at the top of his lungs. He said, I'm going to praise you with my whole heart. I mean everything he had would be poured into it. David was a passionate man, passionate about the things of the Lord. passionate about his his uh his responsibilities now as king. Um he was a passionate man he was wholehearted In Psalms 103 and verse 1, again, David wrote this psalm under the inspiration of God. And he says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Again, he just wanted everything he had, every ounce of his being, all his mind and strength and body and soul, he put into serving God Praising God and uh and uh living for the Lord. He was wholehearted. Uh Psalms 108 and verse number 1, and again Psalms 57, verse 7. David said this under the inspiration of God. Oh God, my heart is fixed. In other words, God, I've given you all my heart. That's where it is. It ain't budging. You've got it. And I don't know about you, but I'd sure like to have a church member like that. Wow. Wouldn't you like to have some employees fired up about that, about your their job that way? David was passionate. He was whole-hearted. Psalms 138, verse 1, he said, I will praise thee with my whole heart. Whole heart. Whole heart. David's wholehearted. Now here's the thing. You get somebody, or you and I get stirred up, and we get that passionate about something, and we get that wholehearted, uh, uh zealous about something, there's an inherent danger. that comes along with that. And that is this. Being a passionate believer, that passion sometimes will produce recklessness. Sometimes you get so caught up, so fired up about it, you lose sight of some of the details and the specifics that are necessary in the situation and get so caught up in what you're doing. Do you follow what I'm trying to say? Now God praises wholeheartedness. God praises uh uh uh being passionate about things. God highly praises that and and God uh honors those who are wholehearted. Um uh Caleb was highly honored by God because he wholly followed the Lord. But sometimes passionate believers can become reckless in their walk with God. Now let me back up a little bit and let me say this. I believe a whole-hearted Christian, a passionate Christian, those kind of people are the ones that make the biggest difference in our world that we're at. You follow what I'm saying? You get somebody that's indifferent, half-hearted, they just kind of go along, you know, they just kind of mumble a little bit the songs, and they, you know, they're they just kind of go along. They don't make much of a difference in this world But you get somebody that's stirred up. You get somebody that's consumed. You get somebody that is consumed with Christ. And brother, I'll tell you, they start making a difference, and they affect their communities for the Lord. So being wholehearted, I don't want to be misunderstood. Being wholehearted is a good thing Being passionate for the Lord is a good thing. We need that, in fact, I've been praying for a couple years now, and more so lately, I've been praying for revival in our church. Revival fires to stir in our hearts. So it's a good thing. But we have to be careful. Sometimes we get so stirred up, we get a little careless and get a little reckless. in uh the details. We get so caught up in passion we overlook or we disregard the importance of details. And I said all that to say this. I think that's what happened with David here. He is stirred up about bringing this ark back. If you would, come down there. Come back to 2 Samuel if you would. And look at verse 5. Now, Chronicles mention this also, verse 5, almost verbatim, but notice how David's responding. When they're in the process of bringing this ark back to Jerusalem. And we're going to talk about this in a little more detail later on. But look at verse 5. And David and all the house of Israel, look at this played before the Lord on all manner of instruments and fur uh of fur wood and on and on harps and on psalters and on timbries and on cornets and on cymbals. Now they're bringing this ark along And David and all of Israel is with them. And man, they're playing these instruments, and they're singing, and they're stirred up, and they're just wound up. You know what that sounded like to me when I was studying that Sounds like a big parade, like a victory parade after World War II ended in New York City. Ticker tape parade. Man, the bands are playing, the people are cheering. And they're out there marching around. That's the impression I got. David is fired up about bringing this ark back. Now, what about this ark? The ark Uh he's transporting this ark back from a place called Kirjath Jiram. Now for 70 years Now think about this. For 70 years, the Ark of the Covenant, the most sacred piece of furniture in all of the world, this represents the presence of God. For 70 years, this ark has been setting in this place called Kirjath Jiram at the house of Abinadab. What had happened previously, you noted there in one of their passages it said that in all the years of King Saul, nobody inquired at the ark. It was just setting out in the warehouse, setting out in the barn, I guess. And uh what had happened was Israel got the bright idea. They were at war with the Philistines. They were getting whooped. This is 70 years earlier. They're getting whooped. They got the bright idea of using the Ark of the Covenant of God, most sacred piece of furniture in all of history, represents and was uh embodied the presence of Almighty God. They decided to use that as a good luck charm. They got that thing up and they took it out to battle with them. And it was kind of like, uh, I don't know if they still do it, but used to when I was young, you'd have a rabbit's foot. You carried a rabbit's foot around. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I was bring good luck. You had that rabbit's foot with you, nothing was going to happen. I never bought that because I wondered what happened to the rabbit, you know. That wasn't very good luck for that rabbit. He's at best he's running around missing a foot. But nevertheless, they decided that they were going to take the Ark and the Covenant, and their thinking was this: there ain't no way that God's going to let us lose if we've got the Ark of the Covenant with us. Hey, I've got news for you. You can't use God. God is not a good luck charm. He's not a vending machine. And you're going to take the most sacred piece of furniture and carry it around with you and think that somehow That that magically is going to bring God's blessings and protection. It doesn't work that way. When I worked at the meat packing plant, I mentioned this a number of times when I first got saved I was trying to be a witness to all those guys that I had partied with before. And uh so I got some I got some um Gideon Bibles. Anybody remember those little pocket-sized Gideon Bibles back when they were King James By well I I had a bunch of them and I was giving them out to all these guys and I was trying to witness to them and different things and um Uh one of them, uh one of the fellows, he was a big bodybuilder. Uh I'd given him on devout Catholic. Uh I say devout, I shouldn't say that he never attended, but he was uh vocally Catholic And uh so I gave him one talking, I tried to witness it a little bit. A couple of weeks went by, and we were working beside each other one day, and I said to him His name was James of No Kevin. I said, Kevin, hey, uh do you still got that Bible I gave you? He goes, yeah, I sure do. Right here He patted his back pocket and I said, let me see it. He pulled it out. Sure enough. He had that little Gideon's Bible stuck in his back pocket. I said, Wow. I said, really good. That's good. I said, uh have you been reading it? What do you learn it? He goes, Oh, I don't read it. I just carry it around everywhere I go. I take it with me all the time. Saturday night, uh everywhere I go, partying, drinking, everything. I carry that little Bible. You know what that was to him It's just a good luck, spiritual good luck charm. Somehow, God's, he's going to earn merit with God because he carried his Bible around. Now listen, before we get too critical of that, I think sometimes we got Baptists think, I got a big black King James Bible, therefore God's going to do. Listen, it's a whole lot more than just carrying a good luck charm around And that was the mentality of Israel with the Ark of the Covenant. Guess what happened? They got whooped. Bad. And even worse, they took the Ark of the Covenant. God let that happen to teach Israel a lesson. And so the Palestinians, now they've got the Ark of the Covenant It didn't go too well with them. They got all kinds of sicknesses and people dying. They're sending that thing. We don't want that. They sent it to the next city over there. They got all kinds of sickness. We don't want it. They finally said, what do we do? We're going to send it back. So they put it on a new cart. They built them a cart and they put that thing on there and uh they put some milk cows on there with calves back and they said, All right, if that those cows go back with the art And uh the calves here, then we'll know God was doing all this. If they come back, then we'll know it's just a coincidence. Guess what? The cows went on, left their calves behind. And it comes back to Israel. Israel parks it here at Kirjak Jiraum. So it was a sad, sad part of Israel's history. And for 70 years, the Ark of the Covenant. Now, if you're familiar at all with Scripture, you know how sacred and important That piece of furniture was, along with the rest of the tabernacle, but of all things, it said in the Holy of Holies. Only the high priest, once a year, only after shedding blood, could he enter into that presence. And here it is, sitting out on a farm. For 70 years. What a tragedy. So David, he's burdened about this. He loves the Lord. He loves the things of God He says, we need to get that ark back to here. We've got Jerusalem. We have a capital. The ark needs to be in the very center of our country. Everything we do needs to revolve around the presence of God, and we'll talk about that a little bit later. But that's the context. That's what David's doing. And he's bringing this ark back. To Jerusalem where he's established his kingdom. I was reading J. Vernon McGee. Some of you are familiar with Jay Vernon McGee. I was reading what he had to say about this. And he suggested, along with several others that I was looking at, they suggested that David bringing this art to Jerusalem may have been one of the most significant uh actions David took in all of his administration as king. In fact, he took it a little bit farther, he said It may be one of the most significant actions in the history of Israel is getting that ark into the Jerusalem, into the center of the capital of the city. And establishing the place of worship there. Be that as it may, whatever that, whether it was that significant or not, I don't know. But I know it was big. It was big. Now here's David. He loves God with all his heart. There's no doubt about that. He wants God to be the center of the life of Israel, politically, socially. Spiritually, the Lord needs to be center of all of it and everything that takes place in Jerusalem, all their social life, all their uh their economy Their military, their worship, all of it needs to revolve around the presence of God. All of it revolves around. That's what David wants. He loves God with all his heart. He is fired up about this. But he makes a big mistake. Makes a big mistake. As great a man as David was, here, I put this down, here he makes a very grave mistake. Now I thought this was interesting I think the world David, and I'm not one to dwell on his mistakes and magnifying them out of measure, but I thought this was interesting. The Bible doesn't cover up David's mistakes. The Bible doesn't whitewash his sin. In fact, you go all through the Bible and all the great men of God, the Bible never covers up their sins, Bible never covers up their failures. And God points out here something that he made a very a very, very serious mistake. 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 11 tells us that all of the Old Testament was recorded for our admonition. So that we can learn. Paul put it this way. Now all these things, David's successes, David's failures, David's passion, David's faults All these things happen unto them for ensamples, and they are written for our admonition. So there's something in here for for you and I. There's a lesson here for you and I. Whether it's pastoring a church, or whether it's the head of a home, or whether it's a ministry, a Sunday school class, or whether it's just my own personal life. There's some lessons here. Now, before we break down and go through this verse by verse, I just want to give a few thoughts by way of introduction The fact of the matter is, I put this down. Good people can make serious mistakes. Good people can make serious mistakes I'm looking out at the crowd. You know what I'm looking at? I don't know everything about all of you. I know more about some than others. But I know this. I'm looking at a crowd of people that at some point in your life you've made some mistakes Amen or not. Good people, even King David's, as passionate as they are about the Lord As in love with the Lord as they are, and as used of God as they were. The name of the throne that Jesus Christ rules from is named after King David. And yet he made mistakes. Good people make mistakes. You know what that tells me? That tells me we need to cut people some slack sometimes. Right? Here's what happens is we have a whole lifetime of blessing, encouragement. Somebody makes a mistake, and we throw all that out because of one mistake they made there. Right or wrong What if God had said, when we study this, what if God had said, Whoop, you blew that, you put it on a cart, you didn't hold it the way I told you, I'm done with you, David. We want to have a throne of David. I'm glad God's patient with me. I'm glad God gave Jonah a second chance. And so David here, even good men make mistakes. No one is above making mistakes. And by the way, that's a caution for you and I. That's a caution to me. I must never get to the point where I think I'm strong enough spiritually. I must never get to the point where I think I've been saved long enough and I have enough Bible knowledge that I could never make a mistake again. Paul told the Corinthians, you who think you stand, what did he say? Take heed lest you fall. And I found when I get so self-confident, when I'm so sure of myself, and I think I've arrived I better buckle my seatbelt because I'm about to take a dive pretty quick. And so David, for all of his passion and all of his zeal, and all his, and there's no doubt he loved the Lord. There's no doubt he wanted to do right. But he made a mistake. He made a serious mistake. It cost a man his life And uh he made a serious mistake. So I put number one, just by way of introduction, good people can make some serious mistakes. They really can. Number two, I put this down by way of introduction It is possible to do the right thing in a wrong way. It's possible to do the right thing in a wrong way. I'll tell you right up front, David bringing the Ark of the Covenant from Kirjath Jiram in the backyard of Abinadab. And getting it to the center of Jerusalem and establishing it there where all of Israel can come and offer their sacrifices and worship God as he instructed them, that was the right thing to do. His goal, his endeavor was the right thing to do. Now the problem is, and again, we're going to look at this in a little more detail, he did it in the wrong way. He did it in a wrong way. There's a right way and there's a wrong way to do the right things. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. It is possible to do the right thing in the wrong way. Good intentions never negate disobedience. You get what I'm trying to say? I can have the best intentions of the world. If I don't obey God and do and do what God says, regardless of what my intentions are, there's going to be consequences. Amen or not? Say, oh, I meant well, that's good, that's wonderful, praise the Lord, but we need to do well also It's possible to do the right thing in a wrong way. I put this down. How I do something for God is just as important as to what I'm doing for God and why I'm doing it for God. God gives us clear instructions. There are certain ways that God expects us and instructs us to do. Can you think of anybody in the Bible? You think of anybody in the Bible besides David here that did a right thing, but they didn't do it the way God instructed them to do it Moses Oh, striking the rock? Yeah, that's a good point. And that cost him his life. It cost him dearly. But I was thinking way early in the history of mankind Just started out. They did the right thing, but they did it in a wrong way, and it cost them. Anybody thinking of who I'm thinking Cain and Abel. How about who? Who? Adam. Yeah. I'm not he didn't even do the right thing. I think they just went needed. But Cain and Abel God had instructed them at some extent, we don't have the record, but obviously they had been instructed to bring a sacrifice. Obviously, they had been instructed on what that sacrifice was to be. And Abel followed God's instructions. It's pretty obvious. You study the scripture. He did it what God said, and he did it the way God told him to do it. But Cain Decided, well, you know, I don't know what his thinking was, we're not told. But he brought fruit of the ground instead of blood sacrifice And I believe he set a precedent for mankind that we've been doing all these years. I think, now please, I I I got my hands full trying to obey God with our church There's a lot of churches out there that I think are sincere. I think they love the Lord and they want to serve Him, but they're not being careful as to how they go about and do it They bring a lot of the world in, and they got their motives might be right. We're going to reach people and we're going to use worldly things and we're going to uh compromise scriptural principles. They wouldn't say that I'm telling you, not just, I'm telling you, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, it isn't just our love for the Lord that's important, but it's how we serve the Lord is important also God told Moses when he built the tabernacle. He said, you be sure to follow the pattern that's been shown thee on the mount. Moses didn't have the, well, I love the Lord, I'm just going to build a tabernacle for him. No, no, no. There were certain colors, there were certain metals, there were certain uh processes they were to go to that that they were to follow specifically. So how we do things is just as important As to what we're doing and why it is possible to do the right thing in the wrong way. I thought about the church at Corinth We studied them in Sunday school here a few couple years ago. And when they took part in the Lord's Supper, let me ask you a question, having Lord's Supper, is that right or wrong? It's right. God expects us. Have the Lord's Supper. But uh so they were doing the right thing, but brother, they weren't doing it the right way. Good heavens And what happened? It cost them. Many of them were sick. Some of them even slept or died because they were taking part of the Lord's Supper. Not because they were taking part in the Lord's Supper, but because they were taking part of the Lord's Supper unworthily. They weren't following instructions. They weren't doing it the way God instructed us to. And so, number one, by way of observation, I put this down. Good people can make some serious mistakes. David did. On this occasion, and we'll see others. The Bible doesn't cover it up, Bible doesn't whitewash it. We have the record right there. You and I can learn from it. You and I can grow from that, and maybe help us avoid making similar mistakes in our lives. Number two, I put down, it's possible to do the right thing in a wrong way. Loving the Lord with all our heart, soul, and mind is absolutely right, but that does not negate obeying God's instructions on how we live our lives and how we serve Him. I'm burdened to win souls. I think this church is burdened to win souls. But we got to do it the right way. We don't compromise Scripture. We don't disobey God's principles. And we do it the right way. And so, number one, uh good people make serious mistakes. Number two, it's possible to do the right thing in the wrong way. And last of all, number three, I put this down. We must not underestimate the importance of the details of God's instructions. Now as we study through this passage, that's going to come out. You'll see why I'm saying that But we must not underestimate the importance of the details of God's instructions. I never read this book. I don't know anything about it. I couldn't tell you who wrote it I know it was very popular for a while there, and uh all I know is that the the title stands out in my mind, and this is what the title is, and maybe his argument was good argument, I don't know But the title was this, Don't Sweat the Small Stuff. I don't know if you ever heard that. It was a big book there years ago. Don't sweat the small stuff. Now I don't know what his premise was, I don't know what his argument was, I don't know where he went with that, but something about that title bothers me. If God addresses the small things, then I better make sure I give attention to it. Now I don't know if that's what he was talking about or not, so I can't make judgment on the book. But I know this. We better sweat the details. What's that saying? The devil is in the Details. The devil was in the details here. He got David to disregard specifically how God said to transport the ark. And brother, David heard his testimony. David, it cost uh Uzzah his life. And so we must never underestimate the importance of the details of God's instructions. Details matter to God. I got reading the Bible, and I found out Jesus tells us in the Gospels, Jesus tells us that God is so concerned about details that he even numbers the hairs that are on our head. Now Wilbur and I don't have to worry about that too much. But even the number of the hairs on our head. I'm picking on Ron tonight. He walked in back there. Man, he had that white hair all slicked back. It's all messed up now. I don't know what he did. But uh Man alive, God knows every one of those hairs on there. The details. Oh, you agree with me? That's getting pretty detailed. He names the stars. He said, even a sparrow, not even a sparrow falls to the ground without our father in attention. Now that does one or two things. That encourages me that God sees the details of life, but it also is a little bit concerning That God pays attention to the details. Oh, that's not that big of a deal. Yeah, if God dresses it, it's a big deal. Amen? If God says this is the way you do it and say, ah, don't sweat the small stuff, no no no. You know, little ringlets on the side of the Ark of the Covenant And a rod that slides through, and certain priests carrying it say, ah, just a little ringlet. Just put it on a cart. Uh, you better be careful God said very specifically how that's to be done. We must never underestimate the importance of details that God has given to us. Here's one that might shake us. Jesus said that every word that proceedeth from our mouth, we will have to give an account to. God holds us accountable. Whew! Anybody here ever have some words, boy, I wish I'd take them back. Now thank God we can confess and forsake, and God forgives us, cleanses all that. But um I think God's I think God's concerned about some details. And by the way, Jesus said every word. And so must never underestimate the importance of the details of God's instructions. So here's my here's the introduction and this is the challenge to this significant event. David's bringing this ark back to the cu uh to Jerusalem, or to Jerusalem, and uh how he does it And what transpires en route. Here's my challenge on that. Number one, let's get on fire for God. I want some of David's passion. I really do. I want to be burnt. I think if David was in the New Testament church, he'd be the fired-up soul winner. He'd be singing. He'd be involved in everything. I want more of that in my heart and soul, the fire for God. But on the other side of that, let's be careful that we don't get reckless in our passion. I know some folks, good people, that are so fired up to reach the loss But brother, they are stepping outside the bounds a lot of times and trying to get people saved and violating other scriptures, disregarding them. We've got to do the right thing, but we've got to do it how In the right way. The right thing in the right way. I think that's the lesson that we'll take away from this. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from David. We know you've recorded this for our admonition. Be an example for us. And so I pray you'd help me, my walk with you. Help us as individuals. Fire us up. Put some fire in our souls. Stir us. But Lord help us to do it according to the Word of God, according to the pattern you've given us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed Wonder how many folks would say, Preacher, I could use some of that fire of God, Holy Ghost fire in my heart and soul. Anybody like that, I could sure use a little revival of that. Amen. My hands raised I wonder if some would say, preacher, I know I have a tendency to kind of skip over the details. I just want to get the thing done. I don't really stop and think about it. I need God to help me. Be a little more careful On the specifics that he has given. Anybody like that? Anybody like that? Sure. We need the Lord's help. And then this matter of just following God's instruction, doing the right thing. In the right way. Father, bless our invitation now, ask. Have your way and help us in Jesus' name. Amen