For seventeen, if you would turn there. I'm gonna tell you right now, so you're prepared, we got a bunch of rabbit trails tonight. So uh I hope you brought your shotgun, because we're chasing rabbits What's that? The hound dog and the shotgun. Did s anybody here follow the local news? Anybody here follow local news a little bit, gee? You see where that guy fell into the upholstery machine? And uh don't worry, he's fully recovered. So he's fine. Fully recovered. I had you for a minute though, right? For a minute. Alright, we're going to begin. We began this section. Of course, 1 Samuel 17 is David and Goliath and uh probably one of the most famous Bible stories, most well-known Bible stories uh in the Bible, along with several others. Everybody knows about David and Goliath And we're going through verse by verse, dissecting this. We're studying the life of David. And this event is a key event in David's preparation to be king of Israel. He's not king yet. It's going to be a little while till he's there. But God is preparing him. You can see this. However, there's another side to that that I'd picked up as I was studying this. I believe God's preparing Israel for David's reign also Because under David's leadership, there's going to be a tremendous revival in Israel. And they're going to get back to the roots and a relationship with the Lord in many ways that under Saul's leadership had deteriorated And so this is a very, very key event. And we noticed here, I'm going to begin reading. I want to read this section together to keep it in context. I'm going to start in 22. And I already know we already looked at a lot of these. I'm going to come down through verse 30. So if you would follow along. Verse twenty two, first Samuel seventeen. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren You can just feel the excitement in David's mind, can't you there? Man, he's just running, he's excited. And as he's excited about here's a here's a teenage kid going out to the battlefield. That would be exciting. So he's fired up. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines. And spake according to the same words, and David heard him. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that has come up? Surely to defy Israel is he come up, and it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king, will enrich him with great riches. will give him his daughter and make his father's house free in Israel. And David spake to the man that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach of Israel? For who is this Philistine who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? The people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be to him, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. And Eliab, the eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men heard when he heard David when he speaking of the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David. And he said, Why cameest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thy heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? David is introduced to Goliath here. And I don't believe, this is just my own feeling reading this, my own understanding. I don't believe David knew about Goliath when he showed up. I think Jesse did. I think that's why he sent David to go make sure the boys are okay. Check on the boys. David shows up, he's all enamored no doubt with the battle and the soldiers and their swords and their armor and Boy, this is exciting. And then Goliath steps out, and David is introduced to Goliath. And uh it's interesting how he responds. So let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our study. Father, I thank you for Your word, God, these events, these historical events you recorded for us and what we learned from them, and what I learned in my own personal walk with you. I pray you'd help us tonight. And I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would be our teacher. You'd show us things from your word. And how they apply to our lives that we can be stronger in our faith and have victory in our Christian life and be the people that you created and saved us to be. Be those Christians, be that witness in this whole world. So again I ask, Lord, with all my heart, you fill me with your spirit. I yield my body again to you. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will again. and pray that your will be done tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well we've been impressed with David's character as a young man. We noted Um his uh their first point in this outline, verse 22, is David's intensity upon his arrival. He is stirred up and fired up. Then verse 23 through 25, David's introduction to Goliath And he sees Goliath's defiance. If you remember, I mentioned, I don't believe David ever heard anybody talk like this about God and about the people of Israel before. I think this not just I don't think the size of the guy, if if you look at what how David responds, the size of Goliath is not what had an impact on David's life, on David's mind. What impacted David's mind was what this guy was saying. And that leads me to believe that David had never heard anybody blaspheming God like this before and talking about God's people this way before. So his introduction is impacted if we mention in two ways. One by what Goliath is saying, what he hears coming from the mouth of this Philistine. And then I think the other impact on David's life, and we see it here a little bit, is the reaction of Israel of the of the Israeli army He sees his his team, so to speak, cowering in fear. Now I don't know about you, but I like to imagine every American soldier and every Navy man and every Air Force guy is bold and fearless and courageous and does not cower before the enemy. That's the way I picture him in my mind. And I would imagine a young boy showing up and his ar his nation's army is out there and he's imagined these guys are fearless. They dealt with the Philistines before. I think if you'd have heard him talking, he'd have said, There ain't no Philistines standing up to the armies of God, I'll tell you right now. And he gets out there and here they're cowering in fear, trembling in fear And I think that had a profound impact on David's thinking, and we see that in his response. Now we get to my third thought in this passage here, and this is the only one we're going to get to tonight. I noticed this. We had David's, what was the first one we said? David's intensity upon his revival, upon his arrival, his introduction to Goliath. Number three, it's this. King Saul's ineffective motivation. King Saul is up there. He's trying to motivate his army to get out there and get this guy. And it's very ineffective, his motivation. A couple things we want to notice here before we get to that. Look at the first part of verse 25. Actually, come back to verse 23. Talking about Goliath, I want you to notice something and pay close attention to a couple statements made here. I think we get a little insight what's happening out on the battlefield Verse 23. And as he talked with them, behold their, what's the next two words? Came up the champion, the Philistine of Gat. Then again, verse 25. The men of Israel speaking to David, introducing him, so to speak to Goliath, they say, Have you seen this man? That is what Come up. That's interesting. And then I think it's mentioned there again, surely to defy Israel, is he come up three times in just a couple verses together, we have everybody saying he's coming up, he's come up, he's come up. That's different terminology. That's different than what we were told previously. Go back to verse number three. And the Philistine Philistines stood where? A mountain on one side. And Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and what was between them? Obviously, a valley Now I've got noticed in verse 23 and verse 25, three times it mentions this giant, Goliath, is coming up. If you're on a mountain And he's coming out in the valley to challenge you, you would be going what? Down. But they say he's coming up. What's happening? Now I may be reading a little bit more into this than what it's saying. But I'm getting a picture. Goliath is encroaching on the camp of Israel. He's come out initially, he's made his challenge, and everybody cowers in fear. And all these days, every day, he's coming out and he's making this challenge. And this is what I think, this is what I see happening. Every time he comes out, Israel and the armies and King Saul, they're just trembling in fear of this guy. And fear on the part of the enemy, on the part of the Israeli soldiers, is emboldening Goliath. I'm speculating here, but I'm wondering the first time he stepped out, I wonder if there wasn't a little trepidation on Goliath's part that maybe somebody would take him up. Maybe Israel had a secret soldier that could challenge him. He don't know. So he steps out there. Nobody does. Comes out the next day, same challenge. Everybody's responding in fear. And now we get to this part when David shows up and he's coming over, he's encroaching up on the camp of the Israelites. And they're kind of, and if you notice there, there's a statement made here, and it says, um, oh, verse 24. It says all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, they did what? Fled from him. That tells me he's getting closer, and he's getting closer, and he's getting closer. And I want to make an application. Now, here's rabbit trail number one. Whenever God's people respond to the world, Or the devil or the flesh or any sin with lack of faith, with fear and lack of faith, it simply emboldens The world, the flesh, and the devil. We always say, we uh you know, we always try and help people, always say one of the things we should say, we word it this way. You should keep short accounts with God. Anybody ever hear a preacher say that? Keep short accounts with God. What does that mean? What are we talking? Yeah, if you sin, confess it right away. Deal with it right away. Another way of saying that is, you're familiar with this statement, I'm sure. Another way of saying it is this. Nip it in the bud. What does it mean? Means deal with it before it gets worse. Deal with it before it grows. And the longer Israel went in not dealing with Goliath, The bolder and the bolder and the bolder he's getting and the more he's encroaching on that. And I see a similarity to how we deal with sin. Sin is a sin, and I hesitate to refer to it as a disease. It's not a disease. Jesus used leprosy as a type of sin. So Let me uh let me bear with me and let me use that word, but sin is a progressive disease. If you don't deal with it, if you don't approach it, as Chester said, you know, whatever that sin is, you don't deal with it, boy, it's going to get bigger, it's going to get bigger, it's going to take over more and more and more Turn with me if you would, and come with me. Keep your place here, because there's a lot here we want to look at still, but go with me to Psalm chapter number one. And there's a lot of places in the Bible you could go to see this truth, but Psalm chapter 1 is very, very clear And look with me, if you would, at verse number one. A lot of us are familiar with this passage. Blessed is the man that what? Walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. So what's he doing here? He's walking along. He's in the counsel of the ungodly. He's listening to bad advice. Alright? So blessed is the man that walketh not in the counseling ungodly, nor what standeth in the way of sinners. So he's no longer walking on his way. Now he's stopped and he's has sinful associations. First it was just bad advice, counsel of the ungodly. Now he's standing in the way of sinners. Now, blessed the man that walk not in the counsel of God, neither standeth the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Anybody see progression there? He's listening to wrong advice, then he's hung around with the wrong crowd, and now he's sitting with people with stinky bad attitudes scorning God. If he'd have nipped that thing in a bud while he was walking and quit listening to bad advice, he'd have never been standing with the sinners. He'd never been sitting in the seat of the scornful. But because he didn't nip it, because he didn't deal with it, he got sucked into that thing, and it absolutely took over him. And so I see in Goliath in being emboldened by Israel's lack of faith, by their lack of action, by their failure to deal with him. Quickly and right away, he's getting bolder and bolder and bolder. I put this down, fearful and faithless Christians embolden the world. They emboldened the flesh. You know, there was a day, now we I think sometimes we over, we imagine America was a lot purer than it what it probably was. You know, back in the day. Because there was sinners a hundred years ago in America. There was corruption, there was mobs, and there was alcohol liquor and and prostitution, all of that. But I think we all agree it's ten hundred times worse today than it would have been a hundred years ago, right? Now why is that? What's changed? Our form of government hasn't changed. Human nature hasn't changed. What has changed in America that got us to this point? Can I tell you what I think it is? I think the pulpits and of America ceased preaching against sin. Man, there was a day, how many people are familiar with the name Billy Sunday? Billy Sunday showed up in town. He was red-hot preaching. He preached against sin. He named it. And absolutely from the word of God flayed sin. And they say when Billy Sunday left the town, the bars were closing up and the churches were filling up He preached against sin. He preached against sin. Goliath came out. Goliath was facing America, and Brother Heath dealt with it from the Word of God. He went out there after it. But now you have in the early 1900s, you have modernism came into our denominations. The pulpit softened down, you start getting 10,000 different versions of the Bible, nobody knows what they're reading. And you have all this stuff going on, and then we see the corruption of America, corruption in America, corruption of America. And the more timid Christians became in dealing with the sins of our nation, in dealing with the sins of our society and our communities. The more timid we became in that, the more emboldened sin became. I'm telling you, there was a day in America, every pulpit in America would have preached, every single pulpit would have preached against sodomy. Today I'm not going to do that. Very, very famous preacher on TV was asked by Larry King. He has a I won't say his name. Big church in Houston, Texas. Huge. Larry King, I saw this uh video of it myself, so I can speak firsthand. Larry King asked him, he says, uh, what's your view on homosexuality? And he goes, I don't take a position on that. That's between them and God You know what that is? That's Goliath out there and saying, I'm not going to deal with it. And so it got emboldened and bold. Now that's a favorite sin to preach on, and it could be, you could name any one of them. Somebody uh we were talking today, a couple of us, and uh mentioned an independent fundamental, independent, fundamental King James Bible preaching preacher. And he made this statement. He says, I I don't preach on sin. I let God deal with that. You know what that's doing? That's sin being emboldened Now listen, if the independent fundamental King James Bible preaching Baptist preachers aren't preaching on sin, who is? Who is? And so we have this Goliath that is absolutely taking over our homes and our communities and our and our nation and our world. And so I see this, that little phrase, he's come up, he's come up. I thought, man, Goliath is coming up on that Somebody better do something. Something should have been done a long time ago. And uh here he is encroaching on them. Um And so, King Saul's back is against the wall. Here he's got his soldiers. Here's Goliath out there, the Philistines, and he's coming up on them, he's coming up on them, and Saul's at a point now that something has to happen. Something has to be done, or we're going to be slaughtered, we're going to be extinct, we're going to be eradicated. And so something has to be done. Now, here's the problem with Saul. We come back to Saul. You say, I thought we're doing a study on David. We are, but Saul was a big part in David's preparation for his kingdom. God used him regardless of his condition. So here we come back to Saul. And there's a big problem with Saul. He is infected with self-centeredness. And he has gotten to the point where everything is now about Saul. He's become so self-centered, and it has affected his thinking. You know how we view ourselves affects how we view everything and everybody else. And Saul becomes so self-absorbed he is he is now full of himself And it it manifests, that selfishness manifests itself in the life of Saul two very distinct ways. Now maybe in others it may show itself different ways, but for Saul I see very two very distinct ways. One, his self-centeredness produced flawed thinking about his failures Now, if somebody is all about themselves and they fail in various ways, how are they going to respond? They're going to blame other people. Wasn't me, because I have this exalted view of myself. And it's not my fault, it's somebody else's fault. Come back to chapter 15, 1 Samuel, and we see this so clear. Now I'm getting to our event here in 17, but come back to 1 Samuel 15. And verse number 14. God through the prophet Samuel, my favorite Old Testament prophet, or one of them, until I study another one, then that one will be my favorite. But right now it's Samuel And God told him to kill the uh uh Agag and his crowd. Who were they? Uh the Malachites the Amalachites, is that right? Anyway, Agag's the king. And he said, I want you to slaughter them all, kill them all, they're the I'm done with them. And so Saul, uh King Saul goes out there, he goes to battle, he wins the battle. But notice in verse number 14, Samuel shows up. And no wonder it doesn't make sense. I'm in the wrong chapter. Over 15. Look at verse number 14. And Samuel approaches King Saul and says, What meaneth then the bleeding of the sheep in mine ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? He says, I told you to slaughter all them. God said, kill them all. The sheep, don't keep anything. Kill the king, kill all of them. King Saul now has this exalted view of himself. He is so self-focused and self-absorbed. Look at his response. And Saul said, what? They have brought them from the Amalekites. For the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice to the Lord thy God. And the rest we have utterly we, see now all of a sudden it's we. We have utterly destroyed. And Samuel said to Saul, Stay and I will tell thee what the Lord has said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Stay on. Look at this. And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed thee king over Israel, and the Lord sent thee on a journey and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord, but didst fly upon the spoil and didst evil in the sight of the Lord? What's he saying? He's saying, King Saul, you failed. You failed completely. Now look at his response. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord and have gone the way which the Lord sent me. And have brought Agag the king of Amalek and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people Took of the spoil and sheep and oxen and chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed to sacrifice. What's he doing? He is blaming his failures on others It is a refusal to accept personal responsibility for his own actions, his own leadership And that is a characteristic of somebody who thinks far too highly of themselves. If I get to the idea that I refuse to acknowledge areas where I have failed in, I cannot be used of God. I cannot be used of God. When I was down at Highland Park, just thought of this, when I was down at the Great Church, Highland Park in Bible College, I was probably three years in. I've been there. I I spent five years down there. I was probably two, three years into it, three, might have been four. It might have been five or ten, I don't know. But one of the one of the uh The men on the pastoral staff. Now understand, this is a church, 10,000 members. Not just members, but they assemble together, 10,000 people. This is massive. And he got up in front of everybody and he said, I messed up. I messed up. And he dealt with it. And I tell you what he did, it needed to be dealt with, but my respect for that man went through the roof. When he took personal responsibility for what he did wrong. Now, King Saul refused to do that. God couldn't use him. God couldn't use him. That is one manifestation of self-centeredness. Now let's think about our lives. What about in the home? What about on the job? What about in with my friends and family? I wonder, I wonder how many of us are big enough. I wonder how many of us, not big enough, are small enough. And our own sight to say to our spouse, hey, I messed up, I was wrong. Right? Wonder how many of us would say, hey, you know, listen, we're having troubles, this is rough. I s I I see, I acknowledge, hey, I'm part of the problem. What's the old saying? It takes two to tango? It's true. It's true. And so King Saul, he couldn't do that. He couldn't do that. Now we come to our passage. And I notice another area where this self- Centeredness, this exalted view of himself, manifests itself. And I see that there in verse number Chapter 17 in verse number 25. Now remember, his back's against the walls. King Goliath is coming up. He's encroaching up on the camp. They're in a tight spot. Something has to happen. The men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up surely to defy Israel? Is he come up? Alright? And then look at this. And it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king, will do three things. He will what? Enrich him? He's going to make him very rich. And I looked up those words there. Enrich him. Notice he doesn't just say the king will enrich him, but it says he'll enrich him with Great riches. That's like saying, I'm going to make you rich with lots of riches And I got looking at that, and what he's saying is, the king is saying this, hey, if you go out there and kill that guy, I will make you really, really rich. I mean it's gonna be it's gonna be terrific. You'll be the richest in the world. I'm trying to imitate Donald Trump there. But um you got that? Thank you. So that thank you. But that's not it. Look that's not it. Look what else he does He said the king will enrich him with great riches, but not he doesn't stop there, and will give him his daughter. Wow, marry the king's daughter. Not only are you going to be super rich, but you're going to have Married to the king's daughter? What comes with that? Prestige. There's honor. Other nations will recognize you. You married the king's daughter. Man, this is tremendous honor. This is tremendous prestige. And then he doesn't stop at that. And he says, not only that, but I'll make your father's house free in Israel. Now I think this is what he means by this, by being free in Israel. I think he's going to say, I'm not going to tax you. Zero taxes. Your whole family is tax exempt the rest of your lives. Brother, I'd I'd go up against Russia myself for that there. Now here's the thing. I'm horsing around a little bit, but here's the thing. What is King Saul doing? Now, a couple chapters earlier, he's blaming others for his faults. Now he's trying to entice others to fulfill his responsibility. He is the king of Israel. He's the one that's supposed to be leading them out there. Leaders lead. But he's sitting back here scared out of his mind, and he's using these, and this is what I put in the margin of my Bible, he's using these carnal enticements To try and get somebody else to go do his responsibility. And a lot of times people with an exalted view of themselves want think others should do what they're supposed to do. Well, that's a little below me. Now I don't know that that was Saul's attitude, but that was how it played itself out. You guys go out there and fight him here. And he's he's using carnal he's using carnal motives to get someone else to do his job. I'm gonna make you very rich You're going to have prestige, be married to the king's daughter, uh, you're going to be exempt from taxes. There's a problem Now this, now Goliath was an actual physical, real giant. The Philistines was an actual literal physical army. This was an actual thing. I'm not trying to spiritualize anything. But it was more than just a battle between two nations. This is a spiritual thing going on here. These are God's people being blasphemed. By the enemies of God, and God being blessed. So there's a whole lot more here than just some fight between two nations. There's tremendous spiritual truths taking place here. And here's the problem with carnal motivations. I got studying this. Carnal motivations, like physical. Here I'll give you a lot of money. I'll give you a great title. Remember Balaam? Oh, you come and do what we want, we'll make you doctorate, Dr. Balaam. We'll give you great honors, lots of money. That's all carnal motivations. You know what I mean by carnal, fleshly, material, not spiritual at all No, he's not trying to get somebody to go out there and kill Goliath because they love God. He's not trying to get somebody to go out there and kill Goliath because God's being blasphemed. He wants them to go out and kill Goliath so they get rich. That's a carnal motivation. Here's the problem with carnal motivations. Carnal motivations are very effective at drawing people away from the will of God. away from the work of God, but they fail every time in draw in motivating people to get involved in the work of God. See what I'm saying? So Solomon has this complete or Solomon, I keep saying Solomon, King Saul has this completely backwards. He's using carnal motivations to accomplish spiritual victories. And that never works. That never works. I mentioned Balaam. If we had time, we could go to Judges 18. There's a this bizarre story. of this this priest comes out of one of the uh of one of the tribes and he's kind of one around he comes across his family and they got these gods and he says, I'll be your priest just to the family. Anybody remember reading that in your devotions? And I think his name was Micah. Uh I'm going by the top of my head here. And anyway, he's there. And then I think it was the tribe of Daniel. They're coming through a big they're chasing somebody and they come across, hey, here's a priest of God What are you doing here in this little family? Oh, I'm just their priest. Well, come home with us. Is it not better to be a priest to a lot of people than just the little people? And the guy says, ooh, big numbers? Okay, yeah. And he went running after it. It was carnal motivation. And the guy was completely out of the will of God. And so when we start looking at the Christian life and Christian service and Christian ministry and living for the Lord and trying to have victory in our life, and we simply see it for what we get out of it, it's going to mess us up every time. I was telling my wife uh l i earlier today, uh I think it was her, talking to somebody. I hope it was her. But um I was saying that I've never considered my call to the ministry as an occupation. To me, pastoring Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, preaching and ministering and souling, all that, to me it's not my occupation. It is my calling. It's what God has called me to. And when somebody views the ministry as a call, a spiritual call, carnal motivations are not a factor. If somebody understands the command of God to be a soul winner, they're going to win souls, whether they get paid for it or not. You follow what I'm trying to say? However, those carnal motivations, they're very ineffective at getting people to serve God. That's what these TV yardbirds do. Oh, you sending us the seed money, you'll be rich. You'll be rich. Oh, you send us $1,000, I'll send you this prayer cloth and God will heal you. You know what that is? That's just carnal motivations. Carnal motivation. And so King Saul has this completely turned around. Preachers, a lot of preachers have left God's will, pastoring a church somewhere, left God's will because a big church with a big salary offers them an opportunity, and rather than seeking God's will They just go running after that, and next thing you know, they're out of God's will and they're messed up. I'm not saying it's always, it's, I'm not saying it's never God's will to lead you somebody on to a different work or a bigger work. That happens. God does that But if the motivation is what I get out of it, I'm on the wrong track. You follow what I'm saying? So King Saul, this carnal motivation is a total failure. It's completely ineffective. Everybody said it's not worth it. It's not worth being rich. I don't know what the king's daughter was. That may have been a factor. Maybe she wasn't very desirable. But uh you know, who knows? Actually, if you read a little bit later on, she wasn't that great. I just thought of that. David paid a price But here's the point, it was ineffective. Ineffective. And let me I want to try and be practical. Let me ask you a question. Why are you living for God? Why are you serving the Lord? Why do we do what we do? Well, I want to be recognized. I had a fellow years ago. I listed people who were thanking people and inadvertently, I'm telling you, it was inadvertently left his name off. And he was hot. He did not get recognized. And he left the church and I'd see him every now and then. You know what that is? That is carnal motivation. I'm doing what I'm doing to be seen, to be recognized, to get attention. And it doesn't work. It doesn't work. So why am I uh why am I uh uh Serving the Lord. By the way, uh that's the that is in a sense, I may be stretching this a little, but isn't that in a sense what work salvation is? I read my Bible so that I'll be able to get to heaven. I give money to the church so that I can have my sins forgiven I do this or I do that or I do this so that I get this. That is the exact opposite of biblical salvation. Biblical salvation is a complete gift, free gift of God I receive by faith. And then I live for him not because of what I'll get, I live for him because of what he's done. What's a little song I've been trying to teach after all he's done for me? How can I do less than give him my best and live for him completely after all he's done for me? And so carnal motivations are not part of the Christian life. 2 Corinthians 10, and we don't have time to turn there. 2 Corinthians 10, 3 and 4, he says, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. And so King Saul is using very, very ineffective motives here. Take your Bible. I want to end with this. Come back to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. I got thinking why as I was preparing this. Um Wonder what would happen if we announced we're going to give a hundred dollar bill to every person that comes soul winning tomorrow night at 630. Wonder what would happen. Or no. Well that didn't get much of reaction. How about $1,000 bill tomorrow night? Yeah. I mean that's the way we are, right? I wonder how many souls we'd really see saved. I wonder how what an impact that would have. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14. Second. Second Corinthians five Verse 14. I just do that to make sure you're paying attention. See if you're listening. 2 Corinthians 5, look at verse 14. For the what? Love of Christ what? That word constraints a neat word. It means this. Pushes me forward. It drives me forward. Man, Live, why are you guys doing that? Why do you spend nine in the morning till nine at night assembling Romans booklets? uh to go somebody you never see and doesn't even speak your language, the love of Christ constrains us. How much do you get paid to do that? It's fun here's something. I just thought of this. When I was in when we were working the bus route in Chattanooga, we're in the inner city project, you know. I mean this is really rough. And we're going through there one time and this guy's giving me fits and he's calling us names. So I've tried witnessing to him. And he says, he says, I know what you all are doing. I know what you're doing. I said, tell me, what are we doing? He says uh you guys get money from the government to come down to us black folk and try and help us. He says, you you just get money, you're getting all kinds of money. I said, brother, tell me where you sign up for that I said, we ain't getting nothing. No, I know it, I know it, I know it. And he says, why why why are you doing it? And I finally convinced him we don't. He goes, why are you doing this? This verse tells us the love of Christ constrains us. It drives us forward. So King Saul's out here said, hey, whoever goes to kill Goliath, I'll make you rich. You can marry my daughter. No more taxes. You know, David didn't respond to that at all. You know what constrained David to go out there and kill Goliath? His love for God, his reverence and awe. Who is this Philistine that he would defy the armies of God? Wasn't money, wasn't anything else. It was his awe and his reverence, his devotion, and his love for Almighty God And drove them on. And I'll tell you what, you get someone living for God because they love God. You can't stop them. You gotta kill them That's the only way you're going to stop them. Saul or Paul, the apostles, the new, those acts, believers in Acts, the only way they stopped them was to kill them. The only way they shut them up was chop their head off Why? Because the love of trace constrained them. David's not out there trying to get rich. He's not out there trying to get King Saul's daughter. He did eventually get her and he wished he hadn't. It's not that's not his motivation. And so what's our motivation? Why do we do what we do? Do you have a ministry you're serving God? And if so, what's your motive behind it? Well, I'd like for people to see how great a Christian I am. I want everybody to see in the back of my Bible how many names I got that I won to Christ. No, no, no, no, no. That's carnal motivation. And it doesn't work. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to understand how much you love us. And I pray, Lord, you'd stir in our hearts that your love would constrain us and motivate us and stir us, drive us. to serve you and serve you faithfully, serve you diligently, and serve you continuously till you call us home I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, you know, my Christian life needs a shot of revival. A shot of new zeal and love for God. I need that. I don't want to lose that first love. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I put these carnal ideas and thinking aside. And just serve God out of love for Him. Is there any like that tonight? Say, preacher, I need that shot. I need a little revival of that in my heart and life. God bless you. Hands all around. The Bible says, ask and it shall be given unto you. I wonder if we would just bow and ask the Lord, Lord, revive my heart, revive my love, make my motivations pure I believe God would do that. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation time, or we don't have the piano. So maybe just at pews, and even now as I'm praying, maybe folks would just say a Cry out in their heart and say, Lord, revive me, stir me, get my motivation, my thinking in line off of myself and on the Lord and on others So Father, please bless us now and help us we ask in Jesus' name, Amen.