Chapter eighteen, if you would, turn in your Bibles there. We're gonna try and finish up this section with David's fixing to get married. And Saul was working this thing and trying to get David to agree to it. 1 Samuel chapter 18. While you're finding your place there, we got our report, came in yesterday, I think it was, on our website for the month of March. And I always enjoy this. I like to share it with the church. In the month of March, there were 837 sermons downloaded off of our website Uh just uh just trivia here. Of those four hundred and eighty one were on to phones. People download on their phones. Stuart Harvey drives the snow plow on Sunday mornings, his schedule is and he was telling me Sunday night that he Tunes in on his phone to our services here and listens while he's driving around. So apparently there's a lot of people doing that. Total sermons downloaded to date since we've been on the web 90,541. That incredible. This month, month of March, there was 41 states that tuned in, 36 countries. The number one sermon, 72 downloads. was Dr. Pastor DeLong, Brother DeLong's message, little is much when God is in it. How about that? And uh so that was just a week ago, really, a little over a week ago. He's got the num most sermon downloads A couple of these on the life of David were up in the top ten. Number one state, what do you think? West Virginia, 80. 80 into the foreign country of West Virginia. New Jersey had 67 in New Jersey. How about that? Texas all down through there. And then the number one country, anybody want to guess? Australia. Why do you think it was Australia? Yeah, because of I'd tell you what it was, is Doctor DeLong, Brother DeLong, because he was a missionary down there for years. And so he's got his buddies down there tuning. He paid them to r run that up, I think. United Kingdom, Canada, China. Eight uh ten sermons into China, Ghana, West Africa, uh Thailand, uh just incredible, uh Trinidad, Russia, Saudi Arabia, isn't that something? While we're sleeping in bed, that thing's just just going at it, doing its thing. So that's pretty exciting. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 18, and we begin reading. In verse number 22, we've already looked at the most of this passage and we've really got bogged down here a little bit, but I think it's helpful. I don't I don't think it's if it finds David, huh? Oh On and off. I don't know what that is. Um my battery's dead. Oh, you mean in this? Oh you meant my battery. Well I'm just gonna dump it, Dave. I'm getting rid of it Unshackled. Alright. So we've been looking at this. We got kind of got bogged down here. Um so I want to finish this up. Look at verse 22, 1 Samuel 18. And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law. And Saul's servant spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and lately esteemed? And the servants of Saul told him Saul, saying, On this manner spake David And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law, and the days were not expired Therefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men. And David brought their foreskins and gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law And Saul gave him Micah, his daughter to wife. Saul become, David becomes King Saul's son-in-law. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look at this portion here and finish up this section of your word. I ask you to speak to our hearts. Help us to learn from David and Saul and apply it to our lives that we'd be uh better Christians, stronger in our faith, and wiser in our behavior and our decisions. Fill me with your spirit, I ask Lord, with all my heart as I Present my body anew and pray that you would speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Saul is scheming here. We've been looking at His goal is to get David dead. He wants David dispatched, done. He wants him out of his life. And so he begins scheming. He's got the disciples, his disciples, his servants And uh he's got them playing uh this little game with King Saul, and they're going to David. They approach David about being the king's son-in-law And David, um, in his characteristic humility, responds, I'm not worthy of that. I'm just poor. Uh I I'm lightly esteemed. I I I I I don't I don't deserve to be the king's son-in-law. And so uh we see his humility here. Now I want to begin in verse number twenty-four, pick up where we left off And I noticed Saul's crafty maneuvering in verse 24 and 25. Now, when we use the word maneuver, somebody is maneuvering things. What what does that mean? What what how would you it's a little shifty here? Yes. Yes, he's maneuvering things. It's very closely associated with manipulating things In fact, that's the whole idea here. Saul is manipulating or managing a situation. He's manipulating these servants of his to carry out his agenda. Now he knows he cannot do this himself. He he can't directly do this because his uh David's not trusting him. We're sure of that. He's he's ruined that And so now we have his crafty maneuvering here, his manipulation of these guys. And the first thing I notice in verse 24 is that Saul's involvement in all of this is hidden Um Saul's involvement in this is hidden. As far as we can tell, David had no idea that these servants We're doing Saul's bidding. I've read this over and over and over, and uh, you know, David's no dummy. He's pretty slick, but by all appearances, unless there's something happening, we're not told David does not realize that Saul is behind all of this. And so Saul's plan is kind of coming together here a little bit, but he's being very, very sneaky about this. He's got his hands off. There's no print uh no fingerprints. Did you ever hear him say about a um ever hear him say this about a politician? They're Teflon They're Teflon. Nothing what? Nothing sticks. Well Saul is doing everything he can to be Teflon here, that nobody can come back, oh no, this was the servants were saying this. This was the servants uh approach in this. This was all their idea. I didn't know anything about this. And so he has this this hidden involvement on King Saul's part here in this whole scheme that he's got going I got thinking about that a little bit. You know, with very few exceptions, secrecy and manipulation is almost always there's something sinful going on in association with that. Now there's a few instances. Now I'm going to challenge you to think a little bit. We're going to see how well you know your Bibles this evening. There's a few instances in Scripture where there was some secrecy and even manipulation, but it wasn't necessarily bad. It was something that almost had God's sanction on it. Can anybody think of any events in the Bible Where there's a little sneakery going on, and uh but not it wasn't necessarily sinful. Esther is one of the first one I put down. Esther hid from the king the fact that she was a what? Jew. Mordecai said, don't you tell her who your people are. And actually, that was something that God used. And she hid that information from him. The Bible says that God has secrets. Did you know that? Bible says the secret things belong unto the Lord in Deuteronomy. And sometimes God does stuff that he doesn't tell us about. Anybody ever realize that Anybody ever say, why in the world would God let that happen? Amen? And uh the one of the one of the most hardest questions one of the hardest questions for me to answer is a little three-letter question, why? I don't know why. Uh God does things sometimes, a lot of times, and he don't tell us. And uh so we just have to uh uh go by faith. So there are some instances, there's some instances in the Bible where for military reasons They had to be a little sneaky. They had to uh uh do a little hidden involvement thing, sometimes for military things, sending in spies. Remember when um Rahab the harlot the guys came in And uh they got found out, so they went to Rahab's house. What did she do? She hid them, and then she lied. To cover up for them, to get them out of there. Now, uh, you know, God's very clear about lying, but in that situation um it advance the uh the cause of Christ. We're not justifying anything here. But what I'm saying is sometimes there are instances for political reasons or military reasons, um, sometimes for personal protection. People say things, remember we just a little bit before this, a few chapters earlier, God is going to anoint David to be king. And he sends Samuel up there to anoint David. And Samuel says, hey, if Saul knows I'm coming up here to anoint someone, he's going to kill me, kill everybody. And he goes, Well just tell them you're going up to have a uh to prepare a feast and a sacrifice. And so it wasn't a lie. That's what he was doing. But there was a little uh what I used to say to the boys, we called it sneakery sneaking and and uh trickery there a little bit. So those are the exceptions. Generally speaking, when there is when I have to this is what I'm getting at. Generally speaking, when I have to lie, When I have to hide and sneak around stuff, that is a clear indicator that something isn't right. Amen? I have to hide stuff. If I have to delete things on my phone and my computer, it's a clear indicator that something isn't right And so King Saul here is his involvement, he's hiding himself. He's he's uh uh uh uh sneaking and manipulating here Sometimes, having said that, I put this down, sometimes it's prudent not to reveal everything we know. In fact, Proverbs 12:23 says, a prudent man concealeth knowledge. Sometimes it's a good idea not just to say everything you know. Anybody here ever spill the beans on something and say, oop, I wished I hadn't sent that. I had a situation just recently and uh I'm not going to tell you what it is. But um But we have to be very, very careful about hiding or covering up sinful motives and sinful behavior. Proverbs 28, 13 says this. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But he that confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. The best thing to do with sinful actions is to confess them. And to forsake them, never hide them, never sneak around. So Saul is um, you know, he's maneuvering, he's hiding here. By the way By the way, David later on is going to do something very similar to what King Saul is doing here. David slept with Bathsheba. She became a child. He calls her husband Uriah back off the battlefield. David doesn't go and kill Uriah directly. That would have been bad. That would have been awful. He couldn't have gotten away with it. So what he does is he manipulates his captains and his soldiers and gets Uriah to go into the heat of the battle close to the wall where the arrows come flying down on him. And then the rest would draw back and Uriah is killed. David is doing almost the exact same thing that King Saul is doing here. How about that? And so call Saul is he's he's maneuvering things here, his plan is coming together, and he's very careful to keep his involvement in all of this hidden He's working through the the uh servants. Then I notice in verse twenty five not only was his involvement hidden from what was going on, but also his intentions were hidden. Did you notice the last part of verse twenty-five? It says, but Saul thought, well let's back up. Let's read the whole thing. Saul said, thus shall you say to David, the king desireth not any dowry. But a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. There Is what his real intention was. And again, I got looking at this. Now, I'm not sure I completely buy the statement I'm going to make. But from what's recorded here, from what we're told. As far as I can tell, Saul's servants were unaware of what his real intentions were. Now, having said that, I'm not convinced I believe that. I think these guys are no dummies. They're working close to Saul. They saw those javelins fly. And I guarantee you, javelins flying in the in the um Uh what's the what's the yeah, what's the room where the president is that he signs everything? The Oval Office. When there's javelins flying in the Oval Office Everybody in the Capitol knows about that. Everybody in the White House knows about that, right? And I I just have a hard time believing. Now there's nothing here to indicate that what I'm saying is correct But just in my own thinking, I'm thinking these guys have to see it in Saul's eye. They have to hear it in his voice Now I maybe I'm wrong, but there's nothing here necessarily. Maybe they're just, they're duped as much as David and anybody else is And um and so haul Saul's ri hi real intention here is not to get his daughter married. That is not his concern. His concern is to get David taken care of, get him whacked. Get David um dispatched. Now notice what he says here. He says, you go down and tell these guys, verse 25. You tell David, hey guys, don't tell David, the king desireth not any dowry. Question, what is a dow? Let me ask this. Is anybody here pay a dowry for your wife? Yeah, we repair everything. Somebody somebody said the successful wife is the woman that can find a man that can make more money than she spends. No, the successful man is the man that can make more money than his wife can spend. The successful wife is the one that finds that guy Dowry! What in the world is a dowry? Anybody tell me what is a dowry? Alright. The technical term is it's a gift. Yeah, the the the theunce say The fella gives this gift to his wife to be husband for the privilege somebody. Not the wife-to-bees husband, that wouldn't be good. It is a gift that the broom to be gives to the father of the bride-to-be for the privilege of having his daughter to be him. That's the definition. In reality, you're buying a bride Back in the day, and now this was I'm sure it wasn't always this way, but in a lot of cases it deteriorated down to the highest bidder. You know, whoever give me the most, you can have my daughter It's what it boiled down to. And so, uh being cynical a little bit, it's basically buying a wife from her father. Um and so he's that Saul tells the guy, tells his servant, you tell David, I don't want any dowry. Fact is, I don't believe for one minute Saul was in the least bit concerned about a dowry. He th he wasn't after a dowry. He he wasn't looking for a dowry. He was looking for death. It was David being dead. That's what he wanted. Um and the fact that we pointed this out a few times, and it's tragic, that uh his daughter at this point in time Was of little value to King Saul. I don't want anything for her. I just want that guy dead. And he's you willing to use his daughter as a pawn To accomplish this sinful agenda he has to take out a man that he's built up in his mind as his enemy. I put this down. It's disturbing what people will sacrifice in order to appease their anger. I tell you, a lot of people have lost families because of their anger, because of envy. And uh King Saul is at the point where his own children are of no value Now a dowry was an important part of the culture. A dowry was an important part. And by the way, there was some positive aspects of it. One thing of it was is it assured the father that this guy is going to be able to take care of my daughter was another aspect of the dowry. I think that was probably the maybe the idea behind it. This guy's financial stable He is able to contribute and I'm confident he can take care of my daughter. But that he says, I don't want a dowry. That's not what I'm after. Uh I just want this guy dead and he's willing to use his daughter to accomplish that. Now here is where it gets interesting. Look at verse 25. And he said, Thus shall you say to David, the king desireth not any dowry. Oh David, don't worry about the dowry. That's not what he wants. Hey David, we'll tell you what the king really wants. Now he's telling them to say this to David. What the king really wants is 104 skins of the Philistines To be avenged of the king's enemies. Now, how many people agree with me? That's kind of a strange thing to ask for. And uh I got looking at that, I said, all right. Now if you come back to chapter 18, and actually you find it various places throughout scripture. The Philistines are often referred to, and David referred to Goliath as a what kind of Philistine? An uncircumcised Philistine. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he would defy the living God? And the Philistines were recognized as a as uncircumcised. And um so he says he wants a hundred and four skins. of these circum of these uh Philistines. Uh I don't think the number hundred was that significant. I don't believe David would have a problem dealing with a hundred Philistines. What were they just singing about him just a little bit before this? That David has slain his ten thousand So for Saul to ask of David, I want a hundred dead Philistines, you know, I would imagine they would say, Pfft, I can do that with my one arm tied behind my back. I can do that with my one eye closed. That's not a problem. But then he says, I want not I don't want just a hundred Philistines dead, but I want a h I want their foe I want their foreskins here. Now why'd he ask for that? Why didn't he say I want their scalps? Uh, you know, and you know, w one reason he might want a body part back is so that he could actually confirm the fact that they were still. I think the military we are. Confirmed kills. Caesar confirmed kills. So he could have said, listen, I want a hundred Philistine scalps. Lay out the scalps, and I'll be satisfied you can have my daughter. He could have said I want a hundred Philistine heads. Cut off their heads, bring it back, I want all their heads lined up here. Could have said I want their noses He wouldn't have said their ears because why? They have two ears, so he might have only killed fifty of them, right? And he might have cheated. But my question was this, and the conclusion I come to as I study this, I believe I believe it perhaps, I think there's two reasons, perhaps, that Saul asked for this particularly. Circumcision was very, very important in the Jewish relationship with God. It was huge And there's two reasons I have that circumcision was important in the Jewish society and in their relationship with the Lord. One is because of hygiene. Circumcision was uh was a matter of hygiene. In fact, as I was studying this, there's a lot of other nations around Israel that practice circumcision, not because of any relationship with God, but simply for hygiene reasons. However, the Philistines did not. Several reasons. One is they could care less, from what we understand about them, they could care less about hygiene. They were pretty nasty, the Philistines. And number two, they could care less about having any kind of relationship with God. They were absolutely hated the concept of Jehovah. They were very perverse in their worship. They were very pagan. And um there was a reason they were referred to as the uncircumcised Philistines because they were just really, really nasty and very, very bad. And so one of the reasons that for uh circumcision was for hygiene, but that wasn't the primary factor, particularly concerning the Jews. If you would, take your Bible and turn back to Genesis chapter number 17. Genesis chapter number seventeen. Now I don't know if you've ever given much thought to this. The Bible references I got counting how many times it references uh circumcision and that type of thing and and it is scores and scores of times I don't have its exact number but it's more than a few And in Genesis chapter number 17, and I'm talking and I didn't turn there. And notice, if you would, verse number 11, God is interacting with Abraham. And he institutes circumcision. And he says, this, and ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a what? Token of the covenant between who? Between Abraham and who? And God Here is a covenant relationship between Abraham and Jehovah. Now, what do we know about a covenant? What is a covenant? Right. A covenant is not a contract, right? A covenant it would be more of a vow. We talk about the marriage covenant. There's a commitment on both sides. And so God established, God established a relationship with the nation of Israel. That no other people throughout that part of history that no other people had with Jehovah. And that was initiated with Abraham. Abraham is the father Of the Hebrews. He is the father of the faithful. And right from the very get-go, God established with Abraham this covenant. I will be your God. And uh I'll bless you, I'll make you as the stars of heaven. And uh Abraham's part was to simply have faith in God, and Abraham's faith was counted to him for righteousness. And so you have this covenant between God, this re this uh this uh uh unbreakable covenant between God and Abraham, and through Abraham the nation of Israel, you have this covenant that God has given his very word to them. That he will be their God and they will be his people. And on Abraham's part, on the Jews' part was to Covenant back to God, you will be our God. And nothing will come between us and you. Nothing will come between us. That was the covenant. And circumcision was a, what does this verse say? It was a what? Look at the verse again, verse 11. It was a token. of this covenant. It wasn't a condition. It was what what's a token? A sign or an indicator, something that represents something. This is what I put down. Circumcision was a physical representation of a spiritual reality They had a covenant relationship with the Lord. They belonged completely to the Lord. And the outward manifestation of that, the outward representation of that, was the was the right of circumcision. Now come over, if you would, to Deuteronomy. Now God instituted it with Abraham. Abraham had a tremendous relationship with Jehovah. Jehovah loved Abraham, and through him he was going to bless all the nations, and his offspring would be more than the stars of the sky, more than the sand of the sea. What a phenomenal relationship Abraham and Jehovah had. And turn to Deuteronomy chapter 30. And in Genesis, he tells Abraham, this is a token, this is just a sign. There's no, in and of itself, there's no spiritual substance to it. It is simply an outward sign of a covenant that we have made with each other. Now look at Deuteronomy chapter 30, go to the verse number 6. And here God explains to Israel a little bit more what this token Look at verse thirty chapter thirty, verse six. And the Lord thy God will circumcise thine heart And the heart of thy seed. To what? To love the Lord thy God. There's a key word right there. To love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. And with all thy soul that thou mayest live. What God is saying here is the outward circumcision. was simply a token, a representation, a an emblem, so to speak, of something that was to be taking place in their heart And everything and anything that took away their love for God, anything and everything that took away their relationship, their walk with God, was to be cut away. What's the old hymn say? Nothing between my soul and the Savior And that's what God was saying. He says this act of circumcision is simply a token, it's simply a sign of what should be true in every one of your hearts as Jews. That you love me supremely, everything else in this world, the gods of this world and the things of this world, and our love for this world is all cut aside, and it's all my heart and all my soul I'm in love with God. That's what that act represented. If you would come back to Romans, Paul picks this up when he's addressing the Jews in particular And he's saying, listen, not everybody that's a Jew outwardly is one necessarily in reality. And he brings up this subject of circumcision in Romans chapter two, at the end of the chapter And verse number twenty eight, Romans two twenty eight He says, for he is not a Jew which is one outwardly. Now what do you think he means by that? You're not a Jew that's one outwardly. That's just what? Just a facade. He's going through the motions, outward motions. Now we could say today, just because someone goes to church and carries a big Bible doesn't make them a Christian, right? What did Billy Sunday say? You can you can uh uh sitting in a church doesn't make you a Christian any more than sitting in a garage makes you a car. Right? And that's what Paul is saying. He says, You can go through all these rites. Look in fact, look what he says next. He says, Neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew which is one what? Inwardly, verse 29, and circumcision is that of the heart and of in the spirit and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. It had deteriorated to the point where it said, well, I'm circumcised, therefore I'm right with God. Now, can you think of anything we do today that would be similar along those lines in that it represents outwardly, physically, something that has taken place inwardly. Baptism. Now I'm not saying baptism is the New Testament equivalent of circumcision, but it is It is the same in that it represents outwardly something that has taken place inwardly. Would you agree with me? Just someone getting baptized doesn't save them. You can go through those motions all you want, but if my heart, I'm a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ with all my heart, my faith in him personally, from my heart and soul, trusting him, simply going through an outward motion is meaningless. It it doesn't do anything for me. And so circumcision was given to the Jews in particular, one hygiene, that wasn't the primary reason, but this token of their covenant relationship with Jehovah. God has promised unconditionally that He would bless them, that they would be as the sand of the sea, that He would never fail them, He would not forsake them Abraham's covenant was that we will trust you and we will cut off everything else that would take away our love and our commitment to Jehovah. So that was the purpose of it. So we come back to King Saul. Having said all that and understanding just briefly what this is all about, why would he make this stipulation? Well, I think it was to verify that they were actually Philistines, number one He wanted to make sure he was killing Philistines. Now I don't think that was a major part of Saul's thinking. I think Saul knew David well enough that if he asked him to go kill Philistines, David's going to go kill Philistines. There's no reason to think otherwise. So, but that may have been a factor. Um the Philistines, as I said, were very pagan. They had no relationship with the Lord. In fact, they hated Jehovah And um and behaved accordingly. This is what I think Saul had in mind when he said, I want a hundred Philist uh foreskins of the Philistines. The Philistines hated the Jews. They hated everything about the Jews. They wanted to exterminate them. They hated their God. They hated their worship. They hated everything about it. And for David to come out there and, so to speak, circumcise the Philistines would enrage them. That represented everything they hated, everything they despised against the Jews. And I think that Saul had in his mind That if David would do this, not only would be up against a very formidable foe in the Philistines, they were intense. They were unstoppable. We've seen that and we're going to see it more But to do something like this that is so insulting to them, Saul was convinced it would enrage them when they hear that David is doing this. They would stop at nothing to destroy David. And when Saul said this, and David agrees to it, I see in my imaginary mind's eye, I see King Saul saying, I got him. He's going to go charging out there. He's going to do this, which is probably the most insulting thing he can probably do to them. And they will absolutely destroy him I think that's the way I see it. I think Saul was convinced that his scheme was going to work. So Look what David does. Now we go to the last one here, is David's enthusiastic accomplishment. I tell you, this next two verses makes me like David more and more. Look at verse 20. Where? Six. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law David's saying, I can see David going like this. Yes. I can do this And David is wound up. I tell you, one thing about David, we're going to see this, and I've said it off and on over the years as we preached on David and different things. One thing about David, whatever he did, he did it with all his heart. Brother, this guy was passionate. And the King Saul is going to send him out, kill a hundred Philistines, and circumcise them, so to speak, just to get his daughter. David is all in. I can do that And uh so he gets out here. Uh first thing I notice here, the first part of verse 26, David is pleased with the arrangement. It says it see, it says, and his servants told him, It pleased David well. He says, yes, this is great. Two reasons I think. Number one, there is great honor associated with killing the king's enemies Remember a little earlier he said to him I, I'm despised, I'm poor, I don't have anything of value or worthy to be the king's son-in-law. But now if I could kill some of the king's enemies, that's very honorable. That's something worthy of a king's son-in-law. And that's something I can do. So that appealed to him. And I think another part was David had absolute confidence. that he could accomplish this. How much doubt was in David's mind about Goliath? There was none. He had no doubt God would enable him to take care of Goliath. Then he goes out there and by according to the women saying he kills 10,000 more. And so uh David David's pleased with this arrangement, number one, because of the honor it brings with it, number two, because he's confident he can do this. And then I notice he's prompt to accomplish it. He doesn't drag his feet, doesn't get around. Look at the last part of verse number 26. David was pleased, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law, and the days were not expired Say what in the world does that mean? I think what that me what that's referring to, apparently King Saul had given David a period of time to get this done. We're not told that, but that little phrase there said the days of the time that he had apparently to accomplish this weren't even close to running out I think what that phrase is telling us is David went out immediately and dispatched these guys, I mean way w in far less time than what he was allotted. Does that make sense? You follow what I'm saying And so he was very prompt. He got after this thing. And I came across, I was reading about enthusiasm. I like enthusiasm. I'd like to think sometimes I'm enthusiastic about stuff. And I read some quotes about enthusiasm. Without enthusiasm, no battles have been won No empires have been built. No cathedrals have been built. One fellow said the success, one of the major factors in success is enthusiasm. David was enthusiastic. I can hear him getting back, and he's got some of his soldiers here, or his guys, maybe his um platoon or whatever they were. And he gets them together and says, Come on guys, we got this. Oh, this is gonna be fun. And they get out after that thing. And then not only was he prompt he was pleased with the arrangement, he was prompt to accomplish it. Number three I put this down verse twenty seven. He was prolific in his accomplishment. I like this about David. David uh and uh wherefore David arose and went, he and his men and slew the Philistines. How many? Two hundred Well, while we're at it, we might as well get a few more. And he goes out, and he goes so far above over and above what Saul had asked for. Let me ask you a question. What is this doing to King Saul? I we're not told, but in my mind, I can't help but think Saul is steaming. He had this thing wrapped up. Good night, there's no way he's going to survive this. They will be so infuriated They're gonna destroy him. They're gonna feed him to the dogs. They're gonna cut him in pieces. I'll never see David again. My life is wonderful And if David, in a few days, I mean just he comes back almost immediately, and he's got not just a hundred, but he's got two hundred. And uh it's like, man, a lie. And then I end with this Saul keeps his promise. Now just look at that statement. I don't know. Maybe I'm getting into it too much. Maybe I'm too enthusiastic. But look at the statement at the end of verse 27. And Saul gave him Michael, his daughter, to wife. I kind of see Saul. And Saul gave him his daughter. This is not the way it was supposed to happen. This is not the way it was going to play out. And Saul, we're going to see in the coming studies, Saul is frustrated. Time and time. And time again. David was not going to be killed by King Saul. David was not going to be killed by King Saul's daughter. He wasn't going to be killed by the Philistines. David wasn't going to be killed by anybody. Because God had promised him that he would someday what? Be king. So Saul is not fighting against David. Saul is fighting against the Word of God. God had given his word. You will be king. And I'm telling you, this whole world has been fighting not against Christians They've been burning Christians at the stake, but their fight isn't with Christians. Their fight is with what? Word of God. God's statement about it. God's word to us. And so we're giving out tracts this month. We're giving out the word of God. Somebody face somebody Last Thursday I was knocking on doors. It wasn't track money, it's just knocking on doors. This is the first time in almost twenty-six years I've been here. I had five people get mad at me In Oakland, uh, for knocking at their door, and two were very, very angry And uh I I don't know, maybe I I think I forgot to brush my teeth or something that night. I don't know what it was, but something was in the air And you know, my old flesh, my old self walks away, and I said, Uh, I ought to get them for that. And you know what I gotta remember, and the Lord helped me remember, it wasn't me. Everything I represented, it was what we were trying to talk about. And so somebody gets upset with you about giving them a track, and it's a very minority. Try to me say, well I'm not going to get out of traction. I don't people get mad at me. Very, very few. How many people agree with me? Overwhelming majority of people are very friendly. Uh the the negatives are extreme small percentage. But just remember, if and when it does happen, it's not us that man at the Lord. I like what the disciples said in Acts. It says they rejoiced and that they were counted worthy. To suffer shame for the Lord. You've probably heard this before, but years ago in England there was an actor. This is before they had movies. They used to have theaters, you know, and they'd have the actors up on the stage. And there was an actor, an English actor by the name of MacRetty, very, very popular. Everybody loved MacRetty. He would be like, who's a famous movie star today? John Wayne. Well, not today. Some famous guy. Brad Pitt. And he and he and a very very leading preacher had somehow ended up at the same table together at a banquet. So here's this very famous actor. Here is um a very famous well-known preacher And the preacher said to the actor, he said, I wish you would explain something to me. And the actor said, Well, that's strange. I don't know that I can explain something to a preacher. The preacher said this, what is the reason for the difference between you and me? When you get up, stand up in front of a crowd, people come out by the thousands and thousands, night after night. And all you are presenting to them is fiction. Yet they come by the thousands. He says, I get up on a weekly basis and I preach the unchangeable truth of the Word of God. And I can't hardly get a crowd at all. He said, explain to me what is the difference. And the actor, without hesitating, responded this. He said, it's quite simple. I can tell you the difference between us I present my fiction as if it were truth, and you present the truth as if it was just fiction. What was he saying about that preacher? You don't act like you believe it. You're acting like it's just a story, like it's nothing real And people don't believe it. They're not a p a truth. He says, however, I can take something that's not even true And I can present it in such a way that it appears to be truth, and people come for it. And I thought of David and Saul. Saul was trying to keep up this facade. That he was something he wasn't. And he's diminishing, diminishing, diminishing. And David was as real as you can get His faith in God was as real and it was evident. We're going to see in the next passage. And uh he behaved himself wisely, and people saw that God was with them. And he presented truth as it really is truth. And I tell you what I tell you what Oakland and Garrett County and our nation and our world needs is Christians that live and act like if what we say we really believed is true. And we lived as if it was true. And I think we'd have an impact. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless and help us, Lord, to learn from David and his faith and his zeal, his enthusiasm. And help us, Lord, to catch that a little bit and just to uh uh just to be real. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher uh I need God to help me in my Christian life, that it would be real. And not just some motions I go through or I'll rut them in. But it's real. Christ in me, living in and through me. And that God could use me. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, my hand's raised. I need that all the time. And maybe it's just a matter of asking God, God help me God help me get all this other stuff out that's between you and me. Help me circumcise my heart. There's nothing between you and me, and we're just Love with you and your blessing me. Maybe that's just asking God to do that. Father, bless invitation I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing invitation