First Samuel chapter number thirty, if you would, turn in your Bible. We we started this a couple weeks ago, this section here. David is of course he's over hiding with the Philistines trying to escape Saul. Big mistake. He leaned on his own understanding. He uh leaves the the will of God and he forsakes uh he neglects the promise of God, goes over to the Philistines, looks for protection. Well, things mess up there and uh you remember he was staying in Zaglag, he was almost got sucked into going to war against Israel, which I think he had a plan there. Anyway, he comes back to Zaglag and the place has been raided by the Amalekites. I mean absolutely burned to the ground, destroyed His family, his household, all his men, their families, their households are taken captive Uh they they don't know that initially, I don't think. I think they thought they were dead, and then they realized that they had taken them with them. So that's the situation. Look with me again, and I know we've already read this and looked at this a little bit, but I want to keep it all together in context. Verse 8 And David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? That's the Amalekites that have his family. Shall I overtake them? And he answered him. God answered David's prayer Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all. I think it's interesting Here God promised him he's going to recover all. David acts on that in uh in light of the promise of God, but God promised he would be king and he struggled with that. How many folks here ever you got some promise of God God did for you? Boy, you can take that, but then some other thing, boy, you really struggle with that, some other area. You know what I'm talking about? Why is that? I don't we're we're just uh humans, I guess But nevertheless, David, uh verse nine, David went. He acted on the promise of God. He and the six men, six hundred men that were with him. and came to the brook Basar, where those that were left behind stayed. But David pursued, he and four hundred men. For two hundred abode behind, which were so faint they could not go over the brook Basar And they found an Egyptian, as they're on their way pursuing these Amalekites, they found an Egyptian in the field and brought him to David and gave him bread, and he did eat, and they made him drink water. And they gave him a piece of cake of figs and two clusters of raisins, and when he had eaten his spirit came again to him, for he had eaten no bread nor drunk any water three days and three nights David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? And whence art thou? And he said, I'm a young man of Egypt, serving to an Amalekite, and my master left me because three days ago I fell sick And we made an invasion upon the south of Cherithites and upon the coast which belongeth to Judah and upon the south of Caleb, and we burned Zaglag with fire. Oh, that's where David was staying. And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Now this Egyptian guy wasn't no dummy He said, Swear unto me by God that thou wilt neither kill me nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company. And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the hand of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day, and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels and fled. And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away, and David rescued his two wives. And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all And David took all the flocks and the herds which they drave before those other cattle and said, this is David's spoil. David recovers all. Let's pray. And we'll look at this. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this event in David's life. And I pray, Lord, that you would uh help us learn from this and principles that we can apply to our lives. And that our faith in you would be strong and our walk with you would be consistent and our witness would be effective. So please fill me with your spirit. I pray I yield myself to you, my body, I present anew. And pray you would be our preacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Alright, so David's recovering all of this. God promised he gets back. And I think there's three I think there's three lessons that David learned here that can help us. The first one we looked at last week, and that was David's return to prayer. If there ever was a time how many people here, let me put it this way, how many people here believe a Christian ought to pray? Yeah. How many people here like me, you feel like I don't pray as much as I ought to, like I should, is earnestly? Sure. It's a lifelong endeavor. Christians ought to pray. David should pray. David should have prayed before he got into this mess. It's easy for us to look back and judge him on that, but uh he should have. You and I have situations we should have prayed before we got into it. But if David ever needed the Lord, if he ever needed prayer, is now He was at perhaps the lowest point of his life. I think at this point, at least, up to this point in his life, he's at the lowest point. He needed the Lord. And he prayed and he sought the Lord there. David inquired at the Lord. That's a good thing. I think if ever our our churches and our country need to pray and inquire at the Lord, it's now Uh if we ever need prayer, we've always needed prayer, but I'm telling you now more than ever. And I tell you men's prayer breakfast last week, the ladies' prayer luncheon this Saturday, the Sunday prayer times They are so important. We must never, ever underestimate the importance and the effectiveness of prayer Don't ever write it off. So David prayed. God heard his prayer and responded. We looked at that, we looked at seven reasons prayer is important last week. Now I want to get to the second one. One, he returned to prayer. The second one, second observation I make here is he has a restoration of his partners. And we touched on this a little bit the other week. But look at verse 9. So David went, and the 600 men that were with him. Now, if you'll remember, and again, we mentioned this earlier. But if you remember, if you come up to verse number six, it says, and David was greatly distressed. For the people, that's the six hundred men and their households that are with him, the people spake of what? Stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters. And so now he and the six hundred men that were going with him. This is an interesting something has changed here Something has changed in their minds, in their view of David, in their assessment of the situation that they are in. Something has changed. Verse 6 It's hopeless. We're going to stone David. He got us into this mess. It's all his fault. Then you get down to verse 9. Now they say, oh yeah, we're going to go into battle with this guy. We're gonna go into battle with an army that we are outnumbered and outweaponed, and we're gonna go follow this guy. Something changed Now try and think with me here a little bit, see if I can get you on the same wavelength I'm on. What what changed? What changed that those guys would have one attitude, verse 6, a completely opposite attitude in verse number 9? Something or someone in there changed. Okay, David's prayer. This is what I'm getting at. David's relationship with the Lord changed. Before he was leaning on his own understanding, before he's running it his way, before he's neglecting or disregarding the promises of God. And now he's changed. And here's the application that I see in this, and uh maybe can help us is this. My relationship with the Lord And my relationship with my fellow man is closely related. When David got right with God, then he got right with those that were around him. When David got back in tune with God, he got back in tune with the men that were serving him. And our relationship with the Lord is closely is closely linked to our relationship with other people. My relationship with God will affect my relationship with my spouse And with my fellow church members, my brothers and sisters in Christ, my employer, and my employee. My relationship with God affects my relationship with others. And again, I know we touched on this before, but it's impossible for me to be wrong with my brother and right with God. You follow what I'm saying? If I'm out of sorts with my brother or sister in Christ, I'm not going to be out of sorts with God. If you don't love your brother, then you don't love God. Now take your Bible with me if you would. Keep your place here. I want us to go to two passages of Scripture. 1 Proverbs chapter 16. We end up in Proverbs all the time. Proverbs chapter 16. Now this is, I believe, a general statement that God is making here. Proverbs chapter 16, and look with me if you would at verse number 7. Chapter 16, verse 7. When a man's ways please the Lord, He maketh even his what? Enemies to be at peace with him. Now, I believe that's a general statement. Sometimes we got enemies that we can't control their attitude or their actions. But I think generally speaking, when a person's right with God, generally speaking uh they're going to be able to get along with others a whole lot better. Did you ever know somebody that couldn't get along with anybody no matter what? They just can't get along with anybody. Nobody they can't get along. I tell you, that's a characteristic of somebody that doesn't get along with God. That's an indication somebody's out of whack with God. You say, oh, preacher, you got some scripture. Yeah, I'm glad you asked. Turn with me to 1 John. First John chapter one. Oh John, he he was the loving apostle. He he's he spoke a lot about love. Assurance and love is the is the kind of the key words through the book of 1 John. In 1 John chapter 1 Give a chance to get there. It's the New Testament. 1 John chapter 1. Look at verse 6 with me, if you would. If we say that we have fellowship with him, that's the Lord, and walk in darkness, we what? We lie and we do not the truth. So not everybody that says they're in fellowship with the Lord is necessarily in fellowship with the Lord It's interesting. One thing I had to get used to as a pastor was uh uh uh trying to uh deal with folks that would convince me how great Christians they are. Oh man, they come in, you know, and they got some issue going on with somebody, maybe in the family or something, and uh talk to one And oh my word, they are the apostle John reincarnated. They love God. They are so right with God, it's incredible. Then you talk to the other party And um, oh my goodness, they're the one that's the angel in the flesh and they love God. And uh after a while I was like, wait a minute, somebody ain't telling the truth, maybe more than one person ain't here And so he says, if we say we have fellowship with the Lord, with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, do not the truth. But look at verse 7. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, look at this. We have what? Fellowship one with another. You know, maybe, maybe the problem that I have with that other person that I have a problem with Maybe the problem is my relationship with the Lord. You follow me? Maybe it isn't so much that that person is such a terrible, awful, horrible person, and then they might be. But my problem with them might be is my re my relationship with the Lord is out of whack and thus causing my relationship with them. Whatever the case may be, the fact of the matter is something changed. in the attitude and the approach of David's men toward him. And the only thing I find changing is David And David's relationship with the Lord and David's faith in God. And when David's when David turned from leaning on his own understanding and started inquiring at the Lord Then these fellows say, hey, we're with you. We'll follow you into battle. We're outnumbered. We're outgunned, but we're going to follow you into battle. And so there's a restoration uh of his partners. And I see the uh the cause of that is David's return to prayer and David getting back in line with God. And again what I'm saying is I think sometimes uh uh or problem with other people really isn't a problem with the other person, it's a problem here. I had a fellow in my office years ago. And he says, I just don't love my wife. They were both sitting there. I said, I just don't love my wife anymore. I said, Well, that tells me, I tried to say it nicely, I said that tells me you don't love God Because my Bible says if you love the if you love me, you'll keep my commandments, John chapter 14. And God commands you to love your wife. And so if you're saying, well, I don't love my wife, then you're disobeying God's clear command, which means you don't love God. Follow what I'm saying? And so uh our relationship with the Lord, our walk with the Lord. And uh and the other way I've tried to illustrate this, and and you know, I've got to deal with this also, my own Christian walk. But uh the other way I I try to deal with this is uh you know you have two people that are at odds with each other. You know, they want to stone him. It's all his fault. He got us in this situation. This guy's, you know uh out of the will of God and are just messed up. And so you say, well we gotta have unity. I had a lady years ago say, we need more unity in our church. I thought it was pretty good, to be honest. But uh I said, well the way to get unity is you start following Jesus. And so here's this guy and they're all mad at this guy and this guy's all depressed because he made a stupid mistake And so how do you get these two together? Well, one of them has to start following the Lord. And so David gets back in tune with the Lord And they get back in tune with the Lord, and guess what? Then they got unity following the Lord. But as long as each one's doing trying to do their own thing, do their own thing, you're not going to have that. Am I making any sense at all? And so, again, David is restored with his partners, I think, because he got restored with his Lord. And then that changed everything and enabled them to work together. Now one other uh observation I want to make here, and that is this, the recovery of his possessions. We had this return to prayer The restoration of his partners, now the recovery of his possessions. Look at verse uh uh let me get back here. I'm still in John, let me get back here. And uh notice with me, if you would, verse number um eighteen and then we'll look at these other verses. David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away, and David rescued his two wives, and there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great Neither sons nor daughters, neither smoil nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all. I mean he got everything back, the silverware, the table plates, his socks Everything that they had taken. He got it all back. Nothing. The Bible says nothing they took was missing. Wow, how many people agree? That's a pretty good recovery. Ain't a lot, you got everything back. And um uh and uh how did this come about? How did that happen? It's an interesting process The first thing I noticed, first of all, they have unfavorable circumstances. This was things were not, the circumstances were not in David's favor to recover everything. Look at verse 10 But David pursued he and the 400 men. He had four hundred men. How many men did he have? Six hundred. But four hundred But look at this. For 200 abode behind. They didn't go with them. They stayed back by that brook Thessor. And why'd they stay back there? They were so faint that they could not even go over the book Besar. These guys, now these are warriors. These guys have fought battles with David And um uh man they are so faith, they are so worn out, they are exhausted, they are beat They were like Charlie was tonight, walked in tired from working all day, couldn't hardly give out bulletins, and uh I mean these guys are wore out. They can't even go any farther. They sat there. Unfavorable circumstances. Now why were these guys so faint? By the way, I got studying that word faint. It means this, to be completely exhausted, to be completely without strength. Does anybody here ever faint? Ever pass out? Just faint. I was I was a couple times when I was in Mongolia on my mission trip. I came back. We ate this is the truth. We ate horse meat when I was over there. Anybody here ever eat horse meat It's not that great. Uh but uh we and uh we come back and I had the Mongolian horse flu. I just made that up, but um I was so sick. Oh my remember and uh it was a Sunday morning I think and I'm up and I'm trying to put my socks on and all of a sudden I was so faint all of a sudden uh the darkness started coming in And whoo, next thing I knew, I was in the closet, the shoe closet, my head piled up in a pile of shoes. And I mean I was out, took me to the hospital, I was at the doctor, I passed out again at the doctor's office And um so faint, that's the way these guys were. I told that to get you feel sorry for me and be impressed. Yeah, thank you. Precious Now why were they so faint? I I came up with some suggestions. One, they just had a three-day journey. Remember, they went up, they were going to go to war, they got turned away, and they had to come back. So they traveled three days up. They got rejected, uh, got kicked out of the the war uh the army by the uh Philistine leaders, so they had three days back. So that's significant. Now they're men are they're soldiers, they've been trained under David, so that's not that big a deal. But I would venture to say they burned up some supplies on the three-day journey. I would say. When they got there, they weren't able to accommodate themselves to access any of the Philistine supplies because they got booted out So now they had to come back unexpectedly, travel a three-day. I doubt seriously they had six days worth of supplies because they were anticipating Being with the Philistines. So now they had to come back. I would venture to say they depleted whatever supplies they have. They have completely depleted them. Now I'm speculating here Then they get back to Zaglag where their homes are and what do they find there? Nothing. It's all been taken. So now they still have no more supplies. And so they have uh gone six days uh on limited supplies of food and ex uh and etc with it. Um another thing that would be a factor is they have just been emotionally devastated. They have come back and have been and believe at one point that their wives, their children, their sons, their daughters have all been slaughtered, and they know the Amalekites how violent they were And uh their supplies are all gone, everything they possess in the world is gone, everything they love has been destroyed and taken and killed. How many people agree that would be emotionally devastating? Did you ever get where your heart is so broken you can't even hardly walk across the room? Did you ever get so emotionally drained you can't even hardly walk across I think that that has a that can exhaust a person, just the emotional aspect of that. No supplies in Ziglag. And um and uh And now they're going to go fight, they got to go find these Amalekites, and these Amalekites are violent, vicious, murderous marauders. And they've and in their minds they go, we've got to go fight these guys. And so these are unfavorable circumstances, to say the least. However In spite of the unfavorable circumstances, they still got victory. And what I take away from this is this: God is not dependent upon circumstances to accomplish his will. You might be in circumstances that are very unfavorable right now. And they may be emotionally draining. It may be the most difficult time of your life. And I'll tell you, we're in difficult days today But I'm telling you, God can use the most unfavorable circumstances and still give us victory and accomplish his will in our lives. Can you think of anybody in the Bible, anybody else besides here in the Bible that had unfavorable circumstances, had a bad situation, were in a difficult situation, but God brought victory out of it? Can you think of anybody? Joseph, right there. You talk about good night. Talk about unsaver. Who else? Job, yeah. I'm thinking of warfare type things though Anybody ever read about Gideon? How about that? You talk about unfavorable circumstances. They can't even get their harvest in. And uh like to talk about Gideon for a long time. He's a fascinating man. I don't think Gideon was a coward. I think he was an incredibly brave man. Give me a dollar later, I'll tell you why I think that. But um nevertheless, he has 300 men against an army of tens of thousands. Very unfavorable circumstance, but God gave the victory. Uh can you think of anyone can you think of any other situation Joshua wasn't the most favorable. Here's one that came to my mind was the early church. They turned the world upside down. They impacted the entire world. But think about it. They didn't own one square inch of property. They didn't have any buses. They had no printing They had no budget whatsoever, so to speak. I mean they were taking offerings and stuff. But I mean the early church had nothing that you and I that would believe is absolutely necessary if we're going to start a church. They had none of that. The only thing they had was the presence and power of God. And they turned the world upside down and reached the known world with the gospel. Not favorable circumstance. And by the way, the government wasn't cheering them on and saying, you're jolly good fellas. They were being hounded and persecuted and slaughtered in some cases, and yet they pressed on, they pressed on. You say how God can't do a work and a lockdown. God can't give the victory in a situation like we're in, a government losing our liberty. God can't, hey, you know what? Last Sunday we had two baptized and two people saved last Sunday. And I'm reading other churches and pastors tell me things God is doing in the midst of all this chaos and all the fear and all the confusion going on. I'm telling you, God is not dependent upon our circumstances to accomplish his will. He's bigger than anything you and I ever find ourselves in. And so 400 men and they're wore out, two of them, 200 are so worn out they can't even cross a creek. And uh not the most uh promising circumstances. I put this down. God does not need a powerful army to get a victory. God doesn't need big numbers to get the victory. I thought about Ezekiel 22 And verse number 30, where he says, he says, I sought for a man to stand in the gap and make up the hedge. I got thinking about what he said there. He doesn't say I saw it for an army. He doesn't say I saw it for a megachurch. He doesn't say I saw it for a million uh a millionaire. No, just one fella that will give himself fully to the Lord and just trust God, not lean on his own understanding and just follow what God says, and God says, That's all I need. Just one man, make up the gap and stand in the hedge and and can accomplish something. And so unfavorable circumstances, yet they still recovered all their possessions. The second thing I notice here in verse 11 down through 15, this is interesting to me, is there's an unlikely assistance. Look at verse 11. And while they're pursuing, they got these 400 guys, and they're wore out, I'm sure. And while they're trying to figure out where these Amalekites are, and I guess they're following their tracks in the sand or whatever They found this Egyptian fella in the field. They bring him to David. Hey David, we found this guy here. He's pretty sickly and weak. And uh they gave him some bread and he did eat and they made him drink water, they gave him a piece of cake of figs and clusters of raisins, and uh when he'd eaten a spirit came on, he had had no bri bread or drunk any water for three days And then David said to him, To whom belongest thou? Whence art thou? Who are you? Whose are you? Where are you from? And he said, I'm a young man of Egypt serving to an Amalekite. I would guess Amalekites came down to Egypt, did some marauding down there, captured some slaves and servants, and got this guy He probably lost his family, and uh he's a servant now of one of these um these horrific Amalekites. My master left me because three days ago I fell sick. We're not told what his sickness was Uh we made an invasion and he tells them where they were at. And then David said there to him, Can you bring me down, can canst thou bring me down to this company? And uh the guy, I'm impressed with this young Egyptian fellow He says, I I can hear his mind thinking. Huh, if I tell David where he's at, he's just going to kill me and leave me laying here and he'll go off and get him. Now that's the way the Macal Mout the um not Hamlockites, the um Amalekites, uh that's what they would have done to him. They just used them and, you know, they just left them for dead when he was sick So he says, he's pretty clever. He says, tell you what, I'll make you a deal. You don't send me back. Don't kill me. Don't send me back to the Amalekites. I'll tell you where they're at. And David says, sure, that that'll work. And so uh and so he takes them down there, and uh I'll bring thee to this company and brought him down And he brought him down there. I thought that was interesting. God used a sick Egyptian slave to help David recover all. So my first thought was, God's not dependent on our circumstances. You say, I'm in a bad spot right now. Well, God can still give victory. And then God sometimes uses unlikely assistance. God often uses the most unlikely things to accomplish His will. I thought about Elijah when God sent him out to along that little stream and he needed some food to eat. What did God use to make sure Elijah had enough food to eat when he's out by that little brook? A raven. Now I don't anybody here familiar with ravens? They're kind of nasty birds, to be honest with you. They're similar to a crow except nastier. And uh I, you know, I don't know about you, but if a raven comes and lands, has a sandwich there for me, I I I don't know that I'd be that Anxious to eat it. Anybody here say, oh yeah, delicious. Uber eats. We're using ravens now. And um Yeah, it comes and delivers and by the way it was sandwiches because it says meat and bread, flesh and bread they brought. That's a sandwich, meat on a bread. I think it was quarter pounders, but um But God used a raven of all things to provide for his servant. You know, I could see maybe some majestic bird or some a cheetah comes riding in, you know, or something really amazing. But a raven. God uses unlikely things sometimes I thought about Jonah trying to get Jonah to uh Nineveh. Now we've heard the story so much it's not that unusual to us But the fact of the matter is that a whale would swallow a guy. Who in the world would have ever anticipated something like that? And God used a whale of all things. And you go all through the Bible. God used the Babylonians to chasten Israel. They were the nastiest people ever. And God used them of all. In fact, in Jeremiah, if you study Jeremiah, all the leadership in Israel was like God would never use the Babylonians in Jeremiah saying You better you better submit. God's going to use them. And they say, There's no way God would use the Babylonian. Uh yeah, he did. He did And sometimes God uses the most unusual thing. Who would have ever dreamed that the Savior of the world would show up in a little manger Because there's no room even in an inn for him to stay. A savior of the world, the king of kings, he'd be born in a palace. But God doesn't do things the way we always we think he would And sometimes God uses unusual things. And you say, I don't understand what in the world's happened. This situation is such a mess. Ah, don't count God out. Don't count God out. We still may recover all. And so uh unfavorable circumstances, unlikely assistance. Uh and then he runs into verse 16 and 17. I put this down, an unexpected situation. Now here's David. He's a warrior. He's got his 400 guys, 200 are laying on the ground back there exhausted, and he's pursuing the mountites without Disregard what we already know he finds. What do you think David expected to find when he finally caught up to the Malachites? He expected to find an army. He expected to find highly armed, highly trained, ferocious, vicious, merciless soldiers that are going to fight them tooth and nail. I'm convinced that's what they anticipated. And David was ready for it. God promised. He's going to recover all. And he gets up there anticipating. I'm thinking he's anticipating a horrific fight. This is going to be bad. This is going to be ugly, but everything's on the line. God has promised us victory. We're going into this thing. And he gets there and look at verse 16. And when they brought him down, behold, they were spread upon the earth, eating and drinking and dancing. They were all drunk. And because of the great spoil. And it ended up, it ended up not even being a fight hardly. It was more like a slaughter on David's part. Now you say, what is it how does that apply to my life? Anybody here ever think something is going to be awful and then when you get into it, it wasn't wasn't so bad after all. Anybody know? And you think, oh my word, this is going to be terrible. This is going to be the hardest thing of my life. And get there, and they're all drunk and dancing, and you don't even have to do anything I'm telling you, God can take the most God can take the most unfavorable circumstances. He can use the most unlikely assistance. And a lot of times we find out it's not anything like we anticipated. Again, Jonah, when he got to Nineveh, you know, he he he expected something terrible. Here God sent a great revival. And you go all through the Bible. Unexpected situation. I don't know what it is that you and I might be scared of. What we're terrified by, what we're anticipating is going to be so horrible. But I want to suggest to you that uh if we'll trust the Lord and follow his instructions, we may find out it's not even half as bad as what we anticipate it's going to be. Not even half as bad. And then last of all, I end with this I notice in verse number 20, there's an abundance of spoil. Look verse 20, there chapter 30. And David took all the flocks and the herds. Well, verse 20 verse 19, David recovered all his stuff. David got all his stuff back. I mean everything. Coffee cups, everything they took, every little thing they took, David got it all back. But then verse 20 is tacked on here, and it says, David took all the flocks and the herds which they drive those other cattle. And said, this is David's spoil. You know what? David walked away from this thing with more than he started with. David walked away with greater possessions than he had before they ever got raided in the first place. I'm telling you, God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. And you may say, preacher, I've made the stupidest decision, I've gotten self in such a mess. I don't see how I can get out of this. It'll be horrible. It's going to be terrible. I want to suggest if you'll follow David's example and pray, I mean get a hold of God Whatever God tells you to do from his word, you trust him and you do exactly as he instructs from his word. And I'm suggesting you, no matter what the circumstance, no matter the most unlikely help may show up And it may not end up being as terrible as we think, and you may end up even better off than you were before. Now I'm not talking about prosperity gospel, but I am talking about this. God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all we ever ask or think. And he he can do the most amazing things. I put this in my notes. What do you think David learned? David's being prepared for the king To be king. David's being prepared to be the king of Israel, to establish a throne that one day the Son of God for all eternity is going to reign from, through all millennials, is going to reign from. What did David learn through this preparation? I think one, he learned the importance of prayer. Importance of prayer. I hope we learned that. I hope I learned that. If we can't do anything else, we need to pray. We have got to pray. I can't over-emphasize. I think David learned the importance of relationships. And he needs these people with him. He needs to stay right with God to enable him to stay right with others. And I think he learned that God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all you ask or think. Some of these guys. Some people, David, you know, these guys that were going to stone him. I know some fellows, maybe I might be guilty of this, but would have never ever forgiven those 600 men for wanting to stone him. These guys want to stone me. Are you crazy? It's not my fault. You guys are in this too. But apparently David forgave them. And enabled them to work together and to uh to accomplish this great victory. I think David learned the importance of relationships. And God can use any circumstance to accomplish His will. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to learn From this situation here with David and how you brought him out of that and recovered all. That's an amazing thing. And Lord, we get ourselves in circumstance, we get ourselves in situation, we think it's all gone, it's hopeless. Lord, you're teaching us that as long as you're alive, there's nothing hopeless. And you can turn things and you can change things. And so help us to pray. And help us to trust you. With our heads bowed eyes closed, how many tonight would say, Preacher, I need God to revive my prayer life I need to get that back where it's supposed to be. Any like that. I know we've been preaching this a lot, but we need it, my prayer life, disciplined, scheduled, earnest prayer. How many would say, preacher, I uh I'm out of sorts with some brother or sister in Christ? You say I really need to get that right. Maybe who knows what it might be, but God God knows and He's speaking in our heart right now about it. You see, I need to get that right. I need to. I need God's blessing. I need God's help. And it's not worth it being out of sorts. Is there anybody like that? Preacher, pray for me. I I've got to get some things. God bless you. A number of hands. I've got to get that straightened. Now. And then maybe some would say, preacher, I I'm in a bit of a circumstance. I don't see how in the world anything good can come out of this. But uh you say, I'm just going to trust God. I'm going to pray. I'm going to trust him. Let him lead me and direct me I'll follow his instructions and trust him to do uh things I can't even imagine. Any like that, preacher? I need that. God bless you. A bunch of hands. So let's bring this to the Lord. Let's ask him tonight Father, bless our invitation in Jesus' name. Must stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.