And I want to begin reading in verse number 22. I'm going to read down through verse 30. Now we've already looked at a good portion of this passage, but I want to read through it again just so we get the context, a context of what's happening. This is a huge event In the life of David, also in the life of Israel, as David faces Goliath and defeats him through faith in God, simple faith in God. It certainly wasn't David's It certainly wasn't David's physical strength that defeated Goliath. It absolutely was not his weapon of choice that defeated Goliath It was his faith in God, and God defeated Goliath. And so this is a tremendous event in David's development as he prepares for the throne of Israel. And it's a tremendous event in the life of Israel as they are being prepared. for David to be their king. I'm going to begin reading, as I said, verse twenty-two down through verse thirty, so you follow along. The Bible says, And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words, and David heard them And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. The men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? Surely to defy Israel is he come up, and it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel David spake to the men that stood by and saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? And the people after him and the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. And Eliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why comest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, the naughtiness of thy heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. David said, What have I now done Is there not a cause? And he turned from him toward another and spake after the manner, and the people answered him again after the former manner. David's introduction to Goliath. Now I'm going to pray, and then Jamie, if you'll have those pictures, I want to show you a couple pictures, might help you help us visualize a little bit what's going on here. Let's pray first. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless the study of your word. I pray your Holy Spirit would take the truths from this passage and apply them to our hearts in a practical way. God, I know I have nothing in and of myself that would be of any spiritual or eternal value. God, I recognize that. So I yield myself to you, my will, and present my body, and I ask that you would take your word through my lips and apply it to our hearts, our lives would be changed, our faith would be stronger, our witness would be clearer. And our walk with you would be pure. So hear me, Lord. Fill me, I pray, and help us, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. So I was studying, I came across and uh just kind of get a picture of where this event is taking place. Here is a slice. This is kind of the middle of Israel. And you notice the um you notice the uh sea there off on the right there, uh the Dead Sea, and then over on the left is the Mediterranean Sea. And right there you have these five cities And they were always kind of allies. They would come together with uh with the uh Philistines and they would just harass Israel. And then right in the middle, can you see that there, the two things you have um Azekah on the north of that little creek there, and then you have Soko, and in between is the valley of Elah. Now I came across this photo. Go to the next one there, Jamie, or maybe I have it there And that is actually the valley of Eli. This is where that event took place. This is a photo, of course, today. But this is where this event took place on the left hand side. Now we're kind of north looking south, if I understand it correctly. On the left-hand side, that little knoll is where Saul was in the armies of Israel. This is where David shows up. Across that little valley, that little creek there, on the other side is where the Philistine camp was. And then south is that other town, south of there. When David eventually killed Goliath, uh the Philistines fled. Uh see if we're looking south, it would have been kind of north. Uh a little bit northeast they came up that valley. That's where they fled in Saul's camp came up after them. But I just kind of thought it was interesting to get a view, but it's really not that big of an area. And Goliath would come down out into that opening there, and he would make these uh blasphemous statements, and he would challenge the nation of Israel. And then of course eventually David came down and got that. So I thought that was interesting. How many people help you visualize a little bit clearer what's taking place here? So you can cut them off there. And uh so anyway, we have uh here's the uh the situation. Israel and Philistines are facing each other again. And they find themselves on either side of this little valley that we saw there, this little creek really is what it was running through there, and their conflict was ongoing It was constant. The Philistines were just a thorn in Israel's flesh. Israel would defeat them. They'd regroup and rise up again and come back at them again. It was just relentless. However, This time, something is different. This time the Philistines have, and I was as I was going over this again, this came to my mind, this time the Philistines have a WMD Does anybody know what a WMB is? That's a weapon of mass destruction. That's Goliath And they look out there and they're thinking this guy can wipe out our whole army. And they are absolutely terrified of him They're paralyzed with fear as Goliath comes out. I don't know. I thought that was pretty clever, weapon of mass destruction with Goliath. You all just act like you're so used to clever stuff That you don't respond when you come up with it. So Jesse hears a I I'm convinced that Jesse hears about the situation there in this valley. And he's very, very concerned for his sons. His boys are down there fighting. Perhaps they hold significant positions in the Israeli army. And he's very concerned about them And so he calls in David, his youngest, who no doubt is too young to be engaged in battle, and he sends them down there for the purpose of checking on his boys. He wants to know that they're okay. He sends some cheese balls and stuff down with them and um but he wants to make sure they're okay David gets down there, and David is introduced to Goliath. And that's what we've been working our way through. Just this one slice of time, this little event where David shows up And he sees this go he sees this giant out in that valley, and what transpires If you remember, we noted, first of all, I wanted to touch on um David's uh character a little bit, and I noted David's intensity on his revival. I mean he's running in there, he's just uh uh quite a fellow And we looked at that. Then we noted David's introduction to Goliath, and he hears these statements, and he sees this giant of a man, and uh and his reaction to that. Then we noted last time Saul's ineffective motivation. And the fact of the matter is, Saul was using carnal motivations. Oh, I'll make you rich, I'll give you my daughter, I won't tax you. Somebody go out and do this. Who should have been the one leading the charge out on Goliath? It should have been who? Should have been King Saul. And he's trying to pay off the others to go do that. And uh Dr. Lee Robertson used to make a statement, I referenced this Sunday morning, but I think it applies here again He's he made this statement, everything rises and falls on leadership. And if Saul is the king, is trembling in his boots and scared to death to go out there It's no surprise that those who are under him and under his leadership uh respond in the same way. And so we have Saul's uh Ineffective motivation, carnal motivation. Now, here's what I want to get to tonight. Number four in our outline. I noticed David's incredulousness. There's a word for you David's incredulousness at Israel's army. What does it mean if, and I use these big words just to be impressive every now and then. Well what does it mean if someone is incredulous? Anybody take a shot? What does that mean? It's incredulous Difficult to believe. It kind of comes from the same word as incredible. That's incredible. I can't believe it. It can't be true. So I see, as I'm looking at this, I'll show you the verse where I get this from here in a moment, but I see David shows up, and it's kind of like this. David can't believe what he is seeing. He is incredulous. He is he I can't believe it. If it was today's vernacular, he'd be saying stuff like this. Are you serious? For real? He's incredulous. Look with me if you would at verse number 26. So he spake to the man that stood by him, saying, They just told him what Saul's going to would do for anybody that goes out and uh kills this guy. And then David says, really? That's what you're going to do? That's what's going to be done to the guy? Just you get a way? He goes, who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? How many people like me, you hear just a hint of un you can't believe this. Who is this guy? What are you guys kidding me? This uncircumcised Philistine, he's defying the living God seriously And then come down if you would to verse number 29. And David, he responds to his brother. We'll look at this a minute. He says, what have I done? He says, is there not a cause? And he turned from him toward another and spake after the same matter. And this is what's happening. They say, uh, this is what Saul's going to do if the person goes out and killed him. He's that he's like, really? Saul's going to do that? That's it? Who is this guy? That he should defy the living God. And then he says, is there not a cause? And he's going around from one person to another. Hey, isn't there a cause here? Isn't there a cause? Seriously? Nobody's going out there? And he is absolutely dumbfounded that Israel and King Saul is letting this guy get away with this. I noted three things that I think it was hard for David to swallow about this whole scenario. Three things that, now he's just off the mountain, he's been watching sheep, he's a young boy. He's seen what God can do. He knows God. He has a heart. He has a heart for God. He's a man after God's own heart, even as a young boy. So he's a unique fellow. And he sees three things, I think, that just it's hard for him to swallow. Number one is that someone this vile and this wicked would dare to blaspheme God. And I get this from this. And by the way, I believe it's hard for us to grasp how wicked the Philistines were. I think it's hard for us to grasp how profane and ungodly these people really were. Notice the terminology he uses. He says there again at the last part of verse 26, For who is this uncircumcised Philistine? Now, when David uses that term, and it's used several places throughout Scripture, they would reference to somebody as an uncircumcised whatever, if uncircumcised Philistines, what they were saying was this This guy is godless. This guy is absolutely without any morals He has no fear, no recognition, no reverence for God whatsoever. He is absolutely godless. And again, it's we I don't think when we read the Bible or when we even hear lessons on this, we grasp the level of depravity That the Philistines lived in and what their religion produced, their false God, the profane, godless, perverse lifestyle. And so David is absolutely incredulous. He just can't believe it, he can't swallow it, that somebody of this depth of depravity would be talking like that about God. And that leads me to my second thing that I think was hard for David to swallow, is that God would be spoken of this way. And God's people. He says, he says, who is this living God, who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy The armies of the living God. That word defy means this, to reproach. It has this idea to show scorn. For God and for God's people. One of the definitions, I was looking up that word and how it's used. I found it's used in this idea some ways to mock at something or to insult the character. of somebody. So this is more than him just saying, oh, your God doesn't exist. Your God doesn't mean anything to me. It's a whole lot more than that. When he's defying God and the armies of God, he is mocking God. He is insulting the very character of God. And then David uses this term. This is interesting. He said that he should defy the armies of what? What's it say? Very end of the verse there. Of the what? The living God. Why didn't he just say, who was this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy God, the armies of God? Why did he say the living God? That term is only used thirty times in the Bible, the whole Bible. Living God. Living God. Living God. I think the significance of that And by the way, when that word is used, when that phrase is used, the living God, it is almost always used when somebody is reproaching God. When somebody, Pharaoh, is ridiculing or mocking God. And uh in every case, uh The people respond when somebody ridicules or defies God or scorns God's character, in every case that term is used, the living God, the man of God, is in shock that the living God would be reproached like this. In other words, he's saying, listen, God is the true God. He the life. He is real. And this guy, this profane Uncircumcised Philistine dares to talk about our living God that way. And this is a total shock to David's system. He cannot swallow. He cannot believe what he's hearing. But I think there's a third thing that David has a hard time with, and that is this, that God's people would tolerate this. That God's people would tolerate it, that they would do nothing and just let Him get away with it Saul had gotten to the point where he had completely removed God from the equation All King Saul could see was the armor and the immensity of this giant. And he looked at himself and he looked at his men and their armor and their weapons and he says, that's all there is. There is no way, there is no human way we can possibly conquer this guy. And you know what? He was right. They weren't going to be able to beat this guy in their own strength. But Saul had left who out of the equation? Saul left God out of the equation. And David could not believe that. What in the world? I can almost, if we're talking, if we're right there by David and he's speaking our lingo today, I can almost hear David saying, What in the world? Why in the world are you letting this guy get away with this? The difference, I believe, between a defeated Christian and a victorious Christian The defeated Christian, God is absent. I have to deal with this situation, I have to deal with this circumstances with what I have. In my own strength, in my own understanding, I've got to deal with it. Every defeated Christian I've ever known, in times when I've gotten out of sorts with God It has always been when I lean on my own understanding, I view things from my perspective, and I'm trusting in my own ability, and it fails every time. What did Jesus say? Without me you can do Nothing. And guess what? Israel could do nothing because they had completely removed God from the equation A victorious Christian, on the other hand, always understands that God is powerful and God is present, and God and anything is possible when God is present. Anything is possible. And so David, he's incredulous at the fact that God's people are tolerating this and allowing this to take place and acting as if there is no God. David can't believe it. David can't believe it. So I notice here David is incredulous at their response. Now I got one more. I'm going to look in this section and then Lord will next week we'll move on to the next. But I notice this. Then I notice here Eliab's indignation towards David. If you would, look with me at verse number 28. So David's David's in shock. He can't believe that this this guy of all people is saying this stuff about God And nobody's doing anything about it. And so he's all worked up about that. And then verse 28. And Eliab, his David's eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men. So Eliab hears David going off and all worked up. David just can't believe it. And look what happens. And Eliab's what? His anger was kindled against David. And he said, Why camest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thine heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. Eliah. Who in the world is Eliah? Well, he is uh well his name means this. Eliah means God is the Father. So that's a good name. He recognizes that God is the father of his people. Of course, that's been given to him by Jesse. He's the eldest son of Jesse, thus, he is the eldest brother of David. Now, let's talk about Eliab for a little bit here. Go back to chapter 16 with me, and let's see what we can learn about Eliab. Chapter 16. And verse number six. Now, God has determined that Saul, he's done with Saul. Saul is, so to speak, put on a shelf. I'm finished with him. He's too proud. He won't submit to me. Uh I can't do anything with them. I'm done. I need a replacement. So, verse 6, it comes to pass that they were come, when they were come that he looked, he, Samuel, looked on Eliab Here's Jesse's oldest son. He looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Alright, so he did what he looked on Eliab. So he's going by his appearance. And what we apparently, apparently, Eliab was tall and very pleasant. Look, but the Lord, verse 7, but the Lord answered to Samuel, and the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance. Alright, so apparently he was fairly attractive. He's look not on his countenance. So Saul's looking how he looks. Man, this guy looks sharp. He's an attractive fellow. He's very pleasant. Then notice what the Lord says. Look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature So why would God say to Samuel, say, listen, don't be looking at how good he looks or how tall he looks? Why would God tell him not to do that? Right, God looks in the heart, but why is he telling Samuel not to look at his countenance or his stature? Because that's what Samuel was looking at. That is how Samuel was assessing this guy. He says he's tall, he's dark, he's handsome, and he has to be the God And uh so this is Elias. So he's uh he's good looking, he's a little bit taller than others, he's probably a little bit above the others, and I have no doubt I have no doubt. Now this is Leatherman's speculation, but I have no doubt that Eliab was used to being in charge. I have no doubt he was the one used to being picked first for the ball team. He was the one that was always wins the he's the um what do they do in high school and they had the end of the year the king and queen of the court. Now what are they called? Homecoming queen, right? Homecoming or whatever. Any whatever it is, Eliab was it He was always the one picked. He was the one most likely to succeed. He was always the center of tension. He was the one admired. He was the one bragged on all the time. And so God says to Samuel, He says, Listen, don't look at how tall he is, don't look how pleasant he looks. For man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. You know what that tells me? That tells me God saw something in Eliab's heart that disqualified him. Outwardly, he had all met all the qualifications. Boy, he'd look like a well he'd make a great king. He looks like he looked kingly Each tall boy. God says, uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. I'm looking at his heart and I'm seeing something in his heart that disqualifies him. And the Bible says that God rejected him. Look what it says, verse 7. I have, he says, look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature, because I have what? Refused him. Ooh. Would you agree with me somebody that's used to always being what's the opposite of refused? Accepted Or chosen. Favored. Would you agree with me? Somebody that is always favored. Somebody that is always chosen. Somebody that is always picked. Would you agree with me? To be refused would be hard to swallow? Ugh, that wouldn't go down too well. And so here you have a fella, Eliab, he's tall, dark, and handsome. He's got all the outward qualifications to be a king, to the point that even the most spiritual man in the nation believes he's the one. But God says, I see something in his heart. And I refuse him. He cannot be the king. I'm wondering, this is again my speculation, but I'm wondering if God isn't saying something like this, I'm not going through that again. What I have with Saul. Pride. And I'm convinced what God saw in Eliab's heart was pride. Eliab loved Eliab. And God was looking for a man not after Eliab's heart. God was looking a man after what? His own heart his own heart. I believe pride was what God saw in us in his heart. Now we come back over to our text and we see how Eliab responds to David showing up and David's here just, man, where's God in all of this? What are you guys talking about? And boy, he reacts. And that pride down inside his heart now ru uh now uh ruptures And it manifests itself in two ways. I see two ways that Eliab shows his pride, shows what's in his heart. First of all, is with anger. Come back to verse number 28 of chapter 17. Eliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled. I circled the word anger. That's important. His pride displayed itself with anger. Now I got looking up that word anger, and this is interesting. It's very descriptive, the word it comes from. It means this. It has this idea to be visibly angry. Do you ever get angry but you try not to let anybody know it? Your wife says, What are you mad about? I'm not mad. Right? Or you say to your wife, but you're upset. I'm not upset. Oh okay. Sometimes we can be angry and not show up. You ever try, you know, you're really ticked at somebody and goes, hey, how you doing? It's nice to see you. You're trying really anybody know what I'm talking about? Eliab didn't do that. The idea here is he was mad and it showed. He was visibly angry. In fact, the word, the literal definition of the word it comes from means this: to flare the nostrils. Right? Did you ever see the cartoons? There's steam coming out the nostrils. That's the idea. I mean, Eliab is very bad. All David did was made a few statements. Who is this uncircumcised so they defy the living God? Looks like God's people would say, yeah, you're right, David. But not when you're proud. When you're proud, you get mad at somebody for undercutting you. You get mad at somebody for taking the attention that you believe you should have. It means to be, it means it has this definition also, to for the countenance to get hard You ever see somebody like that? Mmm. It had this it had the idea of having a red face and veins bulgy. Have I been descriptive enough to get the idea? Eliab is really, really angry. And I mean his veins are bulge and his face is red, his nostrils are flare, and his face is hard. He is very, very angry. But then it uses another word. It doesn't just say his, it doesn't just say he got angry, but it says his anger was what? Kindled. I thought, why does it say that? That's, you know, he blew his cool. I think this is the idea behind it. I think Eli I think Eliab was an angry man. I think he was angry long before David showed up and started saying this stuff. I think he got angry back in chapter 16 when he thought it was it, and Samuel's saying, hey, Eliab's the one, and God says, No, he isn't David. I think that's when he got angry. And that anger settled down in his heart. And it was under the surface. So to speak. And he was walking around, a very proud, very angry, and in his mind, maybe humiliated man And it was just there. That anger was smoldering down inside his heart. And all we needed was David to make a few statements. And boy, that was like, do you ever have a little fire? It's just smoldering, it's smoking a little bit, and you get down and you blow on it, and what happens? It kindles up, right? Boom! Boy, it just needed that oxygen. And I'm convinced that's where Eliab was. He was walking around. He was a time bomb Walking around just waiting for David to say the right or the wrong thing at the wrong time, and boy, he blew. You say, boy, that Eliab, he's a knucklehead. You know what? I think we got Eliabs all around us. I think we have a whole nation of Eliabs anymore. Anybody, anybody see with me, we live in an angry society. Everybody's just waiting for somebody to say something, just waiting for somebody to do something, just waiting for something to happen, and boom! And we got an angry, bitter people in our homes, in our schools, in our communities, hey, in our churches. I've been in churches and I've been in situations where man they were people you just a anybody ever anybody ever uh say they make this statement you have to walk on eggshells around them? Anyone know what I'm talking about Boy, if you if you don't say thing right, boy, that's gonna kindle their anger. Taboo! And that's what this guy is. That's the way he is. How many people agree God knew what he was doing when he says, nope, this I ain't being king. God knew what he was doing. And so this pride, Eliab is a very proud man. And this pride manifests itself in one way in anger, in anger. I found that proud people are often angry people. And I found that angry people are often very proud people I think those two go together. So one of the manifestations of Eliab's pride was this latent anger, this undercurrent anger. And then also something else here, and this is more implied than it is stated, but I see a tremendous amount of envy. On Eliab's part. And this ties in with the pride. That should be me being anointed by kings, by Samuel. That should be me being preparing for the throne of Israel. And he sees instead of him, he sees David And he becomes incredibly envious of David. Now, I want to ask you some questions. And I'll tell you if you're right or wrong. Is there a difference between envy? Now think with me. Is there a difference between envy and jealousy? Is there a difference between the two? Some people say, well, they're just synonyms. They both mean the same thing. I think there's a significant difference. between being envious and being jealous. And this is the reason why. And I'm a little rabbit trail here, but it ties in. The Bible says several places that God, God, is a jealous God. But I can't find anywhere in the Bible where the Bible says that our God is an envious God. So there must be a difference between the two, and I think it is significant, I believe. Jealousy, here's my definition of jealousy. Jealousy is to want to hold on to what I have. It is mine And I want to hold on to it, and anybody that tries to take it away from me, I become very jealous. I become very jealous. Jealousy is a protective emotion, a reaction. A husband becomes very jealous of his wife if he feels that she is threatened to be taken away Right? Husband becomes very jealous. God, the Bible says that God is jealous of his people. God does not want the devil to take his people away. out of his fellowship. Draw them away from his fellowship, from his closeness. And God is a jealous God. They are my people. I created them I bought them with price. And it is not a bad thing as it's used in that sense in that I want to protect and keep what is rightfully mine. And so that is jealousy in the sense of wanting to keep and protect. Now that can be twisted. It's not always bad, as we just pointed out. However, what is envy? Envy is, I think, is closely related to covetousness. Jealousy says, I want to protect what is mine, I want to keep, I don't want it be taken from me. Envy says. Is I put it, I defined it this way, an antagonistic desire to have what another possesses. I am envious of that person because they have a very, very nice house. I am envious of that person because their dog doesn't eat their furniture. It's getting personal now. It is a it is it is very key it is very close to covetousness and that I I I want in a antagonistic way. I'm very envious. I want what they have. I want the position they have. I want the attention they have. I want the I want the possessions they have. I'm envious of that. I want that. I don't find anywhere in the Bible where envy is used in a positive form. At all, in any way. Same with covetousness. Envy is several times we see it in the Bible Can you think of anybody in the Old Testament, now not in the context of David and Saul, that outside this, the life of David, can you think of anybody that was very envious of someone else? How about Joseph's brothers? Bob, this dreamer. And they wanted the favor that God and Jacob was showing Joseph. They wanted that favor for themselves. They were envious. of what he had and they desired it to the point they were willing to take his life. And it didn't turn out so well for them. Of course, uh uh Joseph was a tremendous man. Can you think of anyone how about in the New Testament? Can you think of anyone in the New Testament that exhibited envy? They wanted what someone else had. I thought of the Pharisees. The Bible says several times they envied the attention and the crowds that Jesus had. They to the Pharisees Man, having people like them and speak highly of them and having great crowds admiring them, that was very important to them. They would go to great lengths to have the praise of men We're too concerned about the praise of God, but they wanted the praise of men. I want everybody to like me. I want everybody to see me. I tell you, if the if the Pharisees ha Pharisees had smartphones, they'd be taking selfies a whole lot. And they'd have a picture of them giving stuff to the poor, and they'd have a picture of them putting their tithe in the offering plate. Right? And Jesus comes along. And man, he's healing people and he's giving glory to God. He seeks only the glory of his father. And crowds are coming, they became very envious. They wanted what Jesus had. And so there is a distinction between envy and jealousy, and Eliab is envious. David has something that he really, really wants. And he can't have it. And he becomes very envious. By the way, this is not the last time that David has to deal with envy. A little bit later on, somebody else is very envious of David. Who's that? King Saul. And King David comes home. In fact, look, go over to chapter 18 with me, if you would. Look at verse number 6. It says, and it came to pass, now Goliath is dead and gone. It came to pass as they It came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines that the women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tablets and with joy and with instruments of music And the women answered one another as they played and said, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands. All right, let's look at let's look at Saul's face. They're coming home from the battle, and um they're coming home, and the women are all out dancing and carrying on, and they say Saul has slain his thousands. How many people uh think Saul's face looked like this? He's happy. Man, he's eating this up. All these women are dancing and saying how great I am. This is great. But they weren't done singing yet. Look what the rest of the song went. Saul has slain his thousands and David his oops. Suddenly His countenance changes. And that pride, that latent pride that was in Saul's heart that we erupted earlier when God rejected him Suddenly it is kindled again. And not just anger, but here is this envy. Look what it says. And Saul was very wroth. There's that anger. And the saying displeased him. And he said, they have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me have they ascribed but thousands. And what more can what and what can he have more but the kingdom? Boy, little did Saul know And look at verse 9. Here it is. And saw what? I David from that day forward. You could put in the margin of your Bible, envy. Envy. Saul wanted what David had. The praise of the people. So David is confronted by his brother, and his brother is furious. I mean, furious. And his brother is so envious of him. And uh and I think, here's what I'm trying to get at, I believe God was preparing David at this point for when a king Listen, it's one thing to have a brother be envious, it's a whole nother thing when the main authority of an entire nation is envious of you. And boy, he's going to be chased all over the place because of that. I think God, again, I think God's preparing. I think there's preparation, preparation, preparation. Anytime a Christian is committed to Christ and stands for the truth, he's going to face opposition David is out there saying, is there not a cause? Are you guys serious? Are you kidding me? You're letting this uncircumcised Philistine say this stuff about God that ain't right. Why are we not doing something? Why are we not out there? And you get a Christian anytime gets committed for the cause of Christ. and gets devoted to that and takes a stand, you mark it down, you are going to face opposition. And I hate to say this, but sometimes, I want to say many times, it's family. It's family. I saw that in a youth group in Indianapolis. We get a young person get on fire for God. They're going to go soul-winning. They're going to read their Bible. They're going to do right. They're going to be honest. They're going to keep themselves pure And I saw with my own eyes, in the four years I was there, I saw those other kids turn on them Christian, quote unquote. Turn on that teenager that's trying to live for God. I'm thinking of one situation, a young person got on fire for God, and the parents poured water all over that thing. And so it's not surprising to see when David stands up and it's sincere and it's humble and it's honest, but it is strong conviction that what this guy is doing is wrong and we ought to do something about it. And man, they get all over him, and he faces intense opposition Eliab attacks David in three ways, and I got too much. Can I give these to you just real quick? He attacked his motives. He said, Why camest thou down hither? It's not a question. He's attacking his motives. Actually, David was there because his father sent him. But Eliah doesn't care. He's attacking. Why are you here? I know why you're here. And then he attacks his character. He says, well, whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? You know, you're negligent. You can't be trusted. You know, would you leave the sheep wandering out in the wilderness? Nobody can trust you. You're not reliable. You're not dependable. That's what he's saying. The fact of the matter is, David did take care of the sheep. He had left them with a keeper. Eliah was dead wrong. And then he attacked his, and then he made accusations about him. I know thy pride. You came down here to see the battle. Actually, he was there because his father sent him. We have reason to believe David didn't even know anything about Goliath until he showed up. And the interesting thing here is Eliab is accusing David of the very sin Eliab was in. Yeah, I know your pride. Eliah, you're the one proud. You're the one proud. So all his accusations were baseless and wrong. I thought of the Satan is the accuser of the brethren. Eliab is fallen right in line with Satan. And boy, here's a whole message in itself, but how David responded, and I can only just throw this out to you. Number one, he didn't retaliate. He didn't turn, you know, if it was me or your average Christian, maybe Eliab's going on, I know your, I know your pride, what did you do with those sheep? Brother, it would be all right, let's go, let's have at it, we're ready. David doesn't do any of that. He doesn't retaliate at all. In fact, it's almost like he ignored it. He said, what have I done? Is there not a cause? No retaliation. He doesn't attack Eliah back. He doesn't try and defend himself. So he did not retaliate. Number two, he remained focused on the issue at hand. It was after Eliab's assault, after Eliab's attack on his character, that David makes this statement. Is there not a cause? And he stayed focused on the task at hand. A lot of ministries have been berailed, and a lot of Christians' testimonies have been ruined. Because maybe they started out good and they started out they want to do something for God, but some proud person, angry person, said or did something and criticized them. And they allowed that to derail them. And they felt like they needed to retaliate, they needed to respond to that, and they lost focus of what God called them to do, and they ruined their testimony Follow what I'm saying? I can name new churches that one day preach the gospel and send missionaries and it's soul-winning. And boy, the government did something, or somebody said this, and they got all worked up, and they retaliated, and they responded, and they said, we're going out after our attackers. And I'm thinking of one in Indianapolis, and the church is just a shell of what it was years ago. Here's my point. We're gonna you and I are anybody that lives godly in Christ Jesus is going to suffer persecution. Anyone that tries to do right lives for God, people are going to respond Now what we need to be careful to do is don't retaliate, no attack, no defense, and stay focused on what God has called us to do. Just stay at it, just stay at it. Winston Churchill made a great statement He said, if you throw rocks at every dog that barks, you're never going to get to your destination. I think that's exactly what Dave is. Eliab is a dog just barking. And David doesn't stop and throw rocks at him. David just went out. There's a giant out there that needs to be killed. And he stayed focused. Amen? I don't believe in this today, but man, this is a fascinating event here and a lot for us to learn. So one, let's stay committed. Let's stay focused. The world starts running their mouth. People start saying stuff. Don't retaliate. Just stay focused on what God has called us to do And uh, amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this lesson tonight to help us and challenge us, to stay focused, help us to not be proud, be humble and sincere. And Lord, we want you to use us, to be a witness in this old world, maybe some to our family. And I pray that you would help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, pray to your God spoke to my heart tonight? I covered a lot, I know that. But you'd say God spoke to my heart in one way or another. Any like that this evening by the uplifted hand, God's dealt with my heart. God bless you, hands all around. Now let's decide on that And let's ask the Lord to have his way. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the imitation songs. Maybe you don't want to find a place in altar