If you would turn in your Bibles there. First Samuel seventeen. Somebody asked me what I'm going to get through. I think it was Dave. Asked me when I'm going to get through this section. He said, I think it'll be ten years till you get done this part, but I don't think it'll be that long. Eight or nine maybe, but not ten years. Surely. First Samuel Chapter 17, we're looking at the uh one of the most popular uh events in the Bible, David and Goliath. We're building up to the a big moment, the climax here when David faces Goliath. And uh wouldn't it be exciting if we didn't know the story? It wouldn't be exciting if we didn't know anything about this and just wondering who's gonna win. Is the good guy going to win? or the big bad guy. And uh you ever watch these shows or you read a book and always read Louis Lemour. And it's always at a point where I like to read Louis Moore. It's always at a point looks like there's no hope the good guy's never gonna survive And lo and behold, the bad guy loses and the good guy wins. So anyway, it has nothing to do with my message, but um I'm fired up about David and Goliath. I want to begin reading in verse number 37 and down through verse 39. This is actually part, the end of a passage we've been looking at Uh but if you'll follow along, verse 37, David is speaking to King Saul, and uh he's expressing to King Saul why he is so confident. that he can get out there and God will take care of Goliath. He's expressing his confidence to him. And he says this, David said, moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear He will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. How many people agree with me? That sounds like confidence. Goodness. David has no doubt in his mind And Saul said unto David, Go and the Lord be with thee. And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he armed him with a coat of mail. And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he essayed to go, for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off And he took his staff in his hand and chose him five stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had, even in a script. And his sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on our study of this passage. Lord, I'm so grateful for King David and the testimony he had and how you've just recorded so many key areas of his life to help us. And I pray these few thoughts here, these few little verses, that you would challenge us and embolden us, embolden our faith As we live in this old sinful world and all these spiritual giants all around us, I pray we can learn from this. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord, to present my body anew, yield my will. I pray again every time we preach, I pray, Lord, that you speak through me to our hearts and challenge and help us. In Jesus' name, amen. If you remember back in the first couple verses there, 31 and 33 of this passage, David comes to uh, he's invited by King Saul to come up and present his case. He'd been going around. Is there not a cause? Why is nobody challenging this guy? King Saul hears about it. He invites him to come on up. And David presents his case to him, says, listen Uh uh somebody needs to do something. Don't don't worry about this. God can deal with them. And then verse 34 down through 37, David expressed his confidence. And we just read the last part of that And David's telling him, Listen, King Saul, we can do this. This bear, this lion, and uh he says, uh God can do this. There's no reason for us to be afraid. Now We're at this last section of this passage, and here is where we have, and this is the point on this set passage that I gave it, uh, Saul gives his consent. Here's where Saul says, All right, go ahead. You're so confident, you believe this can happen, you know, all right, go on out there, and you face that giant. I think this passage of uh David and Goliath, of the of the story of David and Goliath, the event of David and Goliath I think this part of that story gets overlooked a lot. Uh you don't hear a lot of people preaching about the the little steps leading up to the actual confrontation. We know about the five stones, we know about the sling, we know about the brook, we know about Goliath getting his head chopped off, and um you know it's kind of funny we tell all these kids these little Bible stories, and they're really a lot of them are very gruesome, you know. Cutting his head off, holding it up. But nevertheless, we hear a lot about all of that, but we hear very, very little about Saul and David's interaction leading up, particularly this part with King Saul's uh armor and David trying it on and all these things. Uh I broke this section down into three thoughts. I put first of all, David gets Saul's approval Now look with me, if you will. Verse number 37, the last phrase. And Saul said unto him, Go and the Lord be with thee. Go and the Lord be with thee. Now I got looking at that and trying to think this through a little bit and imagine in my mind what's going on. And we're not told what is going on through King Saul's mind. King Saul is here, no doubt he has his big military entourage all about him, and no doubt he has, you know, his special headquarters here in his camp in the valleys out there. Goliath is out here. Him and David are going back and forth and David is, you know, he's all confident. And I'm trying to picture in my mind, I'm trying to think of my mind, what's going through Saul's mind How does he see David? How does he view this whole situation? Well, we're not told. The Bible doesn't tell us what Saul thought or what's going through his mind. So we speculate a little bit. So here's my speculation. I think when David when David comes up and Saul says, Go and the Lord be with you, I have a sneaking suspicion. One thing going through Saul's mind is this: I'm off the hook Something's being done. Finally, this guy is being confronted. Finally, somebody is confronting this guy. And I'm wondering if Saul in his mind isn't thinking that David is kind of his proxy. What's a proxy? Anybody know? Substitute. He's going in my place Somebody's gone out there, and maybe Saul finds some sort of justification. He finds some sort of satisfaction in the fact that I don't have to go out there and confront this guy David is going out in my place. I'm kind of off the hook. It may be in his mind that Saul is taking action in the person of David. He says, go ahead. All right, I'm sending you out there. Who knows? But I got thinking about that. We that's something that we sometimes have a tendency to do Particularly in the matter of soul winning and world missions. And this is what I'm getting at, and I've I've felt this way for many, many years for uh as I was developing my missions philosophy, I guess, my understanding of scriptural missions And I think here's a real danger in some churches, particularly a missions, an actively missions-minded church is sometimes if we're not careful, we're sending the missionaries out around the world and we get the mentality is, oh well we're soul winning, we're fulfilling the Great Commission because I'm sending the missionaries out around the world But that is a mistake. God has given to you and I the responsibility to be a witness also, to be quote unquote missionaries where we are. And the missionaries, although that's a vital part of our ministry as a church, is a vital part of our Christian life, is to be a part of prayer and support missionaries going out. That is not a proxy For my personal responsibility to be a soul winner. You follow where I'm going with that? And so King Saul, his responsibility was to be leading this thing and leading the charge against the enemies. He's not doing it, he's sending David out. Now there's nothing in and wrong wrong in and of itself was sending David out. But Saul had a responsibility in all of this also as king, commander-in-chief, to be a part of this um part of this military maneuver, so to speak And we're not careful, we'll find that in our churches. Let me preach to myself a little bit. Standing behind a pulpit and preaching the gospel is not a substitute for me being out personally And sharing the gospel with people. You say, oh, well I stood beh I stood behind a bolt, but I preached the gospel, so I'm doing my soul-winning responsibilities. I'm I'm being my witness. That may be a part of it. That's what God's called me to do But I have a personal responsibility on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday to also be sharing the gospel and witnessing. Follow what I'm saying? And so I'm thinking Saul is kind of thinking, well, I'm a little bit off the hook here. Something's being done. He's going out there in my place. I put this down, being part of a soul-winning church. Doesn't necessarily make me a soul winner. When I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, if I'm not personally witnessing, if I'm not personally sharing the message of the gospel with people Even though my church may be a soul-winning church, the Lord's gonna, I'm gonna have to give an account for my own personal witness And so as I was looking at Saul and trying to think, what in the world is he thinking? How is he viewing his? What's his perspective? on David's what's going on with David here, and uh got a sneaking suspicion. He feels like maybe he's a little bit off the hook. But I had another thought along those lines I don't think that Saul actually believed that David was going to live through this thing. I don't think Saul believed that David was going to be victorious. Now here's where I get that from. Look at his statement. Look at the last part of verse 37. And Saul said unto, well, let's read the whole chapter the whole verse there. Listen to David's tone. Look at the words that David is using, and then listen to King Saul. David says, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the Paula the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of the Philistine. That's confidence, right? Listen to what King Saul says. Go and the Lord be with thee. I don't know about you, but that doesn't sound like a whole lot of confidence on the part of the commander. I if I was David, and I'm not, and praise the Lord, but if I was in David's shoes And I'm there, Lord can do this, and my commander in chief said to me, Well go and the Lord be with thee. I would have rather had heard him say, Go get 'em, boy, tear 'em up Right? I I'd rather I'd rather have heard him say, uh, let him have it. You're gonna you're gonna whoop them But he didn't get any of that. He's not cheered on at all. None of his brothers step up and say, David, we're behind you. You go get him. None of the military says, hip hip hooray, we got a guy going out after him. You know what I found out? That's pretty much the way it is in the Christian life. God stirs your heart, and you say, boy, this is what God called me to do, and I want to go do it. And a lot of times you don't have a whole lot of people behind you cheering you on. And that's one reason I I mean I've experienced that in my life and many of you no doubt have. But that's one reason when we get a young person that's stirred up And God calls them to go off the Bible college or God calls the ministry. I do everything I can. Hey, let's get behind them and say, go get 'em. Let's stir it up. Let's go. Go after it. Tear it up. You give yourself to God. And David doesn't get any of that from Saul. To me, it sounds like Saul is saying Behind his breath, he goes, go and the Lord be with you. And I see him lean over to his his associate and say, That kid's dead me. I see no confidence whatsoever in uh in King Saul sending him out there. Nobody's cheering on David. In fact, I got pitch I got carried away in my imagination a little bit, and I now there's no way I can support this from scripture, no doubt I'm probably wrong, but I imagine this. That there are some of the soldiers in the back taking bets on Goliath or David. And guess who's getting the money? I don't think it's David. I'm convinced that uh in Saul's mind, and no doubt in much of the military's mind, they're thinking, I see David's brothers there thinking, he's been a good brother. We're sure gonna miss him Here's the thing, I must not allow others' lack of faith to diminish my own lack of faith. Right? David Saul's not cheering them on. Saul or Saul's just, oh Lord be with you, go on. It's just a little religious cliche he's kind of saying there. And David, that doesn't faze him at all. If it was me, I'm afraid I would like this I like to think this isn't true, but I'm afraid if it was me it was and he said that, I'd kind of look back at him Come on man, how about a little support? But they I don't see that all day, but we're gonna see in a little bit. When David gets out there, he's not timidly walking up to Goliath. What's he doing? He's running at him. And Saul's lack of faith and Saul's lack of enthusiasm does not diminish David's faith whatsoever. It does not diminish his enthusiasm whatsoever. I must not allow others' lack of faith to weaken my faith in God. David's a good example. I thought of Joseph Man alive, I have such respect for Joseph. From day one, God gives him a dream, God gives him a vision. How God is going to use him someday. Now I think Joseph got a little braggadocious about it there as a little boy. He's running around telling his brothers, you're going to bow down to me. I can hear him going nanny nanny boo-boo And boy they got ticked. He even said to his dad, Dad, I had a dream. You guys are going to bow down to me. And Dad got mad. But nevertheless, through all that uh the bitterness and envy and hatred of his brothers and then the assault upon him or they're going to kill him And then the betrayal and selling them to the merchants and then uh being falsely accused, bought as a slave, and then falsely accused, and then forgotten about David was in an environment of absolute vacuum of faith. Or David, uh uh Joseph. Joseph's environment for this entire extended period of time is a total vacuum of faith. But you get the end of Genesis, and we find out that Joseph not one time lost faith in God. He says, you meant it for evil, but what? God meant it for good. And he refused to allow The lack of faith, the criticism, the negativity of everybody around him, he refused to allow that to steal his faith in God. And I see that in David And what a tremendous thing. Here you have King Saul. I don't think for one minute he believed David's going to survive. It is over. Uh this guy is dead meat. He's gone. and never never fazed David whatsoever. His faith in God stayed strong. So my first thought is this, verse 37, the last part, David gets Saul's approval As negative as it is, as dark and gloomy as it is, yet David gets it, and he runs with it. And the next thing I notice here is that David is given Saul's armor. Look at verse 38. And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head. Can you see that? We're going to look at this here in a little bit, but I like the picture of this. Here's David, a young boy Here's King Saul. He's head and shoulders above everybody else. How big's his helmet? And he puts it on David. Clunk. Big Brad's helmet. And uh he puts a helmet, he he uh where are we at? Verse 38, and saw he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he armed him with a coat of mail. Saul is at this point Saul has no idea what David's strategy is. I look back, I look very, very carefully, I don't see anywhere where David revealed to King Saul his plan of a sling and stones. So Saul has no idea, I don't think, at this point, what David's strategy is, what in the world he's going to do. Maybe Saul's thinking he's going to run out there and Goliath's going to pull his head off and it's over And Saul gets thinking, says, Man, I can't send that kid out there like that. Get my armor. So he brings his armor on and he puts it on David. Even though he didn't believe David would survive, he could not allow him to go out there without any armor. Now, I don't know about you, but to me, I got studying this and I got mad at Saul. I thought, what a calloused, hard man. Saul has become that he would let a young boy go out into a death trap, and all he does is put his armor on that boy. You know who should be wearing that armor? Should be King Saul wearing that armor? What's he doing, putting his armor on a little boy? How hard and cowlous should you be? And I can you be? I got thinking, a little boy coming up and saying, hey, listen, God can do this, we can do that, that should have provoked King Saul to step up and say, wait a minute, I'm king here, I've got to go out there. And yet his heart is so hard and is so calloused. He lets a little boy go out with his armor on to what he believed to be certain death. To allow a youth Under any circumstances, to go into that type of situation is cold and calloused. Look at verse number 33. Come back up there. And we looked at this before. Now Saul may have been exaggerating here a little bit. I don't know. But he says Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for thou art but a what? A youth. So this is Saul's perspective of David. He is but a youth. I got looking up that word youth there, and it's interesting. It means it's translated sometimes in the Bible, a lad. That's a good English word. Just a lad. What do you picture in your mind when you hear somebody say, uh call someone a lad? What do you picture? Big, bulky Pastor Matt? I would not call Ms. Pastor Matt a lad. You think a little boy, young boy, just a lad. He's a wee lad, right? It's also translated some places a young boy. But I found one in Strong's concordance, in Strong's definition, it said this. It says it references any young person between infancy and adolescence. So what is adolescence? 12, 13 years old, somewhere around there Now I'm wondering if King Saul isn't exaggerating a little bit to David when he says you're just an adolescent. I think my feeling is David was a little older than that. And Saul was trying to intimidate him. Saul was trying to say, hey, listen, he was trying to exaggerate the point. You're very small, you're very young. This guy is a warrior. But nevertheless, Saul's view of David was that he was just a young boy, just a lad. Come with me over to chapter 10 of 1 Samuel. And look what the Bible says about King Saul. Chapter 10, 1 Samuel, same book, but chapter 10. And look with me at verse 23. This is when King Saul is being anointed. And it says, and he ran and fetched him thence, and when he stood among the people, speaking of Saul, who's to about to be King Saul, he's not at this point. And when he stood among the people, look at this next statement. He was higher than any of the people from his shoulders upward. What's that say about King Saul? He was very what? Saul was tall. And I assume with the tallness came large largeness. Now I don't know what the average height was back then. We could say, you know, maybe five ten, something like that. I think people were a little smaller back then. And uh let's say Let's say King So if he's shoulders and heads above everybody else, you have the whole crowd, and here you have this guy shoulder and head above, he's pushing at least six foot, maybe six six. He's a big boy Now he's not as big as Goliath, but he is a whole lot bigger than David. And to imagine A trained military leader that has seasoned combat experience is now the commander-in-chief of the Israeli army. And he has the audacity, the coldness to take his uniform, his armor, and put on a little boy and send him out in that is mind-boggling. You know what that tells me about Saul Everything about Saul was about Saul. It was all him. And we find that later on how that produced such paranoia on his part. And it was all about him. And I'm telling you, the lesson I take away from this, we have just got to learn it's not all about us. There's some things that are more important than our own security and our own safety. I tell you, I have such tremendous respect for all of our missionaries, but some of them in particular where they leave the comforts and security at home and they go into places like Kazakhstan or China in some of these places and put themselves literally at risk Because they're living for something bigger than themselves. All Saul was living for was himself. And he's willing to sacrifice. He's willing to let a young lad Go out and face certain death rather than threaten themselves. And boy, what an indictment. Um I think I might have said this recently, but I was reading it uh some statements and they said that the scientists have discovered the center of the universe. And they said that a lot of people are going to be very disappointed to find out it's not them And for King Saul, the center of the universe was King Saul. And regardless of what the consequences were of that, regardless of what it cost anybody else, regardless of what it cost his nation or a little boy. King Saul was number looking out for number one King Saul. And what a cold, cowused heart that he would be sent out. So we have he uh David gets Saul's approval. Alright, go ahead. Go and the Lord be with thee. Then he's given Saul's armor. And uh can you picture in your mind's eye David standing there with this guy six, six four, six five maybe? This big old soldier and he has his armor on, he's got this big helmet of brass sitting down on his shoulders, and um He's uh uh sitting there, he's got uh this coat of mail dragging on the ground, and it says he has saved to go. And that leads me to my last thought: is this. Number three, David declines Saul's offer. Look at verse 39. David girded his sword upon his army and says, All right, if you think this is best, I'll try it. And he essayed to go, for he had not proved it, and David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off of him I think there's two reasons David declined Saul's offer. Now, let me say this real quick first. I think maybe in David's mind this was an incredible honor. To have the king's armor put on. Wouldn't that be an amazing thing? I mean, uh I uh he he put it on, and maybe at first he's thinking, wow, I can't believe this. I've got the king's armor, his own personal helmet Then he tried to walk it and said, oh, this ain't gonna work. And so I think he declined it for two reasons. Number one, because it didn't fit. This this armor was no doubt custom designed for King Saul. And to put it on a small boy to and for him to s he essayed to go, he started off. And uh it just wasn't working. So one reason he declined it didn't fit. And the other reason he declined it was this, and he says this specifically, he wasn't trained with it He says, I have not proved it. That word proved there has this idea. I've not been trained in the use of this particular weapons. Look, come back to chapter 16. There's a statement made about David that I tried to reconcile here a little bit with this He says, I haven't proved it. I've not been trained in the use of this armor that's specifically designed for the king. But you come back to chapter 16, verse 18. This is where King Saul's servants are recommending David to King Saul to play the flute, and they make this statement about him. Verse 18, then answered one of his servants, King Saul's servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite That is cunning and playing, and look at this, and a mighty valiant man and a man of war. And prudent in matters and comely person, and the Lord is with him. Now, earlier they're saying that David is a man of war. Now we have David with the King Saul's armor on, which is way too big for him. He can't function in it. And he says, I've not proved it. I've not been trained in this. And I thought, well, how do you reconcile the two? I think there's several ways to reconcile. One is perhaps they were just looking at David and saying, man, this guy's a soldier in the making. This guy has the has the physical uh uh appearance and capabilities of a real man of war. This guy is a man of war, maybe speaking kind of the that that's what he would be Maybe David was a man of war, a young boy getting some training. He's not completed his training. Maybe he's not trained in the equipment that Saul had given him. I don't know. But whatever the case is, David says, Listen, I can't use this. This doesn't fit me. The size and and the uh the design of it and what it is. I I've not proved that I I'm not trained in this. David knew he could not be successful with armor that did not fit him. And that's an important lesson. We must resist the temptation to think that other people have to fit into our armor. In Saul's mind, there's no way David can win this, but if he has any hope at all, he has to wear my armor. He has to be like me. He has to have my gifts. He has to have my abilities. He has to have my training. He has to fit. my mold or God can't use them. And we have to be very, very careful about that. Not everybody is like me. And all God's people said, Praise the Lord for that. And I make a grave mistake to think that everybody has to be like me and function like me and have my gifts or my abilities or be like me or God can't use them. That is a grave mistake God makes each of us as individuals. We are unique individuals. And God has gifted and prepared every one of us in very unique ways. And for me to think that Brother Jerry has to be just like me if he's going to be victorious in Christian service, I am making a grave mistake. And turn that around to think that I have to be like so that I have to have someone else's armor for me to have victory in my life, that's just as much a mistake. When I came out of Christian college, I was very insecure and uh you know, I was trying to learn. I wanted to be successful and uh God had called me to preach and I'd been studying the whole time for education. The last year God calls me to preach. Amen. I just wanted to do right, and I wanted to be successful, and I wanted to serve God, and I wanted God to be pleased And so I got in my head that I had to be like these other great preachers. I had to have their armor if I was going to be successful. And so Dr. Lee Robertson, you know, he always wore double breasted, he was very dignified, have faith in God, he had all these gestures he did, just his mannerisms and unique uh uh idiosyncrasies, I guess you want to say about 'em. And so us preacher boys, guess who we try and imitate? We're all trying to be like doctor little Doctor Lee Robertsons I remember we went to revival out of the city one time, Dr. Robertson was preaching in another church, and so we all went over to hear him. And um one fellow there, we were talking and Uh I didn't know these guys very well, but the one guy said, Dr. Robertson, this guy here can imitate you really well. And the guy's kind of beaming. Yeah, I can. And uh they said, go ahead. So he did a few gestures and things. Dr. Robertson got half mad. He says, that's not like me at all. That's not at all. Get out of here. The guy felt like a heel And then there was uh the b the big preacher back then, at least in my mind, was Dr. Jack Hiles, just powerful. And I thought I had to be him. And he had this little coughing habit. He'd cough while he was preaching. So guess what all us preachers did? We had to have that armor on if we're going to be used of God and have God's power. And it didn't take me long to realize that those guys' armor didn't fit me. And what God wanted was Dennis Leatherman to be Dennis Leatherman fully yielded to him and filled with his Holy Spirit. And David is learning that, and Saul doesn't understand that, but David knows that. I can't, this doesn't fit. I can't have victory in someone else's armor. I've said this often over the years in the working with the kids. You know, we have these little children in here and Garrett and Isaac and others. And we say, boy, you know, these could be the next Billy Sunday. These are the next D. Al Moody. These are the next Charles Fergion. These are the next Lee Robertson. And I don't believe that for one second. They're not going to be a next somebody else. What they're going to be, what they can be, is Isaac Harvey filled with the same Holy Spirit that Lee Robertson was filled with. You see, this whole thing with David and Goliath and Saul, it had nothing to do with the weapons. It had nothing to do with the armor. It had everything to do with the presence and power of God upon him. Whether it was a sling with stones, or it was a brass helmet and a sword, or it was a stick, God could have killed Goliath Whatever. It had nothing to do with the type of weapon. It had everything to do with faith in God and the presence and power of God upon him, confidence in God's purpose. And so, what we need to do to come to God as we are, come to God with the way He made us, and have confidence in Him and have faith in Him and be yielded to Him. Whether it's teaching a Sunday school class or working a bus route or visiting in a hospital or personally witnessing to somebody 101 Don't try and put someone else's armor on. You be yielding to God and you be what God would have you to do, and all you have is a sling and a couple stones. Well then let God use that It's not about the weapon. It's not about our gifts. There aren't going to be any more Billy Sundays. But there are going to be individual name put the bl name in the blank. There's going to be plenty of those who will yield themselves to God and let God fill them And do the work. Let God do the work. Now let me qualify this a little bit and I'll end. Let me qualify this a little bit. That doesn't mean anything goes. Right? The Bible says that when we get saved, the Spirit of God begins transforming us into the image of Christ. Right? And so if we are all, how many folks here tonight saved you know it? Say amen. If that's the case, then the Holy Spirit of God is working in every one of our hearts and lives to conform us to Christ. So if we're all being conformed to the same person, into the image of the same person, Jesus Christ, if we're all being conformed to that, would you agree with me? There will be some similarities between us If we're all being conformed to the same Jesus, the same Savior, then whatever those characteristics of that Savior were, they're going to be similar in all of us. We're going to have that in common. And that would be values. That would be priorities. We would have a growing, dedicated, spirit-filled Christian. They're going to have very similar priorities. They're going to have very similar values. That's why when we go to a store, we go on vacation, we meet other Christians, sometimes it just clicks. It's like we knew them our whole life. Why? Because we're being conformed to the same Savior. But that does not mean that we're clones. God gives each of us individual armor. For David, it might be a sling and a stone. For Saul, Saul could have gone out there and killed Goliath just as easily as David did with his sword and his helmet. It's what God gives us. It's what God treats us. I want to end with this. If you go to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, in my mind, one of the most encouraging passages of scripture in all the Bible, at least for me. And what that applies to us as the church, it's not our programs, and I think we have good programs, and I think they're important, but that's not where The victory is. That's not where the success is. Not in our great personalities. I have prayed my entire Christian life that God would help me have a better personality I would like to have a good, pleasant personality. I asked God for years, God, give me a pleasant personality. But that's not where the power and victory is. It's not our abilities. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1. I want to begin reading in verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many what mighty, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the what foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are. That sounds like David and Goliath to me Some little boy that's not your nothing. But he brought to n he brought to naught that which is. The boy Goliath was something. Now look at verse 29. He tells us why. That know what Flesh should glory in his presence. Listen to me, we've got to get this out of our head that I have to be like somebody else for God to use me, for me to have success in my Christian witness I'm not supposed to be like somebody else. I'm supposed to be the person Christ created me to be. And I'm to be yielded to him full of faith and confidence and committed to the cause of the gospel. And Saul was mistaken again in thinking that the only way David could have victory is if he wore his armor. David said, I can't do it. He said it this way. I've got to be me. I've got to be myself. What God made me, I I can't use a sword and all this, but I sure know how to use a God sure taught me how to use a sling. And if you got a sword, use it for Christ. If all you got's a sling, use it for Christ It's not our abilities. It's God's power. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to come to you as we are and who we are. And let you mold us and make us into what you'd have us to be, and Lord, that we just be yielded to you and committed to you and confident in your purpose for our lives and full of faith. And we trust you, Lord, that you would use us to bring others to Christ and impact our world with the gospel and have victory in our own personal walk with you. Lord, we need you. We need your presence, your power. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I want God to use me. As I am. And maybe you get intimidated, you think, well, I'm not this, I'm not that, I don't have a sword, I don't have a brass helmet. I couldn't stop thinking that way. And say what I am is what God's made me. And I want God to use me. Is there any like that, preacher? That's just I just want God to use me the way I am and fill me. And give me that confidence that David had. Not in the weapon, but in God. God bless you. Hands all around. So let's give ourselves the Lord. Say, Lord, here I am. Take me, use me, fill me. And Lord, and make a difference in someone's life for the gospel. Father, I pray you bless now as we give an invitation, or we've had a great couple days, but now we're back on ground. And now we got to live for you, and we want revival, and we want to serve you, and we want to make a difference in the lives of people. See, soul saved. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.