2nd Samuel chapter number 6. And just a couple verses here. I want to begin reading in verse number 15. 2 Samuel chapter 6. And verse number 15, notice the Bible says, So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. Now we've been dissecting this event here, every aspect of it that were given in Scripture. So they bring the ark up there. Now look at verse 16. And as the ark of the Lord came into the city of David, Jerusalem, Michael, Saul's daughter, so she's Saul's daughter, and also what? David's wife. Alright, so you we know remember who she is. Michael, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord. Look at this next statement. And she despised him in her heart. Wow. Now come over, keep your place here, because we're going to look at that a little bit. Come over to 1 Chronicles Chapter number fifteen. And all the way at the end of the chapter, the last verse This is uh the chronicle account of uh this event. And 2 Samuel 6 gives a little more Description of that event. 2 Chronic 1 Chronicles 15, 29 says this. And it came to pass as the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came to the city of David That Michael, the daughter of Saul, looking out a window, saw King David dancing and playing. And she what? despised him in her heart. Let's uh let's pray. I've called I I have several titles tonight. The one I put in the bulletin was David and a Critical Wife. David and a Critical Wife. But as Morris studied this, there's an alternative title maybe we could put to this, and that is this: the tragedy of Michael's life, the tragedy of Michael's life. Let's pray. And let's look at this event. And I want us to consider Michael a little bit tonight, David's wife. Let's pray. Father We come now to you tonight with our open Bibles, and I pray that our hearts and minds would be open to you speaking to us, and that you would challenge us, help us to grow. Lord, you said that you put these events in the Old Testament, you preserved them for us so that we could learn from them, be examples for us. So I pray that would be true. I yield my will to you. I present my body again. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, please speak to our hearts and challenge us from your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We have two accounts here. I want to begin by saying this. God uses people to help us grow spiritually. Now, sometimes he'll use events or circumstances Sometimes we might get a physical ailment, physically sick or something comes in, a disease, and God will use us to learn to trust Him through that and help us grow uh maybe a loss of a job or some sort of trial that doesn't p necessarily involve other people, but it's something we have to go through and we have to and God uses that to help us grow. How many people know what I'm talking about? Sometimes been through something. It wasn't necessarily other people involved, it was just a a situation or a circumstance, and through that I learned more of the Lord, I learned to trust him, and I understood a little bit more of my uh God's power and love Now that happens, but usually it is people that God uses to help us grow. to strengthen our faith. Usually it is people, other people, that God uses for us to develop as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, being Christ-like. And being a follower and carrying out and living out the Lord's instructions and the principles God gives us. He uses people to do that. Some people he uses in our lives, he uses them directly. In other words, by that I mean this They deliberately are investing time and effort into our lives. For instance, it might be a parent Would you agree with me? Parents, a good parent, at least anyway, invests time and effort into their child to develop them, help them grow in their faith, grow in their admonition and knowledge of the Lord, right? They deliberately do that It's a an active effort investment on the part of a parent. Might be a teacher. Anybody here think of a maybe a Sunday school teacher? That invested time and effort in you as you were growing or sat under them and helped anybody think of a Sunday school teacher maybe that stands out. God used them to help me and my faith. And they deliberately invested that time and effort to help me. Sometimes it's a pastor It might be a bus worker that takes the time to visit in the home and pray with the bus rider and the family and bring them to church and invest a lot of time and effort. So that that writer, that child or teenager, even adult, can grow in their faith and know the Lord and become like Christ. Sometimes a Sunday school teacher, as I mentioned, maybe it's an evangelist That comes through the church and they preach and they invest time and effort and God uses them to help us make good decisions in our Christian life and challenge us to go forward. Maybe it's a youth pastor I'm so grateful for Pastor Matt and the time and effort he invests in the young people, helping them to grow, or maybe it's a youth worker or a master club worker. The list is endless But it's somebody that deliberately invests their time and energy and effort into their lives. I'm thinking back over my life. Of course my father invested tremendous amount I'm thinking of pastors, uh fella, uh Dr. Lee Robertson, Dr. Lee uh uh brother Charles Holmsher were profound influence. They invested time and effort into me. Tom Sexton, the bus director, spent a lot of time investing in me. And time and effort help me grow and help me understand the things of the Lord and and to be what the Lord would have me to be. Can anybody here think of someone? Is somebody stand out in your mind Somebody that deliberately invested time and effort into your spiritual life. Anyone thinking of someone you have somebody there online? Sure. Sure, God uses people like that directly. They're directly above. However, sometimes God uses people in an indirect way. And by that I mean this. They're not necessarily putting time and effort into me personally directly, but by their testimony. By how they live their life, by observing them. You follow what I'm saying? It might be a co-worker, somebody you work with that's a good godly Christian. And they're not necessarily doing Bible studies with you or teaching you or you know that type of thing. But they just have a good testimony. You see them on a daily basis and it challenges it. God uses them to challenge you and help and you know and help me, encourage me to go forward in my Christian life. It may be a fellow church member. Man or a woman that uh has a testimony and stands out in your mind, but it's an indirect way. It may be a extended family member, an aunt or an uncle or An in-law, someone like that, coworker, maybe a neighbor, a faithful church member. Sometimes God uses people indirectly that are a bit of antagonists. And they're um uh how shall I put this? Uh they're kind of a pain in the neck. Anybody thinking of any don't point But uh somebody that is not the most pleasant person in the world, maybe they give you fits, they just are aggregated, they're antagonist Uh you might view them as uh somebody that just causes you a lot of grief and difficulty. You know what I found out sometimes God uses folks like that as much to help me grow as he does to the people that are that are positive side. And we can learn from that. I learned years ago, I put on my prayer list. I have a little prayer scheme schedule I go through every morning and different aspects of my prayer life. And one of them there is I thank the Lord for certain people. I have different categories of people I'm grateful for. And years ago I put at the bottom of that category I put antagonists. And I started thanking God for people who give me a hard time. Who people aren't the most pleasant to me and because I can learn from them. I can grow from them. I was thinking, I was working on this and thinking this through. And again, I and this is just bear with my personal a little bit, but uh my father invested time, he would teach and different things, especially early on. He spent time with me, helped me to grow as a Christian But I tell you, indirectly, just observing my father over the years, I'm convinced, unless now in heaven, but I'm convinced to the day he died, he had no clue the influence, the degree of the influence he had upon my life. And there's people like that in all of our lives that God has used, they might not even be aware of it But God is using them to help me, maybe challenging, maybe they're antagonistic. And God is giving me through their treatment of me an opportunity To behave like a disciple, like Jesus taught us, to bless those that curse us, right? And God, they give us that opportunity to grow in those areas. And so God uses people. Now I want you to think about David's life. He has been through a time of preparation, I think he's still in it, to be honest with you, preparing him for the throne. Be king of Israel to establish a testimony and a and a throne in Israel That would be the throne that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is going to fill during the millennial reign. Now, not a literal seat, but that position And over and over and over, the Bible refers to the authority, the position Jesus will hold as King of Israel during the millennium. It's referred to as the throne of David. And God's been working in David's life, and God's been bringing people into his life to develop his faith, to develop his leadership skills. To challenge him and provoke him and press him on to be the man that God wanted to be, and to be the man he needed to be, to fulfill and carry out the responsibilities that were being laid upon his shoulders. Now think with me a little bit, some of the people who God used who directly influenced David. They directly invested time and effort in David to help him be what he ought to be. Anybody think of anybody in David's life? Alright, Jonathan to some extent, I think, Jonathan was a tremendous influence, but I'm thinking of somebody that directly invested time and effort in him The one that first comes to mind to me is uh his father, Jesse. Jesse was a tremendous man of character. We studied him way back in the early of this study. And so as his father, he would have invested time. He taught him of the Lord, no doubt, taught him of Jehovah and living for God and the coming Messiah, there's no doubt. Do you know that Spiritual instruction get uh uh God has given the spiritual instruction of children the responsibility to the fathers in the home. Did you know that Say, well, the Sunday school is supposed to teach my kids about God. No, actually it's the parents. Now Sunday school supplements that the Sunday school supports that, the youth program. It's not Pastor Matt's responsibility. To teach these kids about God. It's the parents, and Pastor Matt supplements that. That's Deuteronomy. Read Deuteronomy. I think it's chapter 6. So, no doubt David's father Jesse invested tremendous time and effort into David and the other brothers to know the Lord to live for God and to be what God intended for them to be. Can you think of someone else? Jesse, there's one other one that stands out in my mind. Samuel, the prophet Samuel. He's the one that anointed David. He spent time with David. David consulted with him. And so Samuel, no doubt, would have been uh a direct influence on David's life that would develop him into the man that God would have him to be. And I put Jonathan down. Somebody said Jonathan, I think, uh to some extent there. How about indirectly? How about people in David's life that God used? They weren't deliberately investing time and effort into David, but God used them to develop him and help him be what he ought to be. King Saul. Now he would fall into that category I was referring to a little earlier The antagonistic, difficult, challenging. But I'm telling you, those 18 months, or whatever the period of time was that Saul's chasing David all over the wilderness, I'm telling you, David was growing in his faith. He was learning from success and failures, mistakes. And that was Christian Developed University Class 101. And God used King Saul in a tremendous way there to help him grow and develop. Jonathan, perhaps, can you think of anyone else that God might have used? Abigail had tremendous influence. I didn't think of that, but that's correct. There was somebody early on in David's life. That uh was uh uh I think had a great, great lesson for David, Goliath Or David, he's just he's just a young young kid. He's got all this zeal. I don't know if he fully thought through what he was saying, and probably did. But he says, I'll go out and get him, God will kill him. And God honored his faith. But there's no way in the world David went through that and he didn't learn from that experience. Remember before he killed a lion and a bear And he learned from that, he says, I can kill Goliath. Well, what did he learn from killing Goliath? No doubt, he learned tremendous lessons. Now, I said all that to lead up to this next point, this next thought, and that is this. I believe God used David's first wife, Michael, in a tremendous way to help him grow and develop. As a man, as a leader, as a man of God. Now that's who we're going to consider tonight. We read the text here a little bit. I think Michael was a significant person in the life of David. She was the daughter of a king, but she did not she she did not have a life that was very Magical. You think of the daughter of a king, a princess. Oh, what a life she must live. Oh, everything was wonderful and luxurious. You think of you think of um uh uh Disney World and who's the is there a princess uh down at Disney World? I've never been there. Who's it? Cinder was she the king of a she the daughter of a I thought there was was she the daughter of a king? So you think of Michael, she's the daughter of King Saul. Oh, she must live this enchanted life. Of uh just uh great imagination. I want to tell you, I think Michael lived a tragic life. I think her life was a tragedy from beginning to end. I've always been very critical of Michael. I'd read my Bible through, I'd come through this and read of David. My just my impression of Michael was very, very critical. You want to guess why I would be critical of Michael? Because she was critical of David. I think very highly of David. He's a man after God's own art. And here she is criticizing him. We'll notice, we'll look at it a little more in depth. And she's very, very critical of this man of God, this man that's going to be king of Israel, establish the throne of David that leads to Jesus Christ. And so I've always had a negative impression, a negative attitude about Michael. But I got studying her a little bit, and I've kind of changed my thinking And I'm not as critical of her as I was before, as I'm more, I feel sorry. It's kind of a s she has a sad life. Now, this isn't my message, but I want us to think about Michael for a little bit and what we know about her. All we know is what we've read here in these passages. We're not given a lot of information, but we're given some. And what I notice is she was used by her father, King Saul, and by the way, he was, there's no doubt in my mind, he was mentally disturbed at this point. And he used his daughter, Michael. He found out she loved David. And he used her as a pawn. And arranged for her to marry David, not because her father wanted what was best for her, not because he wanted her to be happy. He wanted her to marry David so him in his mental deranged thinking could use her to kill David Now can you imagine that? Here's a young lady. She loves this man. Her father comes and says, oh, you love him? Tell you what, I'll have you marry him. And she's the ecstatic. What a dream. And here you come to find out that the only reason he did that was so that he could kill the man that she loved and was going to marry. How many people agree with you? That would probably bother you a little bit I would say that was uh uh was was a sad thing in her mind And by the way, and I don't want to go, I can't say this dogmatically, but I got back and looking at David marrying Michael. And I may be misreading this, uh I don't know, but misinterpreting this a little bit. But my impression is David wasn't marrying Michael because he was so in love with her and because he wanted her so much David was enthralled with the prospect of being the son-in-law of the king. He made that statement on a couple occasions. I'm not worthy to be the son-in-law of the king. Are you kidding me? Oh yeah, go kill a thousand Philistines. And then you can be, oh man, that would be amazing. There's no statement in related to David where he's saying, oh, I get to marry Michael. Wasn't any of that. And so right from the start in her relationship with David, the arrangement was phony. And the best I can tell, and again, maybe I'm reading too much in this, I don't see a whole lot of thrill on David's part of being her husband as much as it was being the son-in-law of King Saul. Think about this. She was David's first wife, and yet he went out and collected more wives. She's in love with him. They get married. Regardless of the circumstances, they're married. This is my husband. It's not too long later, he's gathering Abigail, that this other gal, uh Benoim, I think was her name, something like that. And he's collecting other wives along the route here. What would that say to her as his first wife? And she what? She wasn't he wasn't satisfied. He needed more. She wasn't enough for him. He needed more wives Now, how would that make her feel? Be devastating. Maybe it'd feel like a failure on her part. I changed my thinking about Michael as I studied and got thinking about some of these things she'd been through. She lied to her father to save David's life. And he goes out and gets more wives. She was when David fled for his life after she lied to King Saul about it so that he could get away. After David fled, then her father comes and takes her and gives her to another man, who in nowhere does it say that she loved him. And then later on, she's forcibly taken from this fellow who, by all implications, really did love her. Remember when they took her, he was following behind her, weeping. Finally said, get out of here, go on home. And she's giving back to David like she's uh like she's some cattle. Sold the cow to this guy and then take it back and give it back to this guy Both her father and her brother are both killed in one day. You see where I'm getting at when I say her life was a tragedy Um, there's little evidence that David loved her. Very little evidence. So she begins her life in love with David. She begins their relationship. She begins her relationship with David loving David. And she ends towards the end of their relationship. She despises him. She despises him. Bitter. And we'll look at that word despise there a little bit. She hated him. How in the world? What happened? What a tragedy. What a tragedy. Our text here, come back to Samuel if you would, 2 Samuel chapter 6. And if you'll notice there in verse number 14, Well, 13, it was so that when they bear when they that bare the ark of the Lord had gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was girded with linen and Ephon. And David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting And with the sound of trumpet, I referred to this in a previous message as this great parade. That's what it sounds like to me. I mean they got the marching bands out there and they're uh David's jumping and leaping for joy And uh they're offering sacrifices as they go. I mean, this is quite a procession. And uh they're c they're they're making their way up here, perhaps the largest parade in Israel's history And I'm telling you, Israel knew how to put on celebrations. You remember back when David killed Goliath and then they pursued the Philistines? And they killed, had a great victory over the Philistines. And when they came back to the city, came back to headquarters, what took place as the conquering soldiers of Israel came back in? What was happening? Anybody remember? The women were singing praises. I mean they were putting on a celebration. This was a ticker-tape parade. Everybody's coming in And all these women from all around of Israel, and they're and they're singing their praises. Saul has killed his thousands and David his ten thousands. And brother, that's what started the whole thing But they knew how to celebrate. They knew how to put on parades. And that's kind of what's going on here. And David's leading this parade, so to speak, and he's very excited And he's very passionate about this. Look at verse 14 there, chapter 6. David danced before the Lord with what? All his might. Now, don't misunderstand here. When we said David was dancing, he wasn't doing the um, I don't know the name of dances. Um the what He wasn't doing the jitterbug. I wonder how one of our I wonder how our um emeritus deacon knows that, what that is He wasn't doing the jitterbug. He wasn't doing any of these modern dances. It was leaping for joy, is my understanding. He was leaping. He was excited. And he's going on there, and he's doing it with all his might. He is excited, he is passionate about this, and I'm wondering if maybe he didn't get a little carried away And Michael is watching out the window as they come into the city from the house where they lived. She sees that coming in and she doesn't see the ark She doesn't consider what the significance of all that's taken place. She doesn't see any of that. Her eyes are on one person and one person only. That's David. And her heart is filled with bitterness after a lifetime of heartache and hurt. She's looking at it, and all she sees is bitterness towards David. And the Bible says, as the ark came in, as the ark of the Lord came into the city of David, verse 16. Michael, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord, and she despised him in her heart. I looked up that word despise. It means to consider absolutely worthless It means to be held in intense contempt. And then if you notice there, we won't go back over to it, but 1 Chronicles 15, 29 says It says the exact same thing. She despised him in her heart. And if you would come down to uh verse Uh that uh verse come down to verse number twenty in 2 Samuel. Notice what she does. Then David returned to bless his household. All right, they got the art set up, the praise over, got the art set up, everybody's done celebrating, they're going home. David is excited, his heart is filled with joy. This is something he had been praying and wanting. It's what Israel needed. He finally accomplished this. And he's going to come home. He's going to bless his family. Now I don't I don't know what it means there by bless his family. I kind of thought maybe There was some of the sacrifices. He had a bunch of goods and food and stuff. And he's going to come home and we're just going to have a wonderful celebration at home here with the family. And he comes home. He's going to bless the family. They returned to bless his household. And look at this. And Michael, the daughter of Saul, came out to meet him. And said, How glorious was the King of Israel today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants. He's worried about those other women, what they were thinking. As one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself. And then David, verse 21-22, he defends himself. He says, I was before the Lord, which chose me, I was doing it for God, not these maidens, handmaidens Before thy fathers, before all this house to appoint me ruler over the people of the Lord over Israel, therefore I will play before the Lord, and I will yet be more vile than this. I'll be base in my own sight and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, and of them shall I be held in honor. Verse 23, therefore Michael, the daughter of Saul, had no child until the day of her death. She comes out and she confronts David sharply. And she doesn't just confront him. There's not compassion here. There's not concern for David that he messed up and I'm concerned about, I want to help you do right. This is ridicule. Oh boy, weren't you something out there in front of all these other women? Made a fool out of yourself. David defends him. Now, I have three observations. This is my message. Three observations. Number one, and here's where I get critical of Michael again. In spite of all we said. Michael was criticizing not participating. Do you notice that? While they're moving this Ark of the Covenant and all Israel's out there, I mean there's thousands of people involved in this. Where's she at? She's back at home. She's looking out the window. She's criticizing something she's not contributing towards. You know what I found out over the years? That's usually how it goes. People that are most critical are usually those, not always, but usually those who contribute the least. That's been my experience. And so she's criticizing something she's not participating in. She's not contributing towards I read about D. L. Moody years ago he had up in uh Massachusetts, he established kind of a school there to train uh preachers and evangelists and Christians in the Christian life, kind of a Bible college institute type thing. And he would often he had what he called pastors' conferences. And he would divide in pastors from all across the country and evangelists and Christian workers of all sorts And he'd bring a man kind of like our sword conference, like much bigger and much more directed to training and helping Christian workers And they said one time in his biography, it says that uh one time he was uh they had a question and answer time after a full day of different sessions and advice and help on evangelism and winning the lost and preaching and Christian service in general. That at question and answer time people would stand and ask a question. There's a great great crowd of people, a couple 3,000 no doubt And a fellow stood up on the question answered time, he says, uh, Mr. Moody, in front of everybody, and Mr. Moody called on him And he says, um, I really do not approve of your methods of evangelism And he began to state his criticism of Moody's methods of evangelism. He gave his criticism. And then Moody, in his wit Said to him, he says, Well, I appreciate your concern. I'm wording this my way now. Let me ask you a question. How do you, what are your methods of evangelism? The guy hesitated and kind of cleared his throat a little bit and he said, Well, to be honest, I really don't have any. And Moody said, I like the way I do it better than the way you don't And that's usually how it goes. Those who are not contributing are those who criticize the most are often, and usually those who contribute the least. Michael had plenty of criticism for David's parade. But I can't find anywhere she contributed anything towards it to help make it the way it ought to be. To help make it a success. So number one, my first observation is this: Michael was criticizing, not participating. We have to be very, very careful. about our criticism of others trying to serve the Lord. Be very, very careful about that. Uh that I wasn't here very long as a pastor and we just start that was probably a couple years and we started running the buses. And uh I don't know if you noticed this, but a lot of times when you bring bus kids in, things are a little messy And the buses get a little messy. Anybody notice that? It's true. It's part of the part of the way it is. I like what uh Solomon said. He says where the where the uh no where the crib is clean, no oxen are where the crib is clean. In other words, if it's all clean and neat, nothing's getting done, right? And uh somebody found some bubblegum that was stuck up underneath the pew where a bunch of bus kids had been sitting And um they came to me and they were just upset that there was bubblegum stuck up under these, uh or it was on the carpet maybe, and some bubblegum in these bucks kids. And I'm telling you, they let me have it. And I asked them, I said, Well did you pick the gum up? They said, well, no. I said, next time you see something, just go ahead and pick it up and put it in the trash. That'll help us a little bit. So we have to be careful about our criticism. Often, and I want to say most of the time, criticism comes from those who contribute little or nothing. Michael was very good at finding fault with David's behavior, but I can't find anywhere she contributed anything towards what was taking place. My second observation is this. Michael was overly concerned about what others thought. Look with me again at verse number 20, if you would. David returned to bless his household. And Michael and the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who uncovered himself today, in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants. He was worrying sick about what other people thought about what David was doing He was worried sick of that these other handmaidens see David out there. Now, my personal opinion is I believe David was a well, we know David was a very attractive man. The Bible says He was very strong. He's good looking. He's strong. David was a very passionate man. He's very brave. He was a hero of the nation and confronting Goliath and Philistines. He was a very brave man He was very attractive. In fact, people were attracted to David. Remember when he's running from Saul, people kept coming out and joining up with him So David was an attractive man, he was no doubt a charming man, and that bothered Michael. She was worried what others would think, and particularly these handmaidens, what they might be thinking. And I put down she was overly concerned about what others thought. Now, should we completely disregard what other people think? I don't think so. Having a testimony means that I want people to understand and see what I'm doing, right? So if I have a testimony, I am concerned to some extent that I have a good testimony, that people think properly of my Lord And what he's doing in my life. But I'm telling you, we can get so overly concerned about what other people think, we start becoming critical of people. Preacher, you get up there and you preach on sin and you spit and holler and you carry on and we have visitors in here. What are they going to think about us? I don't know. Maybe they'll think we believe the Bible Maybe they think we're passionate about what we believe. We feel strongly what God says is true. And so it's possible, would you agree with me? It's possible to get overly concerned about what people think what we're doing. Now, here's my question, and I don't know that I really want to engage debate on this. But here's my question. Was David in the wrong? Was Michael right? Was David wrong in what he was doing? Was David, did David get too carried away? Did he get immodest in this? Maybe she made an argument that, you know, he was embarrassing. But I got looking at this and studying what does God say about David's behavior in leading this procession, in leading this Quote unquote parade. What does God say about David's behavior? Anyone want to take a guess? God doesn't say anything about it. I can't find anywhere where God makes any statement or makes any judgment or gives any kind of assessment of how David behaves himself here. And so we have Michael's criticism of it, but I can't find any condemnation by God. There's no commendation, but there's no condemnation. God doesn't address it. And then I notice in verse 23, it says this: Therefore Michael, the daughter of Saul, had no child until the day of her death. So was David wrong, and was Michael right, or was Michael wrong in her criticism of David Well, God doesn't comment on David's behavior at all. But the Bible does say that Michael had no child to the day of her death. Now again, just to be fair, there's two possibilities as to why Michael maybe didn't have a child till the day of her death. One may be that God judged her for her criticism and made her barren. It's a possibility. Doesn't say that That was my initial assumption. Well, there you go. Or maybe her and David never got together again And never produced a child. Maybe the rift between them was so strong that they never came together again. I don't know. I don't know. But would you agree with me? That's a sad ending to the life of the daughter of a king. She's bitter. She's critical of her husband. She despises him in her heart. She confronts him. She ridicules him. Michael was criticizing, not participating. I believe she was overly concerned about what others thought. And last of all, my third observation is this. The one she was convinced that was so wrong was actually a man God was using Muli. God's assessment of David was, though he's not perfect, certainly not perfect, but God said, that's a man after my own heart. And she was criticizing, despising, bitter towards a man that God had a completely different perspective on. I found in scripture it's generally the self-righteous and the Pharisees that do most of the criticism. Who was it that criticized Jesus the most? Pharisees, the self-righteous, those putting on a show, those who were worried what other people thought They wanted the praise of men more than the praise of God. They ridiculed Jesus and they found fault with him and they despised him and they reviled him. And I found generally it's very self-righteous, proud, pharisaical type people that will criticize and condemn what others are doing. And I put this down, and I'll end with this. I must thoroughly critique my criticism by the Word of God before I express it. Do you get that? I get something that oh that's oh I can't stand with it. Wait a minute, before you express that criticism, before you express that displeasure and that disgust They have towards another's behavior. Hold it. Come and let's go to the Word of God. What does the Bible say about this? And what does the Bible say about how I should respond? In situations like this, how should I respond to somebody that has me so upset The flesh says, ridicule them, rebuke them, show hatred, despise them, you're disgusted with them. That's flesh, period. Amen or nine? That's not the fruit of the Spirit. And so, what I need to do, if I have something that I'm very critical of another person for whatever it may or may not be, what I need to do is come to the Word of God and say, all right, is my criticism legitimate? And number two, how should I respond with this criticism? Do I respond in the flesh and with hatred and bitterness and revile them and disgust? Or do I do what Galatians chapter 6 says in verse 1? If any man be overtaken of fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, lest ye also be overtaken. So there's a right, there's a time to confront somebody about something I need to make sure it's a scriptural time, that the issue is scriptural, and then there's a scriptural way to do that. And I'm telling you, what Michael did was not scriptural. Was not spiritual. It was flesh, flesh, flesh. Through and through And whatever the case is, it ended very sad for Michael. It ended very sad. So let's be careful. Anybody here? I won't tell anybody, just us. Anybody here ever get a little critical of someone else? I'm the first one raising my hand Now I'm not going to ask you if you ever despise someone in your heart. But I am saying this. Let's not allow ourselves to get to this point. Amen. Let's not allow ourselves to get to that point. You say, brother, if you knew the life I lived, you knew all the heartaches and pains and hurts I had, I know Michael had them too. But that does not justify. That does not justify behaving this way. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us, challenge us, convict us. And I pray, Lord, we live in a world of fallen men and women. You would help us to remember we're fallen. Help us to follow your guidelines, your instructions that you've given us in dealing with stuff like this. And Lord, help us be a good witness and be filled with your Spirit and to honor you in the things we say and do. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight, and I need I gotta work. I gotta work on this a little bit. Anybody like that by the uplifted hand? I gotta work on this. Sure, if we're interacting with people at all We've got to be on our guard here on this matter. So maybe an old altar, and just say, Lord, help me to be spiritual. Help me to be spirit-filled and gracious. Help me to follow your instructions on these things. I believe God will help us if we want it, if we mean it. Father, bless invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand