2 Samuel chapter 5, I'll begin reading in verse for sake of time, we'll start in verse 17. This passage that we started actually goes back to verse 11 where David, uh king, Hiram, king of Tyre, helps David, builds him a palace, encourages him. David gets encouraged in the Lord And then they have this that section there, four or five verses, where it says David took him more wives and concubines and had lists some of his sons there. And now it picks up where we're going to pick up tonight in verse 17. But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, All the Philistines came up to seek David. Now, when it says they came up to seek David, we'll notice this here in a bit. It doesn't mean they were coming up to say, hey, congratulations. We're happy for you. They are not coming to David in the same with the same frame of mind that Hiram came to David. They came up to seek David. Basically, what it's saying is they're seeking his life And David heard of it and went down to the hold. And the Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. And David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto David, Go up, for I will doubtless drive the Philistines into thy hand. You agree with me? When God says that something is doubtless, you can count on it. When God says that I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thy hand. And David came to Baal Perazim, and David wrote them there, smote them there. And said, The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me as the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal Perizim. And there they left their images, and David and his men burned them. The Philistines' images, David and his men burned them. Verse 22. And the Philistines came up yet, what's the next word? Again. And they spread and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. And when David inquired of the Lord the second time, he said, Thou shalt not go up, but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against the mulberry trees. And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself, for then shalt the Lord go up go out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. Here's a great statement. And David did so as the Lord had commanded him. And smote the Philistines from Gebah until thou come to Gazer. David and the Philistines, let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study now. It's already been a blessing to be in your house with your people here, last little bit, enjoying a meal together. But now as we look into your word, I ask you to speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us and help us, stir us. And God, I pray that you would help us. Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would apply to our hearts and lives. The truths that are presented here from David's experience. Fill me with your spirit. Speak through me your word and your truths And give us open hearts and minds so that we can be the Christians you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing you find out in the Christian life before too long, it is not always easy to be faithful to the Lord. Being faithful to the Lord means, and we mentioned this before, but being faithful to the Lord means that I am, for the most part, going to be going against the current of this old world. And we step out for the Lord. We decide we're going to dedicate our lives to Christ. We're going to be genuine disciples of Jesus Christ. then uh we might as well mark it down. Uh we are probably not going to be the most popular person on in the community. We're probably not going to uh get a lot of accolades and awards by this old world. In fact, uh uh we don't want to get a martyrdom syndrome or get overly negative about it, but the this world is not a friend of grace is what I'm trying to say. And David found that out. Now he's king of Israel. He all God's promises have been fulfilled. God's anointing has been uh fulfilled. And David's been faithful to the Lord, ups and downs a bit, but he was faithful and he was in his place. And now he's where he ought to be. And what we're trying to do here in this message, and this is I think number three, as we're working through this passage, we're trying to look At David's first days as king, he's just got on the throne. He's got the nation together. Everybody's behind him. It's everything he could want as king at this point. He's got a capital established in Jerusalem. Their people are busy building that city and fortifying it. And it's just a good It's a good situation for David. His neighbor, Hiram, comes over, says, hey, this is exciting. I'm for you. I want to be your friend. I'm going to build you a palace. He gets a little careless there and he. Hates a bunch of wives and concubines. That was a mistake. We talked about that. But then these Philistines show up And uh that's what we want to look at tonight. Now, if you're following the outline of the message, the first point that we looked at a couple weeks ago is uh uh lessons that we learned from David's first king uh first days as king is number one we uh we looked at this we need assurance and that's where Hiram comes in. And if you look there, verse 12, great verse. David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel. David looked back and he said, yup, I'm in the middle of God's will. God has set me up here. God has done this. Rusty and I were talking before about his daddy's salvation and what an amazing thing that was when his daddy got saved. And they were talking, and I I couldn't help but make this statement and said, Rusty, God did all of that It was God did it. And I think that was David's attitude. He looked back and said, God established me. God did this. And so he has this tremendous assurance in his heart and mind As he's beginning this could be an overwhelming responsibility being king of Israel. And so he has this assurance, but then we notice the second thing we notice, and this was last week We notice that we have to avoid carelessness. And I tell you, when things are going our way and the bills are paid and the doctor gives us a good health report and And uh everything is in good place, and boy, we're feeling content and established. I tell you, that's the time, if we're not careful, we can get very careless. And I think probably most of us could witness to that fact. There have been times in our life when everything is going good. When we're having a tough time, boy, that's when we put our guard up That's when we're seeking the Lord and all that. But when everything's pretty good, then and David got careless. He knew what Deuteronomy 17 said that a king is not to multiply to himself wives And David went ahead and had the what God said and what he wanted. Everything's fine. There's no re and so he pursued what he wanted. And uh that is going to have some negative consequences as Disobeying God always does. Now here's our third lesson I want to learn from the first days of David as king. And uh this is what I put down. Number one, I said we need to uh we need assurance Number two, we need to avoid carelessness. Here's the third one. We need to be alert. We need to be alert. Look with me, if you would, at verse 17. But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, I mean word spread like wildfire. Over Israel. All Philistines came up to seek David. And as I said, that's to seek his life. They want to kill him. Now look at that next little phrase. And David heard of it. David heard of it. David is a seasoned soldier. This guy's been fighting battles for many, many years. He's a warrior in every sense of the word. He thought like a he thought military. His mind worked with a military mindset in this setting. And there is no way in the world, there is no way in the world these Philistines are going to catch David by surprise. He was alert. He was prepared. When it says he heard of it, that wasn't he just happened to hear. I don't believe for a minute. It was just happened, somebody come running in. Hey, did you hear what happened? No, what's going on? Philistines are got us surrounded. What? It wasn't that way at all. I don't believe. I believe David uh was very, very careful And he had watchmen out there. He had sentinels out. He had a uh no doubt had a perimeter set up out there And he had men on guard watching. And so this wasn't catching David by surprise, I don't believe. He saw them assembling. He saw them gathering together. Perhaps now the Bible doesn't, I'm using the little imagination here, Brian, but the Bible doesn't tell us this. But I would imagine He no doubt perhaps had fellas out in the Philistine camps listening carefully. I mean they all did that And so he was alert to this. He was very much aware what was happening around him. Now I jotted this down. As I was thinking that through and reading this, I jotted this down. I wish David would have been as alert concerning his personal relationship with these women as he was in the military situation with the Philistines. And I think there's a tremendous lesson there for you and I. The only battles, you study the overall life of David, you're going to find this to be true, I believe. The only battles that David lost were the battles with his own sinful nature. Those are the battles he lost. Fights the Philistines, boom, he can take care of them. Military operations, he can take their care of them. Saul's hunting him down, he's out in the wilderness, he can handle himself But brother, when it came to the own sinful nature, those desires of the flesh, those are the ones that beat David. David started his military career facing Goliath, a Philistine giant. He ascended up the ranks in the military of Israel by fighting the Philistines, facing the Philistines. And now, and defeating them, and now he begins his reign as king. One of the first things happens, he's fighting these Philistines again. David established himself as a bitter enemy of the Philistines who were enemies of God And David's not being caught by surprise here. He was alert. Let's look at this verse here a little bit and look at some of the specifics here. It says, When the Philistines heard they anointed David king over Israel, let me ask you a question. What do you think Was the Philistines thinking when they found out that of all people, David is king of Israel? What's going through their minds? What's their in their strategy sessions? the leadership, the king of the Philistines, gets together and says, all right, man, uh David's king. What are they saying? What do you think? They're worried. They know who David is They knew what David had done to them. Of all the potential kings of Israel, David is the last one that they would want to be king of Israel. They knew his track record. They got a lot of graves dug of soldiers where soldiers of Philistine soldiers are buried that David dispatched. So when they find out David is kid, this is incredibly disturbing to the nation of Philistines. This is their worst nightmare as far as enemies are concerned. And so look what it says here. They found out that David was king. They heard that. It says that uh when they heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, there's a little word stuck in there that God put in there, I think for a reason. And it says, all the Philistines came up to seek David. That word all there tells me that they were taking this very, very seriously. This that they meant business. When they got they got they got every resource, every soldier, every branch of their military. Now I don't know how many branches they had, but every branch of their military. They are out there. The this is everything or nothing. And I believe they had every intention Of eliminating David before he even got started. They wanted to snuff this guy out because they knew if David rules as king, they are going to get whooped over and over and over again And so they pull out all the stops, they send all their military, and they absolutely mean business to David. Now, it says they came up to seek David, and I already mentioned this They came up to seek his life. That's what they're after. They want David dead. Here's the thing about the Philistines. If somebody says, Preacher, do you is there anything about the Philistines you admire? Well, they're pretty wicked people. They're pagan. They serve false unwicked, wicked gods. They live horrendous wicked lifestyles. They were the enemies of God in every sense of the word. But there's one thing about the Philistines that my hat's off. I I salute them one area, and that is this They were relentless. They absolutely would not quit. They get beat. David would lead his armies under King Saul, and he would just slaughter them. And in a brief period of time, they're re-established, they're back up, and they're running right back after it. And you know, over and over and over again, these Philistines are relentless. They are enemies of David. all through his kingdom. The enemies of Israel, all through their existence. And so I I got I thought about that. You know, wouldn't it be great if us Christians would be as relentless in serving God as these Philistines were in trying to destroy Israel? I mean they just would not quit. They'd get knocked down. Their champions would get beheaded They'd flee, they'd come back and again, they'd get slaughtered, they'd come back again, and they'd just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. The enemies of Israel would not quit. And I want to suggest to you that you and I have some enemies That are just as relentless as the Philistines were against Israel. And those enemies are what? What are our enemies as Christians? We got three of them. World, flesh, and the devil. And I'm telling you, whether you're a Christian that's one month old or you've been saved for 50 plus years, I'm telling you, this old world and that old devil and this old sinful nature is just as relentless In fighting our faith and our walk with God as the Philistines were against the Israelites. Amen or not I'm telling you, about the time you think, well, I've got the world, the flesh, and the devil, I've got them all taken care of. I can relax. About that time, boy, they all come out again. And it seems like there's certain seasons Certain times we go to, go through, where the world, the flesh, and the devil all line up and they send, they throw everything they got at us. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And you know, may go through a period of time where it's kind of, you know, you're growing and things are going good and walking with the Lord. And then sometimes, every now and then, it's like the world, the flesh, and this old sinful nature is rising up And I find myself in a situation where David is, where he's totally surrounded, and they're throwing everything they got at him. And that's the way our world is. That's the way the devil is. That's the way this old sinful flesh is. I believe up to our dying day, we're going to be fighting these three enemies. These three enemies. And so David is alert. He's aware of what's going on. He's paying attention. The Philistines came up to seek him. I mean, they don't quit. And then again, like I said, David heard of this, he was aware of this. Um he had his watchmen out there. He kept his military on high alert. Now this is a little aside, just let me throw this out there. But I've been around long enough, I've lived long enough that I've noticed Whenever you a country has a weak military, they tend to have to fight more wars. Anybody ever notice that You put your guard down and you diminish the military, you weaken the military, you're just asking for other countries uh to give you a hard time And David, I think, was understood that. And I believe he had his military on high alert at all times. And they were ready for this. They were ready for this. I say this again. If only David was as alert concerning his sinful nature As he was about the Philistines, a lot of things might have turned out differently. Now, before we get too hard on David with this, are you with me? Before we get too hard on David with this. I find we we tend to fall into the same trap ourselves. And this is what I'm trying to say. We can put all kinds of diligence And we're so careful, and we're on red alert concerning our financial status. We were talking a little bit about that before. We make sure our finances there, boy, we want all that right, and we'll put all that, but yet we won't pay two minutes concerning our spiritual status. Huh? I I I I know some Christians, I've known some Christians over the years, and I I'm not saying be negligent concerning our finances. David should not have been negligent concerning his military. This was right what he's doing But don't leave the other undone. And sometimes we get so caught up we want to make sure that money is just right and every thought everything and man we're That is everything. But then we don't spend any time, we don't pay any attention to our spiritual well-being, our standing with God. That's foolishness We'll worry about that job, ma'am. We'll put every effort, every ounce, all our mind, our focus, our effort is being successful in the job. And I believe a Christian ought to be the hardest working Christian, hardest working employee on the job. Christian ought to be But brother, we can't we've got to not leave the other undone. We ought to put as much effort into our walk with God and our spiritual well-being, the spiritual well-being of our home, as we do with guarding our job and our finances. Now, I think if I'm not careful, I could fall into this next category. I enjoy, there are certain hobbies and things I enjoy doing. And if I'm not careful, I can get caught up in it. And that has a way of taking over. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I know none of you all this ever experienced this. But I en you know, I enjoy fishing, I enjoy hunting. And uh with the boys moved out it's kind of it's not as big a thing in my life now as I enjoy it. But I'm telling you there was a day, Brother Heinball, where if I didn't watch out, man, that was all I thought about. Every minute I had free zing, I was out and you know, putting money into it and effort and thinking and I tell you, we got to be very, very careful. David, man, he's on red alert with the military, but he didn't pay much attention to his personal life, his spiritual well-being, his family well-being And I tell you, we have to be careful. Jobs, finances, hobbies can take over that. So possessions We are careful about all these things, but then we get careless about our spiritual well-being, our walk with God, our obedience to the Lord. I tell you, I've thought this often over the years, and not to be judgmental, because I can be just as guilty, I'm telling you right now. But I've seen some Christians, I thought if they would put as much time and effort and finances into serving God as they are to shooting a deer, they might turn this world around for Jesus Christ. I don't know about you ladies what you all go after. Um what do ladies do for hobbies? Shopping, yeah. That's why the men focus on their jobs so much and finances You follow what I'm saying? And I think there's such a contrast here to the previous verses where David's taking wives and concubines, and oh, that's just going so contrary to Scripture, then over here he's so careful. And he's on red alert and he's prepared for all that. And I thought, brother, right there's modern day Christianity We are so careful about all these temporal, we're so careful about the things of the of this world, and we lay up our treasures here We put little time or effort in the things of God and the things that last beyond the grave. And so David was, we need to be alert, we need to be alert. Mark it down. When we get in the will of God, Satan is going to counterattack. Mark it down. David got David's anointed, he's king, and Satan pours it on. I thought about this. Here's David just starting his reign as king of Israel, and what a reign it is going to be. And I say this often, and this is such a, this just boggles my mind, that God Almighty, the Son of God, would rule as King of Kings from the throne of. David. Wow. What a man he must have been that God would Use him and choose him. And his name I read my devotions. I read my devotions Monday morning before um uh Paul Harvey's funeral. And I read that morning, Proverbs 22. A good name is rather to be chosen Then what? Great riches. I thought that's Paul Harvey right there. He had a good name. And I thought David Good name. God chose him. And so uh Satan, so he's king, he's about to establish the most far-reaching uh uh witness as a king, influence I guess, as a king, more than any other king in all of history. David's rule as king is going to be far more far reaching than any other king. And what's the first thing? Satan's people, the Philistines, come in and they want to snuff him out right at the beginning. Now, I don't know that Satan can tell the future, but Satan knows what the Bible says, and Satan knows a good bit what God is about to do. And I'm wondering if he didn't see in David a man after God's own heart. And I wonder if David didn't think if we don't take him out, he's going to cause the kingdom of darkness a lot of trouble. And so Satan used the Philistines and poured it on to try and snuff David out right at the beginning of his kingdom. You know what that made me think of? Made me think of when Jesus Christ was born. Satan knew all the prophecies of Jesus Christ. Satan knew who this was, the Son of God, the Messiah, that had come to take away the sins of the world. And when that baby, less than two years old, lay there with Mary and Joseph, Satan unleashed the hordes of hell and had Herod, what did Herod do? Killed all the infants two years and under, slaughtered them. I mean just slaughtered them. What was he trying to do? He was trying to snuff Jesus out before he ever even started. I'm glad in both cases Satan's plans were foiled. There's no way he's going to snuff out Jesus. But then I thought of this. You pay attention. Now, it's been true for many of us, and I could give some personal illustrations. Person gets saved, trust Christ as Savior. Their life has changed. They have new values, new principles, they have a new life. Forgiveness, peace there and fulfillment never had before. And a lot of times, if you'll pay attention, Satan will unleash the devils of hell on that new believer and try and snuff them out before they ever have a chance to have any influence for the gospel. Right or wrong. I've been pastoring long enough, I've seen it. I've seen it in my own life early on when I first got saved. And that is his uh what's the Latin word modus Operande. That's his method of operating. He's going to do it. He's going to do it. Or maybe a new ministry. Or you step out and you're going to have a start of something I want to do for God I've never done before. You might as well plant your feet. You might as well get that armor of God in Ephesians chapter 6. You better get it on because mark it down, Satan's coming after you. To try and take you out. And he'll use the world, he'll use our own flesh, and do everything he can to knock us out before we can do anything for God. So, uh, David, first of all, he got assurance. Hiram comes over, encourages them, thank God for friends who encourage us. And then he got a little careless We need to avoid that. The third lesson we learn is we need to be alert. World, the flesh, and the devil are coming at us. Let me real quickly, I've got a couple minutes. Let me give you the fourth thought here. We need to be active in prayer. Now I think this is the lesson. In this whole passage, look at verse number 19. And David inquired of the Lord. You could put in the Margin Air Bible, put this: David prayed He prayed before he did anything. As soon as his watchmen showed up, as soon as his sentinels or whoever it was come in and say, David, they're out there. Boom, first thing you did, I got to go talk to God. I gotta go inquire of the Lord. If you come down to verse 23, now we're gonna talk about this later. It says, and when David inquired of the Lord, he beat He prayed, and just a little spoiler here, if you didn't notice that David actually beats the Philistines. But like I said, they're relentless. They regroup and they come back. And David prayed again. Now we'll look at that later. But the fact that he prayed, David had learned a very important lesson, and that is this. Prayer has to be something more than just something we talk about. Prayer has to be more. David learned that prayer is more important, has to be more than just something we talk about, just something we sing about. I enjoy the prayer song we opened up with. I like the songs about prayer. They help me, they encourage me. But if all I'm, hey, if all I'm doing is singing about prayer, then I'm going to be a defeated Christian If all we're doing is talking about it, we're not going to get very far in our Christian life. David learned that Prayer must be more than just something we preach about or read about. I brought a book with me up here. If somebody asked me what's the most helpful book you've read besides the Bible, I'd have to say it's probably This book here by E. M. Bounds on Prayer. This thing is phenomenal. I've read this thing. It's actually about seven, eight volumes put together. Uh I'm such a cheapo. I buy the paper bound uh one for uh half the price of buying all the volumes. So um But anyway, I tell you, I've read this thing probably five or six times. I'm working my way through it again just a little bit when I'm traveling or something. Well, I didn't do a lot of that this year, but uh I'll take it with me. I'm traveling on the plane or whatever. I'll read this thing over and over and over. And I'll tell you, this thing, I highly recommend it. He was a Methodist preacher during the Civil War. He wrote some volumes on prayer. I don't think anybody's written anything better other than God in his word. I love it. You know what? If all I do is read the complete works of E. M. Bounds on prayer, if that's all I'm doing and I'm not praying, it doesn't do me a bit of good. David learned, I believe. David learned, now as king, that prayer is going to have to be something more you just say amen to when the preacher's preaching on it. You have to be something more than just reading books and books about it or singing about it or preaching about it or talking about it And by the way, he learned that prayer has to be something you don't wait till the last resort to go to. If David would have been like most of us Christians, he'd have waited until the Philistines had him on the ground with their foot on his throat, with a knife with a sword, or rather slice his head off, then he'd start to say, Well, all it's been left to do is pray. Now listen, I'm all, don't misunderstand me, but if we're waiting until that's all that's left to do, we've waited too long. We ought to begin the endeavor with prayer. I think you ought to go to the doctor when you're sick, and I think you ought to get help when you need help. But the very first thing we should do when something's gone wrong, something bad, we ought to pray. And let me just throw this out. I think you ought to take your medicine when the doctor tells you to take your medicine. I'm meddling now. But what I'm trying to say is this. We make a make a big mistake if we do everything else and wait to pray until it's a disaster. I was um and this happened a number of times, but uh uh over the years, somebody would come to me and they have a family member, a friend that's dying. And they're unsaved. And they'll come and say this. They'll say this, Pastor Leatherman, they're unsaved. They're going to go to hell. You've got to get them saved. You've got to get them saved. And I I understand that, and I'm with you, and my heart is as broken, I'm as urgent trying to get them saved as the family members are. But sometimes I think this, why weren't you witnessing to them back when they were okay Why didn't you come and have me go see them before it got to this point? And I think that's the way it is with the Lord. I wonder, I think I I You know, this is I don't want to be disrespectful, but I wonder if God doesn't think sometimes why you wait until now to pray. Now God can come through at the last minute, amen. I think we're wise if we would uh uh hit that altar, hit that prayer, hit the throne of God a little earlier on until everything's fallen apart. So David le uh David uh learned that prayer has to be something that we don't wait to the last resort to get to, or we just pray talk about it, or sing about it, or preach about it. You say, Preacher, I'm not very good at praying. Well, pray about it. Right? What did the disciples say? Lord, teach us to. We're not praying like we should. We're not real good at praying. Lord, so they prayed. Lord, teach us to pray. One of the best things that Christian might some Christians might do is just come and say, God teach me to pray. Teach me to pray David learned an important lesson. He inquired of the Lord. We need to be active in our prayer. David learned that prayer was a vital weapon in conflict. Now I think it's interesting. It doesn't say that David went and armored up physically. Doesn't say he went and sharpened his sword. No, he inquired of the Lord. He inquired of the Lord. You know what that tells us? That prayer is vital in any conflict we face. That any conflict we face. I might be talking to someone, you got someone on the job or a family member somewhere, and it is just conflict, conflict, conflict. You know what I would advise Bring that thing to the Lord in prayer. You say, yeah, he's just a Philistine. He's a pagan, wicked enemy of God, Philistine. I'd inquire of the Lord Take your Bible with me, if you would, and let's go to Ephesians chapter number six. And I'll probably have to end with this. I've got more I want to say about this, but let's go to Ephesians chapter 6. Way back in the New Testament, about the middle of the New Testament, somewhere around there, David learned that prayer has to be more than just talking, singing, preaching, reading about it has to be more than a last resort. It is vital part of dealing with conflict. Ephesians chapter 6. You find it? If you got to Philippians, you went too far. If you're in Galatians, you're just about there. Ephesians 6. Look with me if you would at verse 13. Paul is under the inspiration of God speaking to the believers at Ephesus who were facing persecution, opposition. There was false teachers trying to get in the church there. They had a spiritual warfare going on. And look what it says verse 13. Wherefore take unto you the whole what Armor of God. Armor is designed for conflict. I'm going to go out and visit Ed. He's going to make some stakes for me, something like that. I'm just imagining this happening, not saying it actually did. And um I don't put armor on to go out there. I'm going out to see a friend. I'm not anticipating conflict. But brother, I'm going out to see some enemies, some uh uh you know the North Koreans, I'm putting some armor on So that's what he's talking about. That's the context, spiritual conflict. If you look up in 12, it says we wrestle not against flesh and blood. So he says, put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand all in the e to withstand in the evil day. All right, David's facing an evil day. The Philistines got them coming after him. And having done all to stand. Stand therefore. Now look at this. Here's the armor. Having your loins gird about with truth. I put be honest. And having on the breastplate of righteousness, I put do right And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. I put wind souls. Above all, taking the shield of faith Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, I put, trust God. Take the helmet of salvation, I put, have assurance of your salvation. And the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, I put down, know, and use God's word. That's our armor, spiritual armor. But then in verse 18, he adds another one on And he says this, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. Watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. How many people agree with me when a soldier goes into battle, especially in close combat He needs to be attempt, pay attention. Does he catch what it says there in verse 18? Do you catch that? Watching thereunto. You know what that watching is? Prayer. Prayer. Paul is telling us under the inspiration of God that a vital weapon in our spiritual warfare, a vital piece of armor, now he doesn't assign it to a specific piece. I think it's just all-encompassing is prayer, prayer, prayer. I wonder, I wonder how many preachers would still be in the ministry. If they'd have put their armor on and they would pray like God intended for them to pray. I wonder how many Christians would still be in church serving God faithfully. If they'd prayed, put that armor on and prayed. Instead, Philistines Took him out. Took him out. Hey, I'm challenged by David. Now there's more we can say about his prayer. He actually was a two-fold prayer. He asked for direction and deliverance. We'll talk about that, Lord, well, next week But let's get this matter of prayer down, being alert, putting as much effort and focus and energy and attention into our spiritual well-being as we do all our other areas of life And then saturating that in prayer. And every day, Lord, direct me. God lead me. Lord, protect me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn the lesson that David learned and how important it is to actually pray. Lord, some of us struggle with this, just being disciplined. Some of us have ups and downs, hot and cold. We'll do it for a while, it fades out. Lord, I just pray your Holy Spirit would move upon us as individuals and as a church. That well, we would learn to get a hold of you and see the power of prayer and lives changed. And God, your people protected. Help us. I wonder how many with me would say, preacher, I need to learn to pray like God instructs me to. Any like that, I need that. Oh my word, it's a lifelong endeavor. It's a lifelong endeavor, but we gotta stay at it. We've got to be alert, we've got to be diligent in keeping prayer and getting prayer in our lives. Father, bless our imitation. Teach us to pray. Lord, some of us might need to just come and pray. Lord, teach me to pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed up.