You know, I want to begin reading. We started this some time ago. We haven't, it's been a couple weeks since we've been here, so I'm going to begin reading in verse number 31, 1 Samuel 17, verse 31. And the Bible says, and when the words were heard which David spake, what were the words he was speaking? Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? Why are we just standing here? Why are we letting this guy get away with this? Isn't there a cause? They rehearsed them before Saul, King Saul, and he, King Saul, sent for him. And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go out and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go out against this Philistine to fight with him, for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. And David said unto Saul, thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock. And I went out after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him. Thy servant slew both, the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them. Did you notice David never refers to Goliath as a giant or as a champion He never he doesn't see them that way. He always refers to them as what? This uncircumcised Philistine or this Philistine. I'll go out there and where are we at? Verse 36. Thy servant slew both of them, seeing in the living God, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. And David said, Moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go and the Lord be with thee. And Saul armed David with his armory, and he put on a helmet of brass upon his head. Also he armed him with a coat of mail. And David girded his sword upon his armor and essayed to go. But he could but he for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off. David's commission to Take on Goliath. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless and speak our hearts and challenge us in our faith. And Lord, if somehow you could just instill in our hearts and minds This level of faith that David had in you, I believe you could turn our situations around. I know you'd turn our attitudes around, and we'd see things completely differently. So Lord, I can't do that. I can't. I can't revive my own heart, Lord. And so we need you to do this, Lord. And so we look to you, and I'm asking you to please take my body. I yield my will and I pray you'd speak through me as you fill me with your spirit. Speak through me. And I pray that our faith would be stronger. And uh I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have David. We already looked at his, he presents his case to Saul. He's worked up. He sees Goliath out there. He hears what's being said. He sees how the army is responding. And he is absolutely dumbfounded that all this is taking place. And so he presents his case. And if you remember, we said that first of all he waited for Saul to call him. He didn't come barging in He waited for Saul to call him and invite him in. And then uh notice he didn't dictate to Saul what he should do. He didn't say, you need to be doing this, you need to be doing that All through his experience with King Saul. And this is an interesting, I believe it's an important point. David, his entire interaction with King Saul He treated King Saul with the utmost what? Respect. Even at this point. How many people agree with me Saul's response to Goliath was not very res would not be something that would command much respect, especially by the soldiers. Here's their leader. This is the commander in chief. And he is cowering in fear, which the soldiers in turn are cowering in fear. And David steps up and here he is, full of confidence, full of faith. He I mean he is absolutely certain that God can and will deal with this guy. If somebody just go out and engage him And so David would have had every reason in the world to be, humanly speaking, to be disrespectful to King Saul. But he does not do that And we see this throughout his experience. Even later on, when Saul is chasing him out in the wilderness trying to kill him, David responds with respect. David responds with respect. And uh I tell you that's one thing I think missing in our society today is just respect for those who put over us. Now we like to pick on the kids and we say, oh, kids these days don't respect their parents. How many people agree with that? I mean, that's true in a lot of ways, in a lot of ways, that's true, and that's very, very shameful on our society that that would be the case But we have a hard time respecting husbands respecting their wives, wives respecting their husbands, and parents respecting others, and just disrespect. But here David stands out like a shining star. And even in a situation of every reason in the world to come in there and maybe challenge and rebuke Saul, he does not do it. He comes very respectfully. So he doesn't come in and dictate what he should do. He waited for Saul's call. And then he listened to Saul's caution. And Saul gave uh you know he gave an argument. He says, Listen, you can't do this, and um uh uh and so s David listens to him. And then our second point was this. Our first point, if you're taking notes, was David presents his case. We looked at that. Then we started last time as David expresses his confidence And I want to emphasize that word confidence. This whole event, this whole chapter, David just uh displays tremendous confidence in God. And um so he does that. He faced, we pointed out, he faced powerful opposition. He had the uh the military was fearful. He did not let that fear, uh, he did not let the military and King Saul's fear produce fear in his his heart. Do you remember we said when other people afraid, we have a tendency to get f afraid, to be afraid freer is very contagious. David did not allow the fear of his environment get into his heart. And I think that's a tremendous statement on David's faith in God. Then we noted that we had the anger of his brother, and we talk a lot about that. And he didn't respond in anger. And it is very, very difficult. We say this often, it is very, very difficult when somebody else is angry, particularly if they're angry with me Not to get angry back, not to respond in anger, because it is so contagious. And uh we all know that's true. And uh and so he he had he had to overcome that opposition. And then Saul, as we said, Saul argues from logic. And logically speaking, humanly speaking Saul was absolutely right. David could not defeat this guy. Um his argument was was true. But it had no effect upon David because his Saul's argument had the wrong premise. Saul's argument was assuming that David would try and defeat ki uh um would try and defeat um goliath. It wasn't David defeating Goliath. Who was it? It was God defeating Goliath. And so this old world says, oh, you can't do this. Carnal Christians, carnal worldly thinking Christians, they say that can't happen, this can't happen, that can't happen. You know, the problem is they start with the wrong premise They assume God is not in that. And David was looking at it from the premise that God is in this. So now we get to some new ground. And I notice in verse number 34, David counters Saul's logic. Saul just told him verse 33, thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for thou art of uh but a youth and he a man of war from his youth. True. Alright, that's your argument. That's your logic. David counters back With his own logic, but his logic, David's logic, is now from God's perspective And he goes on down here. I put this down. Spiritually minded Christians see things differently than the unsaved see things, or carnal Christians see things. Did you ever get around, and I want to be careful here, but you ever get around some very worldly Christian, some very carnal Christian, you know. You ever get around them and they're stalking stuff and you're thinking that doesn't even make sense from a Christian's perspective. Anybody know what I'm talking about I mean they're saying stuff humiliating and saying, Well that's not true. Um and so da Saul's uh David's here, he's in soul and soul saying you can't beat this guy and uh he's too big And I can I can kind of see David thinking, that doesn't even make sense. He's talking like if there's no God. He's acting as if the uh God isn't even even a factor in this And so I found that spiritually minded Christians see things and see the world differently, of course, than the unsaved do, but even from backslidden Christians, they see it completely different ways. And so David is countering Saul's logic with his own logic. And here's the neat thing. This is what I wanted to get to. David's mind is focused on past victories. David's looking back, and he sees these victories that God had given him, and he's completely focused on that, and out of that, he has tremendous confidence. Now, this is what I want to take away. This is what I want to challenge you. Satan does all he can to get us to remember past failures. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond publicly, but in your own heart and life, I wonder how many of us have something in our past, some failure in our past, something we messed up, we blew it. And Satan will bring that thing back and back, he'll bring it back and back and back and back, and he'll do everything he can to convince us we can't do anything in the future because of some failure in our past. Right or wrong? I mean, that's what he does. Revelation tells us that Satan is described as the accuser of the brethren. That's his ministry. And what he'll do is he'll just constantly try and convince us, oh you messed up there, boy, you said that, you did this, you didn't do that, you really blew it there And he'll do everything he can our whole life long, our whole life long, keep these failures of the past before us so that we can never defeat any giants, we can never overcome obstacles. We can never accomplish something for God because we're so focused on past failures. And David did not allow that to happen. He looked back and he saw victories that God had given. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. That being true, I know something about you. I know a lot about a lot of you. I know more than I wish I knew about some of you. But I know this: if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we have at least one victory we can look back at that God gave us, that is a tremendous victory. And that is the forgiveness of our sins, the salvation of our soul from hell, and the gift of eternal life. Now, if God can do that for a 19-year-old punk in Philadelphia uh Pennsylvania. If he can transform that guy's life, if he can forgive his sins, if he can give him a completely brand new life, I'm here to tell you God can do victories in the future also And so I'm challenging you, be a David, and don't look back and don't dwell on something that messed up, something you failed in the past. But rather look what God has done for you. If nothing else, He saved your soul. And I know our God well enough that He's done more than that for you. There's plenty of areas we can look back and say, you know, God did that for me and God did that through me. And I can look forward And uh with these victories in mind, just like David did. You say, Preacher, what do I do about these past failures? What do I do if I messed up? I mean you messed up really bad. I always say there's three things we should do with our sins. There's three things we should do with our failures. First of all, I encourage you to jot these down. First of all, I should fetch it Confess that sin. If I messed up, if I failed, just come clean and say, hey, I blew it. God, I sinned, I agree with you, I failed, I made a mistake, or whatever it may be that Satan's hanging over you Don't ignore it. Don't try and cover it up. First thing we need to do is fess it. And if I've hurt somebody, I've said or done something to somebody, I need to go to them and say, listen, I was not Christian. I want to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I confess that it was wrong. I'd like you to forgive me. And I want to tell you I've sinned in that area. Confess it to somebody else, at least uh surely to God. But then don't just stop there. Number two, do this. Forsake it. If there's some sin or failure in the past, acknowledge it, confess it, agree with God about it, do what you need to do to get it out and clear it up But then forsake it. Don't keep doing it. If we confess uh whoso confesseth and forsaketh his sin shall find mercy. And so fess it, number two, forsake it, quit it, stop, get it out, get it up. And then last the one I always put down is forget it. That's it, forsake it, and then forget it and get up and go on. One of my favorite verses is Proverbs 24, 16. A just man followeth seven times and what? Rises up again. Rises up again. You say, oh, I can't believe I failed again. Uh well maybe you're a just man. He he falls seven times. Do you think that verse is suggesting that we're only limited to seven failures? No. If we were, I'd been done, my first day of my salvation. Seven is a is uh is a number it indicates just ongoing. Just ongoing. And so fall down, get up again. Fall down, get up again. Oh, you say, does it bother you when a good Christian falls somewhere I mean I don't like it, but I'll tell you what bothers me is when a good Christian falls and doesn't get up again. And so Satan wants to keep this over our heads. He wants to keep this over our heads, some past failure. Listen, if you've blown it Confess it. If you for confessed it, then forsake it. Once you forsake it, go on and forget about it. And go on and behave and live for God like you never did Now when I was preparing this, I added another little point in between forsake and forget. And um I forget what it is. Uh it is Now I'm trying to do my alliteration, Sandy. So you fez it, you forsake it, I stuck this one in between there. Fleece it. Fleece it. What do you do if somebody fleeces somebody? Come on, it's what is it? They search it. Oh, you guys don't know street lingo. Man, that guy just fleeced that company. Anybody know uncle Ed I know Ed knows what that means. Yeah, he got everything he could out of it. Man, he just got everything out of it he could. I mean he just fleeced them. How many people ever heard that How many people learned something new? How many people aren't even listening to what I'm saying? That's what I thought. So I added this one in as I was preparing this. Fess it, forsake it, fleece it What do you think I mean by that? Learn everything I can from that mistake. Try and benefit from it. Man, uh all right, I ain't going to that place no more. I'm learning, I learned my lesson there. I ain't never saying that no more. I ain't responding that way no more. You follow what I'm saying? Learn something from it. And then go on and forget about it and go on and be a better person for it. So David He's not looking back at past failures. And no doubt he had them. We don't have any recorded, but he's a human being. So no doubt there was past failures. No doubt there was mistakes made. But he's facing a giant. He's facing what the world refers to as a giant and a Goliath. I mean, here's this massive obstacle, this massive thing. and uh blaspheming God and blaspheming the armies of Israel. And David's not sitting there thinking, oh yeah, I remember that one time a fox barked and scared me to death and I ran off He's not thinking about that at all. He's looking back at the great victories God gave. And so look at verse 34. He says, And David said unto Saul, Saul gave his argument. David says, All right, here's my answer. Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took the lamb out of the flock. And I went out after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth, and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him. And slew him. I like David. I want to challenge some of you guys. Go out bear hunting. Don't take any gun or bow and arrow. And be like David, you cowards. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear, and this unside circumcis uh This uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing at the fire the armies of the living God. You know what David's saying to Saul? Saul, this ain't the first time I faced impossible obstacles. Saul, I've seen God do amazing things in the past, and he can do it again. This ain't the first time. I like David. Now, I got looking at this. He says a lion and a bear. Now I got thinking this, Brian. And I wondered, Brian always engages me in conversations about this stuff. I got wondering, is this this is very theologically important Is this one event that he dealt with a lion and a bear, or was this two events, one with a lion and one with a bear? I don't want to know what your thoughts are. I'm going to tell you what mine are. I think, this is what I think. I think it was one event. Because, says, David said unto Saul, thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took what? A lamb. So there's one lamb involved. What would be the chances of two separate events? A bear comes, gets a little lamb, hauls it off, he rescues it, kills the lion. or the bear comes back, another event, a lion comes, get the exact same lamb, and he goes and kills it. Either that lamb is very unlucky, or that lamb is very lucky. I think it's one event. This is how I see it. And you say, this is meaningless. I know, but I enjoyed studying this and thinking this through. This is the way I see it. I think David's out there, he's watching the sheep. Maybe it's getting up Eden in time and the predators are getting active. And this is how I see it. I see a bear comes in. One of the little lambs is off by itself. That bear grabs that little lamb. Gets in its mouth and goes running off. And the lion is maybe crouched somewhere watching this. And the lion comes out, sees the bear has that lamb. And he is going to take advantage of the situation and he's going to try and get that lion, get that lamb from the bear. And get him a easy take on the meal. Right? You follow that? Do you ever see videos of Africa where uh a lion will kill something and then the hyenas come in? And they'll try and we don't have to kill it. He's already got it. We'll just take it from him. And that's what I think is taking place here. I think as bear comes in, grabs the lamb. He goes running off. The lion sees that, and he goes chasing after the bear, and he's wanting that same lamb. It's one lamb. He's wanting that same one. David sees what's happening and it's almost like I he doesn't think. I think if he'd have thought about it, he'd probably want to chase them. But he just reacts. And he goes running out there after the bear. Now look at this. One event, a bear nabs a lamb and carries it off. The lion shows up, tries to claim or steal the lamb from the bear David goes chasing out after both of them, verse 35. I went out after him. I think the bear has the lamb. I smote him, smote the bear. He confronts a bear, he kills the bear, and he retrieves the lamb. And by the way, that word smote, I smote him. Uh it's translated uh 92 times it's translated to slay or kill. So he kills the bear. I think he kills the bear, he's got the lamb, he's carrying it back. The lion is really ticked because he was going to get a lamb. So the lion comes after David, and David grabs the lion by the what? The beard. Lions have big manes, so they got beards. He grabs the lion by the beard and he kills the lion. And uh he catches him by the beard and kills him. How many people agree? That's pretty exciting. I mean, I had a great time studying this. I'm picturing this in my mind. This is incredible. And what a guy David is. What an amazing person. How highly, how likely is it? I want to ask you a question. How likely is it that a young teenage boy, how old is he? 13? 14, maybe at this point. This is not not how old is he when he's killing this lamb and lion? This is sometime previous to when he's facing Goliath. So it it's at a younger, earlier point in his life. So I don't know how old he was. He's a young boy. How likely is it that a young teenage boy is able to kill a bear and a lion with his bare hands? No weapons. How many people say that's very likely to happen? I'll suggest to you that's highly unlikely. I'll tell you how it happened. There was divine intervention. God stepped in and did a miraculous thing through David's commitment to care for the sheep. Now, why would God do that? Why would God do such an amazing thing, just a little boy out in the backside of nowhere to rescue a little lamb Why would God intervene and do such an amazing thing? I'll tell you why. Because David's going to face a giant a little later on And God was teaching him something. Listen, we must never take lightly the things God does for us today, because they very well could be Him preparing us for something tomorrow. Amen? If God answers a prayer, we ought to rejoice in that. We ought to take note of that because that is something that can reinforce our prayer life. Later on. How many times do we pray about something? God answers it, and we never give it another thought. We go on and forgot all about God answering that prayer. Sometimes God answered it, we forgot we even prayed about it I'm telling you, David saw God do something he didn't forget. He remembered that, and God used that. David clearly understood that God had empowered him. And that in return produced a profound confidence in David's heart that God could and would do it again Especially in light of David of Goliath defying God and defying God's people. The lion and bear, they didn't defy anybody. They were just wanting to get a meal. But here's Goliath. And David is absolutely certain that what God did before, God could do again. And he was confident of that. And that brings me to my third point under this point is David's personal expectation. Look look with me at the end of verse 37. First the first part says, David said, and we're over, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of that lion. And out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. Where is his focus on now? God. Where is David's confidence? Is it in his sling and his stones? No. Is it in his own abilities? No. He will deliver me out of that. Two things David had ingrained in his heart and mind from the experience with the lion and the bear. Two things David learned from that. Number one, he learned that God is all-powerful. God is all-powerful. I know I'm talking to some folks. You've got insurmountable heartaches. You've got insurmountable issues in your life. And you think there is no way in the world I can ever be happy. There's no way in the world I'll ever have victory. There's no way in the world I'll ever get over this. This is a giant. This is a champion. I cannot beat him. You're thinking like Saul. And David learned from those that lion, that bear, he learned one thing. God is all powerful. And this guy, God can defeat him. And I think it's time for our church and churches like ours to remember we have an omnipotent God. We have a God that can do anything, and we have a God that is all powerful. And we need to remember that. And we must not allow a defeatist thinking get in our mind, this could never happen. This couldn't I can never have victory, I can never be a witness, I can never this, never that, never this. That is Saul thinking David said, David said, the God that delivered me from that, he can and will deliver me from this. He is all powerful. But there's something else, as I was studying this, that came out That David learned from that experience, and he was absolutely convinced of. Not only is God all-powerful, but I put this in the margin of my Bible: God is unchanging. Did you catch that? He said the God that did that back there is still the same God, and he can do this here. God has not changed. God has not changed. Sometimes we're saved for a long time, and I catch myself thinking this, and we've seen God do some amazing things. Would you agree with me? We've seen God do some great things at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church We've had some great meetings. We've seen God do some great things. I want to remind you, God has not changed in 2018. And he can and will still do great things. And we must remember that. We must remember that. David was absolutely confident He uh, and by the way, you read through the Psalms that David penned throughout the book of Psalms, and he references those two characteristics of God over and over and over and over. God is all powerful and God is unchanging. God is all powerful and God is unchanging. God is all powerful and God is unchanging. And he comes out of this experience with a bear and a lion and a lamb, and he is absolutely convinced that God is able. He has absolute confidence. How many folks reading through this, you notice the confidence of David in all of this? This guy is, he is absolutely confident. I believe one of the, I was talking to Byron Fox this afternoon. He called me. I don't think he had anything to do, because he called me and talked for a long time. We got talking about different things, and I said to him, I was looking over my notes when he called, and um I said to him, I said, Brother Fox, I believe one of the clearest I believe one of the clearest evidences of genuine faith in God is unwavering confidence. When I have faith, when my faith in God is genuine, it's going to instill in me an absolute confidence. If you and I are convinced that God is all powerful, He's never changed, we can walk into a room, and He's dwelling within us, and He's on our side. We can walk into a room with absolute confidence, right or wrong. We can face any situation. We can stand at a booth and have people come by. And not be intimidated one bit and be able to share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ, we can be fully confident that God's word is powerful, God is not changed, and they can be saved if they'll just believe in Him. Right or wrong? I can get up in the morning and I can be fully confident that God can give me victory over sin if my faith is in him Now, if I'm trusting myself, looking at myself, well, I'm just a youth, and he was a man of war from his youth, there's not going to be much confidence there. He's looking at God. One of the clearest characteristics of genuine faith in God is confidence. And we see it all through the Bible. I tell you, one of the most amazing events in Scripture that every time I read it, it stirs my heart is when God tells Abraham to take his son, his only son whom he loves, And go up on a mount and offer his son up as a sacrifice. I put in the margin of my Bible, in Genesis 22, I put in the margin of my Bible, when God asks too much. In my mind, that is, God, you're asking too much. But yet we read Abraham's testimony and without hesitation With no wavering whatsoever, he takes his son and he makes the journey and he does exactly what God tells him to do. Of course, God intervenes. And the thing about Abraham in that situation is this. His faith that God would raise up Isaac was absolutely unwavering to the point he's willing to plunge a knife at him, fully convinced that God would raise him up and resurrect him. Hebrews tells us that Man, I don't know about you. I would be intimidated by that instruction. I'd have a hard time with that. But David's faith, or Abraham's faith, was strong and his confidence Even in this situation, it makes no sense. It seems absolutely wrong. Yet God will get the victory and God will come through. I see that same faith in Daniel. When he's about to be thrown in the lion's den. Unwavering faith in God. Unwavering faith in God. I tell you, I like old uh I I I call them by their nicknames, Shad, Rad, and Mish That's what I call them, huh? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Oh, the God whom we serve, He's able to deliver us from that fire. And even if He doesn't, we ain't bowing down. You know what that is? That is confidence. That is complete faith in God I thought of Shad Shad, Rad, and Mish, my buddies, Isaac and Abraham, Daniel. I thought about the New Testament church. Don't you preach in Jesus' name. If you do, we're going to throw you in jail. Well, throw us in jail because we ain't stopping. Right? Total confidence. If we had time, we could look at these in more detail. But how about the time Peter's imprison and they're going to execute him the next morning? Remember that? Acts? And uh they killed James, they beheaded James. Peter, you're next tomorrow morning. What did Peter do all night? Oh, oh no, I'm gonna be headed in the morning. This is terrible. What did he do? He slept. He laid down and went to sleep. How many people knew if you knew you were going to be your head's going to be chopped off tomorrow morning, might have a ru might have to take some nightwill or something before you go to bed? I'd take five pile it off. Peter's like, oh whatever. Okay. Man, what confidence. Of course, and by the way, when the angel shows up, it didn't just say, Peter, wake up, huh? One like that. The angel had a what? Smote him. Wake up. Now go ahead, wake up. I'm getting you out of here. Are one of the clearest evidences of genuine faith in God in my mind is confidence. And what this world needs is some confident Christians that know the Lord and are unintimidated by this world and uh and put the past behind and go forward for God. I read about a fellow He was a painter back in the late 1800s. I think he died in 1925, if I looked up right. His name was John Sargent. Never heard of him before. Once he painted a panel of roses that was highly praised by the art critics. It was a very small picture, but the critics said that it approached perfection. Just a tremendous pit painting of roses. He was offered a very high price for it on numerous occasions, and he refused to sell it. He said it was his best work. He was very proud of it. He said, what do you do with it? Why do you keep it? Why don't you put it out? Why you sell it? Make a lot of money. He said, I keep it to myself. And John Sargent, as I understood, I was reading about him, he was prone to discouragement. He was prone to despondency. And he he would allow himself to get down and thinking it was no good, that he wasn't a very good artist, and none of that. But he said, I keep that painting and when I get down and I get thinking that way, I go back And I look at that painting that I drew, and he made this statement. He says, he would look at it and remind himself, I painted that. Then his confidence and abilities would come back to him. Now what I'm taking away from David, and we're going to see how it plays out. But David is faced with this incredible enemy. I mean, it's certain death in everybody else's mind. But David looks back and he doesn't say, oh, I did this or I did that. He looks back and says, God did that for me. And I'm convinced that his faith in God, because of what God did for him in the past, he was able to go forward and defeat this giant. Isn't that something? So faith in God, faith in God, um, we can we can go forward. And just remember what God does. You say, well, you know, ma maybe there's I don't know what Here's here's your average Christian. I don't know what God's done much for me. I said, why don't you slap yourself? God saved your soul from sin and hell. He's given you new life. How many of us could stand up and testify, I'm a different person now than I was before God saved me? Tell me that's not a miracle. Tell me that's not the power of God. And if God is able to give his own son to save us from sin in hell, he's able to face whatever it is we're facing now. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask their Lord that you would help us To remember who you are. God help us to remember what you are like and your power and what you've done in the past. Help us to be convinced you can do again. So I pray that you would challenge us with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many would tonight this evening would say, Preacher, I've got to deliberately put behind me some past failures. I've got to get that out of my mind. I need to remember what God has done for me. Is there anything like that tonight, preacher? I know, I know. And it's Satan does it. Man, he gets all over us. I'm raising my hand. Maybe there's some tonight you're facing some kind of obstacle and you say, there's no way, there's no way. But you need to stop and say, wait a minute, as long as God's alive and as long as God has never changed, there is a way. And God can turn this thing, and God can make something out of this. And I'm going to have full faith in him and face this in the confidence of the Lord And we need God to do that for us. How many like that? Preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. I just need to trust God and go forward confident that God is able. God is able. God bless you. A bunch of hands around Now we don't have the piano. I'm going to ask Brother Mark, would you come up? Maybe when we stand, we'll just sing real softly an invitation song because I want to open the invitation tonight. And maybe find a place an old-fashioned altar and just ask the Lord to uh speak to our hearts. Let's stand together