1 Samuel chapter 6. I'm not going to read the whole section. I want to begin reading in verse number 8. We're going to read verse 8 down through verse 11. We're talking about, I'm going to try and get through this tonight. We're talking about um Probably what could very easily be, and I tend to think one of the most significant events that took place, perhaps in the history of Israel. When David, if you'll remember, it's been a couple weeks since we've been in this, but when David was um David brought the Ark of the Covenant, which represented the very presence of God for Israel The glory of God rests upon the Ark of the Covenant, most sacred piece of furniture in all of history. And he transported that From uh where it was in Judah over to Jerusalem, the very center of uh the nation of Israel, now that's under his kingdom and he's brought it all together. And uh tremendously significant. He's getting God, now this is important, he's getting God in the center of the national life of Israel. Right where he ought to be. Everything they're going to do, at least symbolically by the by its location, is going to revolve around their relationship with Jehovah, with the Lord. And so very, very important decision he's making here. Now, let's just, before I start reading here, let's just get caught up where we're at. If you remember, he made the decision To uh bring this ark over there and he didn't just do it. He didn't just r issue a mandate or sign some executive order. We're bringing it over. He made sure he got everybody on board first He met with the leadership, if you remember, his decision to bring it over. He met with the leadership. He won everybody over. He got everybody understanding the importance of it. why they ought to do it before he he ever made a move. I think that's tremendous leadership on his part, uh getting everybody behind him and supporting that. And then we also point out it's very principled. In other words, God had uh instructed Israel right when he first gave the art, the the the blueprints to design it and set up the worship around the ark. He uh God said it's supposed to be in the very center. And all of Israel, when they wandered in the wilderness, they encamped around that ark. So what David was doing was following a principle that God had established Excuse me. And then we also noted that there was a problem with it. It was there was a flaw there. He didn't transport it the way God had said. And rather than carrying it by priest on these staves that was designed, uh he put it on a new cart, and uh and then with that ended up the disaster of the oxen stumbling and that ark shifting around on that new cart, uh like I've been saying, like a load of lumber, they're treating it so disrespectfully. And Uzzah instinctively reacts and puts his hand up to stop and God had made it very clear, no one's to touch that thing. And that's the idea with the stabs. They're not touching it. They're carrying it. And uh Uzzah dies on the spot. I mean right there. Boom. He's dead before he hits the ground And God doesn't mess around on stuff like that. And so now that picks us up here in verse number eight. David sees all this. He observes this Uzzah dying and the wrath of God on him And verse 8 says, David was displeased, because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, and he called the name of the place Peres Uzzah to this day. David named the place after Uzzah. He never wanted to forget what took place here. So he named the place, Peres Uzzah. And David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? So David would not remove the ark of the Lord unto him and to the city of David, but David carried it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. And the ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-Edom, the Gittite, three months. And the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all his household. So we're looking at David in the Ark. Let's pray, and I'll share a few thoughts here. Father, we ask now once again that you would meet with us tonight. Please teach us from this passage. Lord, you're the author of this book, the Bible, not me. And Lord, I'm just trying to teach and preach it. I want to be faithful to your word, but only you, Lord, can apply it to our lives like you know that we need it applied. So I yield my will to you and present my body And I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight. And God, you would take these passages, these thoughts And Lord, apply it to our hearts. Give us open minds and open hearts that we'd be willing to make whatever adjustments we need to, so that your will can be accomplished in our lives and you can be glorified. We can be a good witness. So again, fill me is my prayer. I yield myself to you, Lord, with all my heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. We said that David had uh Um we we noted first of all the um the disaster transporting, I already mentioned that, and the impulse of Uzzah when he just reached up there. Now I did want to touch on verse Verse number seven. We didn't get to look at that last time. Just a few thoughts out of verse seven real quick. It says the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error. And there he died by the ark of God. The anger of the Lord. And it says God's anger was kindled. That's interesting. He doesn't just say God was angry. God says God's anger was kindled. Now, if you're going to have kindlin, you're going to build a fire, you have kindlin, what does the kindlin do? What's the purpose of the kindlin? Get it started. In other words, that kinlin lights very easily and it flames up. You get a good flame out of that kinlin, then that can add a little more. I think what the Bible's saying here, what God's telling us is God's anger flared up. Now here's the thing about God. God is all-powerful. He is never out of control. Right? We understand that. So when God is angry, when the Bible says that God's anger is kindled It is not saying, now listen, it's not saying that God lost his temper. Right? You follow what I'm saying? God never loses his temper. That is a lack of control. Did anybody here ever know somebody that would lose their temper and they lost control? And that anger took over and that wrath took over. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And afterwards it's like, man, I it just came over me. My anger took over me. A lot of people have gotten hurt. A lot of things have been said that ought not to have been said because people lost control. God never loses control. Aren't you glad? Can you imagine if God would lose his temper? That'd be a bad thing. And so when it says he kindled his t it kindled his anger was kindled, it doesn't mean that his He lost control. He lost his temper. God is always in control. In fact, God's anger is rooted in his holiness. It is a attribute, it is a manifestation of God's holiness, God's anger towards sin, and God's anger towards disobedience I got looking in the Bible about the anger of God. You know what I found emphasized over and over all through the Bible? I found that God's anger comes very, very slowly. The Bible says repeatedly, in fact I have references here, Nehemiah, Psalms, all through the Psalms, Joel, Jonah, Nahum. It says that God is slow to anger. God doesn't want to get angry to his people. I've known some people that it's like they want to get angry. You know what I'm talking about? It's like they're looking for something to get angry about. I noticed early in my ministry some people, the only time they have any confidence at all in themselves is when they're angry. For whatever reason. When they're angry, boy, all of a sudden they're very confident. They're insecure, insecure. They get angry and they look for that anger as uh some false sense of self-confidence, some false sense of uh security, I guess. But God's not that way. God's not looking down at mankind looking for something to be angry about. He's not looking down on mankind looking for some way to smash us and kill the Uzas. This whole transaction of Oozah uh being dying on the spot, all of that Was a result of the holiness of God and a clear, deliberate disobedience to what God has said We must understand and we we have minimized the holiness of God in Christianity today. And I believe if we could get back to understanding that God is holy, first and foremost, He can tolerate zero unrighteousness, zero sin. He is God and He's to be obeyed. And so David's learning that. Now God is very patient. He's long-suffering. I am so glad. If God got angry quickly, I'd have been dead a long time ago But God's very patient. He's very long-suffering. But there's a limit to his patience. And there's a limit to his tolerance, so to speak. He doesn't really tolerate sin But there's a limit to his patience with us. In Genesis chapter 6 and verse 3, the Bible says that it grieved the Lord that he had made man, because their wickedness, uh every thought was wickedness, their sin, they just completely disregarded his his law And it says this, he made this statement: my spirit shall not always strive with man. In other words, he's saying, I'm not always going to convict mankind over their sin. You know what conviction is? Anybody here know what I'm talking about when I talk about conviction of sin? Anybody know that's when you're wrong, you're doing wrong. I know I'm doing wrong. I remember before I got saved. Do you talk about conviction? And even after I get saved, preachers are in this week in missions conference, Brother DeLong made a few statements and boom, oh man, the Lord got me, got convicted. You know what that conviction is? You say that's God angry at sin. No, no, no. That's the long-suffering impatience of God dealing with me to get that right. You follow what I'm saying? And so there's a limit to God's patience. There's a limit to that. And he says, I'm not always going to convict mankind. There's come a point where I say, all right, that's what you want, you can have it I'm not going to deal with that. And so we see here the indignation of God. Indignation of God. Now, I want to get to the passage here. I wanted to touch on that here. And I want us to notice, first of all, we noted David, let me give my notes of my points here, the decision to transport the art, and then the disaster transporting the art. Tonight, very quickly, I want us to notice David's displeasure in transporting the ark. That's the passage we just read there. David was a man after God's own heart. How many people understand that It's a man after God's own heart. You know what that means? That uh you know what the doesn't mean? It doesn't mean he was sinless You can be a Christian, loves God with all your heart. You can be the most dedicated Christian in the world. You need to understand, we never reach a point of sinlessness. David didn't get there. You're not going to get there. I'm not going to get there. And so we need to understand that. And David, we see that here with David. Being a man after God's own heart doesn't mean David was sinless, but it does mean this. He was sensitive to what God was doing, and he was submissive to God's actions in his life. We're going to see that. David responds. We're going to notice how David responds to God killing Uzziah, Uzzah. And uh this whole incident with the ark. It's a fascinating study. Let's look at it. A few statements uh before we get there. Actually, let's go over to 1 Chronicles, if you would, quickly. Let's read that account Very similar. 1 Chronicles chapter 13. And in verse 11, the Bible says David was displeased. 1 Chronicles 13, 11. David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, whereof that place is called Perez Uzzah to this day. Verse 12, and David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? So David brought not the ark home to himself, to the city of David, but carried it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months And the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom and all that he had. Here, I put this down. I put this down. Our zeal for God. David had such a zeal for God to get this ark back to Jerusalem. But our zeal for God must always be governed by God's holiness. By that I mean this. Somebody gets fired up for God. They get stirred up for God. They want to do something for God. They get all zealous. But we get ahead of God and we get outside and we get carried away and we get reckless and we get careless. I must first and foremost be submissive to God's holiness. I don't know if I'm saying this the way I mean it, but our zeal for the Lord must always be governed by our submission to God. God is holy And it's not just what we do for him, it's how we do it. Must be governed by God's holiness I think maybe for the first time in his life, David is coming face to face with the holiness of God. He'd been on fire for God. He killed Goliath with a stone and a sling. He had defeated the Philistines. I mean he was just on fire for God. And uh trusted God. He had Uh Saul chased him around for a number of years there. That kind of shook him a little bit, but his faith grew. But here, first time perhaps ever in his life, he comes face to face with that God is holy And it's not just what I'm doing for God, but it's how I'm doing it. Must be submissive to God's holiness. And I'm telling you, it shakes David tremendously. Isaiah in chapter 6 and the first couple verses, he saw the Lord. In the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah said he saw the Lord high and lifted up. And Seraphim cried out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. Do you know how, anybody know how Isaiah responded when he came face to face with the holiness of God? How did he respond? Anyone remember? Woe is me, he said. In fact, the Bible says that he trembled in the presence of a holy God. He said, Woe is me. I'm a man of unclean lips. The Bible says he trembled. In the holiness of God. Daniel in chapter, I think it's chapter ten, he is approached with uh uh uh this man. I think it's the Lord Jesus Christ. I think it's a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ And the Bible says, the way it's worded, it sounds to me, he fainted. Here's the presence of God, and he fainted. In Revelation, John, when he sees the Lord, he falls to the ground as dead. And what I'm trying to say is this: when we understand how holy God is, It has a profound effect on us. It has a profound impact. David is learning that no matter how much he rejoices in the Lord, no matter how passionate he is for the Lord, God's holiness must never be trifled with. Now we live in a day of casual Christianity. Am I right or wrong? I mean, the things of God are treated so casually. Can I put it this way? The things of God are treated so irreverently and so carelessly And I think we have forgotten in much of Christianity, we've forgotten that we serve a holy, holy, holy God. And David's learning that. David's learning that. God's holiness must not be trifled with. I think the bottom line in this whole event here, that we walk away, is this: God is holy. And David seemed to struggle with that throughout his life, and I think maybe all of us do to some extent. David, on numerous times, we already saw previously where he completely disregarded God's instructions particularly to the kings, that they are not to multiply wives unto themselves. And David just brushed that aside and disobeyed God. Here God had made it very, very clear. You'll never convince me. David wasn't aware of what Deuteronomy said about how the ark's to be transported, but yet he just brushed that aside. And never gave it a thought and just put the ark on a on a on a new cart. And then later on with Bathsheba, and then later on when he numbers the men of Israel, where God specifically said you're not to do that. In fact, his chief of staff comes and says, David, we're not supposed to be doing this. I think David, for all the heart he had for God, and all the passion he had for God, and how deeply he wanted to serve and love God He tended to trifle with the fact that God is holy. And that passion and that desire to serve God must be governed, must be channeled. By the holiness of God and our service and our passion and our Christian living must reflect the fact that we are serving and we are living for and we are in love with a holy God And that passion needs to reflect that. And I think David maybe struggled with that a little bit. Now, it's easy to be critical. I want to suggest you and I probably through our whole lives. That perhaps we don't give a whole lot of thought sometimes to the holiness of God. Tell you, sometimes I see what takes place in quote-unquote worship services. And I hear what preachers say behind pulpits sometime, and the vulgarity and the crudeness, and even sometimes the filthy language that is used behind a pulpit in the name of God. Trifling and playing with the holiness of God. And as I was studying this, I thought, David, that's what David is learning. That's what I think God is trying to teach him here. Now notice how David responds to this. Just real quickly. I notice he responded in three ways. Uzzah touches the ark, boom, drops dead. God is holy. He says, you don't mess with that. You don't touch that ark. And Uzzah drops dead. David, look how David responds. The first observation I make, the first way I observed that he responded was this. Number one, he got angry. Did anybody here, has anyone here ever gotten angry with God? Don't maybe you shouldn't raise your hand, but God does something and man I wish I could say I never have. I'm ashamed of it. But I know at le on at least two occasions stand out in my mind where God did something. I was trying to do something. I was trying to serve God, and God allowed something to happen, and it just made me angry. I see here David got angry at God. Look at verse number eight. And David was what? Displeased. That word displease there comes from the same word back in verse number 8 where it says the anger of the Lord was kindled. Comes from the exact same word. God's holy, righteous anger was kindled, and Uzzah died, and David reacted, his first reaction, I think it was just reaction, David got angry. Now it doesn't explain his anger. It explains why he got angry because God had uh did this to Uzzah But David just reacts in anger at what God did here. Notice, I got looking at this and says, all right, why did he get angry? Look what the verse says. Because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. God killed Uzzah. Now I thought that was interesting. David didn't get angry because they disobeyed the clear instructions of God. David got angry because God There was consequences for them disobeying the clear instructions for God. Follow my observation there? I thought that was interesting. Isn't that just like us? We'll disobey God. We'll disregard the word of God. We'll lean on our own understanding. We'll do it our way. And then the natural consequences of that is it's a mess. We got problems, and who do we get angry at? God, why do you let this happen to me? 99% of that is just simply the consequences of us not trusting God Anybody know what I'm talking about? So David disregards God's instructions. He disregards how they're supposed to do this. God's holiness is inflexible. And God responds in the only way a holy God can respond. The wages of sin is death. Usa dies, and then David gets angry at God. Here's my question. Why isn't he angry at himself for not doing it the way he was supposed to And while it's easy for us to look back and put judgment on David, we do the same thing. I think the fact that David got angry here at God God didn't do anything other than be holy, what he David knew he was. I think this clearly indicates an element of self-will on David's part. David said it, why didn't you do it my way? Why didn't you bless my disobedience Why didn't you honor my intention, regardless of the fact that I wasn't following your instructions? My intentions were good. And he blames God. He gets angry at God. Anger is generally a displeasure with not getting things my way. Would you agree with that? Anybody here ever get angry in your life? Anybody? I would say that our anger is probably a hundred percent, if not very, very close, the result of not getting what we want. Right? We get angry. Do it my way. Ah, there was eleven people in the Walmart line. There's only supposed to be ten. And just name it. They cut us off. I didn't get my way. I'm three seconds later to my destination than I was if they hadn't cut me off. Anger is displeasure with not getting my way Any and all service to the Lord, now get this, this is an important statement. Any and all service to the Lord must begin with submission to the Lord. If I'm going to serve God, whether it's running a bus route or teaching a Sunday school class, singing in a choir, working in a nursery, whatever I'm going to do for the Lord, whatever ministry the Lord uh gives me to serve Him with I must begin with submission, not my will, not my way, but Lord your will, your way. Over the years in the ministry going on uh coming up on 40 years, um I've noticed sometimes there are people they want to serve God, but they want to serve God their way. You follow what I'm saying? I want to do it, but I don't want to follow the Bible's directions. I want to do it my way. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 1? Keep your place here Paul makes an interesting and what on the surface looks like just a random statement. It's not much significance to it, an insignificant statement. But I want to suggest to you there's tremendous significance to it And not just what he says, but the the the order he says it. Romans chapter 1. And look with me at verse number 1. It's the introduction to the book of Romans. Paul's writing to the Christians, the church at Rome there. And everybody there, I want you to notice what he says. He says, Paul, a what? A servant of Jesus Christ. That's his first statement. And then he goes on and says, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. Did you notice what he begins with? He begins with what word? Servant. What is a servant? A slave would have been a slave. Let me ask you this. In the servant's service, does that servant have a self-will in that? No, he doesn't have a say. And I think what God is telling us here, in just the order that Paul lists what he is He starts out, I'm a servant of God. He says, first and foremost, before I do any of the calling that God has given me, whatever ministry God may have called you to, Ministry God called Paul to, he said, it must begin with viewing myself as a what? A servant. A servant. And that, I think, is what David's learning. Listen, bringing the art to Jerusalem, tremendous. It's following the precedent that God had said. But David, before you move that ark one yard, you submit your will to God's will, and you do it God's way. You do it God's way. You have no say in this. And when David got angry, I notice there a self-will. God's not honoring me doing this my way. We used to teach the teens in Indianapolis a little poem, and uh it just came to mind the other day I was driving down the road, it came to mind, only two choices on the shelf, serving God or serving self. And David was serving God, but he was doing it out of a self-will. And thus the anger when God responded to what David did. Any and all service to the Lord must begin with submission to the Lord. Must begin with the removal of myself off of the heart of my life, off the throne of my heart, get self off put Christ there, and then I can effectively serve God. Am I making sense? Everybody follow what I'm saying? Brother Holmescher, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, he's been with the Lord, I think it's 13 years now. It's hard to believe. But he would always preach to the young men that would come out to travel in Bible time. They're going to be summer evangelists, by the way. We got our director's guide for Bible time this year. Bible Time is coming back to Oakland. And all God's people jumped up on the pews and shouted and did the booster cheer. And he always said this to those young men before he sent him out. He would preach, he would preach his heart out to them And he would tell me when I traveled and when I was on staff, he'd say, it all, service all begins with dedication to Christ. Dedicate yourself to Christ, then you can serve God. Then you can have His power, you can have His blessings. But it begins with being that servant, yielding my will to Christ's will, and then God can use me. David's warning that. He didn't do that to begin with. Was what he doing was what he was doing right? Yes, bringing the the ark to Jerusalem. Absolutely. That was the best thing It was significant. He was doing what God had said to do, but he didn't do it the right way. His self took over. And so I see that in the anger Second of all, very quickly, I got a couple of minutes. First of all, he got angry. Usa dies, he's there, he's all excited, they're singing, they got this parade going, the oxen stumble, there's probably people shouting, he looks back, and Uzzah, uh, boom, falls dead. And his first reaction is, ah But then he then notice verse number nine. Let me get back here Verse 8, it says, David was displeased. He was angry. And then uh, let me get here quick. I pulled my marker out. Notice it says verse 9, and uh David was displeased, verse 8, verse 9, and David was what? Afraid of the Lord that day. His instinct, I think, was anger. That subsided. Now he's afraid. Now he's afraid. I looked up the word afraid and I saw how it's used other places in the Bible and the word it comes from. That word afraid there has this idea to be overwhelmed with reverence. In fact, part of the word itself simply means to be overwhelmed. David reacted, and then it begins sinking in. And I think this is what's taking place. David is realizing what a holy God we serve. Psalms 111, verse 10 says this the fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? Wisdom. When we stop and realize who and what God is, and how holy He is, and the authority that He has. We understand that. We get a hold of that. We're beginning a life of wisdom. It's going to affect every area of our life. I put this down. Fear. Now think with me a little bit. It took me a while to explain what I meant to my wife. I was bouncing it off of her. But I think fear eliminates presumption. In other words, if we're presumptuous, what does that mean? We're taking something for granted, or we're just assuming That everything's alright. We leave. Oh no, did I leave the iron on in the on the ironing board? Oh, I assume you did That's presumption, assuming something's true. When I fear, I think, wait a minute, I better make sure. Follow what I'm saying? If I fear God and I understand that someday I'm going to give an account to him, David gave an account almost immediately. I'm going to give an account to him, and I fear that, I reverence that, I respect that truth. I'm going to be careful. I'm not going to be a presumptuous in my life. You follow what I'm saying? I put it this way, I wrote this down. Fear eliminates carelessness Carelessness. If you come home at night and you're afraid that somebody is in your house, you don't just go strolling in there carelessly. I send my wife in first And make sure. I'm not going to assume everything's safe. Put her in there and find out. But that fear Eliminates that carelessness. When I got saved, I was working at a meat packing plant. I worked there for four years, from age 16 to 20. Started out cleaning after school. We go in there, we work till midnight, and we clean the what was called the kill floor. Anybody want some graphic details? It was fascinating. And we scrubbed that thing down. Well, there was always state inspectors there when they're processing the meat. They would inspect it as it goes. They just observe But every now and then we would get word that they were coming through and they were doing an inspection And I don't know, fear is the right word, but there was an element of fear involved, at least by the owners. Because if something was out of order, those state inspectors had tremendous authority, and they could have shut that place down And it would have cost the place millions of dollars just shut down for a day or so. Man, it was this back in the 70s. It was it would be devastating. And so we walked in there and we just said, yeah, I'm sure everything's clean enough. Yeah, whatever. Just uh it'll be fine. How many people think we did that? Brother, we went shore, we went through and we made sure every crook and cranny, there wasn't a drop of yesterday's Cow blood anywhere in there. We scrub that thing top to bottom. We're there four o'clock in the morning. They're showing up at six. We're going to everywhere everything. You know why? Because the fear removed all carelessness. Now stop and think with me. Now we say this, and I don't know, I wonder how often it really grips us. Someday you and I are going to stand before the creator of the universe. As Christians, we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And we're going to be held accountable for how we lived our Christian life. Now I'm convinced, and I'm talking to myself as much as anybody, I'm convinced that that truth really gripped us We'd be a whole lot more careful on some of the things we say. Huh? We'd be a whole lot more careful about how we treat other people Might be a whole lot more careful about how much time and effort I invest into finding God's will for my life. I think we might work a little harder at trying to win souls. You follow what I'm saying? I think we'd be a whole lot more careful that my Christian service is in line with the Word of God. So David is afraid. He's not cowering before God, but he is overwhelmed at the level of accountability. That he has as one of God's people. And he saw it right there in front of him. Fear. Fear. Notice in verse number nine. Notice the last part of verse nine. He asks a question. Verse 9, and David was afraid of the Lord that day. He was overwhelmed. And look what he says. And said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? I put my notes. I put this down. I wrote this. That's a good question. You know what would have been better? To ask that question before they started moving the ark, until waiting until after Uzzah was dead. You follow? David, I wish you'd ask that before. How am I going to do that? Now some suggest maybe David was just frustrated. How in the world am I going to do this? That's possible But when it says that David feared the Lord, that's a little change in tone there. I think David is his anger exploded, and now he's million alive. God's not playing. How in the world do I get this thing? I thought that was a pretty good question I think the modern Christianity could use a good dose of the fear of God. Modern Christians, we could use a good dose of the fear of God. So number one, he got angry. Number two, he became afraid. And number three, I'll put this down, he became inactive. He became inactive. Look at verse 10. So David would not remove the ark of the Lord unto him into the city of David. But David carried it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. The ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. How long? Three months it sat there. And the Lord blessed Obedidom and all his household. Let me ask you a question. Let me see what you think. Why do you think David got angry? Now he's afraid, he realizes what's taken place, what what what this is, and he says, I'm not taking it any farther, I'm going to set it aside here for three months. Anyone want to take a guess what you think David set that thing aside? Why did why did he wait? Anybody? I think that's the answer. I think he had to just stop, let everything calm down. We're going to think this thing through. We're going to find out exactly how this is to be done. And we're gonna and then we'll proceed from there. And I'll tell you, that is tremendous character If you and I do something wrong, and we're corrected, and we're able to take that correction and then alter and adjust whatever it is we're doing, our behavior or whatever. to make sure it's right, then that correction accomplished its purpose. Right? And I think David is setting this thing aside and he wants to sort it out He did not allow his anger to control him. He stopped, he waited, he sorted things out. Now I'll end with this. Come over to 1 Chronicles, and we have much more detail given. about David doing this in 1 Chronicles chapter 15. Go to 1 Chronicles 15 And look at verse number two. This is the Count in Chronicles. A little more detail here. Look at verse 2. And David said, none ought to carry the ark of God but the who? Levites. For them hath the Lord chosen to carry the ark and to minister unto him forever. I put in a march of my Bible right there, I put this down. David was teachable. He learned his lesson. Come down with me if you would. Look at verse number 11. And David called for Zadok and Abiathar, the priests. And for the Levites, and then he lists those guys there, and look at verse 12. And he said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites, sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren. That ye may what? Bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I prepared it. This is three months later. He's doing this. For because you did it not at the first, and the Lord our God made a breach upon us. Look at S. For that we sought him not after the due order. We didn't do it the right way. So the priests and the Levi sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel And the children of the Levites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staffs thereon. Look at this. As Moses commanded, according to the word of the Lord. David spake pre uh to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren to be singers and instruments of music and psalteries and harps and cymbals and sounding By lifting up the voice with joy. I think David stopped. He got angry. He was doing it his own way. Self-will. And he said, wait a minute. Man, God isn't playing games. God is holy. Set this thing aside. Let's think this thing through. Let's do this right. He gets the guys together and they do it the right way. That's a man after God's own heart, not sinless, but sensitive when he did wrong, and then submissive to God's instruction. There's not one person I'm talking to here online or anywhere else that is sinless. But if we love God We have a heart for God. When God deals with us and God corrects us, and maybe there's some consequences of our own self-will. We submit to that and say, yes, Lord, you're right. I'll correct this. I'll make whatever adjustments I need to. And then God blesses. And the joy floods in. What a lesson from David. What a lesson from David. Our God is first and foremost, He is holy. And all of our service and all of our passion Needs to be governed by the fact that God is holy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us To learn from David here, or we make mistakes, that old self will rises its ugly head, tries to take over, sometimes it does. But help us to be humble, Lord, to be willing to make the adjustments and follow your instructions. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Pastor, I know what that self-will is I know exactly what David dealt with there. I find it in my own chest, my own heart. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Respond humbly, submissively as God deals with me, and get that old self off the shelf And put the Lord back where he needs to be in my life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, sure. God bless you. It's a lifelong endeavor. We have to always adjust. We have to always seek the Lord and let him lead us. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.