Uh chapter number 17, 1 Samuel 17, David and Goliath. What a great, great historical event. It is not just the story, it is an actual historical event. And uh we've been working our way through it. David, I'll give you a little Um what do they call that when they have a show and they'll show a little bit ahead of the time just to get you a a preview. Or no, it's not a teaser Little teaser, they'll do a little bit, catch you a I'm gonna give you a little teaser right now. Goliath doesn't win. Really? I want to begin reading in verse number 48. I'm going to come down through 54. Now we've been looking at this, we've already been into this section a little bit last week. But we're going to move along here a little bit. Verse 48 it says, And it came to pass when the Philistine arose. Who's the Philistine? Goliath. And he came and drew nigh to meet David, and David hasted and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. And David put his hand in his bag and took thence a stone, I like this, and slang it and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth So David prevailed over the Philistine with a slang and with a stone, and smote the Philistine and slew them But there was no sword in the hand of David. Therefore David ran, stood upon the Philistine, took his sword, drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. And the men of Israel and of Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines until Until they've come to the valley and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistine fell down by the way to Sharaim, even unto Gath and to Ekron And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they spoiled their tents, and David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent We started this last week, but I've entitled this section, David Dispatches Goliath. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us something from this. Father in heaven I thank you for the Word of God and every event that you've recorded throughout history. You've recorded in your uh word for our benefit And so I pray that we would learn something from this to apply to our lives, that we could be the people that you intend for us to be, and we can live the lives that you created us to live. I just pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Father, I yield my will to your will, and I present my body as best I know how, and I pray that you would fill me And speak through me, dear Lord, and uh help us and challenge us tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What a classic story here as we've been looking at. David Twenty under twenty years old, untrained in military tactics, uh not a soldier by any stretch of the imagination, but a young man that's Loves the Lord, knows the Lord, loves the Lord, is fully dedicated to him. On the other side, you have this military giant, you have a highly trained warrior, very skilled, no doubt, very successful in battle and they're staring eye to eye to each other. If you remember last week, uh the uh the first thing we noticed here in verse number forty eight is that David was instant in his attack. And by that I meant he went that he he went into action. I think the passages, the verses just before this passage, David gives one of the greatest military speeches ever. I mean, he is just uh uh addressing Goliath And he's telling him what God's going to do. He's coming in the power of the Lord. It is an incredibly inspirational speech. But if you remember it, I tried to drive home last week Giving great speeches does not kill giants. And we are not going to have victory and we're not going to um accomplish much if all we do is talk about stuff David went into action. David didn't just give a great great speech and make this very inspirational statement Then he acted on it. And I believe that's a big uh thing in our churches is um, you know, uh we talk about stuff. I w I was thinking, I was talking to Dr. Smith the other day, I said, you know, what this old sinful world needs What they don't need is sermons on soul winning. They don't need songs about soul winning. They don't need us talking about soul winning and having soul winning conferences. What the unsaved world needs is soul winners To go out there and tell them how to get saved. And so um the the the important thing to understand is this that um you know all of mankind is born, what the Bible says is born into sin. We're all sinners before God. And uh we've broken God's law. We've said and done things that God forbids, and we've not done things that God requires of us. And because of that, we're under God's judgment, we're under God's wrath, and if we die in our sins, Jesus was very, very clear, if we die in our sins, if we die unforgiven, we're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And that's what Jesus, that was Jesus' term. He preached more on hell than any other person in all the Bible. And he was very graphic in his description of hell. It is the wrath of God, it is the condemnation of God. Upon someone that breaks his holy law. But God loves us enough that uh he doesn't want us to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind. I was talking to uh uh some folks here Just a couple weeks ago and uh and uh a lady a couple weeks ago that Mabel had uh asked me to come down and talk to her, and I had my Bible open, I showed her the wages of sin is death, and her name was Donna. I said, Donna, listen We're sinners and the ways of our sinners, separation from God forever in this place called hell. And I said, that's our judgment. That's what we're that's if we die in our sins, that's what happens. And I showed her the verse there in Romans 6. 23, and I said, according to this verse, if you died right now, where would you go? And she was she she said she didn't want to say the word hell and she went like this. And uh I said, you don't want to go to hell, do you? She said, No. I said, God doesn't want you to go to hell. And God doesn't want anybody to go to hell, and that's why he sent Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ died on that cross. And on that cross, there's a point where he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And the interesting thing about that statement was he made that immediately after the darkness settled down over the earth. And I'm convinced in studying my Bible that at that moment All the judgment of God for all sins ever committed, yours and mine, was laid on Jesus Christ. And in that moment, he suffered the wrath and judgment of God for my sin and for your sin. And paid for it completely. He never sinned. He was innocent, holy son of God. But yet he was our substitute and he stood in our place. And basically he said this, I will take responsibility for all of Dennis Leatherman's sins, and I will be judged for it. And not mine only, but the sins of the whole world, every individual. Of course he was buried, he rose again. And I was talking to Donna, and I said, listen, Donna, I was showing her in Romans, and I said, listen, um just because Jesus died on the cross for our sins was buried and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven He says it's a gift that he offers to us. And if someone offers us a gift, we can do one of two things. We can accept that gift. accept it to be our own and it becomes mine or I can refuse it. One thing you cannot do for a gift is you cannot pay for a gift. Right? If somebody offers me a gift and I pay them for it, it's no longer a gift. It's a what? It's a purchase I'm purchasing it. It's not a gift. God doesn't tell us that eternal life is something we can purchase. He says it's a gift of God is eternal life. Um another thing you can't do with a gift is you cannot earn it. Somebody comes to me and says, Brother Leatherman Boy, you worked real hard this week and you did this for me, you did that, and all these things, and because you did all of that for me, I'm going to give this to you. That is not a gift. What is that? That's a payment. And they can call it whatever they want. It's not a gift. It's a payment. They're giving me something for what I did. And God doesn't say that eternal life is a payment. He says it's a gift. And so when God offers to us complete forgiveness, eternal life, escaping hell, a new life here on earth, and a home in heaven, he offers all that to us as a gift. And we can accept that gift or we can reject it. That's the only two options. There's no other choices. And then I was explaining to her, I said, the way we accept that gift, the way we receive that gift that God offers to us is by faith. The Bible says in Romans 10, 13, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And to call the Lord simply means I'm looking to, I'm putting my trust, I'm calling on the Lord to forgive me, come in my heart and life. Forgive all my sin and save me from hell and take me to heaven. But I'm I'm putting my confidence, my trust in Christ to do that for me. Not something I can do myself or the church doing that. Church can't forgive sin. I can't forgive my own sin. Only Christ can do that because He paid for my sin. It's paid for When I call on him and accept him and trust him, he forgives me and I receive eternal life. And he's the one that gets me to heaven And so it's a simple act of faith. Now I said all that to say this. We can talk about this all we want. And we can sing about it, and we should. I'm not disparaging that. That's great. And preaching on it. But at some point somebody's got to go out and tell that to people. Amen? Some point somebody's got to take action. And on the other side of that, at some point we have to make that decision. Yes, I'll accept that. I talk to people all the time. Oh yeah, I know the gospel. I know about Jesus on the cross. I know that. And I'll ask them, have you ever taken action? Have you ever made the decision to accept Christ and trust Him as your Savior? Well one of these days, oh someday, oh no, I don't know. Listen, we we can know that all we want, but until we make that conscious decision, yes, I want Christ to come in my life, forgive me and save me And uh give me eternal life, I'll receive that gift. Until we m take action on that and make that decision, uh it doesn't do us any good, does it? And so David could stand there all day long Talk about how what's going to happen to Goliath and how great God is and how powerful God is and all this stuff. But at some point he's got to stop talking and he's got to go out there and take some action And so we noted that there. Now we're getting to verse number 49, and I put this. Let me get my caught up in my notes here. Y'all just wait there a second while I find this. Uh Number two, what in the world? Somebody stole my notes. It was Miss Kathy did that to me. Oh, here we go, verse forty nine, sorry. I got all wound up talking about getting saved. I forgot where I was at in my notes. Look at verse 49. He says this, and David put his hand in his bag. And took thence a stone and slang it. What's happening here? Now he's assaulting Goliath. I mean he's taking action. I looked up that word slang there. You know what it means? To slang something. The idea is David, remember when we talked about that sling, he's got this thing and he is letting it loose. He goes out there and he flings that He slangs that rock out there. And as I'm looking at this, there is incredible precision behind David slanging this stone. This is incredible accuracy. We are not told how far David is from Goliath. We can assume in studying this that he's pretty close up. I'm thinking he's just he's probably just outside of sword reach. He's just outside of Goliath's reach. And he takes that stone and he lets her rip. And uh incredibly accurate and incredibly precise. Now, I wanted to, and I forgot to set it up before, but I came across the History Channel, did a little documentary type thing on David and Goliath. And they took it and for their credit, they took this as an actual event that took place. And they wanted to they wanted to reenact this thing and see how this would play out. And they did a little research, and they got a guy by the name of Luis Livermore. He's an Italian And he is a champion slanger. Well, they said slinger. But he is a champion. Apparently, they have competition and tournaments with these types of slings And he is the world champion at this thing, and they were talking about how accurate he is and how tremendous he is. So they set up this post and you you see it in the video, maybe if afterward I'll try and get uh Dave or somebody set it up and we'll you can watch it if you want. It's fascinating. But they get this, it's just a pole up in the air, and they have this little uh uh box thing. It's called a load cell. And what the load cell does is it measures the force of impact. It's four and a half, it's 4. 9 square inches, and they figured that would probably be about the forehead of Goliath. So that's the area. He's got a four, almost five inch square to hit this rock, uh to hit uh Goliath in the forehead. And um so it shows him there, and they got figure, and they gave these statistics, and they said according to this trauma surgeon, Dr. Mike Edwards He said the force necessary to kill a human being from a blunt force trauma like a s a small rock. Now I don't know these terms, but it would have to be Over 3,000 newtons. Now, a Newton apparently is a unit that they use to measure force. And it's named after John Newton from the Gravity, the Force of Gravity. Isaac Newton. Um John was his twin brother Isaac Newton. So they named it after him. But anyway, y'all are distracting me. They have apparently a force is measured in units that are called Newtons. So, in order to produce enough trauma in someone's head to kill them, you would have to have at least 3,000 newtons. All right. So this guy, uh old uh Luis, he gets up there and he slays and he misses. It's only a little little not quite five square inch thing and he's out here and he swings and he misses. And he swings again, he does a couple times, and finally he hits that thing, kapow Now the interesting thing was they pointed out, and this I would love I would love to have been back there when David and Goliath was, the interesting thing they pointed out, when he swung that thing around, when he released it, there is a very loud snap. There's a pop, a crack, almost sound like a gun. And anybody want to take a guess what produces that pop? That The stone is breaking the sound barrier. That is how fast that thing is coming off of that thing. And he slings that and it pops. And um uh they said with 3,000 newtons, that force, hitting the forehead, it would cause a shockwave That would go through the skull and reverberate throughout the skull and would absolutely cause irreversible tissue damage to the brain Amazing. And so uh he got out there, he took that slang, he slang it. And when he hit that thing, uh they measured it. It knocked that little load uh cell off. And when they measured it, now remember he needed three thousand newtons would be necessary to kill. It was 3,620 newtons. So it was way, way over what was necessary. And their conclusion was this: the Bible record of what David did to Goliath is absolutely scientifically accurate. And uh I just thought it was fascinating, and if you're interested, we can show it afterward. But he gets up there, David. Um so then I got thinking David uh slangs this thing And by all accounts he's hitting Goliath on the first shot. Right? He had five stones. And uh but he gets up there. Now this other guy, this world champion, it took him a couple three times till he hit that But David hits him on the first shot, and I thought, Mel, how did David hit him on the first shot? I thought, one of three things. Either he just got lucky. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where it talks about people getting lucky. So I don't think it was luck or it was incredible skill. And they mentioned that on the thing, that either David just got lucky and hit him one, or David was really skillful. I think David was really skillful. There's a third option, and that was the providence of God took that stone and put it right where it needed to be. And I think I think probably it was one of the it was a combination of the last two. David was incredibly skillful, and God made sure that stone got where it needed to go. And uh so there's a lot of lessons from that. And one thing I as I was thinking that over, uh uh one thing I I thought was If God gives us abilities, if God gives us certain uh things that we are uh proficient at, like David's slang and slings, We ought to work at that and perfect that so that God can use us to the greatest ability that He's given us. And uh so he gets there and he does this, and notice what the Bible says in verse number 49. It says David put his hand in his bag, took fence of stone, slang it. And smote the Philistine in his forehead. That's where he was aiming. Why would David try and hit him in the forehead? Alright, that would be one, but there's another possible reason. That was probably the only area exposed. To David. And so not only was it very strategic location, but it was probably the only exposed. I was reading one guy, some yard bird, out of commentary. He said, actually, when it said forehead, what it meant was his knee. His knee. And what he did was David saw a little chink in his knee and he hit him in the knee and it made him fall down. He ran over and cut his head off. There's a problem with that. Did you notice what it says? It smote the Philistine in his forehead, that it sunk in, the stone sunk into his forehead. He fell on his face to the earth. Now think about this. The stone sunk into his forehead. What does that mean? That means it didn't ricochet off. It penetrated the bone. It penetrated his skull and when he came down, that where was that stone at? It was in his skull. This thing is incredible. You know, it wasn't like pee. It's going in. I'm telling you, nothing like that ever entered Goliath's mind before. Nothing like that had ever entered his mind. I've been waiting this whole series to say that make that statement. But there was actually more force. If you thought about thirty-six hundred new, there was probably four. thousand or more because David was running Tortugal Island. And that would give you more momentum Sure. Now I got thinking about the forehead a little bit here. I think there's a little, I think there's some spiritual truth here in the fact that God hit him in the forehead. I got look in what the Bible says about foreheads. And it talks about a few things. I noticed one thing, some people have more of a forehead than others do for various reasons. But I found out that the forehead on a number of occasions is referred to by God as someone's pride. The pride. We won't take time to turn these, but in Isaiah 48, 4 he he addresses Israel and he refers to them as the brow, same word as the forehead. Uh translate from same word as forehead, the brow and how they harden their brows before God Um in Jeremiah 3:3, he references the children of Israel hardening their foreheads against God, being stubborn. And proud, and doing it my way, me, the self-reliant. In Ezekiel chapter 3 and verse 7, he references about being imprudent, impudent. Very proud and self-reliant and and the forehead. So it may just be it was a very strategic target, but there may be some spiritual truth there that the very thing That Goliath was so sure of his pride and his self was the area God used to bring him down. And I got thinking about that, and I thought, you know, maybe it wasn't the stone that killed Goliath, maybe it was his pride And the stone was simply the result God sent because of his incredible pride. What does the Bible say? God resisteth. the proud. He that exalteth himself shall what? Shall be abased, shall fall on their face And so God is able, listen, our one of our, if not the greatest enemy we have is our own stink and pride. It'll destroy us as quick as anything And God resists the proud. If there is anything we as a church ought to make sure we keep in place, and that is this, our humility before God. Because if we get proud, I'm telling you, brother um brother Allison talked about God can remove that candlestick as quick as anything. We don't love the Lord, we get proud. And so there's a lot to this idea that maybe it was Goliath's pride that killed him, and that rock was simply God's tool in bringing him down. Uh it says it sunk into his forehead. It penetrated his skull. I'm telling you, God knows how to deal with us. I guarantee you when Goliath got up that morning, he would have never dreamed in a million years that he was going to die with a stone in his head. But God knew. God knew Then it makes an interesting statement there in verse number 49, and it's like God goes out of his way almost to make this statement and I'm not exactly sure why, but notice it says that how did Goliath fall? He fell on his face. Now I got thinking that and I'm not sure I know all the if there's what spiritual significance there is other than the pride, you know, and uh you know uh being abased But I thought, how in the world? Here's David, Goliath's over there, here's David. He got his thing. He's racing out there. I see him just knowing what we know about David. He is intense. He is running as hard as he can. And he is coming out there and whoom, snap, you hear that rifle shot, that thing breaks the sound barrier, crash. I mean his head, his skull is shattered. Stone goes back in there, his brain is shockwaves. And how does he fall on his face? It looks like if you're being hit with that much force, you would fall backwards. So I got came up with a few scenarios. See what you think. One is, I thought, well, maybe that thing snapped so hard and went into his thing, and he just stood there stunned for a minute. And then just went clone. Because he got his sword and his shield up here, so he would be front heavy, and just felt maybe it just stunned him for a bit and he died there in his tracks and boom fell. Maybe, I'm not sure about this one, maybe that stone hit him and spun him around. But he's a pretty big guy. I don't see him spinning around. Another one is it hit him, maybe he was staggered around for a bit, and then fell forward. I don't know. That's all that's all I got, folks. Maybe he was taking a step towards David. He may have had some momentum going forward. Yeah. So Listen, don't every time I preach just start telling me stuff, all right? But then you can now. Catherine has an idea. That's that's good. God humbled him. I think Catherine's gonna preach next week. No, not really. That's good. So Whatever the case, God makes it very, very clear. He didn't fall on his side, he didn't fall on his back, he fell on his face. And uh I agree, and I had doubt about perhaps it was his pride and God humbling him there So, and then it says, look at work we're working our way through here, then it says, he smote the Philistine in his forehead forehead, that his stones sunk into his forehead. Fell upon his face to the earth. And then it says this, so David prevailed over the Philistine with a slang and with a stone. What an unlikely Tools, weapons God would use to bring this guy down. The word prevailed has this idea: proved himself stronger than Now you got Goliath here and all that we went to in trying to describe him and get a picture of the immensity of this man and the might of this man and the uh the military uh uh skill that he had. And you have this little kid out of the mountains with a sling and a stick and a sack. And you look at those two and you say, which of these two is the mightier? Which of the two is the stronger of these two? And under the sun, we would say who? Goliath, there's no doubt about it But there's but God is a factor in all of this. And you have a little kid Indwelt by and filled with and empowered by the Spirit of God, and He's going to be stronger than the best giants and champions this world can come up with. I like what Jesus said when he gave us the Great Commission. He said, He said, All power is given unto me. In heaven and earth, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever command you, and lo, what? I am with you always When we step out in faith, we sang here a minute ago, when we trust God and obey Him, and we step out in faith in our day and age, and we Face the giant of a world lost in sin, of a world in unbelief and spiritual darkness, and we look out there and say, Man, we're no match for this world. How in the world? Do we reach a nation, Kazakhstan, 17 million people? How in the world can we get the gospel to everybody there? And in our own power and our own understanding and our own might, we can't do it But we cannot forget all power is given to Jesus Christ. And he is in us. And we step out in faith, we have the power of God on us. Strength, David's strength was not in his physical makeup, it was not in his weapons, but it was in the presence and power of God. I thought when I was studying that, I thought of Samson. Now w when you pi when you imagine Samson, when you picture Samson in your mind, now you now you know probably where I'm going to go with this, but typically what do you picture? This massive bodybuilding, you know, weightlifter, Pastor Matt type guy. You know, the guy's huge, or Uh pick up, you know, uh whole uh um what do you pick up the gate uh the city the city gates, carry 'em out. You know, and pushing pillars down. It's like, man, this guy's massive. But you know, everybody that looked at Samson, you know what their question was? Where in the world does this guy get his strength from? This guy's a pipsqueak He looks like Derek. And uh I'm sorry, Derek, I didn't even I'm sorry. I just lost a friend right there, wow. But they say, where in the world has this guy got all this strength? His strength wasn't in his physical makeup. His strength wasn't in any weapons he had. His strength was in the presence and power of God on him. I read a quote, it was a political quote just the other day, and the guy was saying that America is inherently stronger than China. He says, just our makeup and what we are, we are inherently stronger than China. He says America's greatest danger is not a lack of strength or power on our part, but it is complacency On our part. And when I read that, I thought of the church. The church, Christians, we are inherently more powerful than the world. Jesus said, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. He says, all power is given unto me in heaven and earth. We are inherently more powerful than the world. We are inherently, because of Christians, because we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. We are inherently more powerful than the devil. We are inherently more powerful than our own sinful flesh because we have the presence of the Spirit of God within us. Our problem is not a lack of spiritual power. Our problem is apathy. We don't act on that, and we don't trust God, and we don't step out, and we don't access that power by submitting ourselves to Him and yielding ourselves to Him and letting Him lead us and direct us. And we allow ourselves to be filled with sin and unbelief and doubt, and we grieve the Holy Spirit, and we quench the Holy Spirit, and thus we're defeated. We're so worldly, and we gliothe is all over us. So David, the Bible says David prevailed over Goliath. He was more powerful. He was stronger than Goliath. And you look at him, he says, nope, he isn't. But he was. Because of the presence and power of the Holy Spirit in his life. And I got thinking about the Israeli army. Any one of those Israeli soldiers could have had the exact same power available to him that David had. The church has power that the world does not have. Our greatest danger is not a lack of power, but a lack of initiative, a lack of concern. And then I like this, and it says, and David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and what? Slew him. He slew him. I got a couple minutes. Let me go on to the next verse, verse 51. And this here is, I noticed that first one that David was instant Our first point was this that David was instant in his attack. I mean he got right at it. He didn't just talk. He went out there and got business done. Now I notice that he's intense in his execution. Verse 51. Well, the last part of verse 50 says, But there was no sword in the hand of David. Therefore, David did what? He ran. He's always running. Every time we find him, this guy zing, zing, zing. So he comes racing out there, shh, slap, boo, uh And here's what David does not do. Huh! No. That would be what? Pride, but it would also be presumption. Exactly. And I put this down. David running out there and hopping on top of Goliath, he's doing follow-up. He's not going to assume that Goliath is dead. He's going to make sure. Now, whether that was just for his own assurance to make sure David uh Goliath is dead. Or just so everybody out there knew and saw that this guy's dead. I didn't knock him out. He didn't fall asleep. He's dead And so he goes running out there. He does this follow-up. By the way, there's a world of difference between faith and presumption. David could have presumed, all right, there we go, got that done. But no, no, no. Does that mean he didn't have faith that what he did was accomplished? No. David had tremendous faith. But he was just following through. He's just following through And you have to be careful between assumption and faith. There is a big difference between that. And then I like this. It says, therefore David ran and stood upon him He climbs up on top of the guy. Oh no, he didn't do that. He gets up on top of Goliath. Why'd he do that? I don't know, maybe God prompt them just to make sure, listen, uh Goliath, pride's gonna run you down. I don't I I don't know the significance of it necessarily. I think it was so both armies could be Yeah. Yeah. And but he doesn't have his own sword, and it says, Therefore, because he doesn't have his own sword, he pulls Goliath's sword out. And um and uh it says, and he drew out of the sheath thereof and slew him. Now here's a question that comes up. Look at verse number 49. In the middle there, or I'm sorry, verse 50, David prevailed, smote the Philistine, and what? Slew him. See it in 50? Then come down to 51. It says he drew the sword out of the sheath thereof and did what? How many times did he slew him? Ah. Did Goliath die when the stone entered his brain? Or did he die when David cut his head off? It says he hit him with stone and slew him. Then it says later he slew him. I don't think it really matters. I don't think that's the point. Maybe Goliath was still, maybe that stone entered in, and he was that, and he was in the process of dying. And i and David Stone, I mean he's dead. Did you ever s any of the hunters ever shoot a deer and say, that thing's dead and you don't even know it? You know, we're still moving, still going through motions, but this thing's dead. Yeah, you're getting he's reading my notes. So David goes, he gets up there, he doesn't have his own sword, he pulls his sword out, and he stands, he's standing upon him, he's getting his sword out. Now back to the deer hunting. Brother Allison got me fired up. He was talking about preaching. I figured out why he's not hitting any of those ducks he was talking about. He was using a rifle, he said. I I've never been duck hunting with a rifle. But um But when you shoot a deer, you're sure it's dead. You shot it, that thing's dead, it's laying there. Now, your hunter, when you walk up to that deer, what do you, what's the first thing you do when you walk up to it? I tell you what you don't do, you don't put your gun on its antlers and hold it there first thing. Because it might get up and run off. So what do you do when you walk up to the deer? What's the first thing you do, guys? You poke it. I was poking in the eye. That eye blinks. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. So I think David's getting up on top of this thing and he's seeing if there's any response. He's making sure he's dead. He pulls that sword out and he slew him. He slew him. The stone knocked him out, mortally wounded. The sword finished him off. I don't know. But he's being very, very thorough. And cutting his head off, he is doing this. He is confirming to everybody that Goliath is dead. God did exactly what God said he was going to do. Now notice how, and I got a couple minutes. Everybody doing all right? Now notice how the Philistines respond. Now this gets interesting. Last part of verse 51. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, what did they do? They fled. Now there's a lot of stuff here. God can change circumstances like that Now you know just five minutes before they were confident they had this thing. This little kid coming out of here, are you kidding me? This will be over in five minutes. We've got this. Five minutes later, they're running for their lives. And I'm telling you, things can look awful, uh, things can look terrible, I'm sure for the Israelis They see David going out, they're just, you know, they say, this is over. We're dead meat. We're gonna and five minutes later, the Philistines are running, and they're at tail they're on their tail after him. I'm telling you, never despair. God can change circumstances like that in unexpected, unanticipated ways. And so they're they're flaying off. God can change attitudes. One minute they're there, what am I a dog? The next minute he's dead. They're scared to death. Their whole attitude has been changed. I thought about that. I thought about Job's friends. What were Job's friends doing to him the whole time he's suffering? I mean he's in a horrific situation, and his friends are doing what? They're trashing them. Obviously you're living in sin. Nobody would go through this. God would never do this to a righteous person. You're a liar. You've cheated people. You've and they list all these unbelievable stuff It sounds like he's running for state Supreme Court office or something. They're throwing all this stuff at him. But then God speaks up. And man, when God spoke, what happened to the friends? They shut up. Hey, shut up real quick. I'm telling you, God can turn things around pretty, pretty quick. I thought about Jonah. I'm fleeing from God. He's kind of bragging to the guys on the boat. I ain't going there. I'm fleeing from God Next thing you know, he's in the belly of a whale and he's saying, Lord, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, have mercy on me, God turned this thing around. And so when you see these Philistines fleeing off over the hills and take high tailing and out of there Just remember this. God can turn things around so quick. Don't ever despair. Don't ever despair. And then here's what I'm well, I wanted to end there, but I'm I'm so excited about this. When the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. Would you go back to verse number nine? Nine. Same chapter. The Philistines and the Israelis had an agreement. They had signed an accord. So to speak. Look at verse 9. And if he, this is Goliath, and he's making the terms for their their uh engagement here. If he be able to fight with me and to kill me, this is Grias speaking on behalf of the Philistines, then will we be what? Your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then ye shall be our servants and serve us. What were the terms of agreement? If somebody kills Goliath, the Philistines would lay down their arms. And surrender themselves and be the servants to the Phili to the Israelis. Did they keep their word? No. And you know, whenever we are dishonest, we are acting just like the unsaved. A child of God should never, ever be dishonest. A child of God, our word, should be good. And the Philistines were acting just like Philistines. They lie. They're the world. They're a picture of the world. And the tragedy is, is so often we have people of God operate on the same level that the world does. And my thought, when I read that and I remembered back here, I said, wait a minute, you guys had an agreement here. And I thought, you lousy liars. They keep their part. And the challenge is for you and I, we ought to be people of our word, even if it hurts us. Proverbs says that. Even to our hurt. That ought to be a challenge for all of us. Yeah. Yeah, they they didn't even shake hands on it. But that was their word. That was that they said. And they didn't keep it. So we ought to be honest. Amen? And we ought to never give up hope because God can turn things around in a minute. And we ought to always understand we have the power of God available to us. And if we'll trust him and obey him and yield to him, we can have victory in any area of our life. Amen? In an instant. I I yeah. And I'll bet there's folks all around here could give a testimony, witness to the fact that I had a situation in my life, God turned that thing around. God turned that thing around. I'm telling you, our God is a good God And so we need to make sure we've trusted him as our personal Savior. We need to be sure that settled them. Once we've done that, we need to trust him and obey him and step out in faith and exercise courage. And by the way, Derek's not a pipsqueak. Derek is very strong. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for uh this incredible event here that took place so long ago and Lord the life applications that we have today from this And I pray you'd help us as a church to be humble. First and foremost, above everything else, stay humble before you and understand it's you, Lord, not us. And I pray you'd help us to trust you and your power to give us victory in our lives and not rely on ourselves, but rely on you. And Lord, I pray we'd be honest. I pray we'd be honest people. I wonder with our heads down, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm in a situation a bit here this right now, my circumstances in my life, and they're a little overwhelming, but I'm going to trust God. That he can turn that around. I'm just going to have faith in him that he'll enable me, he'll strengthen me, he'll empower me to do what I need to do, and I'm going to trust him to turn that thing around. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, I got some situations. I really need the Lord in that area. God bless you. Number hands around. I'm not going to ask you to respond publicly, I mean respond uh visibly, physically to this, but in our hearts I wonder if there's some dishonesty, something that we said or promised or something like that, and we've not followed through, or we haven't spoken the truth. Maybe we need to address that. Come clean and be honest. Even if it say brother say brother Lemon, if I do that it's going to cost me. Yeah, but it it would cost us more to be dishonest. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless. And I pray, Lord, you'd help us to trust you and obey you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.