1 Samuel chapter 30. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. And some of you preachers know what I'm talking about. I wrestled about what to preach this afternoon. I was going to preach on revival, and I'm doing a series in our church on revival leading up to our meetings in a few weeks, and revival's on my heart. I do believe America is in a place of revival for survival. There won't be an America as we know it. If we do not have revival. And I believe 100% that we must be involved in government. There's no conflict between men of God being involved with government. Amen. We pulled out of the gut we pulled out of the political arena for uh many years to our own hurt, and I believe we need to be engaged. We need to be involved. We need to be uh visiting our elected officials. That is a very important thing God has called us to do. By the same token, I believe all the visiting and voting we can do right now, we have to have. Revival. It's not a question. And I want to speak for a little while, not on the subject of revival, but just to go a long way. Toward us being men of God and standing for the things of God in revival. 1 Samuel chapter 30, verse 1. And it came to pass when David and his men were come to Zikalag on the third day That the Amalekites had invaded the South and Zikalag, had smitten Zikalag and burned it with fire And had taken the women captives that were therein. They slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away. And went on their way. So David and his men came into the city, and behold, it was burned with fire. Their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captive. Then David and the men that were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep. And David's two wives were taken captives: Ahinoam the Jezuelitis, Abigail, the wife of Nabal, the Carmelite. And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughter. But David encouraged himself in the Lord is God. But David encouraged himself. In the Lord is God. If there's any plague that I see that is sweeping across our country If there's any trend that is, I believe, a dangerous trend, it is the plague and trend of discouragement. It's almost popular to be discouraged. When you get around somebody, how's it going, brother? And they say, man, I'm doing great. I'm going to say, okay, well, what's wrong with you? I mean it's almost popular to talk about how bad things are, how tough life is, and it's a very sad Telling statistic of how many preachers, good call God-called good preachers, are leaving the ministry. Because of this sad malady of discouragement. David, who had a day that very few men could ever endure It was almost like the day that Job lost everything. His wives were taken, his daughters were taken, his dwelling place was burned to the ground. And even the men that had gathered themselves around him, his army, they spake of stoning him. They turned on the man of God. They said, It's all his fault. The Bible said that David encouraged himself in the Lord, his God. There'll be a day in your life where friends are not going to be enough. There'll be a day in your life where Facebook or some other social media platform will not do it There'll be a day in your life where a new job won't work, or a new purchase, or a new toy. How many of you have some things? Could I see your hand? How many of you have stuff? Could I see your hand? I mean, there's nothing like going and getting a new rifle. Say amen to that. Alright, some of you believe that. But anyway, nothing like Most of us have a stash in the garage. Women, close your ears just for a moment, please. Thank you. We most of us have a little something we bought. And we put it in the garage and at the right moment we bring it out and put it up in our closet. Now women they do it another way. They bring it in and pull it out. Hey honey, that's a nice dress. Where'd you get that? Oh I've had it. Yeah, since yesterday, man. But and uh yeah I got it. But we have a little stash out in the toolbox, we got a new handgun, got some got this or that, and we all like stuff But I'm saying to you, there was a day when stuff wouldn't do it, things wouldn't do it, a new toy wasn't going to work. The only thing that helped David that he encouraged himself in the Lord is God. And I want to preach on the subject. David encouraged himself. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, thank you for the word of God. We pray your blessing to reside upon it. Without you We can do nothing. We pray for your power upon this place. Thank you for the great time we've had. Thank you for the great message. Thank you for all we've experienced in thee. And we do pray with the old writer, Lord, kindle a fire of sacred love on the mean altar of our heart. Do a great job and do a great work in each one of us of setting our souls on fire. Thank you for what you'll do. We give you praise. We give you the glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together. May be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. Our text is a great account in your Bible where David has been involved down in Philistia. And he's been living there for a number of months among the Philistines. Some of you know the account where David was rejected King Saul uh put him out and finally he had been running from his own king that he loved and was loyal to for so long. Finally he moved down into the south uh down to Philistia. When they brought him before King Achish, they said, This is David. He pretended to be a madman. He pretended to be like he had lost his mind. And they allowed him to stay And now David goes down uh into this place called Zikalag and makes it his hometown. He begins to raid the Amalekites and other people from the south and starts to gather together an army and build them around himself. And everything's doing well for a little bit. Men begin to fall to him from over in Israel. And they found out David was there, and David is finally dwelling a bit secure and comfortable after all of his years of running He had been running for his life over the fact that one day the prophet came to him and poured a uh an anointing oil upon his life Most people think if I could just get anointed, if God could just bless me with His presence, everything's going to go well. You better read your Bible more carefully Earthly, the anointed men of God were some of the most troubled individuals the world ever produced. They were hunted, they were hated, uh, they were despised, they were misunderstood and mistreated because the power and the anointing of God was upon their life. And so don't listen to the TV preacher that tells you if you get the anointing, you're going to have your best life now, and you'll be healthy and wealthy and prosperous for the rest of your days probably be running for your life, probably be in trouble because the power of God that had come upon his light. Now he's down there in Zikalag and the the Philistines now go to war against Israel. They heat David and his men go. And they begin to line up against King Saul and the men of Achis, the king, they said, How else can this man be restored to his master? Don't you know what they sing that David has killed his thousand or uh Saul has killed his thousands. David has killed his tens of thousands. Don't you know this is the man who killed Goliath and his brothers, and this is the man that would indeed uh find a way back. So they brought him before Akish. He is rejected already of Saul He is now rejected of King Akish. So we see first of all David's rejection, and then we see David is reviled. In chapter earlier on, in chapter number 29, they literally told him that he was not to be a part of them. They mocked him, they set him aside. But here in chapter 30 and verse 6, we find David being revolved by his very own man. He said, The soul of all the people was grieved. The people spake Of stoning him. How many of you ever heard this, Pastor? It's all your fault. How many ever heard that Something good goes on. It's this one, that one, the other one did it. We just love Brother Joe, or we just Brother Larry's so wonderful, and Brother Johnson is just so great. Pastor This is all your fault. But understand the fact that this man of God, uh, he is blamed for all their troubles. He is blamed for all their trials. And they're gonna take him out and they're gonna stone The man of God. We see David rejected. David reviled. We see David robbed. The Amalekites came in They're not even supposed to exist. You remember that? Saul was supposed to have killed all them, but now the Amalekites come up from the south and they raid his village and they take his wives They take his uh his children, they take everything they have. In fact, the Bible said that they burned uh when they had taken uh when he came to Ziklach on the third day, the Ambalekites had invaded the south. And Zikalag, smitten Zikalag, and burned it with fire. And it taken the women captives that were therein. They slew not any, either great nor small. David and his men came to the city. It was burned with fire. Their wives, sons, daughters. were taken captive. Now understand, I don't know about you. I just showed you a picture of my granddaughter. I've got three daughters, two sons. If somebody came along and stole my daughters, it wouldn't be a good thing. I I certainly would be very upset about it. How many of you have some daughters? Can I see your hand? I mean, brother, uh if I came home and they'd been taken or uh take carted off into one of these uh sex trafficking rings or whatever, uh I can tell you That would be a very, very bad day in my life. I wouldn't just sit home. I wouldn't be okay with that. And I in fact I I'm sure I'd get every weapon I have, I'd strap everything I have on, and I'd try to find them and do business the old fashioned Manly way. Do I have an Amen? I mean it wouldn't be prayer. It wouldn't be how you doin'. Hey boys, here's a track. I feel your pain. I know you're having a hard day. It wouldn't be anything like that at all. Now understand the Amalekites, when they took you captives, uh they did awful things, unspeakable things, especially to women Those men knew that their women were being violated, their women were being abused, they knew exactly what had happened, and they stole everything that David possessed. So now he's robbed. He is robbed of his family. He is robbed of his fortune. He is even robbed of his favor with men, as the very men that God had raised up around him turn on him. And they're going to sp they're gonna stone him. They took all those things away, the one thing they could not take They did not steal David's faith. He still believed in God. He still trusted in a living God. Even though they took everything he owned, he found a place to encourage himself in the Lord his God. I mean I think about Job in an ash heep. His friends come along. They mock him and they say must be sin in his life. Be careful when somebody gets in trouble. Don't be the first one to throw a stone. Do I have an amen? Don't be the first one to say, Must be sin in their life. Uh it could be that God's just trying to do something new in their heart and in their life. He lost everything. His Family was killed, his business was destroyed, his health was taken away, he's sitting in an ash heap with uh boils on his body, scraping himself With the pots herb, and Job was able to say, The Lord gave, the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. That's a pretty strong statement right there for somebody say amen. And so we see David David is robbed. And David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. He said, I'm not going to quit. I'm not caving in. I'm not spelling out. I'm going to encourage myself in the Lord My God, I'm gonna find some hope and find a way for God to see me through. Now he encouraged himself by several ways. I'll give them to you and then I'll be done And I guess we'll have the drawings and all that sort of a thing. And uh we'll have the raffle and the bingos and the fellowship hall when we're all done. All right. But um encourage himself. First of all, encourage himself by a priest He David said to Abiophar the priest, Ahimelech's son, who was Ahimelech He was the one that Saul's man killed. They killed him for helping David. And he calls this man named Abiatharan. And he says, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David. Now I can tell you what I would have done. I'd have said bring hither my AR fifteen, my KSG shotgun, fifteen round double tube, uh seven on each side, one in the pipe, bring me my shotgun. Bring me my knife. Bring me uh a hammer if I have to get down to that. Bring me everything I have, because I'm going after the people that took my children, I'm going after the people that took my wife. Say amen to that. And uh I mean uh I'm gonna get 'em back, but he wisely, instead of under reaction, instead of under human uh uh emotion He wisely said, I need to get a hold of God. I need to find out what God wants. I need to know the mind and will of God for my life. And he encouraged himself in the Lord his God. He encouraged himself first of all by a priest. No, I'm glad for the fact that you and I, when we get in trouble, we don't have to go down to some church, light incense. Put twenty bu twenty uh cents into the little can and pray some prayers and then go uh kneel somewhere and genuflect in a little booth And say, Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. These are my sins. I was a little boy, grew up in the Catholic Church. We would have to go up there and say Mass every now and then And uh they would line us up down the pew. They had a confessional on each side of the front. And then the confessional, you would go in, you would kneel down. And there was a little scream right there, and on the other side was the priests. We knew who they were. We could tell which one it was, either by the cologne or the cigars, or the cigarette smoke, or the alcohol that came out Through that screen. It was either Father Martell or Father Sweeney or Father Link. We knew exactly who they were. And we would kneel down and say, Bless me, Father For I have sinned, these are my sins. And we'd tell him our sins. And then he'd say, Go to the altar, say three El Marys, two our fathers and you'll be absolved. And we go home just as lost as a ball in high weeds. We go in lost and leave lost and we'd feel maybe a warm and fuzzy feeling, but that was the extent of the entire thing. We had no contact with God Whatsoever. I'm glad for the day I got saved that I came to my great high priest, not to some man wearing a dress with a cross around his neck Instead, I came to one who is called a great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points kept and hinted as like and we are yet. without sin. Thank God for the day when Jesus took our sins away. I like those songs and I like that one where we we've been washed in the blood I'd like to hear that again, brother. I mean, that was a good song. And we've been set apart, saved by the good grace of God. Why? Because you and I, we have a priest. We get in trouble The first thing we do, brother, what am I gonna do? We call this one, we call that one, we call the deacons, we call The pastor we call this person, that person, there's a place for counsel, there's a place for encouragement, there's a place for help, but the first course ought to be to get to Jesus and get to him and say by the grace of God I'm in trouble and Lord would you help me get out. Doesn't matter where you are, you can be down at the water at the job You can be on the assembly line. Yes, you can be driving a truck up the highway. You can be digging a ditch. You can be in an executive office with your shirt and tie on. You can be anywhere at any time At any place we have a God who's always available, always there to be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. So he was encouraged by a priest. He was encouraged by prayer He said, bring hither the ephod. He said, he went to Abiathar. He said, Abiathar the priest, I need The ephod. That was a prayer shawl. That was something a man would put on knowing he was going into the presence of God. Do you remember when the woman touched the garment of Jesus? That was his prayer shawl. That was the hem where the the four corners of that prayer shawl were the hem of the garment, and he literally put on his ephod by the grace of God And he said, I'm going to go and I'm going to get a hold of God and I'm going to find out what God would have me to do. I would tell you when you get in trouble, you ought to just back up Take a moment before you let the devil get you into a wrong corner in the wrong way. I understand that African lions, they hunt in prides. And uh they will push animals in a certain direction, and normally when they're pushing animals in a certain direction, they don't know it But the other animals on the other side of the field lying in wait. Those animals will push them and drive them just like we would drive a herd of cattle and at the right moment those animals will come out of the grass and pounce and kill that animal. I can tell you this, brother, Satan as a roaring lion walking about uh uh as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. His great desire is to steal, to kill, to destroy. And when we fail to pray, when we fail to seek God, when we fail to get the mind of God. We get into trouble every every time in our life. How many times can you look back and say, I sure wish I wouldn't have done that? Most of our failures are prayer failures. Our failure to respond properly to the things of God. There are things going down and going on in the nation's capital right now that are to me. Unthinkable. There are things that are happening, you're s you're saying, is this America? Is this the America that Brother Miller went into World War Two and fought for. Is this the America that Woody Wilson went uh into harm's way with a flamethrower and and took out pillboxes the Japanese for. Is this the America that many of us went off, some of you to a rice patty in Vietnam? Is this the America that we have left a portion of our life in a foreign country for? Is it the same Yeah. The answer to that is absolutely no. But here's the response. If my people which are called by my name Shall what? Humble themselves and what? Pray. Seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin. And heal their land. We don't have any problem that God can't solve through prayer, and that we can't get stirred up through through good old fashioned preaching and a meeting like This to get together. Our God is still on the throne. He has not changed, and he still hears, and God still answers prayer. What did he say to us? He said, be careful for nothing. The word careful means to be stressed out or worried or overly anxious. Be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. David goes into the place of prayer. He goes and begins to seek the Lord. Now as he's praying, he comes before God, and he asks the Lord, Should he pursue after them? Let me read it to you. I need to find it, my Bible. Left me for a moment there. David inquired at the Lord, verse 8, saying, Shall I pursue after this true troop? Shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue. For thou shalt surely overtake them and without fail, recover all. I mean, it had been it wouldn't have been bring hither the ephod. My kids just got kidnapped. My house is burned down. Antifa came to our door and destroyed my home We had a threat a few years ago in our neighborhood and several neighbors came over and said, hey, we're hearing that Antifa's coming to our neighborhood. I said, okay, they're gonna come in and raid our neighborhood and they're gonna riot in our neighborhood. I said, Why our neighborhood? They had some reason for it I called a neighbor, we talked things through, we had a tactical plan to defend our our home. If they came in my home, I had a tactical plan and uh and I I would have taken action accordingly and I said Uh come in here and thou shalt be shot. Amen to that? But that was my tactical plan. And I had I had every intention that I would certainly defend my family or at least uh maybe have a little bear cub like Brother Leatherman and turn it loose on them or something. And but that's not what David did. He prayed. He called on God. How many believe that God Himself Is still able to give revival. But God Himself is able to sweep over Washington, D. C. Yes, and break through in the halls of our nation's capital And the congressional side and then the Senate side. And that God Himself was able to bring people under conviction to the place as He did in the first Great Awakening in America and the Second Great Awakening. They say that during the revival Up in New York after the Great Fulton Street parapray meetings and those men prayed and sought God and called on God for several months They said that the revival was so great that when you pulled into the New York Harbor, the USS North Carolina pulled into the uh the New York Harbor, they had to weigh anchor, they could not bring the ship to port. Because all the sailors were under such intense conviction of sin. The annals of U. S. history tell us that, quote, there was a cloud Of the presence of God that literally hovered over New York City. They sent out uh into the city, they brought out yes Baptist preachers, I said, Baptist preachers who believe the Bible, and they came out and preached to them and had a revival on the USS North Carolina. That's documented in the Naval Archives of the United States of America And they came in and they said they finally could weigh anchor and bring the ship to port as the sailors got saved. How many of you believe God can do that today? It happens when God's men Pray. They got right. David, they wept beyond the power to weep They wept so hard that they couldn't weep anymore. You say, I've never been there. I don't wish that on anyone. I have. I've been there where the tear ducts begin to dry up. And I felt like I was crying, but I couldn't cry anymore. I've been there where all I could muster up was a massive headache because so much sodium had departed out of my body because the tears had been running down. And all we can do is heave and say, God, help us, help us. And that's all we could do for the glory of God. I'm saying These men were so brokenhearted, so uh absolutely stunned and shocked they couldn't even pray anymore. And then they couldn't weep. But David starts praying And he inquires at the Lord. He calls on God. You know why we're so discouraged? We're seeking everything but Him. The Bible says, seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. I've had men come into my office and say, Pastor, my wife's uh been unfaithful. My kids are not doing right Uh my family's disowned me. My boss is mad and and uh and threw me out. I'm broke. I've had ever every problem you can think of that come into my office and somebody brokenhearted and I always ask, how much time How much time have you prayed about this matter? Normally, there'll be a bowing of the head. And not much said about it. I've talked to friends and I called this one and I I got some advice and I got some counsel and I'm sure you did. But have you prayed? He was encouraged by a prayer. He was encouraged. He encouraged himself in the Lord, his God. He was encouraged by a personal relationship. You understand the fact that he was not coming as his father's God. He did not come and say, I'm going to encourage myself in the Lord, Abraham or Isaac's God. David said, came in and said, He encouraged himself in the Lord, help me out. His God. It was his. He had he had received a second generation blessing. He was no longer hearing about God He was walking with God. And because he knew God and already met him out in the wilderness, he'd already seen him as he killed the lion and the bear He'd already seen the power of God as he took a sling and threw it with a sling and it went right uh a stone right into the forehead of Goliath. How many know this? Goliath fell headlong upon the earth Goliath didn't fall backward. He fell forward. And understand the fact that the last time I checked, you get hit in the head with a brick or a rock. You don't fall forward, you fall backward. When that rock hit his forehead, the hand of God slapped him in the back of the head, and down he went. Say amen. Let a man preach on the unbelief of David. The unbelief. Why did he bring the other stones? I said he didn't read his Bible. He had brothers, amen. He said, if they rise up, I'll kill them too. Say amen. Come on, big boys And they didn't hear 'em because they were running as fast as they could. One little shepherd boy took them all on. He said, I've seen God do that. Maybe God will have mercy on me and I'll be able to see the Amalekites. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me by the still waters. He restoreth my soul. I can see him praying, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I shall fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comforted me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. He said, Maybe the God that I know is able to deliver me again and see through and bring my family back. And he prays and he says, This is the God that I know. This is my God. This is not somebody else's God. This is my God. I hadn't been saved very long and well-meaning friends that I knew, they called me over their house. They said, Brother Rossi, you need to get the Holy Ghost. I said, okay. That sounds good to me. I'd only been saved a little while. They said, you need to get the Holy Ghost. I said, okay. You need to speak in tongues. I said, what's that? They said, oh man, when you have the Holy Ghost, you're going to speak in tongues. I said, okay, is that what like Acts chapter 2? Yeah, that's what happened. I said, Oh, that's awesome. Okay, I'll try it. What's that mean? How do you do that? Oh, when you get the Holy Ghost, you're going to speak in tongues. We're going to get our pastor on the phone. And he got the pastor got on the phone and had him on the speaker. They said, here, Brother Rossi wants to get the Holy Ghost. He said, okay, Brother Rossi, first of all, you need to be saved. I said, well, Pastor, uh, I've already been saved. He said, well, no, you're not saved. He said, you can't be saved unless you have the Holy Ghost and speak in tongues. I said, well, sir, I've been saved by the grace of God. I mean, the Lord has changed my life. He said, No, you're not saved And I was glad to be able to tell that pastor on the phone, Sir, I don't know much about all this. I'll find out about it. I'll go home and read the Bible and find out about this stuff. If you're telling me I'm not saved, we'll have to hang up this Because I've been washed in the precious blood of Jesus and I talked to him today. I'm talking about a living God, say amen. He walks with me, and he talks with me He tells me I am his own. You know what America needs? Needs some people who know God. Some people that have a relationship with God. Some people who know God so well, like Abraham went up on Mount Moriah. He said, Take thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, and off from there as a sacrifice unto me. How could he do such a thing? Take his boy up there and the boy said, Father, here's the the knife and here's the wood and here's the fire. Where's the lamb? He said, son, God will provide himself a lamb for the sacrifice. You understand? I think Abraham, I know he wrestled all night. He rose up early in the morning while it was yet, I mean before it was day. You think he slept much that night? I don't think so. But I think somewhere God said, you trust me. I'm going to see you through. And we have a God today who is reliable. We have a God that, listen, you might have a downturn, you might have a rough time. You might have a period in your life where you don't feel zippy and all that kind of stuff. I don't wake up every morning and go, yippee, hallelujah, I'm saved. Oh, glory to God. Amen. I get out of bed and go, oh man. Brother, what happened there? I mean there's some of you. You get up in the morning, it's a major event. Say amen to that. First you gotta find your glasses Then you gotta find your hearing aids, put them in. Then you gotta find all your vitamins and go take all them And then you gotta finish taking all your meds and you gotta get icy blue and you gotta put that all over you to get moving again. By the time you're done all that it's time for a nap. So amen to that. I mean, brother They didn't tell me. They didn't tell me. You know, go in there and stick 'em, boy. Uh I played football back in the day when they you hit right with your head. Now they're Now you keep your chin up and all that good stuff and uh I said, put your head in there. Hit a boy uh and the coach said, No, don't tell them that. They'll break their neck. I said, That's what they told me. Yeah, look at ya. But I mean this is old school. The brother they didn't tell us that my knees would hurt, my back would hurt, they didn't tell me that I couldn't stand just standing up all the way. You know, I'm really 6'4, but I mean just being able to stand up straight Just being able to stand up straight like that, man, that's pain, you know. They didn't tell me that was going to happen. They didn't tell me that my elbow would hurt, my shoulder would be separated two or three times. They didn't tell you that So we don't all jump out of bed and yippee. One guy said, man, I get up in the morning and say, uh, good morning, Lord. Another old boy said, I get up and say, good Lord, it's morning. Amen. But I I mean, but you know, we get up. And we don't always feel great. But let me ask you a question. When you don't feel good, is God still on the throne? Is God still faithful? Is he still your God? Not based on your feelings, not based on your circumstance, but based on who he is and the relationship we have with him. He said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He made it very clear, He is our God. And so by a personal relationship, and he was encouraged by a promise. Only got a few more points. They're long. But he was encouraged by a promise. In verse 8, as he inquires of the Lord, shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And he answered him. Verse 8. What was the first thing God said? What? Pursue. For thou shalt what? Surely overtake them. Wait a minute. Without fail, what? You can get everything back. Are you kidding me? You mean to tell me they haven't killed any of my kids yet? They haven't sacrificed any of our children to a pagan god, which they did They haven't raped them, tortured them, and then beat them and threw them over a cliff, which they did? You mean to tell me that everything's going To be given back. He said, thou shalt, and he didn't say you're going to recover all. God said, thou shalt surely Recover all. You're surely going to take overtake them and without fail recover all. That's a good promise, amen. I mean it's just not you're going to get it all back without fail. The fact that I am God, the fact that I'm on the throne, you are going to get back everything those devils have taken away. Now when I got saved. I truly just thought I could crawl in, I could sit on the back pew for the rest of my life, barely look up. I mean, I came out of a wicked environment and was a sinner. Above sinners. I remember in the 80s, it was real popular to give the harshest, most graphic, horrible testimony Of all the horrible stuff you done. I murdered three people and I was in jail and I I was a drug addict and I was this and that. It was a real popular thing to do all that I couldn't even speak about it, brother. It was so bad. I didn't want to talk about it. Amen? And I definitely didn't want little kids to hear what I'd done. And I came into church, Brother Leatherman It's all I can do if I just sit there sometimes and just, oh God, I can't believe you saved me. I can't believe I'm not trying to steal and kill and Take awful things and do bad things. I can't believe what you've done for me. And then just sitting back there I was just glad to be there. Amen. Pastor will say anything. We need chairs set up. Yes, sir. We need this done. Yes, sir, I'll be right there. Remember, we have radio broadcasts. We need somebody to come over. It's going to be late at night. Be a lot of hours. I go over and okay I'd be done at ten o'clock. It says sorry to be so late. I said we used to be out till two and three in the morning. Every morning Get up at six, go to work, do it all over again, get off the, get back in the yard, seven or eight o'clock, go down to the barn, start all over again. This is a joke. Say amen to that You say, Oh, you know, we can't go soul winning. We're so busy. Will you quit making excuses and just try to go w win lost people to Christ? I put out a memo to our staff and said, you know, everybody needs to go at least once uh every week, three months, three weeks out of the month, for at least one hour. I heard more reasons why People should not go soul winning than you can ever imagine in your life. I couldn't believe it. I got some news for 'em next week. We've got to end service, and it's going to be a rude awakening for some people Man, how can you be on a church payroll or a school payroll and not even lead people to Christ? Somebody say amen. And well I'm I teach a Sunday school class. That's even more reason why you ought to be a soul winner. Amen. And on and on. But anyway, am I venting? Yes. But anyway. By a personal relationship. He knew God. I never thought about preaching, being an evangelist or a pastor or anything else. I was just glad to be saved. And as we got to know him, it changed my life. And then by a promise. Now he didn't have. You know what David did not have? David Did not have this. You know what David did not have? He did not have this. You know what he didn't have? He didn't have the ability to sit down here. And listened to the pastor and listened to Brother Harding and listened to the song leader. He didn't have anything on the screen that said Mountaintop Men's Rally. He didn't have door prizes like I'm planning on winning. He didn't have anything at all to encourage him at all. He didn't have a nice dinner in the fellowship hall. Brother, he came home And everything was burned. Everything was gone. And the best man he had. You're standing there with stones in their hands, brother. They're massaging those stones and getting ready to get them rounded off real good so they can hit him right in the head and kill him in nothing And he got a promise. Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them without fail. Recover all. Hey, you're going to get it all back. You're going to get everything the devil has taken away from you. I've got news for you. God has good things for us, amen. He said, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? Help me out. New creature. Oh what? Help me out. Now old things are passed away, and behold, what All things have become new. Thank God we have friends, we've got fellowship, we've got all these things, and in the promises of God, we have the exceeding great And precious promises. I had it written down and I lost it somehow. I don't know when that iPad went crazy or whatever. It's not on there. But any anyway I I didn't have time to print this out. I don't like preaching from iPads I like preaching from the Bible with notes, but that's me. And I'm going to tell you, I had it written down how many promises there are. In the Bible. There's a lot. One of you scholars can probably yell it out from there. How many promises there are in the Word of God. Brother Leatherman probably knows. He does radio blog. Rough Over 300 direct promises in Scripture. You know that the Bible, one verse out of every eight says something about the second coming of Jesus Christ. Do you know that Christ came back? There were so many prophecies fulfilled at his first coming, but there were hundreds and thousands still waiting to be uh f finished out that said Jesus is coming back. This book is the promised book, brother. The Bible said in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse number 4 Whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises, uh that but that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. You know what happens when you give your life to the promises of God? Encouragement starts to kick in. Encouragement starts to hit your heart. Now wait a minute. Encouragement? Is it courage or discourage? Which one are you going to live with? You're going to live a life encouraged? Or discouraged. What a beautiful day. Well, I believe it's going to rain. I just feel it. Amen. What a wonderful fall afternoon. Yeah, next week rain's coming in. Don't enjoy it too much. Say amen to that. I love what Jonathan Edwards said. One of his 72 resolutions of life. One of his resolutions was that I might live. With all my might. Just said that I might live all my days with all of my might. Everything I have. How are you going to live with all your might and you're still waiting for the car to break down The dog to run away, the cat to get run over, hallelujah. Amen. I've learned to love cats, I do, Brother Leatherman. Barbecued, fried, dipped in a little honey sauce, amen. I do like Salem cats. They've been run over by a s a semi, you pick 'em up and salem. But I mean But I'm saying to be encouraged. Promises. He was encouraged by a promise, and finally, he was cons can encouraged by pursuit. God said pursuit. Pursue. Thou shalt surely recover all. I love some of the accounts Brother Harding gave us about those men That had a vision. They had a dream. They had a purpose. They said, We're looking to have freedom They called it the cause. If you've ever been to the Constitutional Center up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, there's a small theater and they give a wonderful presentation. It's about a young soldier writing home to his father. He said, the cause. It moves me. It drives me, mother. Some of my patriot friends, their fingers have fallen off. Their toes have fallen. They've lost all feeling. But the cause moves everything that I have. We went there to Washington's crossing and learned the story about those men who crossed over the Delaware in Durham boats. They jumped out and had to climb a steep embankment in about twenty degrees weather in the middle of the night. They didn't have North Face jackets on They didn't have the latest stuff. They didn't have footwarmers. And on the other side, as they were waiting to march on Trenton, New Jersey, Jersey, On Christmas morning and attacked and take the Hessians by surprise, they waited on that man that had the sacred fire burning in his heart. They waited all night, eight hours for George Washington to come. Washington didn't come until the last boat had crossed the Delaware. Finally they came. They stood there eight hours in the freezing cold, and then they marched nine miles in the cold down the bank, down the trail, to catch the Hessians by surprise. You know why? They were in pursuit. How many want to pursue God with your life? How many believe He's worthy of our pursuit? He is worthy of our desire. And along the way, as we pursue him, do you understand? He strengthens and blesses and gives us what we need. Verse 19 later, quickly, David Recovered all. It's not the end of the story. Saul and Jonathan were killed in the battle with the Philistines, a very sad, tragic event. Saul spent the last night of his life with a witch at Endor trying to get some help from a sorceress from Nancy Pelosi or somebody like that. And while there, While there, God made it very clear, Samuel said, You're going to join me, and he did, and he died. They were both killed. Just a few short days after this event. They lost everything. A few short days later in Gilgal, there he is brought before all the people, and they anoint David to be the king over all of Israel. And God finally comes through. He now recovered everything there. He recovered and received all the promises God had made him since that little day, that day when that little shepherd boy was anointed with oil for the glory of God. Let's be encouraged. Let's trust God for great things. Amen? You say, preacher, I've got to go back to a church with nine people and that's all that's there. Preach like there's nine thousand. Preach like you're uh uh preaching like a house on fire. Preach like a cheap lawnmower. Amen. Wild, wide open, and smoking. Amen. I mean, I mean just go at it. Stir things up. And by the grace of God, say I'm not waiting for you to encourage me. I'm being encouraged in the Lord my God. Many illustrations will have saved him for another day. David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. Let's bow our heads, please, our hearts together for prayer around the room as we Get ready to close this meeting and this part of it. How many of you say to this afternoon, pray for me, brother? I've been dealing with some discouragement. And I want to encourage myself in the Lord. Could I see your hands, please? I've been wrestling with this. I think it's I think it's the devil, it's the spirit of the age, trying to keep good men of God. Lifting up their eyes unto the hills from whence cometh the Lord. Trusting God for great and mighty things. How many believe that God can still today Continue to do what he's done in the past. Could I see your hands? You say, preacher, I'm struggling financially. God knows all about that. I'm struggling physically. That's a tough trial. My heart goes out to you. We've all had our battles with this old flesh, with the body, with this mortal body. Struggle emotionally and with a relationship, been hurt and disappointed. We've all been disappointed. We've all been hurt. We've all been let down. It's a part of this life. But by God's grace, the devil's stolen some things. I'm not gonna, please don't look around. I mean you say I have one of my children is struggling and I'm praying for him. Got a burdened heart for one of my kids. Could I see your hand? God bless you. Amen. God bless you. Let's say, Lord, I'm trusting you to recover all. How many believe he is still able? Could I see your hands? He is still able to deliver