Chronicles 29, David has just finished up his challenge. It was a public challenge to his son Solomon, who's about to become king. I thought it was a powerful challenge. He studied it Now he is turning his attention to the nation of Israel. And he has some final statements that he's making to Israel before he passes that baton off to Solomon. Solomon takes the throne And David passes away, goes on to be with the Lord. So notice I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. I'm going to read down through verse 9. Now, next few month or so, we're going to work through this whole chapter, but uh I want to start here with the first nine verses. The Bible says, Furthermore, David the king said unto all the congregation Solomon, my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great. For the palace is not for man, but for the Lord God. Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for the things to be made of gold, the silver for the things of silver, the brass for the things of brass The iron for the things of iron, wood for the things of wood, onyx stones, and the stones to be set, glistering stones and of diverse colours and all manner of precious stones and marble stones in abundance. Moreover, because I have set my affection on the house of my God I have of mine own proper good of gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house Even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophar, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses withal. The gold for things of gold and the silver for things of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of the artificers And who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the Lord? I'm going to stop there. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you're blessed now. As we study this last message of David to the nation of Israel, I pray you'd stir our hearts and it would help us in our Christian life and our faith. I ask, Lord, again, every time I preach your word, Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. And I want to get my will out of the way I want my body to be fully yielded to you, to take and fill and speak through me, Lord. And so I ask again that you would help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, David, this is the final days of David's life, and I find it interesting is that his big concern, as he gives his last words, his big concern is uh for the well-being of his son as new king and the well-being of the nation. As uh d how many people folks here ever found this as you get older, and some of us in here are getting older As you get older, how many of us find ourselves looking back a lot? Reminiscing, looking back, remembering things? I find it's interesting in David's final statements here, there's very little reference to the past. In fact, the only reference I can find is in that he prepared for the temple, and I think there's a reason for that we'll look at. But he doesn't go back and tell them all these great things he does. He doesn't go back and reminisce reminisce. He's looking forward And right up to the end of his life, he's concerned for the next generation coming. He's concerned about the well-being of Israel And his focus is on the future of God's people. And I found that interesting. He's just, as I said, he's just finished his charge to Solomon. And now he turns and he's addressing the nation. If you would, just notice the first part of verse number one. It says, Furthermore, David the king, said unto all the congregation So his attention is redirected to this great crowd in Jerusalem there. It's a great crowd of Israelites. Come over to verse number 10 And notice the first part. It says, therefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. Over in verse number 20. of chapter 29. And David said to all the congregation, three times in this chapter, it points out the fact that David is talking to the nation of Israel. He's finished his address to Solomon. He's talking to Israel. This chapter, I just kind of thought I'd summarize the chapter a little bit. First of all, we have David's challenge to the nation. That's the first five verses. Then in verse 6 through 9, we have Israel responds to David's challenge, and that's fascinating. We'll look at that later on. And then David closes in a prayer. Now this is the last These are the last days of David. So he challenges Solomon. He challenges Israel. Israel responds. And then David closes in prayer Then he blesses Israel in verse number 20, says a blessing upon Israel. Then he passes over Jordan. He passes away. And I don't know about you, just maybe I'm being a little sentimental here, but we've been studying David's life for the last 93 years. Or it's been a while, I don't know And now he's about, I feel like I'm sitting in the room with him to an extent. And you know what's going to happen. You know he's saying his final words. Would you agree with me when someone is saying their final words, you tend to pay attention to what they have to say. Especially somebody of this man's caliber. And so he crosses over and Solomon becomes king. That's what happens in chapter 29. Now I want to start off by noticing David's David's reference, now I'm going to use a word here, David's reference for his progeny. Progeny means his offspring, his child. And the first thing David references as he addresses the nation, we saw here, there verse 1, he said to all the congregation, he references his son. Now, David had over nineteen sons. That's a heap of boys. Nineteen sons that we know of. Now I could be completely wrong on this, and I couldn't find anybody in my books and my studying who agreed with me, but I couldn't find anybody that said the opposite either My feeling is, I get the impression that Solomon was perhaps David's favorite son. I think David had kind of a tenderness towards Solomon. Because I look at some of the statements David makes and how he treats Solomon in these days. leading up to his death, and I can't find any place where he talks about or treats any of his other sons the way he does Solomon Say the statements he makes about them. And so I kind of get the idea that perhaps Solomon may have been David's favorite son or at least uh uh uh fairly confident of this Solomon was David's most spiritual son He no doubt had the most tender heart towards God. He no doubt understood his relationship with the Lord. He was used of God in phenomenal ways throughout most of his life. And so, whatever the case, favorite or not, David had a heart for Solomon, and he makes some tremendous statements to him. He's obviously concerned. Let's read verse 1 there again. Furthermore, David the king said unto all the congregation, then he references his son here, Solomon my son. He's saying to all the nation, no doubt Solomon standing right there, is yet Solomon my son, whom God alone hath chosen Is yet young and tender. And the work is great. For the palace is not for man, but for the Lord God. And so David's obviously concerned about Solomon and the people of Israel supporting him when he becomes king. It sounds to me he's trying to get Israel to sympathize for the position that his son finds himself in, a young man with an overwhelming task ahead of him. And he says, and so he's referencing him. He's trying to get the nation of Israel to support Solomon and assist him. He's their next king. The success or failure of Solomon is very much going to determine their well-being. And he wants them to understand that. Three statements he makes about uh he points out about Solomon, three uh three aspects of Solomon he points out. Number one is he points out that Solomon has the call of God upon his life Look what he says there in verse 1 again. Solomon, my son. Now look at the wording here, whom alone God hath chosen. He didn't just say God's chosen him. He said God alone hath chosen him. It was God and God alone That chose David or chose Solomon to be the next king. This was God's choice. And it was only God's choice. And I think maybe he's trying to convey this idea. Listen, I didn't talk God into this. This wasn't something I was asking for God to do for my son. This was God's initiative to choose Solomon. Of all my sons, he chose Solomon to be the next king. And he's putting an emphasis on that, I believe, so that Israel understands, listen, this isn't David just pushing his son on this This isn't David just trying to get his offspring into position. He says, I had none of that. It was God and God alone Now can you see where that might protect Solomon a little bit in the coming days? In other words, if he's in this position Because God and God alone chose him to be in that position. If you oppose him being in that position, who are you really opposing? God. And I think he's making this very, very clear to everybody just to kind of insulate Solomon in his position as king. God and God alone has chosen him to be king. David was not a factor in whether Solomon was king or not. Regardless of what they may have thought about David, and obviously there were some people who do not think very highly of David at this point. He's had a number of folks in the last years of his life who have tried to overthrow him, who have who have trashed him, have turned against him. So obviously he didn't have 100% polls, favorable polls And so um uh and so David, I think, is trying to say, listen, whatever you think of me, whatever you thought of me as a king Maybe you never got over my failures. Of course, I'm putting words in his mouth now. Maybe you never got over some of the decisions I made. But nevertheless, Solomon is the next king. I have nothing to do with it. God chose him to be king. And so he's making that very, very clear here, I believe. This should stop any opposition, as I said. To oppose Solomon as king, you're going to have to oppose the will of God, the choice of God. Need to be very, very careful about that. Number two. So number one, he ha he references the call of God on Solomon. Then second of all, he references the condition of Solomon. Look what he says Whom God alone hath chosen, speaking of Solomon, is yet young and tender. He's young and tender. I sense here David is anxious about his young son. And he's reminding everybody, hey folks, he's young. He doesn't have a lot of experience. He's tenderhearted. He's not a hardened, he's not a hardened warrior that's been out and fought and saw men killed beside him and killed men. He's not a man that had to make a lot of difficult decisions in his life. He's just young, inexperienced. And I think by implication, David may be saying something like this: give the kid a break. Cut 'em some slack. Now they really didn't need to, because God induced Solomon with supernatural wisdom and blew everybody's brains out with his wisdom. You know, they were just incredible, this how the wisdom of this man. But nevertheless, David at this point doesn't know that. And so he's saying and as a father that loves his son, he says, the boy's young, he's tender. You guys give them a break. By the way, I think we do I think we could do the the cause of the gospel a lot of good if we would give each other some breaks. Cut each other some slack. Man, we get this attitude with it's developing in our society, and I think it's creeping in our churches Or somebody makes the slightest mistake or does the slightest thing out of line and man of line, they have to be executed. They need to be let make let them know they did everything wrong. I just want everybody to know what this person did I think it would do it I think it would help us a heap if we just cut people slack, huh? And so that's what he's asking Israel, I believe that's what he's asking Israel to do with his son. Just uh He's young and he's tender. David's very anxious. Not just for his youth and his inexperience, but look what he says here. He says, Solomon, my son, is yet young and tender, and the work is great. He's anxious because of Solomon's perhaps inexperience, his youth, but he's also anxious because of the magnitude of the task of building this temple. The t the the work is great. This is big. Um I've read several Bible scholars, commentators. on the Bible that are a lot smarter than I am, and they suggested, and I think I mentioned this before, they suggested that perhaps David's preparation for the building of Solomon's temple may have been the greatest work he did in all of his life. Now that could be, I kind of think bringing the ark into Jerusalem was up there. But whatever the case is, David understood this is big. This temple uh um was big. This was the temple of God. This isn't of man. So I see anxiety maybe. I'm reading into a little bit, but I see some anxiety here on David's part I see he's a little bit fearful maybe for his son. But nevertheless, this is the thing that struck me. If he is anxious, And if he is worried about whether his son is up to the task or not, with his youth and his inexperience, whatever the case is, David is convinced that it's God's will that Solomon be king, so he goes forward with it. And I tell you, one of the characteristics of a mature, strong faith Is that when I know what God's will is, yet even if I'm anxious, even if I'm fearful, I still trust God and do His will, even if it makes me anxious. David goes forward. I don't know. Maybe there was and I'm just total speculation, but I'm wondering If David isn't in the back of his mind saying, you know, maybe I just pull Solomon in, find somebody else. He's not ready for this. Now I don't know if he thought that or not, but if he did, there's no evidence of it. He's gone forward. And here's the thing. God has given, God has made clear to our church what his will is in the Word of God, amen or not. And sometimes that's a little fearful. And sometimes we think, man, I don't know how do we do that? How do we How do we implement that? How do we stand on these certain truths and these moral issues? And man, I'd rather just step aside. I'd rather just be quiet. I'd rather not have to deal with that Preachers deal with this. Sometimes you prepare a message and you don't have anybody in mind. You prepare a message, but when you start preaching a message, there's someone sitting in the service and it's like, oh no. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And you gotta just buckle down, just preach it anyway, amen or not. I've tried over the years, sometimes we have politicians, different folks I have tried never to pull any punches, regardless of whoever was in the service. I was going to preach what the Bible said, what I believe God had me preach. And that's what David's doing. Maybe he's a little anxious. The son is young. He's tender. The task is great. But nevertheless, he's pressing forward because he knows it's God's will. He knows it's God's will. Fear and anxiety is no excuse for resisting the will of God. Fear and anxiety is no excuse for disobeying God. I thought about Moses. Remember when God called Moses at the burning bush? He says, put off your feet, place your stand in his holy ground, and they have this conversation. He says, Moses, I'm calling you, and I'm putting my own words here, of course. Paul and you go down to Egypt and have uh confront Pharaoh and lead my people out of Israel. And Moses says, oh, I can't do that. I could never do that. And he gives these series of excuses And God accepts none of them. And every excuse. Moses was fearful And God had to get him to the point where he would overcome that fear and just trust God and do what he says. Fulfill his will. I tell you, Moses finally comes around, does a tremendous job. I read this morning in my devotions, Genesis 22 And that's where God instructs Abraham to take his son, his only son, whom he loves, up on top of Mount Moriah and offer him up for a sacrifice Anybody think that maybe there was a sinking feeling in the heart of Abraham when he thinks he's going to have to kill his own son? Yeah. My son. And yet in scripture records no hint of hesitation, no hint of debate, no attempted negotiations with God. He just goes forward and trusts God. My hat's off to Abraham. And uh we don't have time to turn there, but in Matthew chapter 25, uh Jesus gives this parables, 20, yeah, 25. He gives these parables And he gives one fellow ten talents and tells him to go make some more. He gives another guy five, and the other gives up gives another one one. How many people familiar with that parable? And the ten talent guy goes out, he makes ten more. He invests it and works, whatever he did, and he brings it back and say here I've gained ten more. And the Lord of the servant said, uh, well, good job. I'll give you more And then a guy that had five, he went out and he made five more, invested, or did whatever he did with it, comes back, I gained five on top of the five you gave me. And he says, man, well done, good, faithful servant. Give him five more. And the last guy that got one, now if you remember this, he shows up and said and the Lord says, Where's all your gain? He goes, well I knew that you're a hard servant, a hard master, and you reap where you don't sow. And he uses this phrase. I wish we had time to go there. He uses this phrase I was afraid. And so I buried it. And here I give you back what you got. I didn't lose any. And how did that master respond to that in the Lord's parable? And he was ticked. He goes, you wicked, and he uses these words, you wicked and slothful servant. He said you could have at least put it in the bank, got a little bit of usury out, a little bit of interest out of it. And um I was afraid. I put in the margin of my Bible there. I'd written it years ago, I don't know when, but I keep when I was studying. I had a margin from my Bible which said, I must not allow fear to keep me from obeying the Lord. And fear is a factor. So I don't know. David seems fearful, anxious for his son here, and if he is, he does not allow that to hinder God's will. He knows God has chosen him. God alone has chosen him. And so David gets with the program. He sets aside his fears Whatever his will is, he yields it to God's will, and he says, this is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. And then last of all, the third uh statement I notice he makes here about uh Solomon is the cause of the temple. Look what he says here. He says, Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender and the work is great. Then he makes this statement, for the palace is not for man, but for the Lord. The palace is for the Lord. So he references the fact, the cause of this that we've been putting these together and the job that God has Solomon to do. The whole reason for that, it's for the Lord. This is not a memorial to David. This is not a statue to honor the previous administration. This is for the Lord. This isn't for Solomon to make him look good, make everybody wonder, oh, what a great king Solomon is. This is not for any of that It's for the Lord. And I want to remind you, we build our ministries, whether it's a church or a bus route or a Sunday school class or a children's church or a choir, whatever ministry God gives us. It is never to lift ourselves up. It is always to bring glory to God. Special music, sermons preached, all of that is never say, boy, look what a great servant of God I am. It's never for that. It's always for the Lord. This temple had nothing to do with David. This temple had nothing to do with Solomon, really. It's called Solomon's temple because he built it, but it's for the Lord. And everything Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to always be for the glory of God, never for the glory of our church. And we're very grateful for the kind things people say about us. Betty was telling me she had guests here Sunday, and she said when they left, they said, your church is so friendly. And I'm always glad to hear that. Amen? We like to hear that. And we hear it often. But we want to remind you, it's not so that we can stick back and say, look how friendly we are. No, no, no. It's for the Lord's glory. You know why? You know why we don't try and be friendly to people? Because God's been awfully good to us. God's been awfully good to us. And so David says this temple, the whole purpose of this is not for man. It's for the Lord. It's for God. Now notice I found something interesting here. Notice the word he uses to reference the temple. He doesn't call it the temple. What does he call it? The palace. Why would he call the temple a palace? I looked up palace. A palace is the place, the living quarters of a king. It's the home where a king lives, is what a palace is. In fact, if you come over, look at verse 19, he says it again. And given a Solomon my son, this is his prayer. A perfect heart to keep thy commandments and thy testimonies and thy statutes and to all these things and to build the palace For the which I have made provision. Why does David call the temple a palace? I studied all through scripture, and the answer I come up with is, I don't know. But I'm speculating. A palace is the dwelling where a king lives. A palace is the house of the king. And maybe David is trying on his last statements before he passes away, maybe he's trying to make a point. That though Solomon is the next king of Israel, he'll be king on the throne. Yet the temple is a testimony of the fact that the Lord God is King of Kings. Just like David will live in that man's palace, that David uh uh Solomon will live in the palace there, that uh he's eventually going to build one for himself. But that temple is the Lord's palace. He's the king of all kings. And so I just found it interesting that David refers to the temple as a palace. And so he is assuring Israel that this temple, this palace, is not a tribute to David. Now that was very common back in those days for kings to build some big statue or some big structure and it would have their name on I think uh Absalom did something like that and uh they want people to remember their uh their legacy and they're all worried about people won't forget me And David says, no, it's not about any of that. He's assuring them it's not a tribute to David. The temple was a testimony of God's presence and the promised coming Messiah. Everything in that temple pointed to a coming Messiah. All the furniture, all the ceremonies, all the curtains, the s the very layout of the of the temple appointed to the coming Savior who would provide salvation. Everything about this was a testimony of God. He says the temple was the Lord's possession. It wasn't man. Solomon didn't own it. Israel didn't own it. It was God. It was God's temple. Would you agree with me? If this was God's temple, Would man, any man, have any right to go in and alter it in any way, shape, or form if it's God's temple? No. God gave the layout. God gave the pattern. David mentioned that in the previous chapter. This is God gave me the pattern, how this temple is to be built. Solomon had no right. The high priest had no right. The military had no right. They could vote all they wanted. Nobody had any right to change that temple. It was God's. They could not alter it. Nobody had uh any right uh to uh uh they had no excuse for neglecting it This was God's temple. God's temple. And so David makes a profound statement when he said, this is not for man, this is for the Lord. If you would, take your Bibles. We will turn here. We've got a little bit of time. Take your Bibles. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter number 6. And it kind of struck me when David pointed out that this palace, referring to the temple, is not man's, it's the Lord's. And it kind of struck me that 1 Corinthians chapter 6 talks about the Lord's temple. You find 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and come with me if you would to verse 19. 1 Corinthians 6, 19. Notice what it says. If you found it, say amen. Alright, that's the majority. He says, what? Question mark. It's like he's shocked that they're not aware of this. What? Know ye not? That your what? Body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you. If he's referencing the temple of the Holy Ghost in you, what kind of people is he talking to? Save people. He's talking about the indwelling Holy Spirit. He says, your body, as a believer, your body is the temple, just like that Solomon's temple was the temple of the Lord. Your body and my body is the temple of who? According that passage there. The Holy Ghost. He dwells within us, just like The Lord dw his his immediate presence was there in that temple, and the and they would come in there and offer the sacrifice to go in the Holy of Holies Our body is the, within our bodies is the presence of the Holy Ghost, and our body is his temple. He says, what? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God? Look at this last statement. And ye are not what? You're not your own. It is my body, I can do what I want with it. If you're a believer, that ain't your body, and you can't do what you want with it. It's the Lord's body. It's a temple of the Lord. Thank you, Dave. Notice what he says in verse 20, for years bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your. Are you with me? Your body. And in your spirit, that's your attitude there, which are God's. Glorify God. The very same purpose of that Old Testament to some extent is to glorify the Lord. Be a testimony of the Lord's presence. Your body and my body as believers is the temple of the Holy Ghost. Would you agree with me? Now this has more This is more applicable now, maybe, than it was 30 years ago. But if Israel had no right to alter the temple that Solomon's going to build, Do you and I have any right to alter the body, the temple of the Holy Ghost? No, we don't. We don't have any right to do that. modifications and all the stuff that's today. I'm telling can I I just I m I've tried to be honest with you all these years, just to be very honest with you. I tell you to be honest with you, I don't think a Christian ought to have anything to do with that type of stuff. This is the Holy This is the temple of the Holy Ghost. I have no right to modify the temple that God designed and God gave me. Um now this is where it gets touchy, and don't get mad at me, alright? I'm just being honest. I love ya. Alright? How many people know I love you? I'm for ya. God loves you. He's for you. But do you think God would have been okay for the high priest to say, you know I'm going to spray paint a big heart on the side of the temple, put an arrow through it, and write mom right in the middle of the heart. You think that'd have been okay? Probably not. Or I'm going to spray paint on the side of the temple. I'm going to spray paint my favorite Bible verse. We're going to spray paint on that Deuteronomy 6. 4. Do you think that'd be alright, kids? No, you don't spray paint graffiti on the temple of God. Right? No way. Wait a minute. Anyone know where I'm going with this? This body is the temple of the Holy Ghost. I don't think we have a right to modify it and mark it up, change it and do all that. Alright? Anybody with me? I don't think it's right. I don't make a big issue. I'm not going to fuss anybody, but I just I just think this to some extent this body is sacred in that it is the temple of the Holy Ghost The temple of the Holy Ghost. We need to be very, very careful. We can't neglect it and that's conviction comes there. We gotta take care of it. And so, this temple is not David's temple. It's not Solomon's temple. It's not Israel's temple. It's the Lord's temple. And it's to be recognized to that. Now I've got a few minutes, so bear with me. I want to give you one last thought here. Notice, come back here to 1 Chronicles, and notice what David says in verse number 2. He says, I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God. Maybe they got under conviction, I don't know. He says, I am prepared with what? Come on, talk to me tonight. Wake up. I know it's cold out. I prepared with all my what? All my might. For the house of my God. Look over, if you would, to verse number three. Moreover, because I have set my what? Affection to the house of my God. Verse 2, he says, I gave all my might to this. Verse 3, he says, This is all my affection. My love is behind this, hard work. I think David number two points out his passion. He rehearses his passion. He said, David said, I gave myself to this right up to the end. This is all my heart. This is all my strength building this temple. And I tell you, there's a real danger in a Christian life of losing our passion for God. Of getting a little bit indifferent, of letting the fire for God die out in our heart and soul Of leaving our first love for the Lord. And David, to his credit, never did Up to the days preceding his crossing over into eternity, up to the last days, he says, I'm fired up about this. This is where my affection is. This is what I've applied myself to. He never lost his passion for God. And that is a real danger in the Christian life, especially as we grow older. I prayed and begged with God and my wife and I prayed together, Lord, keep me on fire for you. Don't let me lose my first love. I want to be just as fired up about preaching the word of God on my 30th anniversary as I am on the first day I showed up here. And the Sunday school teacher still is stirred up. Remember when the first time you taught that lesson? You prayed all night long, studied all week. Man, you wanted that to be right. Now you've been doing it for 20 years Ah, Sunday morning, let's see, what are we doing? Don't let that happen. Stay stirred up on your bus route, singing. Give it all you got. Anybody remember what happened to the church at Ephesus in Revelation chapter 2? The Lord praised them. He said, he said, in so many words, he said, your doctrine is straight. You are fundamental to the T. He said, you're the hardest working church in the area. And I'm putting my words. He said, you've been faithful. And faithful and assembling together and serving me and working hard. But I have somewhat against you. And he made a piercing indictment of that good church, hardworking, busy, fundamental, faithful. He makes a piercing indictment. He says, you have left your first love. You've lost that love for the Lord that you once had. And that joy in singing the hymns that was once there has died out. And that fire for reaching the lost and getting people saved has dwindled down. And it's interesting, he doesn't say you've lost your first love. He said you left it. You left it. In other words, you did not, you were not careful to keep that love alive. You were not careful to keep that fire burning You just left it. You left it. You just started going through the motions, and you did not deliberately make sure your love for the Lord Jesus and your love for God stays alive. And you've left it. David, it never left. He kept it in place. He kept it in place. They left their first love. I think when our when our passion grows cold, dwindles down, that's when we need revival. When church just becomes something, well, I can take it or leave it. When church just becomes a TV show, we need revival We just sing the hymns and just sit there and just mouth them or just word them out. And there's no fire burning our soul and doesn't stir us at all. We need revival. Well we if we read our Bible at all on a daily basis, we just kind of go through the motions and check it off, and it never speaks to our heart, it never stirs us. We need revival. You see, we have to deliberately keep that passion in place. Listen, David had opportunity, let the passion die. You think when he failed with Bathsheba, you think maybe he could have just said, philly, I messed up so bad, I'm just going to let it die out? He could have. Read Psalm 51. He did not. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners will be converted unto you. You know what he was saying Don't let the passion die. I messed up. Don't let the passion die. Keep that fire burning. I tell you, church's been around as long as ours. We're as busy as can be I tell you, we gotta be careful. We don't just get where we're going through the motion and lose our passion. I would like the day before I would like the day before the rapture takes place us to have a red-hot fiery service. Singing praises to God and loving the Lord and winning souls and just staying alive. Anybody with me? David didn't let that passion die out up to his last days. And I've seen it happen. And we're all in danger of it. But I've seen people come and get saved and get on fire for God, and after time that fire just dwindles down and then it fizzles out and it's gone. Till his dying day, David never let his passion, never lost his passion for the Lord. How can I keep my passion? Let me give you a few things. I'd recommend jot these down. I think they're helpful. How can I keep from losing my passion? I put number one, remain faithful to the basics Remain faithful to the basics. By that, the same thing I always say all the time, but have those daily devotions. Just read it. You say, well, it's just read it Have those daily divisions. Remain faithful to the basics. What I mean by that is devotions. Have daily prayer. Witness. Give out tracts whether you feel like it or not. Just get you a pack of tracks and give them out. Say, well, I don't know. Just do it. I don't want to give out tracts half-hearted. I'd rather somebody give out tracts half-hearted than not give out tracts. Right, it's better to read the Bible half-hearted than not read it at all. I don't want to go to church, I'm backslidden. Best place to go when you're backslidden, go to church. Scripture memory. Memorize that scripture. That verses will put fire in your soul. Be faithful in church attendance. So, number one, remember remain faithful to basics. Number two, refuse to isolate myself. I tell you, what happens? You get a little twig, you got a campfire going, you get a little twig, you're stirring something, a little twig flies out and lands on the rocks or the sand there, and it's all by itself. What happens to the fire on that little twig that's all by itself? Goes out. I tell you, we start isolating ourselves. We start staying away from the people of God. I've seen it for 40 years. I've been seeing it. That fire starts to go out and lose interest. Don't isolate yourselves. We need to get around people if I want to be passionate, I get to get around people who are passionate. If I want to be thrilled about the Lord, I need to get around people who are thrilled about the Lord. That's why I like these conferences. And we I try my best to bring in fireball preachers Bring in Byron Fox, if that don't stir you up, good heavens. I just sit in re- I, when he has choir practice, I just sit in choir practice like a revival service. Mission trips will stir you up. Be around people who are passionate. Get around passionate Christians. Attend passionate meetings. Don't sit out and sit back. Number three, repent of any and all sin. Repent of any and all sin. Nothing will kill passion like covered up sin. Psalm 51, he says, restore unto me the joy thou shalt. Sin took his joy away, took his passion away. He said, I want it back. Number four, rejoice in the Lord on purpose. I had to learn this. Just decide, I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. I'm going to praise the Lord. You say, I don't feel like it. I don't care. Do it anyway. Just praise the Lord. Just go, uh maybe you're having a terrible day, you got a headache, you're grouchy, and the cat toward the curtain. You're going to Walmart, all grouchy and grumpy 'cause everything's going wrong? Uh just go in there and on purpose in the in the in the fruit section, the grip the the vegetable what do you call that? The vegetables and fruits, what's it The produce section, go in there and just start singing praise him, praise him, even if you're brushy I tell you, they'll haul you out and arrest you, but um but praise the Lord on purpose. There's certain things I just decided when I think about it, I'm gonna praise God for it Praise the Lord on purpose. Rejoice on the Lord on purpose. Think about your salvation and get thank God for it Came in today I was I had to run up to Walmart and um I didn't go to the gross the produce department. I had to get cat food and litter. And I was going through, and there was a lady there, and her little son was in the cart. He was probably two, three years old, maybe the most, and he's severely handicapped. Severely handicapped. And it just broke my heart. I saw the lady and they were ahead of me and I didn't get to talk to her, but I came out and I just asked God, God help me to be a blessing to people. It's people hurting. I just can't imagine the heart of that mother. She loving all. She was taking as far as I could tell, she was taking good care of that little little child And I thought, Lord, help me love you. Help me to be kind. It just stirred my heart. I tell you, we get cold to stuff like that. We get indifferent to stuff like that. We need revival. We need to learn to praise God and thank you, God. And then last of all, I put this down. Reach outside your comfort zone. Do something that terrifies you. Do something for the Lord that terrifies you. Do something that can only be done by faith. You know what I found out? If I step out God gives me opportunity to do something that I feel inadequate, that I feel incapable of doing, and I just go ahead and trust Him and do it. And God blesses And God uses me and God brings that out. You know what that does? That stirs up my heart again for the Lord. Just to exercise faith in God and let him prove himself. I'll tell you it'll stir your heart. Stir your heart. David never lost his passion. Up until his dying day Keeping the passion, I believe, requires decision and discipline. It will not just happen. If we just let it go, it will dwindle down and die out. I've got to decide. I'm not letting that happen. I'm going to discipline myself, keep that fire burning. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us.