Samuel chapter eighteen, if you would turn in your Bibles there. Our unending study of the life of David is continuing. 1 Samuel chapter 18. I'm going to read verses 22 down through verse. I'm I'm on up here, Dave. Verse 22 down through verse 27. There's nothing going on here. Um 1 Samuel chapter 18. Tell you what I want to do. Let's back up. I think I'm going to start reading in 17 and just keep this whole context together because where verse 19 ends, verse 22 picks up. And I'll try to just stay behind this mic here. I don't have anything on this mic either, Dave. Alright, I'll speak very loud. Try to. Alright, verse 17, the Bible says, And Saul said to David, Behold my elder daughter Mereb. Her will I give thee to wife. Only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him How many people agree with me? Saul most likely said that behind David's back, that last statement. Of course. That's his he's expressing his his motive here. And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I should be the son-in-law of the king? But it came to pass at the time when Merub, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel, the Maholothite, to wife. And Michael, Saul's daughter, loved David, and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. And Saul said, I will give him her that she may be a what? Snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this deed this day be my son-in-law in one of the twain. You don't get one, I'll get you the other ones, what he's saying there. Verse 22, Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly. And say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now, therefore, be the king's son-in-law. And Saul's servant spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and lightly esteemed? And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David. And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry But a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law, and the days were not expired. Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew the Philistines. How many? How many did Saul ask for? That's David for you right there. And uh slew two hundred men, and David brought their four skins, and they gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law, and Saul gave him Michael his daughter to wife. David gets married. David becomes the king's son-in-law. Let's pray together. And we'll look at a few thoughts here. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. I thank you for David's testimony and how you've recorded for us in great length. Uh the life of David, the experience of David as he approaches the kingdom and then as king. I'm glad, Lord, you've recorded not I'm glad Lord you didn't Just overlook the shortcomings of David. But you showed us him as he is to be an example for us. So help us, Lord, to be strong in our faith. Help us, Lord, to learn from this, and that we would be a good witness in this old world, and that we would love you as David loved you, have a have a heart for you. I yield my will and present my body and ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we're seeing and we're going through here, and it gets increasing as we go on. Saul's jealousy His envy, I should say, of David's success and David's popularity has now boiled up into open hostility. Um if you remember, we look back there earlier in the chapter, and Saul made a personal attempt at murdering David. Remember that? He's throwing javelins at him. I mean Saul is taking it upon himself. I'm going to kill this man, this young man. Well that failed, and he was not successful in that. And then, I believe, and we touched on this already, but verse thirteen, he repositions David, and he takes him from the office, so to speak, of leading the men. And he puts them out on the field. Now the Bible doesn't say this, and I know this is speculation, as I already mentioned before, but I think Saul is doing that with the idea that David will get killed out in battle. He's putting him out there where there's real danger. And that obviously does not succeed. Now, Saul is um plotting To use his daughters to bring about David's demise. He's getting more subtle. He is, remember the last message was he's scheming now. He's using devious methods to accomplish his goal of dispatching David, getting rid of David. The last lesson, that was our three points, was Saul's scheme. We noted that in verse 17 and 18. Then we had God's sovereignty. Where at the last moment, for whatever reason, we're not told, um uh Mareb is given to Ariel, I think is the name, uh Adriel. uh instead of David at the last moment. Again, we don't know the motives, we don't know the circumstances there, but I have a sneaking suspicion that God was protecting David from even greater trouble down the road. And if you remember, the lesson we learned there was when disappointments come and last-minute changes come that we have no control over, we can rest assured that God is sovereign and that God can take and use that in many ways. We thought about it traveling uh on down to the um DC. Uh you know, there's a little setback, there's a little delay, something and just saying, hey, you never know what God's doing. And so we learned that, God's sovereignty. And then we noted Michael's snare. And that I said all that to set up what takes place here now. A key statement in verse number 20 is this, or verse 21, Saul says, I will give her, Michael, to David, and she will be a snare unto him. A snare unto him. And so that's setting the stage for these last verses, twenty-two down through twenty-seven, when he ultimately ends up being the king's son-in-law. Uh she's a snare unto him. Now I want to back up a little bit and we touched on something and I made a lot of speculation last week and I and I I hold to that. I think uh there may be something to what I was suggesting about um Michael's love for David. It wasn't a genuine uh uh godly type love, it was more of a infatuation, a sensual attraction to him. We noted that from Amnon's uh quote unquote love for Tamar. Now I want to back up here a little bit and I got looking at some things and I as far as I can tell this is the only place in the Bible where it says that a woman loved a man. I can't find anywhere else where it references some woman loving a man, other than maybe some of the disciples, the ladies following, they loved the Lord Jesus. But I'm talking about in this type of context. Now you have various men throughout the Bible loved women, Samson and others loved women, but I can't find any record where it says that a woman loved a man. And as you look at this, and again, I may be reading in a little bit, I'll allow for that, but I see little record of David having much love for Michael. It doesn't say anywhere that David loved Michael. And his actions as we go through here um kind of indicate that he might not have been very deeply in love with her. Now, I may get to heaven and David may smack me, you know I could be completely wrong. But just looking at it and studying it, um, uh I just I I I don't know. I don't know. But here's where we want to get to now. I want to begin in verse 22, and we're not going to get very far, to be honest with you. I just want to look at one thing. But the first thing I want to notice, my first point is this: David's continued scheming. Or I'm sorry, not David. Let me take it back. Saul's continued scheming. Saul is still bent on getting rid of David in some sneaky, devious, backhanded way. Look with me if you would at verse 22. And so, by the way, he finds out that um Michael is loves David and he thinks, aha, I can use that. And Saul commanded his servants, say, commune with David what? Secretly, deviously. Sneakishly. Commune with David secretly and say, now we're going to pay close attention to what he tells his servants to say to David. Behold! The king hath delight in thee. Huh. And all his servants love thee. Now therefore, be the king's son-in-law. So I see scheming going on here. He commands the first thing I think part of his King Saul's scheme is this. He is diverting attention off of himself. He's not coming to David himself saying, hey, listen, I like you and everybody else likes you. You really should be my son-in-law. You really should marry my daughter. He's not doing that. What's he doing here? He's getting someone else to say that. He's getting someone else to come in there in a sneaky, backhanded way. It's like Uh not exactly. I just thought of this. It's like a couple kids in junior high, and a guy says to his buddy, says, you know, I like Bobby Sue. I wonder if she likes me. Go ask her if she likes me Rather than just going and asking her, he gets somebody else to ask. You know what I'm talking about? So it's that way, except it's reversed. But he's he's a little uh he's diverting attention off of him And if you remember, we made this statement, and I want to add to the statement, last message, we made this statement, selfishness is heartless. Do you remember that statement? Saul is is consumed with getting what he wants. Doesn't matter how wicked it is, it doesn't matter how detrimental it will be to his kingdom. Doesn't matter who gets hurt by it, it doesn't matter what it costs him, he wants what he wants. And he is using, as we pointed out before, he is willing to use his daughters And sacrifice their well-being for him to get what he wants, David dispatched. So our statement was selfishness is heartless. Let me add another statement to that. Selfishness uses other people. Selfishness will use other people and just use them to get what I want. He's using others, his servants, for his own wicked desires. Selfish people use other people. Selfish people are heartless. And he is using his disciples to accomplish his wicked deed. Then it says this, and he commanded his servants, saying Commune with David secretly. The word secretly there means exactly what you think it does. Mysteriously, one of the definitions was behind cover, behind the curtain, so to speak. Uh do this in a way that David does not know what's happening. Um uh Saul's uh Uh why is he doing this? I got looking this, alright? He's going to his servants. He's getting the attention off of himself. He doesn't want the David uh to think this is coming from him, so he gets the servants They're coming in. He's telling to do this all very, very secretly. And I think the reason for this is Saul's word to David is no good anymore. David knows Saul can't be trusted, I think. And I get that, if you would. Come up back up to verse number 21. We didn't look at this phrase. The last time, but look at the last part. He says, Thou shalt this day, this is Saul speaking to David at this point. Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law in one of the twenty. Saul is telling David, David, you're going to be my son-in-law. One way or another, you know, you're going to be my son-in-law. And if the Bible doesn't say this, I know I'm speculating a lot going through here, but I'm putting the pieces together. I don't think David bought it. When Saul said, hey, you're going to be, I think he saw David thought, nope, he offered me one, that didn't happen, now he's coming another one. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. We've talked about this recently. I don't remember what the message was. But you know, if somebody lies to you It's hard to trust them again, right? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And he had it all lined up. He's going to marry Mike uh uh he's gonna marry Mereb boy this is all lined up David's all on board with that he's fine and at the last minute she goes marries another guy how many people thought maybe think maybe David's heart was s was burned a little bit there. And so Saul says, Oh yeah, I'll get you one of them. And I just have a sneaking suspicion that David thinks I don't believe him. He just gave me the first one, his oldest. That didn't happen. I'm not going to trust him on the second. So King Saul now, his scheme has gone on. He goes, all right, this can't come from me because my word's no good. And maybe his motives are becoming obvious. But he knows David won't listen to him, David won't believe him, so he's bringing these others in, and he's diverting David's attention off of himself and onto his servants to give the appearance that this is a legitimate offer. That this is innocent, that everything is good here, and Saul is just kind of taking his hands off of it publicly And letting the servants do this to fool David. So, um that what is that? If somebody is sneaking and they're doing stuff secretly, what does that tell you they know about what they're doing? They know they're doing wrong. We've pointed that out before. They know they're doing wrong. Hey, when we have to sneak and hide and and um sneak We have to do all of that. You mark it down, something's up. Right? Something there's something uh crooked in Denmark. Is that how it goes? Something fishy in Denmark. Something rotten in Denmark. That's what I was after. And so King Saul knows that what he's doing, uh he knows this isn't right He knows David's on to him, and so he's diverting attention in his little scheme, and he gets the servants coming in here and doing that. Then next notice the next thing, and you probably saw this when we read down through there Saul commune commanded his servants, by the way, he commanded them, saying, Commune with David secretly and say, listen to what he tells them to say. Pay close attention The first thing he says is, Behold, the king hath delight in thee I want to suggest to you, not only was uh King Saul finding a diversion to get his hands off of this scheme, but now his message is very deceptive Let me ask you a question. Did King Saul find delight in David? No. You could put, beside that statement, you could put a big fat lie. King Saul had no delight in David. Um uh King Saul wanted him dead. King Saul hated him King Saul is willing to sacrifice his own daughter's well-being, their future happiness, to eliminate King David. He doesn't like him. He tells those servants to lie straight up, bold. Is it bald face or bald face? Baldface, lie. Glad it's not bald face. That'd be bad A bold-faced lie. He's telling them the lie. Now, let me ask you this. If that's all they said, hey, King Saul delights in thee, and you need to marry his daughter, do you think David would have bought that? Did David believe that King Saul delighted in him? If somebody's chucking javelins at you And shifting you all around and then last minute pulling their daughter away and you're going to marry your daughter, last minute pulls away, you'd be a knucklehead to think that they liked me So if that's all they said, if that's all they said, again, David wouldn't have bought it. So what does he do? He has a little lie, and he wraps it in what? What do you wrap lies in? Truth. The lie is, oh, the King Saul, he delights in you, he thinks highly of you. The word delight there has the idea of uh finds pleasure in and And thinks highly of boy, he really thinks you're something. That's the lie. And then they take the next statement as a statement of truth that they wrap it up. And look at the next statement And all his servants love thee. Question, true or false? That's absolutely true. Remember, we've been reading it. He goes in and out, boy, they're praising David. Uh the women are singing, this claim is ten thousands, and the servants think the world of king uh of David. And Saul knows that. He sees it And the more he goes in and out among them, the more they respect him, the more they admire him. And so what he has to convince David. Now he's already he's already burned himself in pulling away Mareb. uh at the last minute to marry him. So how am I going to get David to marry Michael? And so I need these servants to to get in there. And uh let make sure he knows it's not from me, because I messed up on that last attempt. And uh make sure it's not from me. My servants are saying this And uh we need to get him to be convinced that I'm for this. Now, if he just says I'm for it, he won't believe it. But if he says I'm for it, and everybody else thinks you're wonderful, then maybe he'll buy it And isn't that the way lies are often given? A little bit of truth wrapped around a lie. If somebody walks into your house and just flat out lies to you, you're not going to listen to anything they say. But boy, if they can hide that lie in a truth. People tend to swallow it. Anybody here when you were young, do you ever uh what was that old medicine that was really yucky? Uh they give it and they put it on sugar. Castor oil. Anybody here ever take that? Am I um do I know what I'm talking about? And do you put it and and if you just taste it it'd be uh yes, I don't want that But you put a little um sugar on there, then it goes down a whole lot easier. Did anybody ever here try and kill rats So what do you do? You take a little bit of uh cheese or something, you put a little rat poison there, you make that rat poison taste good, and then they eat it and they what? A dot. Does anybody know what I'm trying to illustrate? I don't know what I'm trying to illustrate. But you take A lie, and you wrap it up with truth, and people buy it a whole lot better. And that's exactly what Saul's doing. He is scheming, he is devious, and I'm telling you, he is doing exactly what the devil does. Take your Bible, if you will, and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 with me. What King Saul is attempting with David is what the devil has perfected and he is doing in churches. And in Christian lives for centuries, millennials, taking some truth, or at least the appearance of truth, wrapping it around a lie, And destroying lies. 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 13. Satan is a master at this. Look at 2 Corinthians 11 and beginning in verse 13. Therefore, it is no great thing if his well let's back up. I'm sorry, I started too late. Uh uh where am I reading at? Come back to verse number uh what? Verse thirteen For such are false apostles. What's that next word? Deceitful workers. All right, would that describe King Saul Sure, he's deceitful. He's being deceitful. False apostles, deceitful workers. Look at this. Transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. For no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into a what? Angel of light. Is is Satan actually an angel of light? No. But he comes across that way. He transforms himself, appears that way Um look at verse 15. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed. Important next word be transformed As the ministers of righteousness. But it's not. They're ministers of Satan. And they come across as ministers of righteousness. Listen, this whole idea that taking the lie and presenting it in the wrappings of truth Has destroyed many, many, many lives. Let me ask you a question. Now I may be stretching a little bit here, but if somebody goes out on a Saturday night, they're with a bunch of friends They get drinking a little bit and the music's going, they got going. Is it possible they have a good time? Have fun I mean just on the surface, not a trick question. Yeah. I mean there's pleasure in sin, right? But there's pleasure in sin. They get out. And so the beer commercial comes along. The liquor commercial comes along and says, hey, live it up, the highlight. You have a wonderful time. And the show pictures, dancing, carrying on, have a wonderful time. There's an element of truth. You get out, get buzzed, you have a good time, or that. But that's a that is wrapped. That is wrapping up a huge lie. That product is going to destroy your life. That product is going to ruin you. And that is exactly uh Satan's tactic. What King Saul is doing here, he is using a tactic that is straight out of hell. That is straight of the devil. Is you take a lie, false prophets do it. I don't any I haven't for years, but they're 10, 15, 20 years ago, I was getting started a little bit, 25 years ago I'd watch these preachers on TV. And, you know, there's a few, we were talking, there's a couple that, you know, that are okay. And um But man, some of these guys that get going. I remember one time I was watching and this fella he is preaching and I mean he is preaching the house down And I'm captivated, and he is just going on. And he was preaching about David. Power of God on David. And he is going on and on and on. And I'm stirred up and I'm writing notes down. I'm going to preach that, you know And I'm man, this is good stuff and going on. And then lo and behold, you know what I found out? I got looking that guy up to find out a little bit about him. You know what? He doesn't believe in the Trinity He doesn't believe in salvation by grace. His doctrine on the second coming is out of whack. And what he said was pretty good. It was true what he was saying, but brother, there's a whole pack of lies behind what he was presenting. And so you follow what I'm trying to say, and over and over and over, one of the responsibilities, Sunday morning, I mentioned that letter it came in the mail. Did anybody else get that since Sunday morning? Anybody know what I'm talking about? That letter, that prayer t thing. I'm telling you what, that you people that don't somebody that doesn't know their Bible, somebody that isn't real careful I'll tell you you can get sucked into that stuff, and that looks so good and sounds wonderful. Oh, the king delights in you and all the servants delight in you. Yeah, the servants do delight. Maybe King does like me Man, you get sucked into that thing and and it can ruin lives. It can absolutely ruin lives. And so he covers up this lie with this um tapestry, this wrapping of truth. I've experienced this over the years. Somebody comes to me and it's it's a little it's a little different version of the same thing But somebody comes to me and they says, Pastor Leatherman, we're a little concerned about something. I said, okay. And they'll make this statement. They'll say, a lot of people in church are really upset about this. A lot of people in church are really upset about this. When somebody says that to me, do you know what my very next question is? Who? Who are all these people that are so upset? And the four or five times I've had that over years, you know how many people they were able to name that were all these people upset with me? Not one. I've never had well, you know, I'd just rather not say. I said, well, is it you'd rather not say, or maybe there isn't anybody besides you? And so what they do is they put this image up there, they try and present this front, and and uh eh, I had a lady say to me a long time ago, she said, nobody believes what you preach. Nobody in this church believes uh she said she said none of she said this way, none of the ladies in this church believe what you preach. I said, Well, there's probably some that don't I don't believe all of them. None of them do. And um that's what Saul is trying to do here. So be very, very careful. Two things you've got to be careful for. Be careful when somebody's coming to you, flattering you. Oh, everyb oh you are the you're something else. Our king loves you. Everybody loves you Now it's easy for us to sit here and just read it and and judge, but boy, there should have been red flags going up all over the place. When they're saying stuff like that. And so be very, very careful when we do that. And also be very, very careful when we're presenting something. If something is not right and it's not true, don't do it Right? Don't try and whitewash it. Don't try and find some truth to tack on there and somehow make it right. So I I got looking at what Saul is doing here, his He's diverting the attention off of himself. He's getting his hands off of this. His message has become very, very deceitful. And let me- I gotta say this. There are a lot of deceitful messages out there Not everything that claims to be Christian is Christian. How do we determine whether something is absolutely true or not? Some guys preaching. Some message, I'm getting a letter in the mail. How do we determine whether it's absolutely true or not? By the word of God By the Word of God. And just 'cause there's a Bible verse on there, just because there's a a good Christian statement, we need to get in there and check and say, wait a minute, is this just truth? wrapping up a lie and find out and compare scripture with scripture. Jesus warned over and over and over, beware of wolves in sheep's clothing. And that's exactly what King Saul was And so he's presented that. Now I see a third little tactic he's using. First of all, he's getting his hands off of this. All right, this isn't coming from me. Is all the servants. Um the king's really happy with them. Now he won't buy that. Well tack wrap that up in everybody thinks you're wonderful. Maybe he'll buy that. Now look what else Come back to verse 22 there in 1 Samuel 18. Behold, the king hath delighted thee, and all his servants. This is what he's telling his servants to say. Now, look at the last statement he tells them to say to David. Now, therefore, be the king's son-in-law. Now, I want you to come back up to the beginning of the verse. Saul commanded his Plural or singular? Plural. So that means there's at least more than one. There's probably a bunch. And he says, oh, the king loves you. Everybody loves you, David. You're just wonderful. Everybody in the place loves you. Now what are they telling? They're telling him to do what? Be the king's son-in-law. You know what that's called? That's called peer pressure. Saul is getting his servants to put the squeeze on David. Listen, you need to do this They're not asking him. They're not saying, hey, it's a good idea. What do you think? They're saying, you need to do this. David, you need to do this. David, you need to do this. You better watch out when everybody's all over you telling me what you need to do What you should and should not do. It's called peer pressure. And um I wonder how many lives have been ruined by peer pressure. Oh, you gotta go, you gotta go to this party. You gotta go. Oh, they're having a party for the boss, he's retiring. You gotta go to this thing. You're the only one in the whole shop that ain't going to this thing Huh? Gotta watch out for that, that peer pressure. How many people believe teenagers face peer pressure? How many people believe teenagers are the only ones that face peer pressure? You're a dumb bunny if you do. If you believe that. How many people think preachers face peer pressure? I'm telling you, and the older I get, the longer I'm in it, the more I'm feeling it. Man, you gotta go this way, you gotta go, you gotta get in there, you can't preach for those people, you gotta do this, and you can't do that, and you gotta and man I get it, get it, get it And uh peer pressure has ruined a lot of lives. Peer pressure has ruined a lot of ministries. Can I say this? Peer pressure has taken a lot of lives. Get somebody to do something that they know is not right, that they know they shouldn't do, and they do it, and it ends up costing their life. We used to tell a story with um when I preached in teens, uh, in in Bible time to the teenagers. of a fella that was new to it, they had moved to a new area, it was a new high school, he's walking down the road and um And a couple guys from the school that were kind of rowdies, they saw him and said, hey, hop in. And he said, okay. And he got with them And they got going here, they're s bending the tires and running crazy. They got beer bottles out and he kept saying, No, let me out of this And they said, Oh, what are you coward? And they started pushing pressure on him and so he ended up taking a drink and if I remember the story correctly they went up to some house and they spun the car in the front yard of the guy spinning around just tearing his yard up And the guy came out with a shotgun with buckshot and shot into the car and one of the one of the pellets, uh big old buckshots, went through the back window, and guess who it hit? The kid that was in there that really didn't want to be there, but they put the pressure on him. And they're putting pressure on David. They're putting pressure on David, uh, this peer pressure. We were down at um uh Washington DC and uh how many people agree politicians got pressure put on them? You know what a politician does with the wind blowing and the pressure coming? A politician goes with the wind. He goes, whichever the way the pressure is pushing him. That's a politician. You know what a statesman does? A statesman stands on conviction. A statesman stands on on what is right. And regardless of what the pressure is, regardless of how the po the the popular wind is blowing, he stands where it ought to be Now, I told you I'd be talking about this a bunch, but we were able to yesterday afternoon hear a couple of folks, representatives and people in pretty significant office that I believe are statesmen, one stateswoman. Right, Charlie? I mean they're saying stuff that we say from our pulpit and they're saying it right there publicly in office Abortion is murder at all stages. Marriage is a man and a woman, period. There are two genders, male and female. And one fellow in particular is uh just talking about homosexuality and homosexual marriage and abortion. And I mean he went down the line And and uh one of the other preachers said that somebody had asked him, you know, do you you know is this going to affect you? He says, I don't care what it if it affects me or not. This is right. This is right. And so Saul is using a tactic here to try and pressure David to put peer pressure on him to do something. Now we're going to find out. David ends up marrying her, and there's issues with that But I see this tactic of souls. How many people have ever heard of crowd control? What is crowd control? You're controlling the crowd. It's where maybe one or a couple people are able to do certain tactics that keep the crowd from getting out of control. Right? From a rider. That's crowd control. We we use it in Bible time with kids control, you know, that thing could get out of hand. Peer pressure is the opposite. Peer pressure is not crowd control. Peer pressure is crowd controlling the individual. The crowd telling the individual what to do. And we have got to watch out. This world wants us to conform to its image. And it will put the pressure on and boy it'll tell truths, uh it'll tell lies wrapped in truth. It'll do everything we can to get us to to uh uh uh to uh uh compromise our convictions, to deny the word of God, to disobey God, to be unfaithful to the Lord, and this whole world will put the pressure on, put the pressure on, put the pressure on. And um what I thought of with David here was this. God's preparing him to be king of Israel. And he's going to be in a position of intense pressure. And he's going to have people on every hand pushing and pulling him to do what they think he should do. I think God is training and preparing David. He's facing this Now he ends up marrying her. By the way, this isn't the first time he faced pressure. Remember Eliab when they're out there before Goliath? And David said, We'll go get him. What's Eliab doing? You can't go out there and do that He's facing pressure. He stood up to it. He did what needed to be done. Now he's getting pressure again. Later on, we're going to see. He faces pressure over and over. God's preparing him. God's strengthening him, his resolve. But Solomon is using this. A man after God's own heart must stand in spite of pressure. He's going to be the king of God's people. They must stand in spite of pressure. If my home is going to be what it needs to be, I've got to stand against the pressure of this world. I'm going to be a witness for the Lord if I'm going to share the gospel. This whole world wants to quench that. I've got to stand in spite of what others say and do. I read this, and I'll end with this. Psychologist, their name was Dr. Berenda, means nothing to me that name. But her and her associates took an experiment with teenagers. And they wanted to show how people respond to group pressure. They brought a group of ten young teenagers into a room for a test. Each group of ten was instructed to raise their hands when the teacher pointed to the longest line on three separate charts. What one person out of the ten did not know was that the other nine were instructed ahead of time to vote for the second longest line. And see what the one person that didn't wasn't told that, how they would respond. She said they did that numerous times, regardless of the instructions they heard, once they were all together in the group The nine were not allowed to vote for the longest line, but rather vote for the second longest line. The experiment began with nine teenagers voting for the wrong line That's the nine. The stooge, as they're described here, would typically glance around, frown or scratch their head in confusion, and then slip their hand up with the group. They said 75% of the time the person knowingly voted for the second longest line. When asked to vote for the longest one, because everyone else was doing it. The power of influence, the power of pressure, and that's the world you and I live in A world that is opposed to what we're doing. We are swimming upstream. And we have got to ask God to give us character and discipline and strength of backbone. to stand for what we know is right and what is true and do right even when everybody else around us is doing wrong. Make sense? So I see this pressure, I see these tactics that's that King Saul is using on David And then we'll see David's response and see how things worked out. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to see the world we live in. Lord, help us to discern the truth, even uh uh uh help us to discern lies even when they're wrapped in truth. Lord, help us to stand for what's right and what we know is good and best in spite of the pressure that comes on us. And we ask, Lord, that we would never compromise our convictions, that you would help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I can see the world trying to squeeze me into its mold. I can see that pressure from uh the world and the devil trying to get me to compromise and let up and maybe question or doubt or Or uh disobey God, and you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'll stand my ground and that I'll stay true. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, I can see it, I can feel it all around me. God bless you. And we as a church need to stand We're getting more and more minority all the time, our position, our faith in God, and our holding to the Word of God, and we cannot be molded into the into what the world's and the devil's trying to get us into. Father in heaven, I saw a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. And I pray you would help us to be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen.