And turn to Second Samuel chapter number five 2 Samuel chapter 5. Do want to mention and appreciate those that prayed for the funeral for Brother Charles Ross, the flowers in the front here in memory of Brother Ross. And uh we had a good service. I'm telling you, it was a good turnout there. He's I didn't realize this. He had, I think it's 15 or I think it was 16 brothers and sisters. Uh sixteen siblings. And a lot of them had already passed away, but that's uh that's a heap of siblings. And uh there was a number of folks there, family members and friends, some of the church folk were down And uh we very much appreciate that as a blessing. Uh praise the Lord. There was three folks that raised their hand that they called on the Lord to be their Savior at the funeral. And so that was pleasing to Brother Charles. I know that They were very concerned at the gospel be given, so we did the best we could. First Samuel chapter five 2 Samuel chapter number 5. We read this last week and then we looked at chapter 4. That was kind of a introduction to what I want to say tonight. But verse one of chapter five says this. Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron and spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that ledest out and broughtest in Israel. What are they saying? Saul was the king, but you were what? What are they saying? You were providing the leadership. You were providing the leadership. So it's a little, not direct, but it's a little comment on the leadership of of King Saul and also David's. And here's the point. I'm going to bring this out in a little bit, but here's the point. People noticed. People noticed. They observed David's leadership. Thou wast he that ledest out and broughtest in Israel. And the Lord said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over Israel. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and King David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord. And they anointed David king over Israel. Then verse 4 and 5 says, David was 30 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 40 years. In Hebron, he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned 30 and three years over all Israel and Judah. Let's pray together. David is king of all Jud of all Israel. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word this evening. And I pray this one significant event in the history of Israel and in the life of David that we can learn some things from this that would help us To live for you in this day and age, in our circumstances, in our world, in our society. So we need your Holy Spirit to teach us this and apply it to our lives. And so I yield my will to you, Lord. I don't want to say anything contrary to what your will is or present anything contrary, so I yield my will to you, and I pray I present my body anew and pray that you would fill me with your Spirit, dear Lord, your Holy Spirit, and speak through me And challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'd like for, if you would, get a paper out or maybe in a fly leaf of your Bible and a pen. I want to give you a little statement to write down We actually ended the message last Wednesday with this statement, and I want to begin tonight, and uh I think it's very, very helpful, and it's something if we could just keep before us on a regular basis It would help us have a healthier frame of mind. How many people here have a tough time keeping a healthy frame of mind when you start thinking about everything going on around? Brother, that frame of mine falls off pretty quick. And so I want to give you a little statement here. And when you write it down, you're going to say, well, that's simplistic. Yes, it is, but it's tremendous. Here's the statement I want you to write down God keeps his promises. Now that's a good statement right there. If that's all we got out of tonight's service driving uh however many miles in freezing rain, sleet, and icy roads, and all you got was a reminder that God keeps his promises. Uh to me, that'd be worth the trip right there. God keeps his promises. If you're sitting at home on a couch drinking coffee in a warm uh house with a fire burning in front of you, and uh all you get out of this service is God keeps his promises, it'd be worth it. Amen. God keeps his promises. Fifteen years earlier, approximately, 15 years earlier, God had Samuel anoint a young teenage boy, probably about 15 years old Anointed that boy with oil and declared that he would one day be king of Israel. Very unlikely. Very unlikely candidate as far as humanly speaking. Outward appearance, he didn't look like much. But God saw his heart. God saw his heart. And he saw a young boy that had that had a heart after God. He saw things to some degree the way God saw things. He valued things the way God valued things. He loved the things God loved, and he hated the things God hated. And God saw that young boy and he made a promise. You will one day be king of Israel. Now it's been a long, rough road. That David's been traveling on the last 15 years. And now he's at that point where God is fulfilling his promise I put this down. There is nothing, excuse me, there is nothing in this world that can keep God from keeping his promises. This whole world can pass laws. This whole world can can uh uh get their weapons, use their weapons, this whole world can use every technique and bring out all the fear you can imagine But this world cannot stop God from keeping his promises. I put this down. My old sinful flesh can't keep God from keeping his promises. I don't know about you. I wonder if some of us haven't failed God sometimes and we think there's no way God could ever do what he said. I failed so bad. But God my failure does not eradicate God's promises. I don't know about you, but that's where I say amen. Our failure does not erase God's promises. If God's promised He's going to do something, you mark it down, it's going to happen. Regardless of what you and I do. I put one other statement down. I said the world cannot s keep God from keeping his promises. The world cannot hinder the promises of God. This old sinful world It's nothing they can do. They can't pass a law in the world that will keep God from keeping his promise. My old sinful flesh can't keep God from keeping his promises. And I put this one down. I like this thought. The devil in hell. Can't keep God from fulfilling his promises. God keeps his promises. And David experienced that, and at least in this one case. and many, many others. It was a long, it's been a long, lonely, and difficult road for David, but now he is king of Israel. The very thing that 15 years earlier God said would happen, and all these events that we studied in the life of David, and all these challenges, the great victories, the defeat, the success, the successes, and the failures All of that was leading up to this moment when David would be prepared mentally, emotionally, spiritually, to sit in that throne of Israel. And now he's there. It's been fulfilled. And so I view this event here in chapter 5 of 2 Samuel as a key point in the history of Israel. From this point on, that throne is going to be known as the throne of David. And one day Jesus Christ coming back again, and he's going to sit on the throne of David and rule this whole world from Jerusalem. So this is a significant event uh in uh in the history of Israel and of course in the life of David. I have three thoughts here from this passage. Let me give them to you real quickly I want to jump right into it. First of all, I notice the reunion of God's people. The reunion of God's people. Look with me, if you will, at verse number one. Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron and spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. All the tribes of Israel came to David. What had they been doing for the last seven and a half years, the nation of Israel? What have they been doing? They've been fighting. It's been a civil war. The first of several that Israel had throughout its history. But a devastating and let me say this, an unnecessary civil war. An unreasonable civil war. It was simply rooted in the rebellion against the declared will of God. And so David now has taken this, there's one final step for David's rule over all of Israel And that is the people coming together underneath his administration. I see two decisions need to be made. Two decisions need to be made for this event to take place, what we just read here in chapter in verse 1. Two decisions need to take place. See if See if you see it the way I do. The first one is these eleven tribes of Israel, these elders of Israel that are coming to David. Now remember, Judah has already recognized him as king. They've already submitted to the will of God. They're in place. So you have these 11 other tribes of Israel, they're coming to David and they're saying, Hey, we're bone of your bone, we're flesh of your flesh, we're one, we're we're gonna be reunited. Here's a decision they need to make. They had to swallow their pride. They had to swallow their pride. For seven and a half years they had been wrong. For seven and a half years they had been rebelling against David's authority, against David's position. And now over the events that took place in the previous chapters, Abner's murder and and all that that took all that that the effects that had, um Now they have to swallow their pride and come back home and uh make things right. You know, one of the one of the one of the most important aspects One of the most important aspects of having the right relationship with my brothers and sisters in Christ, one of the most important decisions I need to make And having a right relationship with a brother or sister in Christ or with a fellow church member or a family member is this. I need to be able to swallow my pride. Only by pride cometh what? Contention, Proverbs tells us. You say, oh, there's a lot of fussing going on in that church. You know why there's fussing going on in that church? Because somebody won't swallow their pride. A lot of fussing going on in that home. You know why? Because somebody won't swallow their pride. Proverbs very clear. Only by pride cometh contention. They had seven and a half years of contention. They had seven and a half years of fussing and fighting and killing Now they just got to stop and say, listen, we need to swallow our pride, and uh we need to come back and make things right. So, one, I see one decision they had to make, and that's usually a very, very difficult decision Swallow my pride. Now it doesn't record them saying this, but their actions communicate, hey, we were wrong. You're the king, not Ishpozeath. You're the one God chose, not the others. And we were wrong. Would you practice saying that with me? Would you say that with me? I was Wrong. Come on, don't go like this. I was no no no. Say it. Ready? Say it with me. I was wrong I tell you, that'll solve a lot of problems. You say, I ain't never admitting I'm wrong. Well, you've got to swallow your pride. You've got to swallow your pride. Second thing I notice here that they had to do a decision need to make. First, swallow their pride. And then number two, I put this down. They had to submit to God's will God chose David to be king. Nobody else. David certainly didn't choose it. God chose him. God anointed him. And what they're doing, here's the interesting thing, by submitting to the authority of David, they were really submitting to the authority of God. They're saying, all right, God's you're God's chosen man. They're going to say that here in a little bit. They're going to point that out. So they had to submit to God's will. I believe those two decisions, to swallow my pride and to submit to the will of God is two of the most vital and perhaps powerful uh attributes of discipleship. If I as a Christian If I, as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, can get to the point where I am able to swallow my pride and humble myself before God and before brother, sister in Christ when necessary. If I'm able to do that, and I'm able to say, God, I'm not my will, but thy will be done, I submit to your will, if I can get to that point, I'll tell you, I'm a growing strong Christian. And so swallowing their pride and submitting to God's will. I think some of the greatest joys in the Christian life This May, it'll be 42 years ago that I trusted Christ as Savior. I can't even believe that. I don't even feel like I'm that old. 42 years ago, and of that 42 years, some of the most, some of the greatest joy I've had in my Christian life is when I've been in fellowship with God's people. I tell you, it's hard to beat. It's hard to beat being in fellowship with God's people. Now this year has been a challenge, but I tell you on Sundays when we get together and the people of God are here And we're in fellowship one with another, and we're singing praises to God, and we're praying, and we're humbling ourselves before the Word of God as God speaks to our heart. I tell you, I walk out of here, and my heart and soul is filled with the joy of the Lord. Being in fellowship with God's people is a tremendous thing. And here you have the nation of Israel has been divided and has been fighting for seven and a half years. And they swallow their pride, they submit to God, and that nation comes back together. That nation is reunited. When we're right with God and in fellowship with God's people, I'm telling you, nothing beats it. Nothing in the world beats it. Take your Bible. Now keep your place here. Would you go to Psalms chapter 133 with me? Psalms 133. When you get there, if you look above verse number one in your Bible, right above verse one, it is going to say a Psalm of David, a song of degrees of David. So that's simply telling us that David penned this Psalm 133. I tried to do a little research on this and find out, I wanted to know what was the context What was the circumstances that David was in when he penned this? Now, of course, this is under the inspiration of God's. God's giving him the words and the thoughts, but God uses the circumstance, his personality. God uses that for him to record. And so I wonder what was the circumstance, was the situation. And the scholar, Bible scholars that I look to that know more about it than I do, none of them agreed. Pretty much, I should say this, most of them agree. We don't know. What the circumstances were, or what the situation was, but one of them said this, and this is what caught my attention. One of them said, we don't know specifically what the circumstances were, but whatever they were It was a time when David and God's people were in harmony. It was a time when David and God's people were in fellowship. And I don't know. I have no idea. I won't know perhaps till I get to heaven, and maybe when I get there, I won't care. But I've got a sneaking suspicion that maybe It was when David, when this event tr uh was over, maybe David retired to his study and sat there and contemplated on the nation of Israel setting their differences aside, humbling themselves And coming together and being one flesh and one bone, being reunited, I wonder, I wonder. God didn't move on David's heart and he write wrote this down. Look what it says. Psalms 133. Look at verse 1. Behold, calling for attention, hey, look at this. Listen to this. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in what? Unity. I circled that word in my Bible. It is like the precious ointment upon the beard that ran down the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts of his garments. As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descendeth upon the mountains of Zion, there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life evermore. How good and how pleasant it is For brethren to dwell together in unity. You know, you have a divided nation. It's pretty miserable, isn't it? Have a divided nation. It's upsetting. It's disturbing. I got where I don't even hardly look at I don't look at the news at all. I just uh stuff on social media. I just look for my friends s saying something positive or family doing something. Uh I it's just upsetting You have a nation that's divided, it's upsetting. Hey, you got a church that's divided. That's miserable That's miserable. I've been in churches in years gone by, a couple instances where the church was divided, and I'm telling you, you almost dread going to the house of God. He's sick to your stomach. God's people are fussing and fighting with each other. I tell you, division and disunity in the whole is absolutely miserable. Terrible thing. But when God's people dwell together in unity, we swallow our pride, we submit to the Lord, and that's not guarantee that everything's going to go our way. Sometimes we can't control other people's actions. But brother, when that comes together, it is a blessed thing. It is a blessed thing. I have to say this. These 27 years at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church have been an absolute joy. To come with God's people and uh and fellowship together and and laugh together and cry together and rejoice together. Uh I think that's the way it's supposed to be. Amen? That's the way it's supposed to be. And so David is at a critical point, a turning point, a key point in his life, and then in the nation of Israel, as this nation has come together. under the man that God has chosen to be their king. And it's a blessed thing. So the first thing I notice here is the reunion of God's people. Then I notice in verse 2, the first part of verse 2, I notice their recognition of David's faithfulness. Come back there to 2 Samuel 5. It says, uh, behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh, verse 1. Then verse 2, they say this. Now, this is the elders of Israel coming to David. Alright? Also, in time past, when Saul was king over us, now here's what we commented on when we read this initially: thou wast he that led us out and brought us in Israel. And the Lord said to thee, thou shalt feed my people, Israel, and shalt be a captain over Israel. They're coming to David and they're they're making a few statements here and um they say we recognize some things about you, David. David's loyalty to Israel, David had been very, very loyal to Israel. We noted that as we went through. Do you remember as we studied that? Not one time did he retaliate against Saul. or against the nation of Israel. Now the whole army of Israel is after him, under the leadership of Saul. Not one time does David retaliate. In fact, when he had the opportunity to take Saul out, what did he do? He refused to do it. He says, I'm not raising my hand against God's anointed. I'm not going to touch God's anointed. And what happened was David had been intensely loyal to Israel, intensely loyal to the king And here's the thing, they noticed. Even though they were his enemies at the point, even though they were the ones pursuing him, now they're admitting, hey, that whole time, David, you've been loyal to God's people. You've been loyal. You know, loyalty is not something that we need to advertise. Nobody needs to go around blowing the trumpet how loyal. I'm loyal. I'm the most loyal person in this church. Brother, we don't need to do that at all. What we need to do is just be loyal and people will notice it. People will notice it. David's loyalty, he had been loyal there. His faithfulness was obvious And it doesn't need to be advertised. Faithfulness to God, loyalty to God and God's people, is highly praised by God. Loyalty to God's people. Faithfulness is a very valuable and is very valuable and very necessary in ministry. You find you you show me somebody that maybe isn't that gifted. Maybe they're not the most intelligent person in the world. Maybe they They're not uh have the greatest personality. But brother, if they can be faithful to the Lord, God can use them. Faithfulness And and people notice that and people see that. I've been saying now for several years, I don't know where I came across this, but one of the greatest things a Christian can do to promote the well-being of their church is just be faithful. I'm preaching the choir tonight. You drove through ice storms to get here tonight I don't know why y'all aren't more faithful, but uh you can't get much more faithful than that. And folks tuning in faithfully, faithfully David was loyal and faithful to God and to Israel, and people noticed it. People noticed it. Paul told the church at Corinth: it is required in stewards that a man be found Faithful. That's what God wants. Say, what does the Lord want from me? Just be faithful. Just be faithful to the Lord. Be faithful to God's people. Listen to Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 6. Listen to this statement. A faithful man, who can find? A faithful man who can find? Now that little statement there, what does that imply to us? King Solomon is asking under the inspiration of God a faithful man who can find? What's that tell us about faithful men? They're hard to find. It's pretty rare. It's pretty rare. Faithfulness to church, faithfulness to the Lord, faithfulness to my brothers and sisters in Christ. Who can find that? David was faithful. He didn't have to blow the horn. He didn't have to advertise everybody how faithful he was. They saw it and they noticed it So, number one, the reunion of God's people, they swallowed their pride, they submitted to the Lord's will, and came back to Hebron, came back to David and said, Hey, we're flesh and blood, we're uh we're flesh, flesh, and boat. We're one family. We're one people of God. We're together. And then they had the recognition of David's faithfulness. Said, David, you've been faithful. We saw. We watched you all these years You're faithful. You're faithful. And the third thing I recognize here is I notice their resignation to the will of God Their resignation to the will of God. Another word for resignation is their submission to God's will. Look with me, if you would, at the second part of verse 2 and down through verse 3. And the Lord, and the Lord, and these are the people talking to David, the elders of Israel are speaking to David. And notice what they say. Thou shalt feed my The Lord, uh let me back up verse 2, the middle of verse 2. And the Lord said to thee, now they're acknowledging this, the Lord said to thee, David, thou shalt feed my people Israel. And thou shalt be a captain over Israel. You know what they're doing? They're saying that's God's will, David. God told you that. God said that And we're going to resign to his will. We're not going to fight God anymore. We're not going to rebel anymore. We are submitting ourselves to the man that God has chosen to be king of Israel. Thou shalt be my people, Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over them. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron And King David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel Here, I made this, I said this here a little bit ago. I want to say it again. In submitting to David as their king, they were submitting to God as their Lord. You get that? By them recognizing this is he's the one God chose, this is God's will, and submitting to that, they're really submitting to the Lord. They're really submitting to the Lord. I tell you, it's a wonderful thing. To submit to the will of God. Does anybody here know what it's like to be out of the will of God? Anybody ever been there? Phew! That's a bad place to be I hate to say it, but there's been more one occasion, at least in heart and mind, I got out of the will of God. And there is nothing, there is no joy associated with being out of the will of God Now if you've never been there, I'm telling you, take my word for it, it is not worth going out of the will of God. There's a price to pay, it's miserable In fact, pastoring in the ministry all these years, many, 35 plus years, most miserable people I've ever met have been Christians. Who were out of the will of God, under God's chastisement, conviction, guilt, shame. It is a miserable, miserable place to be. But I'll tell you, you get back, you humble yourself and swallow your pride and say, I want to be in God's will. I tell you, there is a peace that comes with that. There is a joy that comes with knowing I'm in the will of God. I've said pastoring Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has been the joy of my life for all these years, but it wasn't always easy. There's some rough spots in there There are some times where I think, man, a line. But I tell you what helped me. I tell you, we were talking about this before. I tell you what helped me drop the shoulder and go up the gut. Press on, just keep on. You know what helped me do that? I knew I was in the will of God. I knew I was in the will of God. I don't say much about this, but Occasionally I'll get a call or somewhere, some church want me to come candidate for their church or whatever. Uh different things over the years it's happened. And I'm telling you before I hung every time before I even hung up the phone, I knew if I would leave here, I'd be out of the will of God I'd be out of the will of God. I would be miserable and unhappy. And I'm telling they offer me millions of dollars. Oh my word. And uh There's not what I'm trying to say is this, there's nothing in the world like being smacked dad in the middle of the will of God. These people come and they said, David, God chose you to be king. We recognize that. We submit to that. We want to be in God's will. Brings peace, brings blessing, brings spiritual prosperity. Say if I get in the will of God, then I'll I'll I'll be really be prosperous. Well, spiritually, here's the thing. Sometimes being in the will of God may mean poverty. May mean persecution. I read today, young Muslim boy persecuted over in the Middle East for his faith in Christ, right smack dab in the will of God, and the peace and the confidence he had, knowing, I mean God's will, and they eventually killed the boy. But he had a powerful testimony. The will of God brings peace. It brings blessing. It brings spiritual prosperity. You know, if you're prospering spiritually, it doesn't matter how much money's in your pocket. You're just happy and joyful and confident. God takes care. Isn't that a good thing? The will of God. The will of God. This submission to God's will, first of all, I notice in verse 3, first part of verse 3, was prompted by the elders. Look who prompted this thing. Verse 3. So all the elders of Israel came to the king in Hebron. Now that was a voluntary decision. David's not forcing them. By the way, nobody can force you into the will of God. I preach my heart out up here and I'll plead, and maybe you've got family and friends, they're pleading and begging, get right with God, get right with God. And uh, but nobody can make you do that, get in the will of God. You've got to make that decision yourself. And so they made the decision. It wasn't coerced by David. They made the decision themselves. Voluntarily, the elders came to David. And then it was voluntary, and here's these big words I like to use every now and then. It was voluntary and it was voluminous. How many people like that word? Voluminous. What I mean by that is there was a bunch of them. Go to Chronicles, go to 1 Chronicles chapter 12. First and 2 Samuel, 1 Chronicles, 1 Kings, then 1 Chronicles. Go over to 1 Chronicles chapter 12. And uh beginning in verse 23, we have the Chronicles account of this event. We're given a little bit more detail than we have in 2 Samuel. And we're not going to go through this whole passage, but just enough to get an idea of what this Group of elders consisted of that came to David to make him king. Look in verse number 23 And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready, armed to war. Now they've been fighting for seven and a half years. And came to David to Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul to him. Now look at this statement, according to the word of the Lord. They're submitting to the will of God. Now he goes down, he lists these. Now again, we won't take time to read all these. But it says verse 24: the children of Judah that bear shield and spear were 6,800, ready armed for war. The children of Simeon, mighty men of valor for the war, 7,000. Then he goes down, the children of Levi and uh and uh uh then children of benjamin he comes down if you take that and add that up it comes to about 340,000 Soldiers armed for war come to Hebron, where David is, under the leadership of the elders, and they say, We're recognizing you as king, we're submitting to the will of God. Wow. That's a heap of people. And that tells me it wasn't just a few people, big shots, making this decision. This was throughout the nation of Israel. God is moving in a powerful way. So it was prompted by the elders voluntarily, but man, a lot went along with them. A lot went along with them. It was carry and it carried a pledge of loyalty. Now come back. Let me quickly finish this up here. But look at verse 3. There was a pledge of loyalty and acceptance on the part of David. Notice there's a little statement in the middle of verse 3. So all the elders of Israel came to the king, to Hebron, and King David made a what? A league with them. Now they came to him And he says, listen, I want to make a league with you. I looked up that word league. It simply means this: an alliance or a commitment. Get this. Here's one of the definitions of the word league: a constitution. How about that? David is laying out the guidelines and the principles that he's going to rule as king by. He had a constitution. What do you think was Israel's constitution? Anybody take a guess? What was their constitution? Was it written by how many people signed our constitution? Fifty eight Where's our constitutional scholars at here? Oh, he wasn't signed. You know what Israel's constitution was, I think? You know what David's League was? I'm going to rule by that book right there, the Word of God. That was their constitution. God laid out exactly how they were to rule and how the government was to function. And so David David makes this pledge. I'm going to be loyal to the Word of God. Now the Bible doesn't tell us exactly what his league was, but I'm convinced that's what it was. He said, I'm going to rule by the book. I'm going to be the king God tells us to me to be. We're going to rule this country the way God tells us to. Wouldn't it be something if we get a president God up and say, we're going to rule this country by the old word of God Wouldn't that be something? Well listen, I'm telling you right now, don't hold your breath, okay? But that's the league, that's the constitution David made, this league he makes with them And so uh he it carried a pledge, it was prompted by the elders, it carried a pledge on David's part, it was a public recognition of God's will. Again, look at verse 3. It says this He made a league with them before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel. It's like, good grief, how many times are they going to anoint David? God anointed him as a young boy, privately, unseen or known by the rest of the nation. After Saul's dead, Judah says, we'll recognize you as king. He goes to Hebrew and And the tribe of Judah anoints him publicly. We are recognizing David as God's choice. Now the other eleven tribes come in, they submit to David's authority, they submit to the will of God, and they say, David We would like to anoint you publicly. Just let everybody know that we recognize God's hand is on you. You are God's choice. And so they're making this public fact that we are recognizing this is David's choice. Now, this is in no way related whatsoever, but it made me think of the act of baptism. Now that's not that's not a New Testament. There's no correlation here between the two. Other than this, when a person gets baptized, they're just publicly saying, I'm recognizing Christ died for me. I want to be submissive. I want to live a submissive life to the will of God. That's what baptism is. Read Romans 6. I am no longer lived to myself. I live for the Lord. I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so again, I'm not trying to connect the two in any way, shape, or form, other than they're both a public acknowledgement of recognizing the will of God for their lives and for their nation in particular here. And then last of all, I put this down, it included praise and celebration. Now you don't get that here. You read this, and it says the anointed David king over Israel. Then you get to verse 4. David was 30 years old, it began to reign. And he reigned forty years, and in Hebron he reigned over Judah seven, six months. Jerusalem he reigned thirty years. It sounds like when their their league is over, they anointed David. By reading that there, it sounds like they just did what I just went home. What it looks like, I said, well, I thought, well, that's, I'm reading, I thought that's awfully anticlimatic. This is huge. This is a milestone in the nation of Israel. And then I got over to 1 Chronicles. Go back there again where we just were. And look with me at chapter 12 again, 1 Chronicles, chapter 12. And at the end of that chapter, we're told that more took place. Than what's recorded in Samuel. Look with me. I'm going to begin reading in verse 38, the last couple verses of this chapter. It says, and all these men of war that were just listed, we touched on a little bit ago, all these men of war that could keep rank and came with a perfect heart to Hebrew, I mean they mean business, they're not they're not being uh hypocritical here at all. They they mean it. To make David king over all Israel and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make David king. I mean they're all in this. This is reunion. This is revival. And look at this. And there they were with David three days. What were they doing? Eating and drinking. You know what they were? They were Baptists. They were eating and they were just having a good time. I'm telling you, we eat all the time. We have Bible Institute class and we eat. And so they're just having a big party. This is a huge feast. Notice it goes on and says, for their brethren had prepared for them. Moreover, they Uh they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali brought bread on asses and on camels, on mules, on oxen and meat and meals and cakes of figs and bunches of raisins and wine and oil and oxen and sheep abundantly. You know what that was? That's a potluck dinner after morning church service Everybody's bringing their crock pots and their uh casseroles and everything. I mean, they're having a time. Now look at the last statement in verse number 40. For there was what? There was joy in Israel. There was joy in Israel. I want to end with this thought. There's nothing in the world like being in the will of God. There is no joy this world can produce that comes close, the joy that comes to being completely in the will of God. Exactly where, doing what, being the person God wants me to be. What a joy. For seven and a half years This nation, these 11 tribes have been fighting against the will of God. They've been rebelling Against God's word, what God said would be, now they broke down. They swallowed their pride, said, nope, we're going to be what God wants us to be. And God filled them with joy. And rejoicing. The happiest place in the world is in the will of God. Not the easiest, not the most comfortable, maybe The happiest place in the world is in the middle of God's will. And I want to suggest to you, as a child of God, the most miserable place in the world is out of the will of God. Is out of the will of God. What's going to take place now, this is the beginning of many years of tremendous prosperity and tremendous blessing on the nation of Israel Now, they're going to have some rough spots later on. They're going to have some great revivals and have God's blessing. But what takes place following this event is some of the greatest days in the history of Israel. All because they swallowed their pride and they submitted to God's will. And that's what we need to do. That's what we need to. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to learn from these tribes of Israel the importance of Just putting my will aside, importance of just saying, not my will, Lord, thy will be done. Swallow that old pride. And let your will be done in our lives. I wonder, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Pastor Leatherman, I know there's some areas where I buck against the Lord and I push against his will. I know it, my old simple nature. Maybe you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I learned just to submit to God, let his will be done. Is there anything like that? The uplifted hand. God bless you. My hand's raised. I know this old simple nature. Wants to do its thing, wants to push its way. Maybe there's an issue with someone just been fussing. No, that's not right. There's no blessing in that. Maybe some of us just need to swallow our pride. Swallow our pride and say, you know I was wrong. I'm not going to do this. I'm going to let the Lord have his way. Is there anything like that, preacher? I need to learn to just swallow my pride. Just swallow my pride. God bless you. My hand's raised. I'm there. I'm there. And so maybe tonight we just ask the Lord, whether we're here at church or at home, that old sofa that makes a good altar, chair, kitchen chair, wherever you're at, the side of the bed, just makes a good altar. And say, Lord, teach me these important attributes. Swallow pride. Submit to God's will. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.