But 1 Samuel chapter number 27, I want to read verses 5, 6, and 7. We've started this chapter, I believe, last week, and uh we're continuing through our study in the life of David Verse 5 of 1 Samuel 27 says, And David said unto Akish, If I have now found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some town in the country. that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee? And Achish gave him Ziglag that day, wherefore Ziglag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day. And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months. David is going through a Spiritual and mental valley right now. It's a dark place for David. He is in a period of doubts and discouragement And I've entitled the message, if you remember last week, I'm going to touch on this again, but last week we pointed out David's lapse of faith. When he went back to uh to Akish. And then tonight I want to look at David's reliance on the world. David's reliance on the world. Let's pray and I'll explain what I'm talking about here. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. that we can uh have so many copies of it so freely, so available to us. And uh we ask now that our Bible is open in front of us that you would speak to our hearts, that you would challenge us and help us To grow in our faith and develop our walk with you, that we can be a blessing to people, we can be an effective witness in this old sinful world, not just with our lips, but with our lives. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you, present my body and with all my heart. I pray you be the preacher. You speak through me, Lord. And help us and challenge us and change us where we need changing, I pray. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. No one is immune from discouragement Nobody gets through life without going through what John Bunyan described in Pilgrim's Progress as the slough of despond. Anybody ever read that? That's a classic. Most famous most uh best-selling book in all of history apart from the Bible. Slough of the spot. And in there he describes this Christian as on his Christian journey. It's allegorical the whole book. And uh he gets into this uh swamp, you might want to call it, and he really struggles. He's discouraged. Uh doubts begin to crop up in his mind, and he begins to question and wonder and and uh and uh is having a hard time. Uh that's where David is, I believe. Uh David is in this valley, this swamp of doubt and discouragement And actually, every one of us sometime in life are going to deal with it. Nobody gets through this life without having to deal with discouragement and uh without having to deal with doubt. And by the way, if we leave that unchecked. That discouragement, if we don't face it and we don't deal with it, if we leave these doubts unchecked, we don't face them and don't deal with them, they can have disastrous results. So it's a real part of life. It must be dealt with when doubt and discouragement rises its ugly head or settles down over us. We've got to face it, recognize it, and acknowledge it. And so, no one gets through life without doubts and discouragement. And David is no exception. He goes through these same things. Now, last week, if you remember, verse 1, 2, 3, and 4, we notice his lapse of faith David verse 1 said in his heart, I shall one day die at the hand of King Saul. That was not true. David's leaning on his own understanding. He has a lapse of faith here And uh he, for whatever reason, disregards the very clear, distinct promise of God that everyone else recognized. He disregards that, he leans on his own understanding, and he uh heads over to the Philistines So now here he is in verse 4, and I've entitled these three verses here, as I said, David's Reliance on the World. David becomes convinced That the word now get this. David convinces himself. Now he would never say it this way. Doesn't, it's not in these words here in Scripture. I doubt David would ever say it this way But he gets to the point here, to me it's pretty obvious, he is convinced that the world, now get this, the world can do more for him in his situation than God can He is convinced that he'll be safer outside the will of God, trusting in the Philistines and their uh cities and their protections than he is under the promises of God. I tell you what, that's a bad place to be When I get thinking in my head that I'm better off in the world than I am in the will of God, trouble's coming. How many people agree with me there? I'm going to get you to respond to me one way or another tonight if I have to pay you But no, I'm not going to do that. He's convinced he's safer in the camps of the enemies of God than he is under the promises of God. He's convinced he has more security with the world's defenses than he does with God's defenses. I tell you, when we disregard God's promises and we disregard God's power, the world begins to look awfully appealing to us. The world can be an intimidating place. The world can be a very appealing place for the Christian that has his eyes off of the Lord. The world can be very enticing for the Christian who disregards the promises and the instructions of God's Word. And David, for the man of great faith that he is, that slew the giant and slew ten thousand of Philistines And now he's running to them looking for safety and security. Here's my outline. I got four thoughts from three verses. Number one, my first thought is this. This is a repeated mistake on David's part. This isn't the first time he's gone to Akish To find shelter. This isn't the first time he's run to the Philistines to find shelter. This has happened once before, if you would. Come back to chapter 21. Now we looked at it. It's been a few months ago. But we study this in pretty much in depth. 1 Samuel chapter 21. Look with me at verse number 10. This is a repeated mistake. He made this same mistake earlier. 1 Samuel 21, look at verse 10. And David arose and fled That day, for fear of Saul, sounds like chapter 27, verse 1, I shall one day die at the hands of Saul. For fear of Saul, and went to Akish, the king of Gath. That's where he's going now again. The servants of Achis said unto him, Is not this David? And we went down through this. They said, Oh, this David, he's a guy who slew a whole slew of our soldiers. He's our enemy. And it says David laid up these words, verse 12, in his heart, and was sore afraid. And uh he char he changed his behavior, verse thirteen, and feigned himself mad. What was he doing? Talk to me now. What's he doing here? He's pretending he's nuts He's acting like he's out of his head. He's insane. And uh and uh it says um uh mad in their hands and scrabbled on the door of the gate and his spittle fell Let his spittle fall down upon his spirit. Don't you love the wording of the Bible sometimes? He's scrabbling on the door. Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo ye see the man is mad, wherefore uh have you brought him to me? So the first time David makes this mistake, he gets afraid of King Saul, he gets his eyes off of the Lord, off of the promises of God, he gets scared, and he runs over to Gath, the king Achish there And how did that turn out, good or bad? Pretty bad. I mean, he's totally humiliated when it's all said and done. Now, we would like to think that we would not make the same mistake twice. How many people would like to think that about yourself? I would never do that same mistake twice. Fact of the matter is we often make the same mistakes over and over and over. Can I get a witness Not unc it is a very common human malady to make the same mistake twice. So the first time, David Randah, Akish In Gath, it was humiliating. The second time it's disaster. We're going to see this. Almost disaster. Had God not intervened. Did ever hear that old saying, a mistake made once is a learning tool? A mistake made twice is what? Anybody ever hear that? Nobody ever heard that. It's one of my favorite verses. It's not really a verse. It goes like this: a mistake made once is a learning tool. A mistake made twice is by a fool. Now, I'm not prepared to call David a fool. Because I've made, I've done my share of second, third, and fourth mistakes, the same thing over and over and over again. But there's an element of truth in that statement. I'm not pre as I said, I'm not prepared to call David a fool, but this is a foolish action on David's part. Well now this is easy for me to say, it's easy for us to say this We're looking back. We see the whole thing. We're looking back two thousand or thousands of years later. We assess this. At the time, David thought this was the right thing to do. At the time, David was convinced And it's amazing, it's amazing how we convince how we can convince ourselves that something that is so is such a clear mistake is the right thing to do. Right or wrong? How many people here ever did something, you look back, said that was a mess, but at the time you thought for sure that's what I need to do? Yeah And so David's made this mistake before, and here he goes back again. The wording is very, very similar in chapter 21, verse 10, and chapter 27, verse 1 Not exact, but very similar. I got thinking about that and working on that a little bit, and uh I wondered how can we avoid making the same mistakes twice? What are some things we can do? We make a mistake. I don't want to do that again. I don't want that to happen again. I don't want to make that same mistake again. What can we do To help us avoid that, to put a safeguard up that that mistake does not happen again. Now I put three things down. Maybe you'd have some other ideas. Uh others could maybe suggest more. But I think there's three basic things. When we make a mistake, That we can do to avoid that mistake happening again. Let me list them for you here. Number one, I put this down. First of all, acknowledge the mistake First of all, I've got to be able to say, whoa, that was a mistake. I made a bad call. That was a mistake. We've got to acknowledge that. Now I believe that's one of the most important steps in avoiding repeating mistakes is first of all acknowledge and recognize that that was a mistake I made in the first place If I try to justify an obvious mistake I made, I'm vulnerable to repeating it. If I try to excuse or even deny a mistake, it just sets me up for making that same mistake over and over and over. I've got to be able to look at it, assess what happened, assess the decisions I made, assess the actions I took, and say, you know, that was a mistake. Just be honest With myself and with people around, take responsibility for the decision I made and the action I took. If you'll watch carefully, whether it's ourselves or watch others around us, those who are always blaming other people for their mistakes are always making the same mistakes over and over and over again because they never take responsibility for it for themselves. Now if I want to avoid making that same mistake again and again, then I've got to assess it. Be honest. That was wrong. That was a mistake. That was a foolish action. That was a mistake to say that, to go there, whatever it may be. And I'm responsible. I made that decision. Listen, there's no shame in admitting I made a mistake. That does not imply weakness on a person's part to admit they made a mistake. In fact, I want to suggest to you the exact opposite. It is weakness, it is a weakness in character for a person to not be able to take responsibility for a mistake they made The weakness in character. I learned a great lesson when I was in Bible college in an unlikely situation. We were having chapel down there at Temple and it was, you know, there's like three, four thousand students in chapel, this massive auditorium. There's three, four thousand students in chapel. We had chapels uh um uh Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, and then we had ch student chapel on Thursday. I've been in school there for several years um I had crammed a four year degree into six years, so uh it was um so I'd been there for a while And one of the assistants of the church, I mean, this is a huge church, they have in attendance on Sunday mornings, 10,000 people at the time. I mean, on campus, in attendance, 10,000 people. So this is one of the assistants, Dr. Robinson. And I don't know what happened, I don't know what he did, I don't know any of the background, but he got up in chapel one day in front of the whole student body And he said this. He says, I have to I have to address something. He said, I made a mistake. And I don't remember what it was. I don't know all the story he said what it was And he says, uh, I want to apologize to the student body. I made a mistake, I was wrong, and I accept responsibility for it. I tell you what, I learned as much in that three minutes about Christian character and responsibility than I did probably in six years of college. Owning responsibility. I learned this. You're never too big To acknowledge a mistake you've made. And it is not weakness, it is strength of character That says, you know, I was wrong, I made a mistake. The more we justify our mistakes, the more we excuse our mistakes, the more we deny our mistakes, the more we try and blame someone else for our mistakes We're just getting ourselves in a rut. It's going to happen over and over and over and over. So the number one thing I put down is acknowledging. By the way, a wise, let me start with myself, a wise pastor, a wise pastor will be willing to admit his mistakes. Now, if I ever do one, I'll point it out to you, but no, seriously. A wise pastor is will be willing to admit, recognize, admit his mistakes A lot of people hurt their ministries, not because they made a mistake, but because they failed to acknowledge it and take responsibility for it. A wise pastor is willing to admit his mistakes. Let me put it this way. A wise parent A wise parent will acknowledge and take responsibility for the mistakes. Listen, your children see you make a mistake and you deny it, you blame your spouse. You justify excuse in front of your kids. Your kids aren't dummies. They see it. They figure that out. They know. But you know, a mommy or a daddy sits down and says Bobby, Susie, whoever. Listen, I was wrong. That was a mistake. I'm sorry. And I I don't want to do that again. I want you to know I was wrong in that situation. How many people agree with me? That might teach the child something. That's character development by example, by model. Now we don't want to make mistakes, we want to avoid as much as we can, apply ourselves as much as we can, but it's inevitable they're going to happen. And so what I need to do, number one, is acknowledge it, own it, take responsibility for it. Number two, to avoid uh repeated mistakes, I put this down. Learn from them Learn from them. If I make a mistake, I need to come out of that. Look at the what look at the decision I made. and analyze the actions I took. And then here, what were the consequences of those actions? What were the results? What did they produce? And then look at that whole process. Why did I respond the way I did, or act the way I did, or say what I did, or behave the way I did? Why did I do that? What was it I did and what were the consequences of it? And I tell you, a mistake can be a powerful, powerful learning tool. for the one who made that mistake. I can come out of it a better person. I can come out of it a stronger, a wiser man Because I assessed what happened and I learned from it. I must carefully analyze where I went wrong. Why did I decide to do what I did? What was my motivation? What was my thinking process at the time? That's the problem. Usually we look back and say, we don't even know what we were thinking. But learn from it, benefit from it, grow from it, develop from that mistake. And then I put this down, number three, correct it. Correct it. Don't just leave it hanging. Correct it. Go back and try and fix it anyway and every way you can. Now sometimes we make mistakes that are you can't correct. It happened, it's done, I can't go back and change it. But I can learn from it, I can be a better person from it, and I can avoid doing that same thing again. Failure to correct a mistake assures me of continued failure. Failure to acknowledge, as we said, a mistake assures me of continued failure. Um I got trying to try to think through the Bible of some Bible characters who made repeated mistakes, did not learn Did not uh didn't acknowledge it, number one, didn't learn from it, and never corrected it, but just went over and over and over again. And I'm wondering, can you think of any Bible characters That made repeated mistake, the same mistake, again, in some cases, again and again and again and again. Samson. How many people were just thinking about Samson? That was the first one that came to my mind. He never did learn from his weakness for women. I mean you read through the life, uh the record of Samson in the Bible, and he's just making the same mistake over and over and over. And by the way, how'd that turn out for him? Not so good. Not so good. Now I was trying to think of others. Did anybody think of any others? The Bible say made a repeated mistake repeatedly. Abraham with his wife. That was the only other one I could think of. Remember, he went to Egypt, lied about her, and then later on he does the same thing again. I think he learned the second time, hopefully. But uh Peter, you could say, maybe opening his mouth, you know, and and saying stuff, and then he finally uh got victory over that But correct it. Correct it. Don't just go on and keep making the same mistake again and again and again. A mistake made once is a learning tool. A mistake made twice is by a fool. Now that's a strong statement, but the truth behind it is this. If I make a mistake and I don't learn from it, it doesn't benefit me, it doesn't help me get better. Then I'm foolish. I'm foolish. I'm wasting that opportunity. And trust me, the Christian life, if you haven't learned this yet, the Christian life is dealing with mistakes. Right? Not on the Lord's part, but on our part. You see that in the Christian, in the in the record in Scripture, we see that in our own lives. So the first thing I noticed as I got looking at this, and in fact it was one of the first thoughts that came to mind as I started studying this, uh, we've been down this road before. And so this is a repeated mistake. I got a couple minutes. Let me give you a couple of my other thoughts here real quick. David used a clever approach. Look at verse number five with me. And David said unto Akish. Now listen to what he's saying. Now apparently, it doesn't say this. I'm speculating here. David has been over here a little bit time now. He's been here a little while. And he's been in the royal city, whatever that there in uh in uh Gath. He says, I have now found grace. If I have now found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some town where In the country that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee? What's David saying? He's been in the c apparently, and I was speculating, but apparently he's been in the city for a little while, and he decides It's better for me not to be in this big city, but to be out in the rural, out in the sticks, out in the country somewhere. Now, anybody want to talk to me? Why would why would he why would he want to do that? Any ideas? Ah, in fact, that's the exact statement I've got written down. Out of sight, out of mind. Here's the important thing to keep in mind: David's making a mistake, but he is not defecting to the Philistines. He's fleeing Saul and he's using them for his own advantage. He's fleeing Saul and he's using them mistakenly As a shield, a protection from King Saul, a shelter from King Saul. Now he has a shelter far greater than the Philistines. It's the promise of God. But he's pushed that aside. That's out of his mind right now. And he goes to the Philistines. So he's not defecting. He's not coming over to the Philistines to help the Philistines kill Saul and defeat Israel. No, no, no. He doesn't want Saul dead. He just wants a reprieve. He just wants a shelter. So he comes there and he sets in their city, the royal city And David makes a very savvy, how many people are familiar with the word savvy? I like that word. That's a cool word. What's it mean if somebody is savvy in their behavior or their actions? They're smart, they're clever, uh they assess the situation pretty well. Uh the word the definition kept coming to my mind, it's just me, but is worldly wise, you ever hear uh how about this Ever hear this definition, streetwise? They figure out how things work. They figure out what needs to be done so I can get through this and survive and succeed. Well, David's pretty savvy. And he gets in there and he realizes if I'm in the royal city, I am right under the nose of the king and the military leadership and apparatus of the Philistines. He's not going to be able to get away with too much in the royal city. And so he makes this very humble albeit little deceptive appeal. Oh, I'm not worthy to be in this city with the royal city with you all. Oh uh just let me stay out in the country and uh get out in the rural areas and and uh uh boy he he presents himself as unimposing. I don't want to be a burden to you guys. Are you kidding? He'd kill him at the drop of a hat if he could. I don't want to be a burden to you guys. Oh, I don't I'm not worthy to be in the royal city. I'm unimportant. In reality, he wants to be out of sight, out of mind. He wants to be able to do his thing without them controlling him. He's got a plan. There's no doubt in my mind he knows exactly what his plan is. David is not defecting to the Philistines, as I said. He's not abandoning Israel He's fleeing from Saul, but get this. David, though he made a mistake to his credit, he is still loyal to Israel. He is still loyal to his king. It doesn't look that way, and I believe he's going about it a wrong way. I think it's a mistake in how he's going about it. But he's not become disloyal to Saul. He's not become disloyal to Israel. He has a scheme. He is a very savvy warrior. And he knows where he needs to be so that he can accomplish what he's going to accomplish. Now we'll notice that in another message, maybe a week or two. Then my third observation is this: David gains a false sense of security. He gets there and he gets in his little ziglag, verse number six. Then Achish gave him Ziglag that day. By the way, Ziglag was originally a city owned by, uh was part of the tribe of Judah. When they came in and Joshua distributed the land, Zaglag was given to the tribe of Judah. This was one of Israel's original cities. This was their legitimate uh property if so to speak. And the Philistines had conquered and taken it. And uh uh Akish, unbeknownst, gives that back to David, unbeknownst to what David's up to, what he's uh what his scheme is. And so he has this false sense of security. Salt, quit pursuing me. I got a little bit of reprieve there. I can relax. I don't have to watch my back every 24 hours 24-7. But it's a false sense of security. David is going to pay a heavy price here in a little bit. I mean, it's going to scare him. God will intervene and take care of them. But this is not what it appears to be. I put this down. Everything the world offers, you and I as a believer, is temporal. The best the world can offer us is something etemporal, right? Name one thing for me the world can offer that's eternal. Nothing. This world's going to pass away. Heaven and earth will pass away. This world can offer can offer me nothing that is more than temporal. And I suggest to you, because of that, everything the world offers us is superficial. There's no substance to it And we could you could preach a series of messages on that. So David is fleeing to the world to find some security, some sense of safety. And he does, but it is a false security, it's a false safety. It is superficial. It's not going to last. And we're going to see that. There is no real safety or security outside of the will of God. Now that's a good statement right there There's no security or safety outside the will of God. And he is outside the will of God, Prophet Samuel told him, You stay in the tribe of Judah. And so he gains this false sense of security, which will dissolve here in a little while. And then last of all, quickly, I put this down. This became an extended endeavor. Look with me at verse number seven. And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a what? What's it say? A full year and Four months. How many months is that? That's sixteen months. That's a long time. How many people would like to be in lockdown for sixteen months? That'd be a long time. I'm convinced. I'm absolutely convinced. David had no intention when he fled to the Philistines. He had no intention for being there 16 months. Uh uh my thinking is he went over there a brief time, wreaked some havoc on them, maybe Saul would uh would r genuinely turn around and and uh he'd be able to go back home. I don't know exactly what thing it was, but I in my mind I'm convinced he wasn't planning on being there that long. He wasn't planning on being there that long Abraham went down to Egypt because of the famine. He ended up staying down there longer than I believe you ever intended. Ended up bringing Hagar back with him. Cost them dearly. Um Lot went down to Sodom, stayed there way too long. Boy, it cost them dearly Somebody said this. I heard again back when I was in Bible college, a preacher came in and preached. I don't know if it's original with him. This was early 80s. But he made this statement. I've written in a lot of my Bibles. It's stuck in my mind all these years. It goes like this: Sin will take you farther than you want to go. It will cost you more than you want to pay, and it will keep you longer than you want to stay. Oh, we'll just play it a little bit. Oh, we'll just go over there and oh we we got it under control. I got it under control. How many people have told me, oh yeah, uh I'm a smoker, but I can quit whenever I want. I've done it. Scores of times. Yeah, right. If you can quit, why do you have to keep doing it over and over and over again? You follow what I'm trying to say David goes outside the will of God. He disregards the promises of God. He looks to the world for security and safety. And it's just a facade, and he ends up being there for 16 months. Sixteen months. The first step out of the will of God may lead to down a very, very long road. Now here's a statement I want to end with. I hope you get this. When we lean on our own understanding, And disregard God's will. It always ends in trouble. Let me say that again. When we lean on our own understanding and we disregard God's will, it always ends in trouble. Simple little saying, you've probably heard it. God's way is the best way. God's way is the best way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord, to learn. to trust you. Help me, Lord, to learn to simply take you at your word and trust my life and my future and my uh my all to you and just rest in your promises Help us, Lord, to learn from our mistakes, to assess them and become stronger from them, and be able to help others, perhaps I thank you for David. Not grateful for this experience, but I'm grateful for it's recorded for us that we can learn from it. And grow from it. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many say, Preacher, I made my share of mistakes. I want to learn from them. I want to be better because of them. Maybe we haven't always done that. But maybe tonight we say, you know, I just want to learn from that. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, I I want to learn from. Maybe some of us have made a mistake recently, and we need to own it. We need to take responsibility. Maybe God brought something to mind Maybe the Holy Spirit brought something to your heart and mind. You say, you know, I need to take responsibility for that. I believe it's strength of character that does that. And then this matter of just trusting the Lord, not getting out of the will of God. I tell you, one step out of the will of God can lead to a very, very long, dark road. Let's stay in God's will. Let's return to our Lord. And just trust him. Let him lead us step by step, day by day His words, a lamp unto our feet, a light unto our path. Just let him lead us. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads up