Well, we're coming to the end of the the Goliath incident. And I hate it. I don't want to stop studying about David and Goliath, but we're coming to the end of the chapter. And I want to begin reading in verse number 54. The only thing I would correct in that song, they sang that he flung the stone, but the Bible says he slang it. Yes. I know. Yes. Please do not Yes, I like it. Yes they are. The West Virginians are speaking old English is what it is. Swanging on the porch. Two things we take from that conversation. One, she's obviously a teacher. And two, I was wrong. Listen, I'm not correcting the Bible, trust me, I'm just appreciating. the terminology there. I like slangin. I like in uh Acts it says base uh vile men of the baser sort I always thought that was a this has nothing to do. All right, let's get back to the subject here. Verse 54. David uh Goliath is dead. The Israelites have been are routing the Philistines. They're running for their lives Uh the the Israelites are in pursuit, they're destroying them, they're slaughtering. This is a the tide has turned instantly. And Israel is now conquering and defeating their enemies who just a few moments ago they were absolutely terrified of, they were convinced they were duped. And so that's where we pick up in verse 54. And David took the head of the Philistine. Now remember, he cut it off. What did he use to cut off Goliath's head? Goliath's sword. So now he takes that head that he's cut off. And brought it to Jerusalem. But he put his armor in his tent And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Amner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell. The king said, Inquire thou, whose son uh whose son the stripling is And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite So we're finishing up our thought. David dispatches Goliath. Let's pray. And we'll look at these last verses here. Father, we thank you for this study. It's been a blessing, an enjoyment, a challenge, and convicting to me as I've studied through here I pray you'd use these last few verses here in this passage to challenge us to have faith in you as was just sung And to trust you and step out in obedience and faith and allow you to use us to have an impact in this world for the glory of God. I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will again. And I'm wanting and pleading with you, Lord, to speak through me. And challenge us and help us, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. We noted, first of all, that David was instant in his attack. We saw verses 48 through 50. And uh we talked about that. Then we got down our second thought under this whole passage was that uh David was intense in his execution. He ran, he stands on top of um Uh he stood upon uh um uh Goliath. Um he slew him, the Bible says. And then we noted that last time that he was inspirational in his victory. Now I want to touch on this Notice verse 52. Let's back up a little bit. It says the men of Israel and of Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines until they'll come to the valley and to the gates of Ekron And the wound of the Philistine fell down by the way of Sheriam, even unto Gath and unto Ekron. The children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they spoiled their tents And so David slew Goliath, he cut his head off, everybody sees it. Israel is all fired up, they're hollering and yelling, they go racing after the Philistines. The Philistines flee for their lives. They don't pack up their tents, they don't pack up their supplies. They just leave them where they are, and they go running. Israel goes after them, they're slaughtering and killing them. Then Israel comes back. If you notice there in verse 53, the children of Israel return from chasing after the Philistines, and what'd they do? They spoiled their tanks. They went and uh got the supplies and they come walking back into camp with just bags and wagons and armloads of food and ammunition no doubt, what swords and whatever They had in supply. They're bringing them back. And actually it was after Goliath was killed that the battle really begins. Now, here's the point I want to take from this, and I didn't have time last time to touch on this, so before we move on, I do want to touch on this. When David got the victory over Goliath, which was significant That provoked, or you could say encouraged the others to step out and take action also. You follow where I'm going with this? And what I'm s what I was challenged by this, and I think something we can take away from this, is when you and I act in faith. And we see something where maybe it looks overwhelming, we can't do that, but we trust God, and we step out and we go ahead and do what's right We go ahead and do what we know is the right thing to do. We go ahead and step out and we do what's right. A lot of times, God will use that to encourage others to do the exact same thing. You see w see what I mean? David's act of faith and and courage and engaging Goliath and destroy him encouraged and emboldened the others to do the same thing and go after the enemies of God's people. And what I thought of when I was working through this, when I was out in Colorado, we moved out in um I think it was April or May of nineteen ninety one. We moved to Colorado from Indianapolis. A friend of mine, Mark Manning, had gotten there just before I did, and he was starting a church there in Boulder. There was no uh good solid independent fundamental baptist church and so he was starting one was very challenging. We got out there a few months after it actually began meeting and we got involved with that It was that following spring that um it was a Saturday morning, I got a phone call. And we always went out visiting. Saturday was church soul-winning time. I think it was like 10 o'clock or whatever. We'd meet at the church and pray and then go out visiting. The church was small. It was a handful of people. So everybody, all the members of the church came soul winning. Oh, what a wonderful thought that is. But um they all came soul win. The whole church did, everybody. All five of them James Holwyn. But so I was get we were up and I was kinda getting ready. It was pretty early in the morning. I got a phone call that was Pastor Manning and he said, Brother Leatherman, I gotta can you come over to my house real quick? I said Yeah, I'll finish getting dressed. I'll be over there. It was like seven in the morning. I went running over. We sat in the living room. He says, Um, I got a question. I said, Okay. This isn't this is my pastor. It's a good friend of mine, but he's my pastor He said, um, he kind of he hauled around a little bit, he said, would you baptize me? This is my pastor. I said, what are you talking about? He goes, I need to be baptized. He said, I've been praying for revival. I want things to be right. And God's been speaking my heart. I need to be baptized. I said, why do you need to be baptized? Isn't that something already taken care of? And he goes, well, and he says, when I was young, I made a profession of faith and I had gotten baptized as a child. He said, I didn't live for God. There was no evidence of salvation, but I always marked that. I got saved by He said when I got to be a teen God really got a hold of my heart and He says at that point I got assurance of my salvation And he says, I'm not sure whether I actually got saved at the time I got assurance, and I was never really saved to begin with, or maybe I was saved, but I never had assurance And I got it short and said, but whatever the case was, at this point, whatever the date was, whatever the thing was, a as a late teens, that is I got it settled. He said, God's been really speaking in my heart that I need to be baptized as a testimony to the fact that I'm saved. I know I'm saved. And I said, okay. I said, all right, we'll do it. And uh he says, we need to get authority from the church because you're not not a pastor. Um so we all met together, or there was probably about eight or twelve, fifteen. And uh he explained to them what the situation is. I recommend church the give uh brother Leatherman authority to baptize uh me in this case. I said, okay. And so they all, yeah, yeah, definitely. And everybody's just amazed, you know, what in the world And so um there we didn't have any baptistry or anything, so all we had, this is April in Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. So all we had to baptize him was the crick. That comes down from the mountains where the snow melts and it's like thirty-two and a half degrees just above freezing. So we said, all right, we've got to go up Boulder Creek and get baptized. So we're getting ready. I didn't have waiters or nothing, you know. And so um we got on the way, we start packing up, we're gonna go over there. My wife comes up and tags on the hell of my coat. And I said, What's up? She goes, You baptize me too. I said, What? She goes, Well, I never really got baptized after I got saved. I got baptized so many times before when I wasn't really saved that after I got saved I always figured that no ones before were good enough. And uh it won't be an issue. I said, seriously? She goes, Yeah, I really need to be baptized. I said, Okay. So that day I baptized my pastor and my wife. How many people can say they've done that? And that water was so cold. Uh we were that was the fastest baptism I've ever done in my life. About a month later, all the Bible time evangelists show up. Back then we had about fifty-fifty-five of them. I mean there was tons. And they're all there, and Pastor Manning always preached to them. He was he'd get involved in the training a little bit And he told them that experience. He said, let me tell you what. And he says, if you don't have your baptism straight, you need to do that. By the end of training, we ended up baptizing 18 Bible-time evangelists. That had questions or doubts or weren't sure whether their baptism was scriptural or not. Some of them they just weren't baptized But the point from that is when Brother Mark said, I don't care what people think, I don't care what people say, I want to make sure things are right, when he stepped out and did that, that prompted others. to consider themselves and step out and get it right. And I think that's what we see happening here with David. David steps out in faith, in courage, he conquers through the power of God and through the providence of God. He conquers Goliath, he's dead. And then all the others say, Hey, you know what? We can get involved in this. We need to do our part. And it prompts them. And so the challenge from that little thought is this you and I It's more than just you and I doing what we know we're supposed to do and trusting God. It's the influence we have in doing that. And the influence we have in not doing that I want to suggest to you the fact that Saul did not go out to Saul was the champion of Israel, right? By all means, he should have been the champion of Israel, challenging the champion of the Philistines. But him not trusting God, him not going out, influenced an entire army to not go out And so our act, when we act on faith and obey God and God does something, that has a profound influence. However, when we do not act on faith, And we choose not to trust God and do what we know is the right thing to do, that has a profound influence also on others. And it's not always easy. Sometimes, you know, sometimes there are things sometimes doing the right thing requires a tremendous amount of courage. Sometimes doing the right thing requires a tremendous amount of faith. But when we trust God and we put our fears aside and step out and do what we know God would have us to do, that has a tremendous influence on others. And so that's where I got the thought that David was inspirational in his victory. When he trusted God, brought down that giant through the power of God, um That inspired others to step out and do what they should do also. And so I think that's true. I think that's true in a number of areas in the matter of salvation. I've seen over the years there's been times where I had lost people in church. I preach the gospel salvation. I'm thinking of Bible time rallies, particularly when I was doing them. You know there's lost people there. You know the Holy Spirit's dealing with their heart, but nobody responds until finally one of them steps out. And comes down the aisle response. And a lot of times after that one does, then it's like the ice is broken. Then others will come also. I think it's true in soul winning. Somebody says, I'm going to be a soul winning, I'm going to get out, I'm going to get involved in reaching community. And they step out, and then that prompts others. To step out and do the same thing. And you can go down the list of any any areas of Christian life. That's one reason I think giving testimonies on Sunday night is so important That folks hear what God did for us, or maybe what God did through us. And of course we give God the glory. When God does something, then that encourages and challenges others. Hey, I can do that also And so David was inspirational in his victory. Now, we want to get to this last part that I just read here, and I put it this way: this is my final thought in this passage, that David was insightful in his conquest. He had insight. David does some things here that have significance. Just reading on the surface, they seem kind of strange. Right? See verse 54. He took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem. So he's already cut the head off, and so he gets that head, and when he eventually goes back to Jerusalem, he's taking it with him He's walking down the street and he's got whatever his uh uh carriage and stuff that he left with someone else he gets at he's going down and I thought it was interesting. Look, did you notice in verse Uh 57, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, brought him before Saul. What did David have in his hand when he stands before Saul? He's got so I got thinking about that. I can see David's walking around the camp carrying this head everywhere he goes. Um that's kind of gruesome. You know, I imagine the blood's drained out by now. I was trying to picture it. You know, it's all pale and white, the eyes are drying up and you want me to go into more detail? Has he has huge head. The eyes are probably like baseballs, you know. And he's carrying that thing around, I assume by the hair. It doesn't say how else I mean his ear, that would be weird And so David, I'm looking at this, and it seems strange. But David had a purpose. I think there's two reasons he took Goliath's head back to Jerusalem. Now, just for Bible study's sake, there's a little debate on some of the Bible scholars about Jerusalem. Some suggest Jerusalem was not in the possession of Israel at the time. Later on they had conquered uh the the the area that we know now is Jerusalem. And um and so whether and then others say no no no it was uh there was still an encampment there and there was a representation there. So I don't know Uh I can't argue that. I I can't say enough on that. But I do know this. He brought the head of Goliath back to Jerusalem. Now why would he do that? I think there's two reasons. One is he's sending a strong message to Israel's enemies. Everybody knew about Goliath. The Jebusites, the Amorites, the Philistines, they all everybody knew about Goliath. He was well known. He had five brothers, four brothers. Uh and so when they if he's coming back to Jerusalem, all the enemies of Israel, I mean word spread back then, just like today, they didn't have social media, but the word spread And uh he's walking back, and everybody's saying, Whoa, Israel defeated the champion of the Philistines And he is sending a powerful, powerful message. And this is the message that God is Almighty, that the God of Israel is greater than anything this world can throw at them. And he's walking back with this head. And I want to suggest to you that our victories, when we get victory over sin and our life is changed, and people see Christ in us That sends a powerful message to this world. When I worked at the meat packing plant, I was there for about a year and a half after I got saved, and not quite a year and a half somewhere around there, but um they'd seen a change in my life. And I'm telling you here, and and you guys understand it wasn't anything I did. I could not change myself. I tried and tried and tried. It was Christ changed my life And when they saw that, man, they hooped and hollered. They made fun of me. They threatened. One guy would constantly threaten me. He's going to beat me up and all this. For no other reason. I got saved. But when I resigned, I was going off to Bible college, and uh the last day I was there, and we're saying our goodbyes, every one of those guys that gave me such a hard time came up and shook my hand. And uh more than a few said something like this, Leatherman, I respect you. And one guy, big tall guy, Jim, he came up to me and he said, and he would just harass me to death. And he shook my hand. He said, he didn't say Brother Leatherman. He said, uh, he said, Leatherman, and he was said it real softly, he says, I wish I had what you got. I wish I had what you got. And what God did in my life sent a powerful message to all those fellows there in that meat pack and plan that God is able. God can deliver from sin. And so when David's walking back to Jerusalem carrying the head of the of the Philistine champion, all dried out and white and wrinkled and pale, there's flies all over it. You know, I really got into imagining what it looked like. They're saying, whoa. Whoa. Now when we have victory, that sends a powerful message to the Israelites. But I thought of the converse of that. When we're defeated. That sends a powerful message. When David walked back to Jerusalem carrying the head of Goliath, he was sending a powerful, powerful message to all the enemies of Israel. However, a number of years later, David failed. And the giant of lust conquered David. And holding David's head, so to speak, that sent a powerful message. And you know what Nathan said to David? He said, you have given opportunity to the enemies of Israel to blaspheme God And so you and I trusting God, you and I stepping out in faith, you and I doing what's right, even when it's hard, sends a powerful message, a positive message to this world about our God. But when we fail and we're defeated and sin conquers us, that also sends a powerful message. What kind of God is this? You're no different than us. There's nothing unique about you. I don't see I have what you have. And so there's a there's a significance to David carrying that That head back to Jerusalem, he is sending a tremendous message to the world. And then, but I think there's a second reason he's carrying this head back to Jerusalem. I think it's an encouraging memorial to the people of God. This is a memorial. God has designed a phenomenal computer That man can, and I don't believe will ever be able to duplicate. And we call that computer that God designed, we call it a brain. And he put it inside our heads. And that brain is incredibly amazing And everything you and I experience, everything we see, we're told, everything we see, everything we hear, everything we smell, every experience we have is recorded And preserved in that brain. You say, if it's all there, why can't I remember it? Memory is can be a good or bad thing. Right? I think God designed our memories, uh our brains to be able to forget some things. Because there are some things that we really need to be forgotten in our lives. Amen. Problem is sometimes Satan stirs them up and keeps bringing them back to mind. The only being that can forget on purpose is God. He says, I remember your sins no more. He deliber. Try and forget something. I'm gonna I'm gonna give the I'm gonna say um I stayed in a day's inn in Murfysboro, Tennessee. Now I want you to forget that. What end did I stay in in Murphy'sboro? You'll remember it. Now you'll forget it eventually, but try and forget it on purpose. Try and forget something on purpose. You can't. And so God designed us with brains that can remember but can also forget. Sometimes forgetting is good, however, sometimes forgetting is bad. Forgetting is bad sometimes. Um I thought when I was thinking this through, I thought of the founding pastor of Mount Lake uh Baptist Church who was first Baptist initially down uh downtown Oakland where Tom and Eddie's is where they met. It's called First Baptist Church of Oakland. And Ed Wilt was the founding pastor He passed away a number of years ago. Tom and Mike Subler and I went out to Michigan to the funeral, and we were visiting with Brother El Wilt's son. And he told me one of the saddest stories I think I've ever heard in my life. One of He said in the last days of Ed Wilt's life he became um he had Alzheimer's and he would forget and his wife, Isabel, am I correct, Isabel, uh, had passed away some time before Ed did. And at sunset every morning, Daddy would come out to the breakfast table and he'd say, Where's Isabel? And they said, Well, Daddy, she passed away. And he would begin to sob. And the next morning he'd forget all about that. And he would ask again, where's Isabel? And they'd have to tell, and he would go through that every single day. Isn't that tough? So memory, remembering, and forgetting are powerful, powerful things and are very, very significant. And God knows that we are prone to forget even the good things. And so God has established, and I think David understood this. I think that's part of him bringing this head back, and a couple of other things he does here. God has established memorials To be put in place so that we remember the good things God has done for us, and the victories God has shown us, and significant things that God has done. That we need to keep in mind over and over and over. Can you think of anything in the Bible? And the Bible's full of them. But just for a moment, try and think through of some memorials that God gave to us to remind us. Of some great events or great promises or displays of God's power that we're told to remember. Can you think of any? The rainbow is the first one that I find in Scripture when God put the rainbow in the sky, the bow in the sky, to remind us that he would what? Never flood the earth again. Never flood the earth again. And that's a memorial. How many people ever see a rainbow and you think of that promise of God? Anyone? Sure, it's a reminder for us. It's a memorial To bring that to mind. Can anybody think of others? The Bible's full of them. Sure. Lily and Jesus, the lily of the valley, says, consider the lilies, consider the ravens. The Lord's Supper is a powerful one. In fact, in Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 11, he says repeatedly, this do in remembrance of me, remembrance of me. When he initiated the Lord's Supper in the Gospels, he said, This do in remembrance of me. I think the Lord's Supper is a very, very significant time, at least for me in the church. When we stop and remember what the Lord does. How about some others? Real quick. There's scores of them in the Bible. Anyone think of any others How about when Israel crossed the Jordan under the leadership of Joshua? The waters parted, they went across on dry land. He told Joshua to do something, to have the priest do something. Anyone remember what that was? Twelve stones. They were to get twelve stones and put them in the middle of the river river. And he says, so that the generation to come will see them and know. That God did a powerful thing and brought them in. How about it? Any others? Can you think of any others? How Yeah, that could very well be. Yeah, that could very well be. Uh what about the what about the Passover? And Israel was to celebrate the Passover every year as a memorial that God delivered them out of the nation of Israel. Memorials. He told them to take some manna. And put it in the Ark of the Covenant so that they would remember how God had supplied for them all those years in the wilderness. The Sabbath day, according to Deuteronomy 5 Is a reminder that they are God's people and they rest on the Saturday. Mannor in the covenant and the Passover, so a whole list of these. So I think David understood the importance of memorials And remembering what God had done. What if David had forgotten about the bear and the lion Remember when he's challenging everybody and Saul brings them up? What makes you think, hey, I killed a bear and I killed a lion? What if he had forgotten about that? I want to suggest to you he would not have had the confidence To go out and face Goliath if he had forgotten what God had done for him before. But he remembered that. I don't know about you, but I don't think I'd forget killing a lion with my bare hands. And if I did do that, I would never let you forget that I killed a lion with my bare hands. All through this passage David is pointing, he's been saying over and over again, it is God's power, it is God's power, it is God's power. And he doesn't want them to forget. God defeated their enemy. Our victories are not for our benefit alone. Come back, stay in a chapter here, but come back to verse number 46. David explains at the end of verse 46, I think, is explaining his motive for bringing Goliath's head back to Jerusalem. The whole way. Look at the end of verse 46. He says, what's that last phrase say? That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. That was his whole motive for going out here. He knew God was going to kill him. He knew God was going to get the victory. And the purpose of that is so the whole world would know. that God, that um that that there is a God in Israel. And him walking back into Jerusalem with that shriveled up fly infested, by now there's probably maggots and um He comes walking back in there. He is showing to the whole world there is a God in Israel. So this is a powerful thing he's doing. And I'm convinced David fully understood the significance Of people seeing this and knowing this. And so it was an encouraging memorial to God's people. But he does something else in verse 54 that Is interesting. It says David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem. But look at this. But he put his armor in his tent. Now I'll tell you, I've read over this and I've I've battled, went through this in my mind back and forth, trying to figure out exactly what's happening here. And I don't think I can say for certainty. What David is doing here. The question that comes to my mind is whose armor? It says his armor Now, if you look at the verse, and I'm not an English expert, and Sandy could maybe help me on this, but the his would refer back to who? Goliath, the structure of the sentence, does that sound right, Sandy? Just say yes, and if I'm wrong, correct me privately. I think that his armor refers back to Goliath. One, because of the structure of the sentence. Second of all, how much armor did David have? None! So it can't be referring to David's armor, he doesn't have any. So he's got this head And uh he gets Goliath's armor. I think that's very obvious. There's no other explanation. He gets Goliath's armor, but where does he put it? In his tent. There's that word his again. Who does that his refer to? All right, here's where the debate is. This might split the church. I don't know My conclusion is studying and looking at it, the first his refers to Goliath, obviously. I see nothing to change that to mean the second his to refer to someone else And so is it that David take Goliath's armor and put it in Goliath's 10? Or don't jump to conclusions. Did he take Goliath's armor and put it in David's tent? David, as far as we know, doesn't have a tent. He just showed up bringing cheese balls and sandwiches and stuff. He wasn't planning on hanging around. He's just checking on the brothers, dropping some snacks off, and no doubt planned on heading back. So I can't find anywhere where David has any tent to put it in. Now there's a third option. And this is most, according to what I read, most Jewish scholars, I mean, we're talking about Old Testament Jews years ago, not just currently, but over the years, Jewish scholars Of course, this would be part of their sacred writings, the Old Testament. Most of them say that when he says his tent, it's referring to the tabernacle. Of God. And that David is so closely associating himself with the tabernacle of God that um he's taking Saul's armor. and putting it into the tabernacle, which David refers to as his tent. I don't see that in the passage. Now there is a reference later on that lends some credibility to that. Do you remember when David was fleeing from Saul? And he uh uh Jonathan shoots those arrows and he says, go beyond, and they meet and says, My daddy's out to kill you, and David flees. And Saul's after him, and he shows up in a city, what was it, Nob, I think was the name of the city, and he goes there and he says, and he ran so quickly he doesn't have any weaponry. And he says to the priests there, he says, I need some armor. And they said, we have Goliath's sword here was in the tabernacle. And they pull it out. So somehow that sword, at least part of the armor, maybe it was all there, and he just gave them Goliath's sword, somehow that ended up in the tabernacle there. So you want to know what my conclusion is? I don't know. I think he put Saul's, I think he took Goliath's armor, put it in Goliath's 10. And I think he took it back with him as a trophy. Now it doesn't tell us any of that. And uh all right, here we go. Open the doors. Yeah. But Saul's not mentioned anywhere up to this point. So I my conclusion is, and I read what all these other kids got ideas But somehow that ended up in the tabernacle of God. One way or another, it got there. So Well, he used Goliath's sword for that. And so he's taken it. This is my theory And I don't and I couldn't think of any up spiritual application. So but um here's my theory is David got Goliath's armor, he put it in Goliath's 10. Now here's where I'm speculating. He broke down Goliath's tent. He took the armor and the tent and everything. And I'm just, this is what I would probably do. And he took that as a trophy. Knowing what we know about David, I think he recognized, listen, this is God's, and he ended up donating it, so to speak, to the tabernacle. All right? So how good. I've got the stamp of approval from Dorothy. So But I I'm telling you, I read over that and read over that, and um but here's what I here's what I did take away with that So we don't leave that hanging. I think of nothing else we can say this. All of our victories in life are really God's victories. And David recognized, as Ken was saying and others, David recognized it was God's power. This weaponry was meaningless. Now it may have some symbolic value in the fact that God can defeat even the most powerful weapons the world throws at his people. God can defeat them. And here's evidence to that effect. And here's trophies. You ever go into a school or a church school? Somebody got a trophy shelf, they got all the trophies. Hey, we won. We defeated this. We were the champions here. I think that's what Saul's armor became to David. God won. God did it. And so all our victories are God's victories. Now I want to finish this up. There's a last section here, these last Several verses, three verses, 55, 56, and 57. Saul begins asking questions. Now I think it's interesting. David is gathering up his trophies. And Saul's asking questions. Now there's a little there's a little uh warp in the time, the chronology here. Look with me, and we'll just buzz through this. I don't have a lot to say on this. But look at verse 55. It says, When Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine. Now at what point in time was that? Is this before or after the Goliath is killed? This is before. This is backing up in time now. They're stepping back in time. The record is And when Saul says, all right, God be with you, remember he said that? The Lord be with you. Saul thought he's dead. As David is going out on the field, Saul leans over to Abner And he says, he asks this question, whose son is this youth? And Abner says, You ever have somebody say, For the life of me, I can't remember that? That's what Abner is saying. As my soul liveth. For the life of me, I can't remember who this kid's daddy is. And then it comes back to the present. And the king said, Inquire thou whose son this stripling is. Now the word stripling there just means young man. Then, as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and he brought him before Saul, and there's that head still, you know, he's carrying that head around. And Saul says to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse, the Bethlehemite Now here's where people get mixed up. Saul did not forget who David was. David had been singing for him. Remember earlier, he played for him in the evil spirit? Saul isn't saying, what's this kid? Who is this kid? He wasn't saying that at all. Saul, it wasn't that Saul couldn't remember who David was. He couldn't remember, he didn't know who was. David's daddy. Whose kid is this? Three times he says, who in the world fathered this kid? I think Saul was wondering this. What kind of daddy raises this kind of kid? Who is the father of a boy this age that has this level of faith, this level of skill, this level of confidence at his age? Who in the world raised that boy? And I think that's significant. And this is what I took away from that. I think we might have more Davids in our generation today. We might have more boys like David today if we had more fathers like Jesse today. Anybody see a breakdown in our society? Anybody anybody seeing lawlessness, total disrespect for authority, for rule of law? Can I tell you where I think that roots the root of that problem is from? The breakdown of the homes. Right down to the homes. And Saul is saying, that's some kind of daddy that raised a boy like that. That raised a boy like that. And so we put this whole incident ends. Chapter 18 begins up with the friendship of David and Jonathan, and that begins a whole new chapter. But I've thought of a connection here, and I'm going to leave you with this. David, the son of Jesse, killed the enemy of God's people by crushing his head. Right? David, the son of Jesse, killed the enemies of God's people by crushing, killed the enemy of God's people by crushing his head. Later on in the Bible, we are told that Jesus, the son of David, is referred to that repeatedly, particularly in the book of Luke. Jesus, the son of David, defeated the enemy of God's people by crushing his head. Genesis chapter 3 tells that. And I see here a tremendous picture of the Lord Jesus Christ conquering the champion of evil, Satan himself. By crushing his head, not with a stone, but with a cross. Through death, he destroyed him that had the power of death, that is the devil And God told Adam and Eve early on that the seed of woman would crush his the devil's head. And I thought that was very, very significant. We are on the women's side. Now, I think we can should emulate David in our faith, in our confidence, in our obedience, in our courage. We should emulate him. But let's look beyond David and let's see the Lord Jesus Christ. And see him as the one on our behalf stepping out, facing the devil, defeating him, and then we can step in. And be a part of that battle that has already been won. Does that make sense? So, faith, let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, it's been a fascinating study, this passage, and I pray. That you would help me personally, not just as a pastor, but just as a Christian To have faith in you, to trust you and step out and do what clearly needs to be done, what is clearly the right thing to do I pray you would use us. And maybe, God, you could use our church not as a put on a show, but to challenge other churches. And we can have an impact on this world with the gospel. We can see lives changed. We can see the power of God. So help us, Lord, to trust you, to obey you, even when it's hard and when it's scary. Lord, I believe you'd use that for your glory. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher. There are some areas of my life that are intimidating. I know I need to trust God. I know I need to step out. I know what's right. It's a little overwhelming. And you'd say, preacher, by God's grace, I want to do right. I want to be like David and step out in faith. Maybe the others say, I'm going to look to Christ. I'm going to trust him to give me the victory in this area. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? There are some areas I know. And I want to try follow David's example. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. I just think an old altar is a good place to say, Lord, here I am. Strengthen my faith. Lord, help me. Stir me to act in faith in Jesus' name. Father, bless now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.