1 Samuel 27, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 8. We'll read down to the end of this chapter, verse number 12. We're studying the life of David. He's on the run from King Saul, who out of envy is Trying to uh murder David. Uh he's enlisted the entire army in his endeavor to murder David. And thus far David has eluded him uh with uh uh you know ultimately it was God that kept them safe, but uh David's pretty canny and uh he's uh been able to elude Saul's um vicious attempts to kill him. But now a change has taken place in King David not King David, in David's uh thinking, um and he has uh said in his heart, the first verse of this chapter, that he's surely going to die by the hand of Saul one of these days And so he flees to the Philistines, the enemies of God and God's people, and he's looking for safety and security among the Philistines. And that is a very that is a uh 180-degree turn in David's uh thinking up to this point. Uh he has been trusting God. Remember, God has promised David that he will be king someday, regardless. There's not a devil in hell could keep David from being king, because God had decreed that. God had promised that. And so David gets this thought in his head that he's safer with the Philistines than he is in the promise and will of God, and so that's where he's at. Begin reading in verse number eight The Bible says, and David said, David said, I'm sorry, and David and his men went up and invaded the Gesherites and the Gezrites and the Amalekites. For these nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, or even unto the land of Egypt And David smoked the land and left nothing, man or woman, alive, and took away the sheep and the oxen, the asses, and the camels, and the apparel. and returned and came to Akish. Now David's staying at Akish, just a reminder, he's met up with uh Akish and um uh the king of Gath and he's staying there and Ziglag is actually the town. So he comes back uh to Akish, the king of there, that area, the the Philistine king. And Achis said, Whither have ye made a road today? I think he's just kind of making small talk there, talking to, hey, what you been up to? And David said, Oh, against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jeraites, and against the south of Kenites. And David spared neither man nor woman alive to bring tidings to Gath, saying, lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner, all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines And Akish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him, therefore he shall be my servant forever. Now David was a being dishonest here. He implied that he was attacking who? In verse number 11, when David's, or I'm sorry, verse number 10, when uh David's answering uh uh Akish's question. What have you been up to today? Oh, just uh attacking the south side of Judah there. And he makes it sound like he's doing what? Sounds like he's attacking these cities of Israel. He's really not. He's just they're in that general area And so he's giving a deceptive answer here. He's not attacking the Israelite cities, he's attacking and annihilating the Philistine cities that are right near These cities. And so this is what's going on. Let's pray and we'll look at this passage here I've entitled it tonight, David's Duplicity. David's Duplicity. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless as we study this portion of David's life. Help us to learn from it that we can grow in our faith in you. Help us to understand our relationship with the world from this passage and our confidence in your promises. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you. Present my body anew. It's yours, Lord, completely I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak through me, fill me and speak through me, and be the teacher and preacher tonight. Help us to be responsive and open. And submissive to your will and your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Duplicity. What does the word duplicity mean? I looked it up. It has this idea, one of the definitions I found was this: doubleness Doubleness, David's duplicity. It's this idea acting one way and actually being another way. Or speaking words that contradict to what is actually the case. To believe be duplici duplicious is to say one thing when actually something else is true. We think of it, uh what would word come to your mind we would think of as somebody who acts like one thing is actually something else. What would you think of? Hypocrite. And Jesus rebuked the Pharisees sharply for being hypocrites. They would act like they were righteous. They put on this facade. of holiness and righteousness and godliness when inside they were just dead men's bones and corrupt and filthy inside and self-righteous and proud They put this facade out there. Well, this is similar to what David's doing. It's kind of the other way around, though. David is acting like the Philistine. He's putting on like he's one of the enemies of God's people. In fact, as you catch in verse 12 there, uh Akish says, uh, he uh his nation hates him now. Oh, he's one of us He is uh he is uh he is defected to the Philistines, and he's one of us. And he fools uh Akish in the Philistines, some of them I should say, into believing that he uh he's one of them. So it's saying one thing, saying one thing, and doing something else presenting myself as one way and actually being something else, whether it's a hypocritical type thing or uh in David's situation here Oh, I use the word duplicious. I thought of when I was studying this, I thought of James chapter one and verse number eight. Now we won't turn there Does anybody think, James 1. 8, I'm going to test your Bible knowledge, Brother Heinball. James 1. 8. Can anybody tell me without looking? Don't Google. Double-minded man is what? Unstable in all his ways. That word double-minded has the idea of duplicious. Say one thing, something else. Uh uh present one thing, something else. And he's unstable in all his ways. I tell you, we get out of the will of God, listen, we get out of the will of God, and we become unstable. spiritually unstable. And I see a little instability on the part of David here. And I'm uh you know it's easy for me to look back and study this thousands of years later and make judgment on it. I'm not in his shoes But I want to learn from it. And pretending to be one thing when in reality I'm something else. David has placed himself in a situation. Now over here in Judah, where Samuel the prophet told him it was God's will for him to stay in Judah, he's abdicated that. He's left that he has a So he has instruction from God. Stay in Judah. That's God's will. How many people ever heard a preacher say this? The safest place in the world is the center of God's will. Anybody ever hear that? Yeah, I believe that's true And so David's in the center of God's will, there he's in God's will, and he has God's promise that he will be king. But he sets that aside, leans on his own uh uh uh understanding, and now he's put himself in a situation. Where his integrity is being sorely tested. In fact, he is now In a situation where not only is his integrity being tested, but it is going to be very difficult, if not impossible, to maintain his integrity in the situation he has placed himself. You know, there are some situations we ought to keep ourselves out of. The Bible warns us over and over and over and over and over. Read Proverbs. There are some situations we, if we're not careful, we'll put ourselves into, and man, it's tough to do right. It's tough to be right in that situation. I want to be in situations where it's easy to do right Amen. I want to be in situations that assist me and nurture my integrity, not challenge it and make it difficult to maintain integrity So, nevertheless, that's the situation David has placed himself in. Now, let's get to where we're at here. So far in this chapter, we noted that David had leaned on his own understanding. Now I know we already preached on that, but look there at verse 1. David said in his heart And I put in the margin of my Bible, Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord with all thine heart and what? Lean not into thine own understanding. And so David has leaned on his own understanding. This has been my experience, and I find it true in Scripture. My experience has been usually with a vast majority, if not all the time, when I lean on my own understanding, it leads to trouble just about every time. Anybody ever can I get a witness on that at all? I think, well, I know the Bible says that, but you know, I think this. That's a road to trouble every single time. Proverbs 28, verse 26. Turn over there with me, would you? Keep your place here. We're coming back. Proverbs 28, and look with me at verse 26. Chapter twenty-eight, verse twenty-six. I love Proverbs. Proverbs twenty-eight, verse twenty-six. I've got this underlined in black pen. I've got it underlined in red pen. I have it circled. I have it highlighted. This verse. He that trusteth in his own heart is a what? Fool. He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool. Do you agree with me? That's strong language. That's coming from God. Anybody ever hear somebody say this? Well, they always say it real piously. Well, you just have to follow your heart. Anybody ever hear that? Oh, they'll sing about it. Oh, just follow your heart. Brother, that heart's going to lead you into trouble every singing time. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? He that trusts in his own heart is a fool. Oh, just follow your heart. Yeah, if you want to end up in a mess, go right ahead My Bible says in Proverbs chapter 4, at the end of Proverbs chapter 4, I don't have the verse on the tip of my tongue, but it says this: keep thine heart. With all diligence. That word keep means to reign in, to keep imprisoned, keep under control Don't let your heart lead you. Don't let your heart direct you. Let God do that. Let God have your heart. So David leaned on his own understanding. Then we said last week he looked to the world for his security He convinced himself the world could do for him, the Philistines could do something for him, God couldn't. If I stay here and I If I say here where I'm at in Israel, Saul will surely kill me, I'll go over the Philistines. I won't die over there And uh he was convinced the Philistines would do something for him that God could not or would not. Then uh now we look at this, he's getting pretty loose with his integrity. So he leaned on his own understanding. He looked to the world for security. Now he's getting pretty loose with his integrity. I put this statement down. Compromised faith Often leads to compromised integrity. When I begin doubting God and I begin putting aside the Word of God and my faith gets compromised, it's not long after that That my integrity becomes compromised. We see that in individuals. I've seen it in my own life. I hate to admit it. I've seen it in working with people over the years. I've seen it in society. The farther a society gets from faith in God, the less integrity you're going to find in that society. It's true on an individual basis also. And so uh uh here we have David. Now I made this statement before, I want to elaborate it. I said it last week, I think, in the message. David is not defected. To the Philistines. He's not defecting. He's not joining up with them. He's not taking sides against Israel with the Philistines. He is still opposed to the Philistines as he always has been. He is still determined to defeat the enemies of God as he ever has been at any point in his life. But he has gone over to them. And he's kind of, in a sense, using the Philistines, trusting in them, this environment, this situation, to provide safety for him that he apparently doesn't believe that God can provide for him. And so he has put himself in this compromised situation. And so he's trusting, he's using the Philistines to provide safety for him. He's still opposed to them. There's still his enemies. He still sees them as the enemies of God. But this is what I noticed as I'm coming down through here. We're going to look at this, but he's killing these enemies of God. We'll talk about that. But yet he's out of the will of God. And I think I can document that scripturally Now that's a that's a that's a conflict. Would you agree with me? Trying to serve God, yet being out of the will of God. Say, well, that's a strange thing. That's an unusual thing. I want to suggest to you it's not that unusual. In fact, I think we people Christians try to do that all the time We want to serve God, but we want to do it our way. We want to serve God, but according to our conditions and our restrictions and our qualifications, yeah, I'll serve God, but. I've seen it in the ministry over the years. Folks, oh, they want to teach Sunday school, but we're not going to do it the Bible way. We got churches, I got a country world full of churches that want to worship God But not according to spirit and truth. We want to worship God, but not in the will of God. And we want to serve God, but not in the will of God. And David is, though his intentions may be sincere, and intentions may be good. I want to defeat the enemies of God, but this isn't the way to go about it. You don't go out of the will of God. You don't leave the place God has told you to stay in order to accomplish something for God. In serving God, I hope you'll get this. This is a very important principle. In serving God, I must first begin with submission to God. I don't serve God but not be submitted to him. I must submit to the will of God, and then I can serve him acceptably. There's a lot of people serving God in ministries that aren't submitted to God. That's going to be their way. I'm going to serve God my way. How I want to, the way I want to, the way I think it should be. Take your Bible with me again, if you would, and we go to the book of Romans. I noticed this years ago. A statement that Paul makes in the very first verse of the very first chapter of the book of Romans. Now you just read through there, you don't think much of it, but he made David make not David uh Paul. Makes three statements about himself and his ministry in verse 1 of chapter 1 of Romans, and I think the chronology that he makes those statements is significant, the order that he makes them Romans chapter 1, and look with me at verse 1. Now I've circled three words. I want you to look at it. We're going to do group Bible study tonight, alright? And you guys at home, don't be sitting there drinking a Coke. Get your Bible out and do this also. I like to chew them out. They can't throw anything at me. I want you to look at verse one there. There's three significant words in there. See if you pick the same three that I have circled in my verse. Anybody in my Bible? Anybody? Servant. I circled that one there. Then there's two more. Called. I circled that one. Then there's what separated. I circled that one. Now, I don't think the chronology that Paul writes this under the inspiration of God, I don't think it's just haphazard, I don't think it's arbitrary. I think there's a significance to the chronology there. What does the word servant mean? It's translated slave throughout the New Testament. The word servant. I am a slave. Of Jesus Christ. I'm a servant of Jesus Christ. Now, Paul points out in other passages, he is a willing servant. He has willingly given up his own will. Paul has willingly abdicated, if you will, his own will, the own throne of his heart, put Christ on the throne of his heart. Submitted his will to Christ's will, that's the beginning of Christian service You say, well here's a Sunday school teacher. I'll tell you what, I'll take a Sunday school teacher that's not very maybe not very gifted, but is a servant of Jesus Christ over the most gifted Sunday school teacher in the world, not submissive not submissive to Christ. Follow what I'm saying? So Paul says being called to be an apostle, and then that led to separation from the world, and that's a whole nother sermon. But being called to be an apostle began with his submission to the will of God, his servanthood to God Say, preacher, I want to serve God. What's the most important thing for me to do? For me to serve God? The most important thing for me to do is submit to the will of God. Get my will out of the way. Die to self, yield completely to the Lord, become his servant. And then God will call me to wherever He needs me to be. God will put me where He needs me to be. So I see David here, he's trying to serve God. But his own way, according to his own heart, according to his own understanding, his own reasoning. I put this statement down. Unsubmissive service causes much trouble in the church. Unsubmissive service causes much trouble in the church. I tell you, there's been splits in churches and troubles in ministries, and ministries gone out of existence Not because people weren't gifted, not because people weren't talented and have talents to serve God. I found the majority of the time it's because people are unsubmissive to the will of God And self gets in and self will. And then that that corrupts the ministry and hurts. So David is put himself in this situation. I believe he's sincerely trying to serve God, but he's doing it according to the dictates of his heart, not according to the clear, revealed will of God. He's had a statement from the prophet uh Samuel to stay here in Judah. He has a promise from God: you will be the king. But now he's over with the Philistines trying to serve God. He's not a buddy with the Philistines at all. But he's doing it according to his own reasoning. Now, let me give you the outline here, real quick. That's my assessment of the situation here. Now let's look at these verses and outline it. The first thing I noticed in verse 8 and 9 is David slaughtered. I mean there is a slaughter going house here. I worked in a in a uh we call them they call them meat packing plants, and I don't know what they call them now, probably uh processed vegetation protein um producers. I don't know what the word is. It was a meatpacking plant when I was there. You know what they used to call meat packing plants years ago? Slaughterhouse And when I worked down on the kill floor is what they called it, that's where they did the slaughtering, uh, brother, uh I would give you detailed description of it, but uh I haven't eaten supper yet, so we'll wait That's David. This is a slaughterhouse for David. Look at verse 8. David's man went up, invaded. That word invaded there, I got looking that up, and it means what you think it was, but it has this idea. To completely strip and destroy. I mean this is um uh this this is uh Who was it? Grant, General Grant would just destroy everything, burn everything down where he went. That's what David's doing. Termit, yes. He has burned everything. That's what David and his men are doing. They invaded, look at these, the Garshites, and the Gezrites, and the Amalekites. For these nations, now this is an important statement. He's explaining why. For these nations were of old the inhabitants of the land. What does that mean? That means they've been there a long time, right? That means they were there before Joshua showed up with the children of Israel. What did God tell Joshua and the children of Israel to do when they invaded the land? Destroy everybody. Wipe them out. Exterminate. We got squirrels in the mission house. We're trying to exterminate them And uh Pastor Matt said, well maybe we can get a little sound thing, scare them away. I said, no, kill every one of them. We don't want anybody to know they were there. Oh brother, I'll get in trouble for that. No For those nations, I'm talking about squirrels, all right. For those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land. Now, if God told and the reference there, you can go back in Joshua and Deuteronomy, they were clearly instructed that these Gershites and these guys were supposed to be eliminated. They're supposed to be i it's supposed to be Israelites dwelling in these cities. Now why are these Bershites still here, Gerezites and the Amalekites, what are they doing still there? If God told Israel to wipe them out, why are they still there? They didn't do it And so David is simply doing what God told Israel to do years and years ago. On the surface, he exp he seems to be extremely cruel. He's just wiping everybody out. But you have to look at it. Number one, under this David slaughter, I put down, these were bitter enemies of God. These are not just innocent people, poor innocent people minding their own business. These were extremely wicked, wicked people. If you would study them, it is extremely wicked people and bitter enemies of God, the Gesherites. We're initially being dealt with by Israel under Joshua, but we're not. The Gezrites were supposed to be dealt with thoroughly by Israel under the leadership of Joshua, but were not. We're left in the land. The Amalekites were sworn enemies of God in Israel. They hated God and they hated God's people. They're not just innocent victims, as I just said. They're extremely wicked people. These are people who are a genuine threat to the people of God. Don't read this and think, well, it's kind of sad. He's awfully cruel. These poor little towns, you know, just mind their own business. David comes in, wipes him up. No, no, no, that's not the way it was at all. They were bitter, bitter enemies of God. They were as opposed to the people of God as you can be. And so David was justified in that there, in what he was doing, maybe not the route he took to accomplish it. But these, this is what I want to say: these people were not to be tolerated. Under any circumstances. And you know there are some things in life, I'm not talking about people at this point, there are some things in life we ought not to tolerate in our lives. There are some sins that are not to be compromised with, are not to be tolerated, are to be exterminated out of our lives. And all these things are recorded for us, Paul says in Corinthians, to be our examples that we can learn to live by faith. So I look at this and I say, well, these people were not should not have been allowed to exist here. They should not have been tolerated, and they caused problems all these years for Israel And so thus application, I look, and there's things in this world, there are sins and activities and endeavors that should not be tolerated in my life Or any life of any Christian. So these were bitter enemies of God. These people that were slaughtered by David, number two, were completely exterminated. I mean, he didn't just defeat them, he exterminated them. And by the way, that was God's original instruction to Israel, Deuteronomy 20, 16. But David has another thing. David is slick. He is, what was the word we used last week? Savvy. David is savvy. He goes, alright, these are enemies of God. These were supposed to be killed long time ago. I'm going to wipe them out. I'm going to make sure I wipe all of them out so that what? What does he say? So that the rest of the Philistines don't know what he's up to. I found that dead men tell no tales. David knew that. He says, I'm going to swipe them all out, and nobody will know what I'm doing. And so he completely exterminates them, first because God told them to, and number two, he's trying to avoid exposure. And he does it, he's very successful. Number three, David enriches himself greatly. Look at the last part of verse nine. He smote the land, left neither man nor woman alive, and took away look at this. He took away the sheep and the oxen, the asses, the camels, and the peril, and returned and came to Akish. Now he just slaughtered three cities. And he's taken away all the cattle. And um what do you take? The sheep and the oxen, the asses. That's a lot of sheep and oxen and asses. Three cities worth. And then all the apparel. They've gone they went through apparently they went through the houses, looked in the in the uh closets, and got all their clothes. Oh yeah, this fits me perfect. Pray, I'll take that. This is oh my wife, she'll love it And uh they just get all the clothes and and bring it back home. Man, this guy is cashing in. Um, he's enriching himself here Now, I thought of this. It is possible, it is possible to be successful materially and yet fail spiritually. Well, if you get out of the will of God, you're going to be poor and big and everything's going to be You know, it's possible to be out of the will of God and be very, very wealthy. Possibly very very guide of the will of God and be a very successful businessman. I've told the story a number of times from when I was in Indianapolis, a fellow one Sunday night. Remember tell me a story? An older fellow, very dignified Wealthy, successful businessman, sobbing at the altar. I went and prayed with him. What's going on, man? And he'd been a faithful church member. Sobbing at the altar. He said, God called me to preach when I was a teenager, and I said no. He said, all these years I've lived out of the will of God. Very successful businessman, beautiful home. Fancy, nice, not extreme, but nice clothes. Very successful, but out of the will of God. And so David is being very successful here. He's he's enriching himself, but this is really not the way to go about it So the first thing I notice is David's slaughter. Next thing I notice is David's subtlety, or his dishonesty, is what I mean by that. Look at verse 10. And Achis said Where have you made a road today? Where have you been? Where do the trails take you today, David? I notice levity in Akish's statement here. He's just being nice talking. Well, what have you been? David! Oh, where'd the road take you today? And uh David says, Oh, we were over there um uh outside of uh uh against the south of Judah. Of course it was the Philistine side of Judah, and against the south of Jerush Jeremielites, and against the south of the Kenites. Oh, we were just out there visiting And uh and uh he's being dishonest. This is the second time that David presented himself to Akish to be something he wasn't Twice now, he's acted like he was something he wasn't to Achis. The first time, remember a few chapters back They said, hey, where's the what he showed up to and Gath showed up to Achish and all Akish's men around him? Akish was kind of a gullible guy, I think. But all his people around said, Akish, what are you doing? This is David. He killed our giant And then David realized, oh no, this isn't working. So he acted like he was what? Crazy. We talked about that before. Now here is David again. Not acting like he's crazy this time, but acting like he's loyal to Akish. Now I don't know if David could read Akish a little bit, had a little insight in Akish, believed this guy, maybe David was convinced this guy's gullible. I'm trying, I'm starting to think that. This guy believed whatever I tell him. And so he says, uh, he says, uh, oh, we were just out there You know, I found that when we exercise faith in God, we maintain our faith in God's word and God's instructions, stay in the will of God, that enhances my integrity. It strengthen and emboldens my honesty and my integrity in life when I claim God's promises. I'm in the will of God But I found out when I have faith in the world, I get my eyes off of the Lord and my faith is compromised. I found that it corrodes my integrity. I've seen over the years, you some of y'all have been around for a while, some of y'all have been around a long time. Um y'all have been around for a while, and you've seen folks Maybe some of us are guilty of this a bit, but we've seen folks who were strong in the Lord, faithful, doing right, and for whatever reason they got their eyes off the Lord. They got leaning on their own understanding. They wandered out of the will of God. And now you meet them, and it's like a totally different person. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Get a witness on that? Yeah, we know people like that He said, man, I can't believe that guy lied like that. He would have never done that. I tell you, we get our faith off of the Lord. We compromise our faith, and it's going to produce compromise in our integrity. We've got to stay close to the Lord. We've got to keep our faith in God strong. We start looking to the world, we're going to start living like the world. I found there's no need to lie when I'm trusting God. Now that I think that's an important statement No need to lie if I'm trusting God. So David's subtlety, we have his slaughter, his subtlety, and then verse 11 and 12, I am with this, we have David's strategy. Look at verse 11. And we already touched on this. And David saved neither man nor woman alive. And here's his explanation: to bring tidings to Gath, saying, lest they should tell on us. Saying, uh, so did David, and so will he be his manner, the whole while he dwelleth in the country of Philistines. That last part of verse 11 tells me that's probably David's plan. The whole while he dwells with the Philistines, he's going to be doing these covert missions And Achan believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel to utterly abhor him. Therefore he shall be my servant forever. It's amazing how deceptive a good man can become when he gets out of the will of God. Now I know maybe I'm being overly hard on David here, but when verse 1 says, he said in his heart, I shall one day perish by the hand of Saul. Man, that's when red flags go up all over in what David's doing. And now we find him here, living among the Philistines. He's not their buddy, he's not defected, but nevertheless, he's out of the will of God And he's lying. He could accomplish the same thing in the will of God. But he's not. He leaned on his own earth. I was uh there was a lady, there was a group of people talking, Christians, and they were just visiting together and fellowshipping and talking and Somebody's name came up in the conversation that they all knew, acquaintance of all of them. And one of the folks there talking together said, uh, Well, he's really moving up in the world. In the world An elderly Christian lady sitting there said this, yeah, but in which world Moving up in God's world or in the world's world? I don't know about you, but I really want to move up in God's world. This world's not my home. This world is not our friend. I was working on a message as we, I don't know when I'll preach it. Maybe some Maybe uh news a raptor might come, I don't know, but someday I want to preach on the Christian and the world, our relationship with the world. So I don't want to move up in this world. Don't be, hey, we can't be concerned about what this world thinks of us. Don't trust in this world. Trust in the God of heaven. Amen. Let's pray, Father. I ask you'd use this experience here that David had in these decisions he made Now you'd help us to maybe examine our own selves and our faith and our reasoning and why we do the things we do and the decisions we make, why we make the decisions we make. We need your help, Lord. We want to base our actions, our thoughts, our decisions. Solidly on your word, Lord, and your will. Not our own understanding, our own reasoning. So I pray you'd help us. I pray you'd help us. I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight. I don't know how God may have applied this to your heart and life. I know how he did in mine as I prepared it. But maybe you'd say, God spoke to my heart tonight. God challenged me in some very specific way. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God did speak to my heart. Any like that? Any at all tonight? God bless you. Hands around That's the Holy Spirit. That's not me. That's the Holy Spirit dealing. And so now would be a good time to say, yes, Lord, I hear you. I'm going to trust you. And uh I want to follow through with what you spoke to my heart about. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the piano there.