1 Chronicles, chapter number 15. It's true. 1 Chronicles chapter 15. We are studying the life of David. And uh we are we've been spending about a month now, we've been looking very in depth at uh what I'm terming one of the most significant events in David's uh administration and his years as king of Israel, perhaps one of the most important events in the history of Israel to some extent, at least it's up in the top five, I would say, and that is transporting the Ark of the Covenant, which represents uh that represented the very presence of God, the glory of God. And transporting that from Judea over into the very center of the country that's unified, there into Jerusalem. the new capital of Israel. So he's been doing this. We've been looking at it. Most of the record of this event that we've been studying has been in 2 Samuel chapter 6. However, on this part of it, this section of this event, the record is a little bit more in-depth over in Chronicles. And so that's why we want to go to 1 Chronicles chapter 15. I'm going to read a fairly extended portion because I want to get it all together and then we're going to kind of jump through it in the message tonight. 1 Chronicles chapter 15 and verse number 21. Let me read this And David made him houses in the city of David, now look at this, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. This is after the catastrophe with this thing, with uh the ark. Then verse 2. And David said, none ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites. For them hath the Lord chosen to carry the ark of God and to minister unto him forever. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord unto his place, which he had prepared for it. And David assembled the children of Aaron and the Levites, and of the of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twenty, and the sons of Merri. Aziah the chief, his brethren, 220, the sons of Gershem, Joel the chief, and his brethren, 130 The sons of Elizabethan and Shemaiah the chief and his brethren two hundred. Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren, fourscore Of the sons of Uzael, uh Aminadab the chief, and his brethren, a hundred and twelve. David called for Zadok and Abat Abiathar, the priest, for the Levites, for Uriel, Asiah, and Joel and Shemiah, and those other guys. Verse 12, and said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levite. Sanctify yourselves, both yeah. and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it. For because ye did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach upon us For that we sought him not after the due order. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel And the children of Leviva and the children of the Levites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders with the stabs thereof. Look at this next statement, as Moses commanded according to the word of the Lord. David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren to be singers with instruments of music, psalteries, harps, cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy. So the Levites appointed Heman, the son of Joel, and his brethren, Asap, the son of Burker, that guy. And uh the sons, and he gives all these names down through here. In verse 19, so the singers, and mentions them, were appointed to the sound of cymbals and brass. Then he lists these other fellows with harps on the uh Sheminith to excel, verse 21. And the chief of the Levites was for song. He instructed about the song because he was skillful. He was the song leader. Verse 23 and Barekiah and these guys were doorkeepers for the ark. That's interesting. Doorkeepers for the ark while they're transporting it That simply means this. One went in front and one went in back. Make sure everything was okay. Not just a bunch of oxen hauling it. And uh verse 24, and Shemiah and Josaphat and Nethanael and Amai Ziah and Zechariah and Beniah and Elizer the priest did blow with trumpets before the ark of God and Obed Edium. Edom and Jehairah were doorkeepers for the ark. And so David and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the house of Obed-Edom with joy. Now look at verse 26. And it came to pass when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord. That they offered seven bullocks and seven ramps. A little bit different scenario than the first time around, huh? First time around, hey, let's move the ark from uh uh Judah up here to Jerusalem. Yeah, I got a new old cart here. We'll throw it on the cart and haul it up there That didn't work out so well. This time they're back, woohoo. And they stopped and they looked at this, and now, my word, the time and effort and organization and carefulness So let's pray and we'll look at this section right here. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would bless our study of this transporting of the art And what that means to us, I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths from this and the principles that we can live by and apply them to our lives, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body, and I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Spirit, and that you would teach us and help us tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. All right, we're studying this transporting ark. Let me just briefly go over what we've said so far. The first thing we pointed out was uh the decision to transport the ark. David made this decision. It was a very scriptural decision. The ark used to be the center of of God's people. And so uh it was a uh his decision there. Then we notice the disaster transporting the art. Uzzah, the oxen stumble, remember, Uzzah reach out, keep it from falling off the cart. Boom. Drops dead in his tracks. And then we had the uh uh I said the uh displeasure of David in transplant. David got angry And then he got a little bit discouraged and he just backed off. And now tonight I want to pick up, and this is my uh thought for tonight, the do-over The do over in transporting the ark. How many people here are glad God sometimes gives us opportunities to do it over? Praise the Lord for that. God sometimes gives us second chances And we see that throughout Scripture, and we see that here. Did I already pray? I did pray, didn't I? What I see here, now I hope you'll get this. I want to kind of lay some groundwork in what I take away from this. I see here in this passage some of the greatness of David's character. Now we're going to see ups and downs. We already have. We see David at his high point when he's doing great. We've seen him at his low point. Low point being here not just long ago. But I see the greatness of David's character. I see greatness of David's spiritual strength. He had made a colossal mistake. When he took the ark of God of all things and placed that on a cart with oxen and just hauling it like furniture, hauling it like a load of lumber. That was a deadly, that was a fatal failure on David's part not to think, not to be more careful, and consider what he was dealing with But here's the thing about David. And some of us might have acted, might have reacted differently. Here's the thing: David failed. This was fatal in his failure. Somebody died. It was a colossal mistake. But here's the thing, David didn't quit. He didn't just say, phooy, I can't do this. He asked the question, how in the world did we get this thing to Jerusalem? And at that point, I'll venture to say, some of us might have just said, you know, I failed so badly. It cost a man his life. I'm done. And maybe just walked away. Can could you see that happening maybe with some folks? I'm done with this. I can't do it. I failed. I'm not even going to try again and walk away. But David didn't do that. He didn't do that It was a blow, and he got angry initially, but it seems to have gotten over it. And he got discouraged, but then he just backed off a little bit for a few months So he didn't quit. He didn't quit. Here's something else I noticed that David did not do. He did not get bitter about it. He did not get bitter about it. Uh I could have seen some of us perhaps uh um I could see some of us perhaps getting bitter and saying, ma'am, why did God do this? Why did God allow this to happen I've been in the ministry enough, and I'd like to I probably have struggled with this myself, but I've been in ministry long enough, I've seen this happen, where somebody makes a mistake or they do something wrong, and inevitably there's consequences And rather accepting responsibility for the consequences, they get angry at God and they get bitter at God? But I don't see David doing that. I could see where somebody might have said, why would God do this? Why would God kill a good man? Well There was decisions made and there was actions taken contrary to the clear will of God. And actions have what? Consequences. And so I'm looking at David's response here, and I'm looking at David uh his uh how he responds to his failure. And I notice that uh he doesn't get angry, or uh he doesn't get bitter, I should say, and he doesn't quit. He gets back up again and he goes on. And I'll tell you, that is tremendous character on the part of David. Let me make this statement. Quitting. Quitting is never the correct response to a mistake or failure. Well, you mark it down. You say, preacher, I made a mistake. I failed. Listen, quitting is never the correct response to a mistake or a failure. Quitting, uh I put this down, quitting indicates a weak character that needs to be developed. Don't quit. David did not quit. If anybody, many of us, perhaps in that same situation, in the shoes of David, we would have said, Philly, I can't do this. This is too much, and walked away from it. David didn't do it. And I want to challenge all of us as Christians, wherever we're at in our Christian life, whatever ministry we may have, whatever service for the Lord we're in It's inevitable that we're going to make mistakes. How many people understand that? You understand it, right? Anyone here ever try to do something for God and you never made a mistake? Anybody here ever not fail in your Christian life? I want to challenge us. When that failure comes, when we make a mistake, and it's going to come sooner or later, don't quit Learn from it, step back, gain from it, put your shoulders, uh, put your shoulders stand up, put your shoulders back And plow right into it and press forward. And press forward. You know the only people who don't never fail, you know who the people are that never fail in ministry? Or people who never get into the ministry He will never do anything. It's the only way guaranteed not to fail. And by the way, that's failure. And not even trying. And not even trying. So I'm looking at David here, and I look at verse 1 and 2, and I think, wow, his mistake cost a man his life, cost a wife her husband, cost some children their daddy, parents their son. And uh but he steps back, he get regroups, and he goes at it again. And uh I I I I my hat's off to David. Now here I got three thoughts under this do-over Number one, I put this, David's correction of his approach. Look with me at verse 2 of chapter 15. And David said, none ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites. And all God's people said, Amen. That's exactly what God said. And David, uh, and so he sees what he did wrong. Experience the consequences, he gets back up, and he corrects his behavior. He corrects his way of thinking. He corrects his approach to his service to the Lord here. And um what a tremendous thing. Anybody here ever uh any of you fellas ever get a Christmas gift for the kids or something and you have to assemble it? Man, it it it is almost makes me bitter. It almost used to make me bitter on Christmas. Put that thing together. And you work on it and you work on it and work on it and you can't get it you can't get it to work. And then finally you make your wife comes over and says this. Why don't you look at the directions? And after you spend five hours on it, it still don't work, you say, alright, I'll get the directions out. Guess what David did? He got the directions out. He says, all right, what I did not is not working. Well this my way is not working So he gets the Bible out, gets the Word of God out, and he gets the directions, and he corrects his thinking, he corrects his actions, and he goes by the Word of God. The chief characteristic, get this statement. The chief characteristic of growing faith is being willing and being able to take correction. I hope you get that. One of the key ingredients of a growing faith, of becoming mature in my faith, is my ability to when I make a mistake or I fail in some capacity, and I will. Is to be able to say, all right, I need to be corrected. Be able and willing to accept and receive that correction and then to make the adjustments necessary In my thinking, in my actions, so that I can overcome. I've seen it many times. Somebody's doing something and you know they struggle, they fail, they make a mistake You try and help them, explain, say, hey, listen, this is the way it is, and brother, they don't want to take correction. They want to go. And you know what I found out? They don't grow in their service. They don't grow in their maturity. It's the ability to be able to take correction, ability to be willing to take correction, and they make the adjustments that are necessary In other words, willing to alter my thinking and my behavior. Growth Growth by its very nature requires change. Right or wrong. If um we got some little babies back here, you come in a year from now and they're the same size They're still crawling, they're still goo gooing gagging, gag not gagging, um uh and they're still still acting in Tonga Babies. You'd come two, three years later, and there was no change, you would say what Something's wrong. Something's wrong. I noticed when the lockdown this past year, uh some people I hadn't seen for almost a year, and they came and I noticed there was changes Um uh brother Derek's boy, Joel, did you I he walked in there, I thought, good heavens. And uh the guy's grown, and and there was others that um have grown But change by its very nature, or or growth by its very nature, requires what? Change. And David is growing in his faith, and David is getting more mature in his faith, and David is uh uh is being developed by God to be this phenomenal king that Jesus' throne is going to be named after. And if he is unwilling and if he is unable to take that correction and make those adjustments, he's never going to be the king God wants him to be. And you and I, if we're going to be the Christians that God wants us to be, and if we're going to develop and mature in our faith and we're going to be effective in our ministry, we have got to be willing, we have got to be able to let God correct us. Let God make whatever changes are necessary in our lives and in our ministries. And so, now listen, I um I'm not opposed to change, but I am very reluctant to change. You follow what I'm saying? I've got to be convinced that that change is of God and is correct and is scriptural before I'm willing to go with it But inevitably, as we grow, we have to be changes in the way we think and we behave. We've got to get that old man, that worldly thinking out, and get God's new one. So David, uh, to his credit He takes correction here in his approach to transporting this ark over to Jerusalem. By the way, that's something Saul was unwilling to do. King Saul. Over and over, God would confront him and correct Saul, but Saul, rather than submitting to God's chastening, rather than submitting to God's correction Saul would harden his heart and became stubborn. And what did God say? Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness as what? Idolatry, I think. And so Saul was unwilling. God corrected Saul numerous times and he would not respond. He would not accept that correction. Rather, he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart. Something Saul was unwilling to do. And by the way, something spiritual failures are unwilling to do And that is to take correction. There's some tremendous verses in Proverbs, and then again in Hebrews, God makes a statement numerous times. He says, Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And correcteth every soul. God wants to correct us. God wants to confront when we are out of whack or we're doing something that's out of line with the Word of God, He'll confront us. He'll come and chasten us. It's because He loves us. He wants us to develop. He wants us to grow. He wants us to be more effective in our witness in this old world for Him. But we have to be willing to accept it. We have to be willing and able to allow God to make those adjustments. And to David's credit, he was willing to do that. Failure is not failing. Failure is not adjusting and learning from my failure. Failure is not receiving correction. Listen, somebody fails. That's not a failure. But somebody who fails and then doesn't learn from it and doesn't let God adjust it. Me and correct me so that I can go on from there, then that person's the failure. You follow what I'm saying? And so David was willing and able to take God's correction and um and uh turn things around. Take your Bible if you would. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 12. Here we end up in Proverbs. We end up there so much Proverbs chapter 12, and look with me at verse number one. I've had people over the years say stuff like this: Pastor Letterman, I have failed, and I can't, there's not much I can do for God. I don't buy that for one minute. I believe if we fail, now it may limit us in some ways. There may be some consequences we have to deal with, but I'm telling you what, if we fail and we come to God and say, God, I want to learn from this, I want you to take me and adjust me and do what you need to, and God can use us again. Anybody ever hear the story of Jonah? I'd say he failed, right, in his initial response to God's call. And I'd say God confronted him about that in a subtle way And to his credit in the belly of a whale, Noah said, Alright, Lord, you're right, I'm wrong. And he let God adjust them And so I just see tremendous character on David's part in that he was willing to accept correction. He didn't get bitter, he didn't quit and walk away. He said, All right, Lord, you teach me, you show me. Look with me at Proverbs chapter 12 and verse 1. I love the wording of this. Solomon says, under the inspiration of God, he says, Whoso loveth instruction Loveth knowledge. I got studying on that there, and I found out that the word instruction comes from the same word that our word rebuke comes from. Or the same word that means to correct. So he's saying here, whoso loveth instructions, love to be instructed on how to do something in the correct way. They love to be instructed on where am I wrong here? What am I being wrong? God says, All right, let me show you. And they love that. They want God to do that. Says, Whoso loveth instruction, loveth knowledge. In other words, that person's gone somewhere. They're learning. They can be usable. Then look at the last part of this verse. But Here's the contrast. He that hateth what? Reproof. I put in the margin of my Bible, I circle the word reproof, put in the margin of my Bible, to be corrected. Boy, he that hates to be corrected, he that hates God to step in and chasen them and address something I'm doing wrong. And I hate that. He that hateth reproof. Now here's a word that we don't use, perhaps at all. He that hateth reproof is, what's the word in the Bible there? Brutish. Say, what in the world does the word brutish mean? Well, the raw definition of it is Stupid. Just stupid. A dummy. A knucklehead. Um uh I I looked it up. It has this idea, foolish So what are we being told here? So the person that says, you know, I messed up, I made a mistake, like David did, and they say, you know, God, I love it. I want you to correct me. That's my desire. They said made right so I can go on. Boy, they gain knowledge and they become more effective. But the person that's doing wrong messes up hauling a ark on the new uh on a new cart, like like luggage And everything falls apart, and a man's dead, and God tries to correct it, and they, no, you ain't telling me what to do, and they get bitter and walk away. God says, that's foolish. That's stupid. David was very wise. Now, I got thinking about this ability to accept correction, this ability to accept this chastisement, this discipline, this correction, this process of being corrected, that requires humility. It requires humility. It requires grace of God. Anybody here, now I'm gonna I'm gonna answer this one myself, anybody here uh realize that naturally you're pretty proud? Right there Pride is what keeps us from being willing to be corrected. Pride is what Pride is what keeps us from being able to make these adjustments that God wants to make in our life so that we can be stronger in our faith, we can be more effective in our ministry. Pride is our great enemy. The greatest obstacle to my spiritual growth and my maturity is my own stinking pride. If you would, take your Bibles, and I hope you kept your place in Chronicles, but come back to the New Testament, way at the back to the book of James. And chapter 4, James makes a tremendous statement that in my mind is very, very helpful to me. James chapter 4. And come back to verse number 6. Down to verse number 6. James chapter 4. You get to Hebrews. Just keep going. It's the next book after Hebrews. I should have the boys up here. They could sing the books of the Bible. Help us find it. James chapter 4, look with me at verse number 6. But he, speaking of God here, he, God, giveth more what? Grace. Oh, I need God's grace. Now look, wherefore he saith, now notice these next statements very carefully, God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace unto the who? Humble. I need God's grace to be able to, here I messed up, my actions cost a man his life, my decisions Cost the man is life and man. I'm done. I'm just gonna walk away. I'm not doing this I can't do this. Or make a decision, put that ark on the new cart, cost Usah his life. It's like, oh, I'm so angry at God. Get bitter Or God can give me grace. Say, you know, let's put this thing up for a few months. Let's just figure out what happened and where do we go from here. And you humble yourself and God comes down. Now I'm reading in a lot here, but and God comes down and says, you did it wrong. You sinned. And by the way, what David did there was flat out sin. Sin is the transgression of the law. And the law was very clear on how that thing was to be moved. And David disregarded. He sinned. And God's grace comes down, and I sinned, I did it wrong. God, you show me. I'm going to look in your word. You show me how is the right way to do this. And I tell you, that takes humility. In any setting, husband comes to his wife, says, you know, I was wrong. I didn't treat you the way the Bible says I should treat you. I was wrong. And that I need to humble myself. And I need to take or do whatever action. A wife, I didn't treat you the way God says a wife should treat. And I need to humble myself. I want to correct that. I want it to be made right I moved an ark in a way that God clearly said was not to be done. I was wrong. And God, I want you to show me that requires humility. And my hat's off to David. He accepts this correction in his approach to transporting this. If we can overcome pride. If we can get to the point where we're willing and able to die to self and say, God, you are right, show me, I'll tell you then we can grow and be a mature Christian. Then we can be a vessel that God can fill with His Holy Spirit and use us. But when we refuse to be corrected and we get this idea, we don't say this, but This is the way we act. It's my way or the what? Highway. We get that out of our head, we get that attitude, out of our heart, and we say, it's your Lord, it's your way or it's no way. And then God can use us. Then God can use us. So the first thing I notice in this whole do-over, they're starting from scratch Is number one, I see David's correction in his approach. He humbles himself and he's willing and able and is corrected And he comes back and does it the right way. Next thing I notice, number two, in verse 1 and then in verse 12, David's carefulness In his preparation for this do-over. First, his correction, he's willing to let God change his thinking, change his approach, his mindset about all of this And now he sees it from scriptural, he sees it from God's perspective. All right, I was wrong. I see now. And now he's very, very careful in his Preparation to make this move. Now I read a long passage to start off with. I did that on purpose, and all these guys named in there, and all this uh the music that's involved And this is quite an organized endeavor that he's doing here. There's a lot of people involved. There's a lot of logistics involved here, but he has this attitude. We are going to do it right this time. His carefulness. Look at verse number one. Come back there to Chronicles. And it says, David made him houses in the city of David. Now look at the last part of verse 1, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. I got thinking, what in the world was David doing that whole three months? That remember when they're going to Uzadai and they just set the uh the ark over in um who was Obed Edom, I forget the fellow's name that uh they put the ark there and just leave it there and for three months They don't touch the ark. They don't do anything. They don't move it. And I thought, what in the world was David doing that whole three months? Well, I'll tell you what he wasn't doing. He wasn't sitting at home in a corner sucking his thumb saying, Woe is me He allowed God to correct him. He allowed God to change his thinking. And then he got busy. What was he doing? He was preparing a place in Jerusalem. For where that ark is going to be. Putting a tent up. Maybe getting a tabernacle type thing established for it. He's clearing out a spot. He's choosing where it's going to be. We're going to do it right this time. Alright, this is where it's going to be. We're going to get clear out the land. We're going to make it appropriate for the presence of God. We're going to put a tent for that thing. And he was busy preparing for what was about to take place. Preparing a place for the ark. Now, it doesn't say this, but I can kind of in my imagination hear David saying We ain't just setting that ark out in some field somewhere. This is the ark of God, the mercy seat. We're going to have an appropriate place. I noticed I went back and looked. I didn't find anywhere where he prepared a place before they put it on the new cart. To me, the impression I get in studying this is he got the idea, he got everybody on board. They never thought through how we're going to do this or where we're going to put it, just threw it on an arc, we'll get it there And I tell you, you don't treat God in a haphazard way. And you don't horse around, and you're not flippant with the things of God, and David learned that And so now it says for three months he's preparing a place there. He's getting it ready. We're going to do it right this time. And so he prepared uh, I put it this way, number one, he prepared housing for the ark His carefulness in his preparation. He prepared housing for the art. Second thing I notice in verse 12, he prepared their hearts. For transporting the yard. Look at verse 12. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites. What are those next two words? Sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren. Why? That ye may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it. He's saying, we ain't touch, can I put that in Leatherman translation? We're not touching this ark till our hearts are right. We're not touching, we're not we're not trying this until our hearts are right. He said, sanctify yourselves. Anybody know what the word sanctify means? Separated, set apart. He says we are going to give ourselves fully to the Lord before we do anything In moving this art. I put this down. Christian service begins first and foremost in my heart. We've had people serve the Lord. I'm grateful for anything anybody does for the Lord. But I've noticed sometimes we have people serve the Lord. And I'll put it this way, their heart's really not in it. You know what I mean by that? I mean, it's just kind of something they're just kind of doing for God. And doing God a favor. It's okay, it's just that. I tell you, that's not Christian service. Christian service begins first and foremost in having a heart for God. Having a heart for God. You can get somebody that loves God and God can use them. You know it's possible to love the ministry and not love God? You know it's possible to love something I'm doing for God and not love God. An old preacher years ago, old preacher in Indianapolis, he was on my ordination council, B. M. Page He had hip replacements back in the 1980s, early 1980s, had both hips replaced, both went bad. And he had two cranes and uh cranes, two uh No, not canes. Crutches. He had two crutches and he would hobble around. Man, that guy would preach all over the Midwest there. Everybody, all the Independent Baptists knew B. M. Page And uh he was on my ordination council and he preached my ordination. Just a great man of God. And we were going out, he made a couple statements to me. I said, Brother Paige, give me some advice. After it was all over, about everybody was gone, he was still there. I said, Brother Paige Give me some advice. And he told me a number of things, and he made this statement. He said, Brother Leatherman, you love God with all your heart, and you love people just the same. And he said, God will use you. God will use you. I think that's what David's making sure here You sanctify yourselves. Before we touch this thing, before we try and do anything for God, let's just dedicate ourselves to Christ Let's just sanctify ourselves the Lord. Get self out of it. It's not about me. It's not about my agenda. It's not about my attention. It's not about me. I'm just giving myself to the Lord and let God use me to do this. I tell you, you get to that point, and God can use you. Acceptable Christian service requires complete dedication to Christ. I learned early on, and it never really, I'll be honest with you, it never really was an issue with me. I've seen it in in preachers and church staff uh over the years I'll be honest, it never really was an issue with me. But Christian ministry is not a job. It's not a job. It is a heart and it is a life. We had a young man years ago helped out in staff here a little bit. And he made different statements. And finally I had to sit down with him and I told him this. I said, listen, the ministry is your life. It's your life. You sanctify yourself to the Lord. You give yourself to the Lord. It's your life. Now that doesn't mean that there's not other other parts of my life, my family, and things like that, of course But what David is saying here, you sanctify yourselves to the Lord. You dedicate yourself to Christ and let God use us. Did you notice none of this took place on the first round? None of this. But now he's saying, we're going to do this right. We're going to do this right. So Christian, I put acceptable Christian service requires dedication to Christ. That ark was not just another piece of furniture. It represented the very presence of Almighty God, the creator of heaven and earth, the most holy being in existence, perfectly holy. We're not just going to approach this like a job. We're just moving this thing like we're moving a refrigerator. No, no, no. We're going to sanctify ourselves, set ourselves to the Lord. Let me bring it into our day and age, into my setting at least. That book, The Word of God, is not just another book And our message is not just another message among all the messages out there. That is the word of God. And the gospel is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that's not something to play with. That's not something you just do for a job or make merchandise of it. I tell you, it aggravates me to death these thinking big printing companies and publishers And they're taking the very word of God and just running it and making money off of it and changing the wording and coming up with new versions so they can sell more and run and this is what gets me running the Word of God on presses that they run filthy magazines and filthy other books, then they'll run the Bible on that same press. I don't know about you. That bothers me. That is the word of God. And that ark was not a refrigerator It wasn't a dishwasher. It wasn't a cabinet in the bedroom from the bedroom. The Ark of God. We're going to move this. We're going to dedicate our lives to the Lord. We're going to sanctify ourselves. When we lose a sense, here, and I told I mentioned this to my, I was reading back over my notes before we came over, and this thought came to mind, and I see this When we lose the sense of privilege in serving God, we lose the presence of God in our ministry. What happens is sometimes if you haven't taught a Sunday school class for a long time or you had some bus or bus ministry or whatever, I'm just children's church or pastoring. And you do it for an extended period of time. If you're not careful, you lose the sense of privilege to do that. And suddenly this is mine. And this is me. And we forget it's not mine and it's not about me. It's the Lord's. You ask Pastor Matt every Saturday night, I've been doing this for 27 years. And since he's been on, we pray. Every Saturday night, about 10 o'clock, we come kneel at these altars, and we pray. You ask him every Saturday night, I with all my heart Before I start Sunday, I'll say this to the Lord. Lord, this is not my church. This is your church. It's not my Bible. It's not my message. It's yours. And Lord, I just want to take my hands off, and I just want you to use me for your glory and for your good. I think that's what David is doing here. This is not about us. This is not our way, our agenda. We're sanctifying ourselves, Lord. We're setting ourselves apart to the Lord So he prepared the housing for the Ark there in Jerusalem. He cleared out a spot, put his hand up, made it appropriate for the Ark of God, the mercy seat, the covenant of uh uh the Ark of the Covenant, and then uh they prepared their hearts. We're going to get our hearts right. We're going to get right with God. We're just dedicating ourselves to the Lord God. And then I noticed he prepared the helpers for the ark. Now I go verse 15 all the way down through verse 24. All those names I could hardly pronounce. I got this, I got looking at that. You know what I found out? Everybody had a part in this endeavor Singers, uh musicians, uh they had doorkeepers, had a guy walking in front, guy walking in the back, then you had the priest They're carrying that ark on those staves like they're supposed to, not touching it. You got a guy walking in front looking for ruts and gullies and uh being real careful and then you got a guy in the back, you know, making sure everything's okay. Then you got these people up there playing their flutes or and uh uh their different instruments and you got some guy leading the singing and uh I mean it's quite a parade. But here's what I thought. Everybody had a part in this endeavor. And not everybody's part was the same. But they were all just as important. You follow my thinking here? They're all just as important. You got the priests carrying that thing. Boy, what a privilege, huh? Carry the ark of God. Then you got musicians there. Man, what a privilege to be able to play for the transport of the Ark of God. Then you got these two doorkeepers, guy in the front, guy in the back, watching, what a privilege And God gifted each of them for a very specific part in this whole endeavor. And I thought about our local church Everybody has a part. Everybody has a part. Not everybody's the song leader. Not everybody's the children's church preacher. Not everybody's a deacon, not everybody vacuums the floors, but everybody has a part in doing something. Amen? And God gifts all of us. And God gives us varying uh gifts and varying abilities and talents. They're not all the same. I could never sing like uh some of our mus or our musicians sing up here. I like to sing. I just say I don't care I don't care what y'all think. I'm singing But I'm not gifted like others are, and um I tell you and and all these different areas But God had a plan for everybody, and David got everybody all lined up, and you're you're this is where you're gifted, and this is your role, and this is what you do, and this is what you do, and everybody had a part. And so they prepared themselves. They prepared the housing. They prepared their hearts. They prepared all the helpers. And then my last observation in this, they had a companion. In transporting this art. First, David accepted the correction. Then he's very, very careful in his preparation. And I see in verse 25 and 26 they had a helper. And I like this. So David, verse 25, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord out of the house of Obed Edom with joy. Boy, they've got it all together. Alright, here we go. Everybody's in their place. Their hearts are right. They are filled with the Holy Spirit at this point, but they're filled with the joy of the Lord. And look at verse 26. And it came to pass when God helped them. Helped the Levites that bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord. God helped them. God helped them. That word help there means this: to support, to protect. I thought this was an interesting part of the definition. To surround. You know what I think was taking place? God's presence was there. And God enabled them and God protected them and those Levites' legs were strong to carry that over those hills and down the valleys and across the gullies. And the musicians just played and played and played. And God strengthened them and God enabled them. And God brought that whole thing together. God helped them. What a tremendous thing. Did you ever hear the statement, God helps those who help themselves? Anyone ever hear that? When I worked at the meat packing plant, I got uh you know I got saved when I was there, and I worked about a year after I trusted Christ And my one foreman, uh Ricky, um, devout Catholic, unsaved, I've witnessed to him, tried to get him saved. And um I think somebody had told me after years later he had trusted Christ, but not while I was there. And we were talking about something I we were witnessing, we talked about the Lord a lot. And uh he made a statement. He says, Well, you know what the Bible says? I don't remember what our subject was we were talking about. He said, you know what the Bible says? I said, what's it say? It says, God helps those who help themselves I was a new Christian. I thought, huh. And so I I thought, I'm going to go find out where that is in the Bible. And I looked and looked, and back then you didn't have computers, you know, to search it. You had to look through a big old concordance. And I looked up those words and I went to the preacher, the Two guys, Arden and and uh Musselman and Terry Wilcox were discipling me. I said, Where in the Bible is that verse? I can't find it. They said, What verse? I said, God helps those that help themselves And they said, uh, they called me Danny and said, but Danny, that ain't in the Bible. I said, what? They said, that's not a Bible verse. In fact, it's not even scriptural. Said, huh? So I went back and I told Rick, I said, Rick, that ain't even in the Bible. In fact, it's not even scriptural. He said, why not? I said, I don't know. Arden said it isn't I studied the Bible and I found out it's not. Can I modify that statement so that it is scriptural? I put it this way: God helps those who do what he says. Huh? God helps those who will trust Him and follow His instructions. And David humbled himself. He said, you know, I've been doing, I did this thing wrong. And it was costly. But God, I want to be made right. I want you to correct me. And he humbled himself. He was able and willing to let his thinking and his approach and his attitude about all this be changed. And he got lined up with the Word of God. And then he says, we're going to prepare ourselves. We're going to be very, very careful about this. And he got their hearts right, and he got the helpers all lined up. And uh they got uh uh they what what was the other one there? They got uh the housing in place And then God comes down. God's presence is there. God helps them. You know what? I believe Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we could do something for God. If we have God's presence here, if we have God's power on everything we do, whether it's working in a nursery, a radio broadcast, putting little sword papers out, giving out gospel tracts. We say, Lord, I just want to dedicate my life. I want to sanctify my heart to you. I want to do it your way. God comes down and says, all right, I'll use you. I'll use you. You don't have to be big. You don't have to be highly educated. You don't have to be rich. We just have to be wholly given over to the Lord. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for David's tremendous character here, and his ability and his willingness to be corrected and to get back up. And to get out and do it your way. And I pray you'd help us. Lord, I just see I fail so often. Lord, I just I just constantly need to get back up and need you, your grace To help us go forward. I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher, God's Holy Spirit challenged me tonight. And I want to be holy the Lord's. I just want to get myself out of this thing. and be completely in the hands of the Lord. And I want God to use me in whatever capacity, whatever role, whatever abilities He's given me. I want God to use me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. Goodness. But Christian wouldn't want that. But maybe we just need to say, Lord, show me. Show me in my life. Show me those areas. Some of us maybe already know. Something needs to be corrected. God make it clear. And then let's trust Him. Humble ourselves, let him correct us. Father, bless our imitation I ask tonight. Use us, we pray, as a church and as individuals. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.