A significant event in David's reign as king. He's right off the bat. One of the first things he's doing as king But I'm telling you this significant and it is significant in the life of Israel. I want to begin reading in verse number one. And uh I think what I'm going to do is just read down through verse number five, because we're going to kind of take our time working through this passage. But notice, if you would, verse number one of 2 Peter, 2 Samuel chapter 6. Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Bailey of Judah to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubim. And they set the ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drave the new cart And he brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God. And Ahio went before the ark. Let's just stop right there. We'll pray and pick up. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. We thank you for this study of David. I pray now that you would help us learn from this passage here. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would take principles that can apply to our lives, our Christian lives. And Holy Spirit, touch our hearts, speak to our hearts, show us how this relates to us and what we can take away from this. Lord, I don't have that ability. It has to be you, so I yield my will to you. I pray you take control of my will. I pray I yield my body to you. Present my body anew And pray that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak through me, Lord, to every one of our hearts and lives. I pray that you would just bless our time in your word tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. David is the king of Israel now. One of the first things he does is bring the Ark of God from uh Kirjess Diram, where it was for, I think it was 70 years for a long time, and he's bringing it back to Jer bringing it to Jerusalem. the very center of the nation of Israel. Now, I just want to touch on our introduction last week. We said there were three things we can observe from this um this whole event here. Just three general uh observations we made and then I want to look at these couple of verses here The first uh observation we made last week was this. Good people can make some serious mistakes. And uh that's just a reality. Good people can make some serious mistakes. David is a good man And no one is above making mistakes. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. Then we said last week we pointed out it is possible, now this is the big lesson from this whole event. It is possible to do the right thing, but do it in a what? A wrong way. You can do the right thing in a wrong way. And we're going to look at that in detail a little bit here in this section, our study of this section, because that's exactly what happened here It's possible to do the r uh the right thing in a wrong way. Uh good intentions never negate our disobedience to God. And I said this how we do God's service is as important as what we're doing for God and why we're doing it for the Lord. And we looked at some illustrations there. Then the third observation we made was this We must never underestimate the importance of details in God's instructions. We must never over underestimate the importance of the details in God's instructions. God gave very specific details on how this ark was to be transported. And it wasn't just how uh you know just getting it from point A to point B. There was a very prescribed, specifically prescribed way. how that thing was to be transported. And again, we'll look at that here in a little bit. But uh details do matter to God. And if you remember, we illustrated that by saying Pointing out that not even a sparrow falls to the ground without God seeing that. So God is concerned about details. Now we're going to look here at verse 1 through 6. I want you to find two other passages. If you would Find 1 Corinthians or 1 Chronicles chapter 13. 1 Chronicles 13. Mark that because we're going to look there in a little bit. But where I want to go to now is John chapter 4. So if you would, 1 Chronicles 13, put a little marker in there. And then come with me, if you would, to John chapter 4. And I want us to notice a statement that the Lord Jesus made to this woman that he meets beside a well. He's sitting in a well, she comes out to get water at this well. And um Jesus engages this dear woman in conversation. And of course, as you would expect, the conversation leads to her spiritual well-being being, her standing with God. And in their conversation with this woman who was a little loose-living woman, she wasn't the most highly respected in the community, no doubt. She had some issues, we would say. But notice in verse number, if you would, notice in verse number 23 of John chapter 4, a statement the Lord makes of all people Now I might have touched on this previous message, but um I find it interesting. He he he makes a statement about God That is profound. And it is a revelation. It is a very significant revelation of God uh that he makes to this woman. And I was I guess it was in Bible Institute we were talking about this. And and I'm and we noted this. He doesn't make this statement to the high priest He doesn't go to the Pharisees. He goes to just a common woman who's really living in sin, and he reveals this about God to us. Look with me at verse 23. But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth For the Father seeketh such to worship him. Now I circle, I have that whole verse underlined, but I circle the word true. In there. Now, when Jesus says when he references true workers, what is he implying to us? Think think with me. Let me read it. The hour cometh now is when the true worshippers Shall worship the Father in spirit and truth. So if he's highlighting and pointing out true worshipers, what does that imply to us? There are false worshipers. It is possible, here's what I'm getting at, it is possible to worship the true God. In a false way. That's what he's saying. He's answering this question, this woman, about where we're supposed to worship. He says, wait a minute. He said, true worshippers, those that worship God correctly. Is it possible to worship God incorrectly? And the answer is yes. He makes it very clearly. Is it possible to serve God incorrectly? Yes, absolutely, absolutely. And if we took the time, we could go through the Bible, and we'd find many, many examples and illustrations of that. And it's true in our day and age. Now look what he says here. True worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit. And in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. He gives two characteristics that must be in place, two ingredients. that must be in place if our worship is going to be true. If our worship is going to be true. Now David is bringing the Ark of the Covenant, and we're going to look at that in a bit. He's bringing it to Jerusalem. That's integral to the worship of Jehovah for the nation of Israel. So there's a right way and a wrong way. Look at the next verse here. God is a spirit And they that worship him must worship him. Now he gives these two ingredients in what? Spirit and in truth. He gives both of these. David, we're going to see this. David brought the Ark of the Covenant from Kirjath Jiram To Jerusalem, the capital, the center of the country. He brought it in spirit. We didn't read, I think verse 5 we got there. where David is uh I think verse six maybe where David's dancing and he's excited and they're having a big ticker date parade. I tell you, he had the spirit Oh my, he was he this was exciting. This wasn't dry as dust maneuver. This was exciting. And David was stirred up. His spirit was in this. The problem was he had set aside some truth. He had set aside some specific instructions. I had a lady, and I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, but I wasn't here too long, a couple years maybe, and a Sunday night I was preaching, there was a young lady, and She attended and she kind of attended off and on. And I don't know what I preached on one night, one Sunday night, but it was something about living the Christian life and I'm sure it involved things that God says we should do and some things God says we should not do. Did you know there are some things God says that we should do? Anybody know? Did you know there's some things God says we should not do? I don't think some people grasp that, but it is. And so I preached this message on the Christian. And she came up to me afterward and she wasn't upset. She was with us. But she made a statement She said this to me. She said, Pastor Leatherman, as long as I love God, it doesn't matter what I do. Now, that kind of sounds a little bit spiritual if in a way, maybe But anybody see a problem with that statement? In fact, and I talked to her a little bit and I I made this statement to her. I said, actually, if we love God then it very much matters what I do. Jesus said numerous times in John chapter 14, he said, if you love me, you will Keep my commandments. He said that over and over and over and over. Now he didn't say if you want to be saved, keep my commandments. Keeping God's commandment doesn't save us. We understand that, right But if we love God, then we're going to follow his instructions. We're going to worship him, not just in spirit, but in truth. I tell you, we got, and again, I I I try I don't want to be Worry about other churches too much because I got my hands full here. But the fact of the matter is there's a lot of quote-unquote worship goes out on out there. There's a heap of spirit in it But I'm afraid there's truth is pretty thin as far as following how God tells us and instructs us to serve Him and worship Him. And so we look at this here. David is worshiping God in spirit. His spirit is in there, so there's no doubt about it. But we run into a problem here in a little bit. Now, my first thought, my first point here, coming back to 2 Samuel, now keep your place there in Chronicles. We're going to jump back and forth a bit. We come back to 2 Samuel chapter 6, and I look here at verses 1 through 5, and my first, I I, this is my point on those first five verses. This is my first thought is the decision. To transport this ark. David's king, he's established Jerusalem as his capital, so to speak He's fortifying it. We get the impression at this point that's kind of ongoing and maybe winding down the fortification of Jerusalem. And now he says, and I'm reading into it a little bit, this is some of my speculation, but maybe he's thinking the city's fortified, it is secure. Now we need to bring the ark of God here. And so he makes this decision to bring the Ark of God to Jerusalem. I said this before, I want to say it again. One of the most important decisions David ever made as king of Israel, I believe, is was his decision to get this ark right up front, get this ark here into Jerusalem, and get it at the very center of the nation. Did anybody anybody ever hear this statement? Power corrupts. Anybody hear that statement? Power corrupts. Boy, we say that a lot. I don't agree with that. I don't think power corrupts. I think power, when somebody gets authority, they get in a position of power, I don't think it necessarily corrupts them. I think what it does, it enables or reveals the corruption that is already there I think you put a person in a position of authority where they have some power over others, you're going to find a whole lot about what that person is like, what their character is. You put some people in a position of power and authority, and boy, they want to lord it over others. And they want to control their every move, whether you can go in your house or not out of your house. They want to control every single thing about your life. That reveals their character. That reveals their mentality. In fact, the Lord through Paul told Timothy, or was it Peter, he says that the pastor is not to lord it over the church. Anybody remember reading that? Pastors to provide oversights, provide leadership, but he doesn't have absolute authority. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. The only authority the pastor has is what Jesus has delegated to the pastor. And so we make that statement: power corrupts. I want to suggest to you, I I I I would modify that. Power reveals my character. So look at David here. Here's David, he's become king. He is in the humanly speaking, he's in the most powerful position in the nation of Israel. I mean he's king. That's a little different than our system of government. He can just make a statement and make it so But look what he does. One of his first acts and exercising of authority is not about David at all. It's not about him getting attention or putting a statue up for himself or gaining more power or dictating. His very first act as king. is to make sure God is the center of the nation's life and that God gets all the glory. Isn't that something? That tells me a lot about this man David, his character, his heart's desire. The Bible says in Acts that David was a man after God's own heart And I think this one act of him bringing this ark here to Jerusalem reveals the fact that he sincerely, genuinely was a man after God's own heart. He wanted God to get all the glory. So this decision to transport the ark uh was perhaps one of the most important decisions David made as king. In fact, there are eleven psalms in the book of Psalms Eleven of the Psalms are written around this event of moving the Ark to Jerusalem. Now that in itself tells me there's something significant going on here In fact, if you would, come with me, keep your place, come with me to Psalms chapter 132. Psalms 132. And this is one of those 11 that is referencing this transporting of the art from Kirjathjiram. to Jerusalem. And notice what it says. Psalm chapter 132. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 3 This is David speaking. He says, I will not give sleep to mine eyes. Or slumber to mine eyelids, look at this, until I find out a place for the Lord, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. Everybody with me? Now what's he saying? When he says, I will not give sleep to my eyelids, nor slumber to mine eyes, or slumber to my eyelids, what's he mean when he says that? What's he telling us? Alright, right. And that means what? This this endeavor is what? High priority. Right? I'm not getting any sleep. I'm not going to close my eyes until this gets done. Now read on here. Lo, we heard of it. If you want to underline that word, it, that's referring to the Ark of the Covenant. We have heard of it at Ephrata, and we found it, the Ark of the Covenant, in the fields of the wood. I thought, where in the world is the fields of the wood? You know what I found out? Kirjath Jiram, where the ark had been for all these years, the meaning of that, what that means, is the city in the field of woods. So when he makes this reference here to we found it in the fields of woods, he's saying we found it over in Kirjatjirim. That's where it's been. He's referencing the ark here. We will go into his tabernacles. We will worship at his footstool. Arise, O Lord, unto thy rest, thou and the ark of thy strength. David moving this ark here is very significant. Eleven of the Psalms are referencing this endeavor to move this ark here. Now, the decision to transport the art, first of all, I put this down. Again, actually, let's go to Chronicles now. I put this down as a very popular decision. To move this ark. This is a very popular decision. Look at 1 Chronicles 13, verse number 1. Everybody doing all right out there? Everybody okay? Don't let that weather get to you I shouldn't say this right now, but anybody see the weather report for tomorrow night? That'll encourage him. 1 Chronicles chapter 13, I think some of the old weather is getting to you. Look at verse 1 And David consulted, now pay attention to what's happening here. This is the Chronicles record of what we read in 2 Samuel. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds. And with every what? Leader. Alright, so he's got the captains and the leaders. He gets them together. He talks to them about moving this ark. Then verse 2. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem good unto you, and that it be of the Lord our God, let us send abroad unto our brethren everywhere. That are left in the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and the Levites, which are in the cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves together, gather themselves unto us. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we inquire not of it in the days of Saul. So what's he doing? He's getting everybody on board One of David's responsibilities, well let me let me get you involved here. What would be some of the responsibilities that David had as king of Israel? He's the king. Alright, what would his responsibilities be? What would some of them be? Hmm? Saving I'm sorry. Oh yeah, secure. Yeah, safety. Okay, I couldn't hear what you're saying. Um yes, securing the country, making sure that it's a safe, secure nation. That would be very, very high priority What else what else other things maybe? Yeah, providing making sure the economy is working, needs are met, those types of things Bringing them together. He's very successful at that. I want to suggest to you, because Israel as a nation are the people of God David has a responsibility as king, and I guess in some sense all kings would have this, but he has a responsibility to meet this to help with the spiritual well-being of the nation. See, that's one of the problems in our country and in our government is they fail to recognize the spiritual aspect of people. And David understood that he had a very, very serious, important responsibility as king To bring this nation back to God. Did you notice there at the end of verse number three that I just read? He said, We did not inquire at the ark of God during the days of Saul. This has been neglected. Under King Saul, the spiritual well-being of the people of Israel had been neglected. Saul was consumed with himself. He was consumed with his own agenda and his advancement. And David said, We must correct that. And I want to bring the nation back to the Lord. I want to bring Israel back to God to where they should be. And the Ark of the Covenant was a vital aspect. of Israel's relationship with their God. And so this ark has to be there. Now I think here's something that really stood out to me as I was studying this. David didn't try and drive the people back to God. He didn't get and just demand and pass laws and everything. You've got to come back to God. He took two steps, and I believe very deliberately, in getting everybody on board so that everybody would agree and everybody would support this endeavor. The first thing he did Is he met with who? What do we say, notice in verse 1? The captains and the leaders. He pulled those people who were in positions of tremendous influence. People that uh that uh the general population respected highly. And he pulled them in there, and verse number one, he met with them, and there's no doubt he was explaining to them what his Heart's desire was to, we need to get this ark back here. We need to get the people, uh, we need to start uh worshiping God as a nation again. And he got them on board with him, and he got them to see catch his vision and catch his burden. Then verse 2, who did he go to? Then he went to the congregation. Then he went to the people in general. And then he goes down and lists the priests and everybody and all the towns and all the cities all over. And he very wisely, here's what I'm getting at, he very wisely led the nation of Israel into supporting this rather than driving them and forcing them to. Anybody see a difference in that? I saw a picture a couple weeks ago. Somebody had sent it to me. It was a flock of sheep. They were going up a road, and leading this flock of sheep was a donkey. So the donkey was gone and the flock of sheep and they said, come to your own conclusion. You've got to think about that a little bit. The donkey leading the flock of sheep. And what is the church congregation? The flock. And who leads the flock is the man, you guys are really slow tonight So I wrote back ha ha ha, very funny. But one I'm not a shepherd and I'm not real familiar with sheep. I'm not a farmer or any like that, but um the way I understand it It's very difficult to drive sheep. I don't know that I ever saw a shepherd with a cattle prod. You know, we had them little electric cattle prod. Uh I don't think that works. I think the sheep scatter So what does the shepherd do? He what? Leads the sheep. He leads the sheep. I don't believe, I don't believe you can use force to get people to be spiritual. You cannot drive people to Christ. You cannot force and push people to Christ You know what you do? You have to what? Lead them to Christ. You have to draw them. In fact, we use that terminology in witnessing. I led someone to Christ We can't force people. I learned that early on in the ministry. I tell you, if a person's heart, if a person doesn't have biblical convictions in their own heart and mind Well, you've got to keep pressure on them all the time to hold to those convictions. But if you can win them and you can get them to Follow you and see the importance of what the Bible teaches here and what God expects of me and what God instructs me of their own and get them to see that, brother, you'll have folks living by the Bible Because as soon as you take that force away, as soon as you take that pressure off, they go right back to what's really what their real position is. I I see a tremendous wisdom on David's part as a leader that he doesn't just come out and make some edict. Everybody has to do this. But rather he gets with the leaders, he gets with the captains, he wins them over They go back out, he gets everybody, wins them over, and when he brings that Ark of the Covenant from Kirjath Jerem to Jerusalem, brother, everybody is supporting that. Everybody is after it And that's tremendous leadership there. And that's tremendous wisdom on David's part. You cannot force people to get close to God. You cannot force people to get right with God. In fact, you cannot legislate spirituality. Now, let me say this. Some of our liberal friends like to not have laws against something that is sin, and they'll say, well, you can't legislate morality Well, to an extent that's true, I would say you can't legislate spirituality, but you can legislate safety Right? You say, listen, if you kill somebody, then we take your life, capital punishment. I my thinking is there'll be a whole lot less killing going on You know, if there's if if there is uh consequences to bad behavior and it's adequate and it's immediate You diminish bad behavior and people have more peaceful and more safe, right? But you can't do that spiritually. You cannot force people to Christ. You cannot force people to be submissive to Christ. You can try all you want. It's not going to work. That's why when I pray, every time I prepare messages, every time I pray, I pray and Lord, ask the Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you speak to hearts. Because the Holy Spirit of God can draw people. I can't. You follow what I'm saying? I know I'm kind of beating this to death, but I think it's important to understand And David saw that. I see young preachers have a lot of problems in their churches because they come in and right away they're going to change everything and right away they're going to put their agenda in, and they don't take time to win the people over and see What the Bible's saying, and man, before they're there a year or two and they're discouraged and people are mad at them and they're not doing what he wants, he's mad at them. And uh my advice to these young men, I learned this the hard way, I guess, but uh my advice, a young preacher calls me up, I had a guy not too long ago, took a church and there were some issues, and I said, Whatever you do, you go slow. And you preach and you love your people and you show them what the Bible says and you be an example of it and you win them over, and then you can maybe make a difference. You follow what I'm saying So I think David was tremendously wise on this in um in uh uh getting the people on to his side here, taking the time to work his way through the people. I see like I said, I see some young preachers. They come in and man they uh got an iron fist and they've got their agenda and they show up And brother, before you know it, they've split that church and everybody's mad at them and they're mad at each other and he's mad at them and he quits and he moves on another place. Now there's another side to that I've seen where a young preacher comes in and he doesn't provide leadership at all. It's just whatever the church folk want. Yeah, whatever you want, we'll do. That's just as bad, by the way. There has to be leadership provided there. I know a fellow is a good guy. Well actually I candidated at a church uh before I came here back in the early 90s and uh they gave me a call to come and past her, but I refused it because In that church, the only thing the preacher did was preach messages behind the pulpit. He didn't provide any leadership in who the speakers were coming in or anything like that. And I said, ah, that doesn't sound like a pastor to me And so that and so you have to be careful there. Anyway, I got off on that a little bit. So number one, it was a popular decision. David took used leadership wisely He won the people over to what he was endeavoring to do. He took the steps necessary, and everybody's on board. Man, they're excited about this. They want to do that. Second thing I noticed here, this was a principled decision. It was popular, and it was a principled decision. The ark represented to Israel the very presence of God. That was important. Study the history of the ark there. Study what the Bible says about the ark. Wherever the ark was, that's where the glory of God was. God's presence was there. God's glory was there. And so for Israel, this ark was a vital part The central part of their worship of God, their relationship with God. In fact, I want to suggest to you that the art was in some ways To the nation of Israel, what Jesus is to you and I. They could not approach God except through what? The ark. That's how they brought their sacrifices to the ark. The ark was the presence of God. The high priest had to come in and uh and make intercession for them What is Jesus Christ to you and I? He is our access to God the Father. Right? We come boldly because of the blood of Christ. By the way, the Ark of the Covenant, the blood was put on that mercy seat and made it possible. For them to have access to God, for them to have God's blessings, God's power. What is Jesus Christ? His blood was shed, making it possible us to come boldly to the throne. You see what I'm suggesting And what I'm suggesting is this, this ark was incredibly important to the nation of Israel and their relationship with Jehovah, their relationship with God. And from the time that God had Moses lead in the construction of the tabernacle, And then the construction of the Ark of the Covenant with the mercy seat and the cherubim and all that, from the very time it was constructed, where did they keep it in relationship to the camps of Israel? It was right in the very what? Right in smack dab in the middle. And God gave them, and we won't turn there, but in um Uh I didn't write it down, but I think it's Numbers, uh couple chapters there, when that he said, when you get travel, this is how you set up the tribes of Israel. And they had I think there was uh uh three to the east, three to the west, three to the north, three to the south. And right smackdab in the middle was the tabernacle, and in the holy of holies of the tabernacle was the Ark of Covenant. In other words The entire life of Israel revolved around that Ark of the Covenant. That was the hub In the center of all their life, their social life, their occupations, their family life, their home life, and especially their worship of their God. Revolved around that Ark of the Covenant and the ceremonies associated with it. And so when David says, we're going to bring the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem, the center of the nation. He was following a principle that was established right back when God set up how he was to be worshipped Every aspect of life for Israel revolved around the presence and glory of God in the Ark of the Covenant And so David's following this principle that was established way back there. The Ark of the Covenant was the hub. Can I suggest to you I said that the ark in some ways is to them, to what Jesus Christ is to us. Can I give a bit of advice tonight? Can I advise you that we ought to put Jesus Christ in the very center of our lives? He is to be the hub in what our social life and our home life and our work life and our church life everything revolves and is connected and is governed by Jesus Christ as the hub. I've tried to illustrate this on occasion over the years where you get a bicycle And you have all those spokes coming from the wheel, the rim, all those spokes coming into the hub right in the middle. And that hub dictates, governs All the rest of that wheel, it all spins, it all is governed by that hub right in the center. And I want to suggest to you, that's what David was trying to do in Israel, and that is what Jesus Christ wants to be in our lives. Did you ever hear somebody say this? Jesus ought to be number one in your life. Anybody ever hear that? And you know, I'd say, yeah, amen. But can I improve on that I don't think Jesus ought to be number one in my life. I believe Jesus ought to be the center of my life, and everything revolves around him. Because if he's number one, that means there's a what Number two, and that sounds a bit like competition a little bit to me. But if he's the center, he's the hub, and my relationship with my wife, my relationship with my children, My work ethic, my uh social life, my uh my uh uh church life, he's the center. He governs all of it. And we can get to that point, brother, we're going to be in pretty good shape. And that's what David's trying to do with Israel. To get the Ark of the Covenant, the very center And all the life of Israel will revolve around and be governed by the presence and the glory of God. Number three, I put this down. His decision to transport the ark, it was a popular decision. It was principled. He's following scriptural principle. And last of all, it was an imperfect decision. Look with me again at verse 3 and 4. Boy, we could preach sermons on this. Let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we inquire not it at the days of Saul. And all the congregation said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of the people. Now look what happens here. So David gathered all Israel together from Shai from Shyhar. Um I'm in Chronicles here now. From uh David gathered all Israel together from Shihar of Egypt even unto the Ender Ring of Hamath to bring the ark of God from Kirjathim And David went up and all Israel to Balam, that is to Kirjath Jiram, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God, the of the the ark of God the Lord, that dwell between cherubim whose name is called. Now here's what I'm trying to get at. Verse seven. And they carried the ark of God in a what? A new cart. Out of the house of Abinedab. David's objective was good. He wanted God at the center of the nation. His motive was good. He wanted to please God. But his method was problematic. There's a problem here. I see three flaws in their method, real quickly. Real three flaws in their method. I studied this and I come back to Samuel. 2 Samuel, and I studied it, and there's something conspicuously absent here. There's something I noticed they did not do, and actually it's a little out of character, I think, with David. I notice this. The first flaw was this: there was no seeking of God in prayer. Before this, you find David praying over everything. Should I go up? Am I going to beat the Philistines? Pray, should I do this? Lord lead me, Lord direct me, teach me, Lord your way. But now I don't see any hint of prayer Not a mention of it, that they sought the Lord. Lord, is this the timing? You know, is this uh we want to do this right? Is this the place? No prayer. They just assumed, here's our danger, this is what you and I do. They just assumed they had God's blessing. I wonder this. This is my what I wonder. I wonder if they had prayed and sought, inquired of the Lord That maybe God would have pointed out that the new cart is not the way to move the ark. God had given clear instructions, that is to be a priest carrying that, put it through the little um ringlets on the side. There's a special pole designed for that. Only the priests were to carry that. And I wonder if they'd have said, Lord, we need a move, is this your will? How should we do this? I I have no doubt in my mind God would have said, follow the instructions But they didn't pray. I thought of this. Oh, what needless pain we bear. All because we do not carry. Everything to what? God in prayer. I wonder if they'd have taken the time to pray first and seek the Lord. I wonder if Uzzah wanted to have lived out his life. Huh? How different it would have been if they just paused and prayed. Now what they were doing was right and good. And their motive was good. I didn't stop and pray, and they assumed that God would bless, and they got careless on how they did it. Prayer is so important. Second flaw I notice here, I see no seeking in the scriptures for instructions. I don't see anywhere. Now later on, when David corrects this, they do. They go to the scriptures and say, hey, wait a minute. This is supposed to be done this way. But right here they just assumed that it didn't matter. They just assumed that it was okay. And there's no seeking of scriptures. I found that one of the first steps in going astray is getting away from that old book. One of the first steps. I'd say this often, but sometimes somebody's struggling, and I'll often I will ask this question. I'll say, are you reading your Bible every day? And without fail, without fail The answer is, well, preacher, not like I should. If they'd have gone into the Word of God and said, all right, how is this thing supposed to be moved? I wonder if Uzzah wouldn't still be alive. No prayer. No seeking God's leadership in there. You say, yeah, but it's a good thing they're doing. Yeah, but you still ought to pray As long as man is in the midst, there's a chance and there's a possibility and there's a likelihood of something going wrong. Prayer brings God back into it. Prayer puts God in charge. Then I go to the Word of God, the authority, the sole authority. I say, alright, God, how is this to be done? How is this to be done? And then the third problem, and this is what we're going to look at later on, they mimicked the world's methods. They didn't pray. They didn't look in Scripture. And if we had time, I wish we did, we don't, but if you go back to 1 Samuel chapter 6, verse 7. When the Palestinians sent that ark back, they didn't carry it by sanctified priests carrying it. They put it on a new card. And they sent it back to Israel. We talked about that last week And the Israelites, David, and under his leadership, it's not recorded, I'm just guessing, but maybe they said something like this Well the the Canaanites, they sent it back on a new cart. Why don't we just do the same thing? It was fine. You know what I found out? God's children can't get away with same some of the same stuff the devil's children get away with. God tolerated the unsaved pagans doing that. That wasn't this shit. But my children, they're gonna do it right. See what I'm saying? And so they just mimicked what the world did. They just followed the world's pattern. The world said, ah, the art's good enough, just set it on a new cart. That'll be fine. It's not that important. Just put it on a hey, there's a new cart. Just set it on there. That's what the world's thinking. God said, no, no, no. This represents my very presence, my glory. is on this Ark of the Covenant. It is to be carried by human beings, consecrated, dedicated priests of Almighty God It is not to be thrown on a cart and hauled by oxen. We fail to realize, we fail to realize how holy our God is. And how sacred His presence and His glory is. And if we're not careful, we get to handling the things of God no different than the world handles the things of God. God is not going to be handled that way. His name is sacred. His name is holy. His presence is sacred. And I want to suggest to you, when the church of God assembles together, the presence of God is there, and that is to be a very sacred Now it's not morbid and dry as dust. We can sing and laugh and all that, but we don't worship God the way the world worships their gods. I've been doing before I got saved, I was at enough rock and roll concerts. I see how the world worships their gods. It's chaos, it's wicked, it's loud, it's rude I'm telling you, God will not be worshipped that way. I see some of these church services where it uh it reminds me so much of those old rock concerts I went to And I thought, there's a new cart, and they're taking the things of God and putting it on a new cart that the world uses. That's not the way it's to be. Three flaws. One, they didn't pray. Number two, they didn't search the scriptures. And number three, they mimicked the world's methods. I find it hard to believe. I'll end with this. I find it hard to believe that there was nobody in the crowd, none of David's associates, or even David himself. I find it hard to believe that nobody thought, you know. God told us how to do this, and this is not how he told us to do that. I find it hard to believe that somebody there didn't see what was happening. But for whatever reason, they didn't speak up, and it wasn't that important. I find it hard to believe that David didn't know how that ark was supposed to be carried. But he just assumed. In fact, he had the same problem just not too long ago when he overlooked God's instructions concerning multiplying wives. And he disregarded that. And now we have it here again. He disregarded God's clear instructions. And so we need to be very, very careful. Here's what I want to leave us with. Number one, let's make sure we pray over everything Pray before I come to church. Pray before I read my Bible. You say, preacher, of course God wants me to read the Bible. Sure, but pray over it. Get God in that thing. For I sing special, before I preach a sermon, before I teach a class, before I run a bus, before I sing in the choir. Lord, fill me with your spirit. God use me. God help me to sing for your glory. God help me to teach in your power Saturate everything in prayer. And then make sure we're going by the book. God, teach me your way. Show me in your word how to live, how to do this. And then don't let the world get in on any of that. God will tell us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help use these thoughts to help us, Lord, to do the right thing in the right way. Help us to learn from David, I pray. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, my prayer life, I tend to assume things, I tend to just jump into it And not stop and pause and pray and ask the Lord for leadership. Anybody like that? My hands raised. I catch myself. Maybe we need to ask the Lord. Lord, teach me to pray. Teach me to pray. Reading that Bible, we're into April, we're uh up through the first quarter of the year. How are we on our Bible reading? Looking to the Lord, finding, getting instruction, direction from God. How many people would say, preacher I need God to help me stay in that book like I should. Any like that? Yeah, it's all it's ongoing. It's constant And then we need to stop and think, am I letting the world creep in? Am I starting to mimic the world in some ways? Am I thinking like them and letting them influence me? We're to go into all the world, but we're not to be of the world. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed