Chapter in our study of the life of David, not just a new chapter in our Bible, but a new chapter in his life also. Oh you're finding that there. Let me get turned on. I'm gonna turn this on, Dave, so blow everybody's ears out. We are hot on the mic. All right. I got our August report for our sermons downloaded off our website. Now just humor me on this, okay? Raise your hand no matter how you feel. How many people enjoy getting this report here all the time? Good. Because I like it. And uh I like giving it, so you're gonna get it. Uh total get this. This is uh interesting. Total sermons downloaded in the month of August, 1099. Uh we jumped, we before we were running like 600, 700, so we broke a thousand here by almost a hundred. And so that was significant. That caught my attention. I thought this was interesting 427 of them are being downloaded onto smartphones. So people are using those phones a lot and uh listening in. 41 different states. Tuned in, so that's only nine that did not. 27 different countries. And the number one sermon downloaded 46 times was uh a Wednesday night study on King Saul and Angry King just a few weeks ago. 46 times downloaded. And then um most of these that are downloaded here, in fact The top three are all from the life of David. And so that's interesting. And then somebody else got one in there. Frederick Kearney had 19 times. And uh Brother Harding had uh 18. So that's the number. Now here's what's interesting. Anybody want to guess number one state? Wasn't California. Wasn't West Virginia. West Virginia was number two. I think that was Phil Sherman. He listens to him all the time. 74 sermons downloaded into West Virginia. Texas. Get this. 474 sermons downloaded into Texas. There's a revival going on. Maybe it's the illegal immigrants down there listening in. I don't know. 474. Number one country, England, or United Kingdom. 24 sermons over there. India had 16. Australia, Canada, Japan. Uh I like to look to these odd countries. Morocco had three. Um Ireland, Philippines, Russia had two. Sri Lanka two Um Malaysia had one. So pretty incredible, huh? We're sleeping in bed, we're going about our thing, and that thing's out there, people listening in. That just amazes me. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 21. I'm going to read the first seven verses. My message tonight is mostly introduction because I'm trying to pull out a lesson from this, and then we'll come through and we look at the particulars of what happened. And uh it may be a little repetitious, but I think this is the lesson that uh that uh comes from this whole era of David's life, this whole section of David's life, these experiences. Verse 1 1 Samuel 21, it says, Then came David to Nob, to Ahimelech, the priest. Now Nob is the name of the town, all right? Small town. And Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David and said unto him, Why art thou alone and no man with thee? David said unto him, elect the priest, the king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, now think about what David tells him here. Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee and what I have commanded thee. What is he telling him? This business is what? Top secret. And there's a reason I think David is saying that. We'll look at that. And I have appointed my servants to such and such a place. Now, therefore, what is under thine hand? Give me five loaves of bread in thy hand and what there is present or what there is present. The priest answered David and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is hallowed bread If the young men have kept themselves, at least from women, David answered the priest and said unto him, Of truth, women have been kept from us about three days, about these Three days since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common. Yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel. So the priest gave him hallowed bread, for there was no bread there but the show bread that was taken from before the Lord, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away. Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the Lord, and his name was Doeg. An Edomite, the chiefest of the herdmen that belonged to Saul. Now, if you remember, the context of this here taking place is Saul is trying to kill David. Now most of us are familiar or aware of this. But Saul's trying to kill David. David's been anointed by God to be the next king. Saul, David of course kills Goliath. He becomes very, very successful in the military. Saul appoints him to high positions over his, he would be like his military uh what's the guy, um secretary of defense, I think would be the title maybe in our context. And so David holds a very, very significant position in the defense of Israel. And he comes back and he and the ladies come out. They have a great victory over the Philistines. Goliath's killed. There's a great slaughter of the enemy. And the ladies saying, David, Saul has slain his thousands, but David his Ten thousand. And brother Saul, that bothers Saul. And he gets envious of David getting all the attention and all the women singing his praise. And one thing leads to another where he has openly attempted to murder David. And he tries to recruit his assistants, he tries to recruit his son Jonathan, who is dear friends with David, to kill David, murder him. And so now Jonathan and David had the little scheme, remember, with the arrows, and David escapes, and he's on the run. David is now on the run. So let's pray. And we'll pick it up from there. Father in heaven, I just appreciate King David and Lord, you've recorded so much of his experience, particularly in this part of his life And we are confident, we know that that's for a reason. You have something for us to learn from this part of David's life. So I ask that you would teach us, Holy Spirit I yield my will to you, I present my body to you, and I pray that you would teach through my body, use my tongue to teach us to trust you and live by faith and allow you to lead and direct us. I pray our faith in you would grow and be stronger because of what we study here. And I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to make a statement that I've proven to be true in my own life. It is not easy to walk with God. That's not an easy endeavor. Let me put it this way: it's not easy to live by faith. If it was easy to have a close, victorious walk with God, if it was easy to live by faith, everybody would be doing it. But it isn't. It's a challenge. It's not easy to live by faith, especially when your whole world around you is falling apart. And we're going to see that here with David. David's faith, at one point, when we began the study of David's life, and he's first introduced to us when he's anointed by God to be the next king And then he comes out and he sees Goliath and he confronts Goliath. His faith was unshakable earlier on his life. Remember when he told King Saul about he was watching his father's flock? And a lion came out to him. Remember that? He's relating this to King Saul. And he said, a bear came out and took some of the sheep. And he says, I got the bear, and I got the lion, and I killed them. David's faith, when a lion and a bear are attacking his daddy's sheep, his faith was unshakable, fearless. The guy was fearless. He goes out and kills a lion, kills a bear. And then he shows up and king and uh Goliath is out there. This is an enemy of God's people. He's blaspheming God. And David's faith to go out there and kill him with a slingshot was absolutely unshakable. Now here's the thing. It was absolutely clear to everybody that Goliath was an enemy of God, right? He's blaspheming God, he's blaspheming the armies of God. of God's people. And there's no doubt in the world that he was an enemy of God, that God did not approve of what he was doing. A lion and a bear coming and killing his little sheep. There is no doubt about it that that lion and that bear were doing wrong. They were bad lion and bad bear. The point I'm trying to make here. Now David's faith is a little rattled. In saw in 1 Samuel 17, verse 37, speaking to Saul about Goliath, he said this. The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. Now, it was who was opposing him, I believe, that was a factor in David's confidence that God would take care of him, that he could defeat these. However, now it's not in David's mind, I'm suggesting in David's mind, this is not an enemy of God that is attacking him. This is the anointed king of Israel, who God through Samuel anointed to be the king. This what I'm trying to say is this, Saul chasing David, this is not an obvious enemy of God. We know from later on as we study David's interaction with King Saul, as King Saul's chasing them all over the country, we know from his interaction David had phenomenal respect for King Saul, not because of his actions. but because of his position as king. And I kept and I wondered as we were working our way through here, and I brought this up a number of times, but I in my mind it just bothered me a little bit. Why was David so confident and su and had such powerful faith in facing Goliath and facing the bear and facing the enemies of God? And he had no doubt, these were the enemies of God. There was no doubt in his mind that God wanted these people dealt with. But now I think in David's mind, wait a minute. This is a person that, in my mind, is on God's side. And I think that, I think it was, I believe that's the root of David's struggle Was the fact that it was the anointed of God is trying to kill him. The anointed of God is pursuing him. The anointed of God is hounding him. And I think that is what shook him. This is somebody that should have been encouraging him. This is somebody that we're on the same side. This isn't an enemy of God, at least not in his position. His actions, of course, prove that to be his. And I believe, as I said, this is the root of David's trouble I think David is struggling, not that he's somebody's trying to kill him. He's dealt with that for years. He's not struggling with somebody trying out to destroy him The Philistines have been doing that for years. That's not what he's struggling with. It's who is doing it to him, is what's rattling him. And I think that is the root of David's struggle. That's the root of David's struggle. I say again, it's not easy to walk with God. I believe God is molding David. He's preparing him to be king of Israel. to uh uh uh serve in a position that has tremendous ramifications throughout the history of mankind. Christ is going to sit on the throne of David, and he's preparing David for that To hold that position, establish that, and show God is molding him. God is, this is boot camp. Remember we talked about that a few weeks ago. God's breaking them down. And I believe God is removing David's confidence in man. I this is me, this is what I get in studying this. David had tremendous respect for King Saul. I think as a young boy coming in on staff, as a young man, he's head of the military, he's a young guy. He's not 30, 40, 50 years old. He's 20s maybe, if that. And he had, and he's just awestruck, perhaps, by King Saul, the anointed of God. This is the king of Israel, God's people. And now this guy's trying to kill me. And God, I believe, is removing David's confidence in man. You know, we have to be careful about putting people on a pedestal. We have to be very, very careful about exalting, thinking more highly of ourselves and of man, other people than we ought to think. King Saul was not God. He was a man anointed by God, but he was still a man. And I think God is teaching David some very, very important lessons here, tremendous lessons here. People are going to fail us. People are going to fail us. And maybe God is giving David a very severe lesson Well, and listen, don't put your trust in people, don't put your confidence in people, put your confidence in the Lord. It's not easy to walk with God. It's not easy to be molded and changed. And and have things taken away from us and and having our worldview altered. That's not always an easy thing. Sometimes That's a very, very painful thing to God to change us so that we can be what He wants us to be, what He wants to use us to be. I have another thought here as I was preparing this. Saul allowed his sinful nature to affect his relationship with another man of God, a person of God, one of God's people. And when we allow, this is what what what I'm thinking, when we allow our sinful nature to affect our relationship with God's people. Regardless of who they are. But I allow my sinful nature to affect that. And that's what King Saul was, his envy. That was not of the spirit. That was not of God. That's a work of the flesh. Galatians tells us that And when King Saul allowed his flesh to be a factor in his interaction with God's people, people got hurt. Got hurt deeply. People end up dying here before it's over. The cause of Christ suffers Now I'm coming this from a preacher's pastor's perspective, but there's a heap of pastors got hurt, have been hurt over the years deeply because a church member or somebody in a position of church allowed the flesh to get in there And they said and did things and hurt the pastor, and they're out I know I can name you, I can, right off the top of my head, just thinking now, I can name three preachers that are out of the ministry today because they allowed somebody to hurt them. Somebody got in the flesh. I'm thinking from a pastor's perspective, but I also want to think from a church member's perspective, there's some church folk got hurt deeply because a preacher allowed the flesh. to affect their relationship, that old sinful nature. And they said and did something that hurt somebody deeply and hurt the cause of Christ. Children can be hurt when we allow our flesh to affect our relationship with others and new believers, ministries. So Saul allowed his sinful nature to affect his relationship with David. He could have been a phenomenal mentor. He could have been a phenomenal Teacher and model for King David to take that step. But he wasn't. Flesh took over and it hurt him deeply. And David is struggling. David's struggling. He makes a significant statement, and we looked at this a number of times already, but I want to look at it again. He makes a very significant statement in chapter 20 and verse number 3. And he's talking to Jonathan, and he's trying to convince Jonathan that, Jonathan, your daddy's out to kill me. I'm telling you he is. And Jonathan says, nah, my daddy wouldn't do that. He it's surely not And in chapter 20, verse 3, David makes, as I said, a very significant statement, and I think this statement reveals to us David's frame of mind. It reveals to us the condition of David's faith that the last part of verse 3, chapter 20, he says this, but truly as the Lord liveth And as my soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Now, in a general sense, that's true Who are we talking with? Oh, it was my dad. I took my dad up to Philly Monday. He's got some doctor's appointments and uh he's gonna be up there for a couple weeks visiting family and and uh whatnot. And we got up there and I forget oh uh he's got the he goes the heart doctor and um old dad he says well this may be my last time I'll ever see anybody up here again And he goes, I could be gone. And we looked at him. We said, Dad, any one of us could be gone at any moment. We might go before you. And uh so when David said, There's a sp but a step between me and death, that's true. And you take a wrong step going down the steps, boom-boom-boom, break your neck, you're gone. Pleasant thoughts tonight, isn't it? Just trying to be a blessing to you. So, in a general sense, that's true. But in David's particular sense, here that was not true. He knew God anointed him. God had said very clearly and very Forcefully, you are anointed to be the king of Israel. It's going to happen. And so for David to say, oh, there's but a step between uh me and death It tells us a little bit where his faith has gotten. Um his frame of mind. He's struggling. And uh, you know, when we get I tried to put it this way. Let's see if I can express what my thought is. When his frame of mind, and this leads up into what we're going to read here in the next couple chapters, David does some very strange things. David does some bizarre things that don't fit his character. And this is my statement when his frame of mind got to where it was where the promise of God was no longer a factor. And his faith, he's struggling with his faith faith, When we get in that frame of mind, we get to where our faith is not a factor, and we start leaning on our own understanding, and we start taking things into our own hands, sometimes we make some strange decisions Anybody out here ever do anything stupid? Probably not, hardly anybody in here would do that. Do you ever do something and then and it's a disaster and you go back and say, what was I thinking? What in the world? Why would I do that? What did I say I'm telling you, when our faith in God, when we stop trusting God, when we start thinking, hey, you know, God's not a factor in this anymore, we can do some awfully strange things. Some awfully stupid stuff. And we're going to see David here saying things that does not fit my image of David's character, does not fit what he is. And then later on he Get picks back up and uh we see the old David again. But he's going through it here. When we start leaning on our own understanding, we start making foolish decisions. I don't know how many people over the years I've been in the ministry. I don't know how many people have come to me and said, preacher, I was so bad I could go back and do that over again. And I don't know what I was thinking. I just got out of sorts. I wish I could go back. I made some stupid decision I wasn't thinking So here we are. David's on the run. We're beginning the fugitive years of David's life. This is a new chapter. Now let's look at this event here. This is kind of interesting. And you just read it through. You think, well, that's strange. But uh I think there's some lessons here for us. Let me kind of outline it as I always do. I notice in verse number one, Ahimelech's reservations. Now let's just look at it here. Look at verse uh one. He says, um Then came David. All right, he's left. Jonathan and him have made the agreement. They said they're goodbyes. David has to get away from uh uh Saul so he comes to this little town of Nob. It's an odd name for a town, but it's a small town. I did a little research on it. It's just a small town. It's about five to six miles from Gibeah. Gibeah was King Saul's hometown That is probably, in fact we're pretty confident, that is where this this feast of the new moon was being held, where David sat out and they had the big meal. David sat out and Saul gets all mad Because David's not there. Five, six miles from there. So he hasn't traveled a super great distance. He could do that of an afternoon probably pretty easily. And so he leaves, he comes over to this little town of Nob. Nob, we find out in chapter 22, verse 19. We'll see it when we work our way through there. But it was a city of priests. It was mostly priests lived there. Does anybody want to take a guess? Anybody know why would there be a bunch of priests in a little small town by the name of Nob? There was no school there. I mean, if there was, we don't know. The tabernacle was there. The tabernacle is the most sacred um uh dwelling, buildings of most famous the most sacred structure in all of Israel at this time. What's in the tabernacle? What's the primary piece of furniture in the tabernacle? The what? Ark of the Covenant. That's where they get messages from God. That's where they go once a year to the Day of Atonement. They make atonement for Israel. This is a very, very sacred. This is a very, very important place. And so David comes to Nob, where all these priests are, where the tabernacle is located. So Nob is an incredibly important town in the life of Israel. This is an incredibly uh important town. And he runs into a fella, David, it says, then came David Tanab to Ahimelech, the priest. The priest. This is the high priest. He holds the most sacred position in all of Israel. The high priest. And David comes to him. And notice how Ahimelech, the high priest, he oversees all the ceremonies that take place in the tabernacle. He oversees the Day of Atonement, placing the blood on the mercy seat, oversees all this. And David comes to him. Of course, David holds a very significant position as chief of staff in the military there, or whatever his title may have been. So he's pretty significant in his and of his own right. So he has access to the high priest that maybe a lot of folks wouldn't have. And notice how Ahimelech responds. Notice there, do you see that? And Ahimelech was what? Afraid at the meeting of David. Now, why would the high priest, very powerful man really, in a lot of ways, has tremendous authority Why would he be afraid of David showing up here? I looked up that word afraid and how it's used, and um it doesn't have the idea of cowering scared of him. It wasn't, I don't think it was that Ahimelech was afraid that David was going to do him harm. The idea has this to be anxiously careful Another definition was this: to be surprised and trembling. And this is what I take away from, this is what I picture. David shows up out of the blue unannounced, which would be unusual for a head of state or a significant person in the administration of Israel to show up without somebody coming ahead of time And saying, hey, the on his way, be ready for this. David just shows up. And so that surprises Ahimelech. And there's something about all of this That a Himelech thinks something's not right here. This is not the way these types of things take place. This is not how Somebody in David's position would just show up here. Something's out of wax. Something isn't right. There's something about all this that bothered Ahimelech. And in fact, he gives us a little clue as to what it was that bothered him. Look, he asked David a question. In fact, he asked two statements, and I think these two things are what bothered Ahimelech. He says, number one Why art thou alone? Why'd you come here by yourself? That's very unusual. That's not typical of a administrative people showing up. You would have a big you'd have an entourage with you. And again there would be people coming ahead of time saying, hey David's coming. There's none of that. Just out of the blue. David shows up. Whoa Well, why are you here? Why are you by yourself? I would think it's most likely that Ahimelech was aware of King Saul's animosity towards David. I mean this wasn't done in a corner. It wasn't in secret. He had David or King Saul had tried to recruit his servants, his staff to try and kill David. Uh he had people outside of David's house. Uh they didn't uh their social media back then wasn't on a phone, it was people talking. And rumors spread. And I have a sneaking suspicion that Ahimelech knew that there was tension between King Saul and David. I don't know. But I don't know that he knew what the reason was I mean they had to know there was something up between David and King Saul. Something is up. Isn't there the that r that something not right there? But I don't think he knew why. And perhaps Ahimelech in the back of his mind thought maybe David was at fault. There's a saying in in uh basketball and sports that it's the guy that makes the second punch is the one that gets the penalty. Right? Anybody know what I'm talking about? In other words, the guy that's guilty isn't always the one that gets accused of being wrong. And I got a sneaking suspicion Ahimelech had some doubts in the back of his mind. If he knew there was an issue between King Saul and David, I have a sneaking suspicion in the back of his mind there's something up with David. I don't know. I'm speculating here completely. But um he is very he is very cautious. He is has real reservations about David showing up. And maybe he's thinking in his mind, David's the one at fault here. Hey, don't be surprised. Listen, don't be surprised when you do right. Some people want to accuse you of doing wrong Your intentions can be sincere, you can do everything right, and uh somebody is going to come up and say things wrong, and uh we know that in the ministry. And so that could is a factor. And I think there's another reason that Ahimelech is very concerned here and has real reservations about David showing up, is David's actions. Look, he he makes two statements here. He asked two questions. Number one, why are you alone? Why isn't your big entourage and announcements and forerunners showing up? And then second of all, he says, and no man is with thee. Now that sounds like a repetition of the first statement, but I think there's more to it than that. David does have some servants with him. Look over at verse number. He mentions his servants with him. Oh, verse number two at the end part. He says, and I have anointed my servants such and such a place. So he had some servants with him, but apparently, from what we get from what Ahimelech said He shows up and he has his associates with him, but he leaves them off at a distance when he comes up to Ahimelech. Now that tell that would say in your mind, why are you keeping? I mean, they always had their associates, their servants, right with them. They carry everything for them, did everything, took notes, whatever. And David keeps him over there. And Ahimelech, all of a sudden David shows up, and he's here by himself, and his assistants are off in the distance. Why'd you come over here by yourself? And uh it's a strange behavior on David's part. Now why would now again there's a ton of speculation in my working through here, so if you don't like it You can be wrong if you want to, you know, if you disagree with me. But um I'm suspecting that David said, You guys stay here. I want to talk to him by myself. Because he expects Ahimelech's going to be asking him questions. What are you doing here? What's going on? And so David could tell Ahimelech anything without the servants getting involved. Ahimelech couldn't ask the servants, is that why you're here? He just keeps them out so David can say whatever he wants. without it being contradicted by the servants. So something about this whole thing, the David's demeanor, how David is approaching him, David's showing up. Something about this Ahimelech, the high priest, and he's no dummy. He holds a very powerful position. He's been around for a while. He knows people. And he says, something screwy here. Something that there's something fishy in Um Finland, not Finland. Denmark, there's something fishy going on here. So we have Ahimelech's reservation. That's real quick. We're going to work down here and then I'm going to I'll try and tie it together. Then we have David's report. So David responds to his questions. Look what David says. And David said unto him, elect the priest, the king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee and what I've commanded thee And I am appointed my servants to such and such a place. I put my servants over there. He's saying, This is top secret. The king sent me. Not one word of that verse is true. None of it. It is a blantant lie on David's part. How many people are bothered that David would lie? Maybe not surprised, but that bothers me. Somebody David's caliber is lying? I mean blanketly lying? This is what I'm saying. David's struggling. His faith in God has really been rattled. And he's leaning on himself and he's taking things into his own hands and he's leaning on his own understanding. And he says, I've got to deal with this. And he comes up with this lie. It's disturbing to me how we can go from having such strong faith in God in such a short amount of time to having such weak faith in God. It's disturbing to me how we can allow circumstances to have such an impact on our integrity. Man, some people will, man, sometimes we'll do right. We're going to do right no matter what. Then things start falling around, and suddenly that integrity starts falling apart. Anybody here ever go to the revival service or God speaks their heart through preaching and you say, man, I'm going to live for God. I don't care what the guys at work when they say bad jokes, I'm not gonna listen to them, and I'm gonna witness, and I'm gonna get there. Then you get there in a whole different circumstances and suddenly all that great faith I had at the altar is kind of melted And circumstances have a profound effect upon our faith in God. And that is a big challenge of the Christian life. This is what I was saying before. Walking with God is not always easy. And sometimes it's very, very hard, and David's learning that, and David's experiencing that. Um, we're not out of the woods. I I like this quote, Brother Heimbo. I like this is I came up with this This is a great one. Write this in your Bible. We're not out of the woods until we're out of this world. Get it? Maybe today my Lord will come for me. Maybe today from sin I shall be free. So until the Lord comes, until we're out of here, we got to deal with Our own weaknesses, we've got to deal with our own struggles, we've got to deal with circumstances that are not favorable to living by faith. So David tries to avoid further questions by stressing the fact that his mission is top secret. King Saul told me not to tell anybody. Where I'm going or what I'm doing, I can't tell you nothing, so don't even bother asking me more questions. That's his way of trying to cover it up. I tell you what's especially disturbing to me is this. Not the fact the fact that he's lying bothers me. But who he's lying to He's lying to the high priest of all people. Now lying is wrong, right? If you lie to a total stranger on the street, you're sinning against God. If you lie to your spouse, you're sinning against God. If you lie to your kids, you're sinning. But to lie to the high priest to get to the point where I'm okay with lying to the priest Wow. And not only who he's lying to, but where he's at when he's lying. He's at the tabernacle. These are one of the most sacred places in all of Israel. This is where the presence of God meets with the people of God. In the Old Testament economy, this is a very, very Holy place, almost like where, in fact, only certain people can enter into the tabernacle, only certain times of the year, only after they go through very rigorous ceremonial washings And so David's here, not in the tabernacle, but he's here with the high priest in the presence of the tabernacle, and he's saying blantant lies. When I became a pastor, a preacher, and I had that title pastor given to me, I thought, wow, this is going to be awesome. Everybody's going to be honest. Nobody will say bad words around me. And it's just going to be amazing. And um, you know what I found out? People lie to preachers. Yeah, I'll be there, preacher. I'm telling you, I'll be there. Ain't nothing stopping me. Well, I was tired, I slept in, I didn't make it Oh Musayan. Uh I found out people will lie, not just to a preacher, they'll lie in church. I've had people just say flat out lies to me in a church service. You say, well, uh-uh, I know, I know. It's You shouldn't lie anywhere. But do you agree with me? There are some places, some things. There ought to be a little respect, not because of who I am, but because of the position And here, David, that just bothered me a little bit. You know who I thought of? Lying in the presence of a man of God and lying in the presence of the tabernacle? You know who I thought of in the New Testament? Ananiiras and Sapphira. They lied to Peter the apostle. They lied in church. And what happened to them? They died on the spot. They lied to God. Exactly. And so David's trust has shifted from God's promise, you will be the king of Israel. It has shifted from God's promise, I will deliver thee. I mean he quoted that exactly to King Saul. Now that trust has shifted to himself and he's doing some really dumb things I'm just about out of time. We still got a few verses. Let me buzz through these. The third thing I notice is David's request. Verse 3 says, Now what is under thine hand? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand. Or what is there or what There is present. David needed supplies. I read one commentary on this, and he suggested that David had originally showed up here to seek direction from the Lord. I don't think that's the case. In fact, you'll find David's not mentioning the Lord at all until quite a ways quite a time later. There's no mention of God, there's no mention of prayer, there's no mention of faith, there's no mention of anything spiritual at all from the lips of David for quite some time. It's kind of like, to me it's kind of like folks uh coming to church and they want stuff. There's no interest in spiritual things. There's no interest in the things of the Lord or God's will for my life. I just I had a guy call me years ago. This was a highlight of my ministry. A guy called me years ago. He says, um, brother, and I knew him, he's lives in he lived in town. I don't know. I don't even know if he's still living, never came to our church. But uh he said, he said, Pastor Leatherman, I need a new house I said, really? He goes, yeah, it has to have two bedrooms, at least two bedrooms, and I need a building out behind, an outbuilding, because I got lawn mowers and stuff and I need to put that. I was just wondering if you'd be able to if you in the church maybe be able to get me a house like that. I said, uh maybe call a realtor might be somebody to talk to. And I mean he was adamant. He wanted he He didn't wasn't concerned about getting saved. He wasn't concerned about God's will or anything. He just thought we would buy him a house. Um, we didn't buy him a house. We didn't We didn't do that for you. When we were in Indianapolis, there was a fellow came by every spring and every fall. Remember that guy? He's like a movie star. The guy was handsome as could be, friendly And uh he combined, he'd want some handouts or stuff, and so finally we got a thing and he did this for all four years. He'd show up, we got to know him And um so finally, about two years into it, we just we didn't give him stuff. We'd say, well, listen, rake the leaves, we'd give them a little job to do, and he did it, and he'd go out there and work. And I'd witness to that guy and I'd try and win him to the Lord and I'd sit down and he wouldn't get saved. He was no concern for spiritual things at all. Nice enough guy. And um uh he go by them one year, my last year there, we hadn't seen him for about a year, and the last year there a lady showed up and asked if we had uh uh something about this guy, something about him. We said, Yeah, he would always come back She goes, they found uh that was my husband. And he drowned in the river. And she said he never would, never would, he left and never come home. And he loved living on the road. And he would go south in the winter, come north in the summer, and he'd just hit up churches along the way, and that's just the way he lived his life. He chose to live that way. I don't know why I told you that, other than the fact that he was get stuff from the church, but he had no spiritual concern. And that's almost the way David is here. He wants his bread and stuff, but he's at the it's the high priest, it's the tabernacle. Man, what an opportunity. Lord, what should I do? Lead me. How would I do? Saul's doing this. See, what a great opportunity. And he missed it. Then number four, I notice Ahimelech's requirement. And Ahimelech goes verse 4, 5, and 6. He says, Well This bread has been taken off the showbread. They would periodically put fresh bread in the tabernacle on the showbread had significance, ceremonial significance. Then they would take that bread off and put new bread in there. It was holy, it was hallowed bread, as he mentions there. But once they took it off, then it became common bread, and the priests were the only ones allowed to eat it. It was for the priest's meal. And Ahimelech, and this is kind of through me, and I don't really didn't come to a definite conclusion in my mind on this, but Ahimelech comes up with this requirement for David to be able to eat this bread. That there's no biblical requirements for it. He goes, well, if you guys haven't slept with any women for three days, then uh yeah, it'd be fine. You can eat it. And for the life of me, I can't find out where Ahimelech came up with that requirement He just kind of, well, I can't just give it to him. So uh alright, have you slept with women lately? No, three days. Okay, good. So it kind of is an indicator of the spiritual condition of Israel. If the high priest is compromising God's instructions, you know, what's the nation like? Jesus referenced this event in Mark in Matthew chapter 12, verse 3 and 4, and Jesus was trying to teach in that case that ceremonial laws cannot justify you And he references. And last of all, there's a guy shows up. There's a couple people in the Bible that I can't stand. I mean I just they I get mad every time I read about them. One of them is Ahab. Ever mentioned, I don't like Ahab. I just get irritated And this is another one. Doag is a dog. He is a dirty low-down. Ruthless, merciless man. Now we don't pick that up here. He's going to show up a little bit later. And he has absolutely no conscience, and he has absolutely no morals. He's an Edomite. These are the offspring of Esau and um not friends of Israel. Um uh no they don't fear God. Now somehow he got in on King Saul's staff. You notice there it says Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day. And notice there's a word used, detained before the Lord. Detained. What's it mean if someone's detained? They're being held. The word itself means to be restrained or to be shut up into some type of enclosure where you're not free to come and go. Huh. So DOWAG, DOAG Servant of Saul, he's here in Nob, where the tabernacle is and where the high priest is. He's being detained there. Now whether he's in a cage. Or he's just not allowed to leave the city. We don't know. And there's speculation as to why he was being detained. One scholar suggested he may have been there being held on criminal charges Now I kind of lean that way because later on he has no problem doing some horrible things to please King Saul. And so if my neck is on the line and I have an opportunity to please the judge, so to speak, and make him happy and acceptable with me, man, I'll do anything to get out of my pinch, right? So this guy is bad news, and he plays a tragic role in Saul's insanity So what you say, all right, so what does that have to do with me? All this David, Abimelech, bread, secret, lying, what's this all have to do to me? This is what I take away from it. David is struggling with his faith. He's got fear. He is afraid. And fear is a powerful thing. If we allow it, To affect our faith. Here's a fellow, an unlikely man that has helped me tremendously. And I'll be honest with you, and maybe you don't ever do this, but sometimes I struggle with doubts. Sometimes not about my salvation. I've never really struggled with that, but just doubts about things. Maybe a promise of God, and boy, I'll get thoughts in my head, and I don't know. And doubts about you know this or what God's going to do or this or something God promised and I'll get doubts. I'm sure you never do, but I sometimes I do. And uh I found tremendous help from the most unlikely source. You're not going to believe me when I tell you. Anybody recognize the name General George Patton? You know anything about World War II or anything? You know about George Patton, infamous in a lot of ways. I liked him, in spite of all his wickedness. But he made a statement that absolutely helped me tremendously. In his autobiography, he wrote Somebody had interviewed, we're in it was interviewing him at the end of the war, and they asked George Patton, they said, you are fearless, you're not afraid of combat at all. Is there anything you're afraid of? And his response was this, George Patton said, George Patton, he referred to himself in the third person, he said, George Patton is a coward. He says, every time I face combat, my hands are wet with sweat and fear. He said, I am terrified every time I face combat. He said, but I learned early on, I made a decision. Now get this. This is the statement. I will not take counsel of my fears I am not going to make decisions. I'm not going to listen to that fear. I'm not going to let that fear counsel me on what I should or should not do. I'm going to do the duty at hand. In fact, I'll expand on that. He said before, he said, when you're planning an assault, a battle, you're planning ahead of time how you're going to take this town or whatever. He says, first thing you do is study that whole thing out. And he says, then listen to all your fears. Before you ever start, consider all your fears. You decide what you're going to do, and he says, put those fears aside, and don't ever take counsel from those fears again David's plan was laid out for him. God anointed him to be king. That was the battle plan. That's what's going to happen. But David made a mistake, the same mistake you and I do sometimes. He took counsel of his fears. And his fears advised him to lie. His fears advised him to lean on his own understanding. His fears advised him to take things into his own hands. And we do that. And what we need to do is not take counsel of those fears, not take counsel of those doubts. I'm not going to act on my doubts. I'm not going to act on my fears. I'm going to act I have people sometimes say, preacher, I don't know. I'm doubting my salvation. I don't know if I'm safe. Well, what's the basis of your doubts? Is it the word of God or is it just how you feel? If there's no basis for those doubts, then don't take counsel of those doubts. You take God at His Word. Am I making sense? And David struggled with this, and sometimes you and I do also. Let's just take God at His Word. You say, yeah, but I'm scared, but take God at His Word. Yeah, but I'm not sure. I have some doubts. Don't listen to your doubts. Listen to God's word. And go forward. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you would help us to learn from David here. We see his fact that he's a man, no different than us. He has his struggles, obviously, and we do too. And Lord, I ask you to help us to simply take you at your word and act upon what you have promised, not how we feel or what we think or what we're afraid of. Lord, help us to act on what you have promised us and go forward. I pray in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I do have some fears, I do have some things I struggle with, and I need to put that aside And I find a promise of God and act upon what God has said. Is there any like that, preacher? Yes, there are some fears, doubts, sometimes that's true. Let's say with me, won't you join me and say I'm not going to take counsel of them I'm going to act upon what I know God says is true, not what my fears are telling me, not what my doubts are telling me. And I believe God blesses that and God honors that. Father in heaven, bless us now and help us to make that decision in Jesus' name. Amen. Listen