Samuel chapter fifteen is where we're at, the life of David, and um this really isn't uh s real significant to the message maybe, but a little bit perhaps. But uh at this point in time I haven't said much about it. But David's getting to be an older man at this point Uh he's probably getting into his uh least, I would say, mid fifties. Um uh maybe sixty years old, I can't say exact, but He's not a young guy anymore. And um actually sixty years old isn't old, that's young. But uh so Verse number 15. I mean chapter number 15, verse number 13 is where I want to start tonight. 2 Samuel 15 verse 13, the Bible says, And there came a messenger to David saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. And David said unto all his servants that were with him at the Jerusalem, Arise and let us flee, for we shall not else escape from Absalom. Make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. And the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint. And the king went forth and all his household after him. And the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house. The king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a place that was far off And all his servants passed on beside him, and all the Cherithites, and all the Palathites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men which came after him from Gath passed on before the king. So he's got quite an entourage. Pulling out with him, going with him, loyal to him. Verse 19, then said the king to Atei the Gittite Now this is an interesting study in itself. We're not going to be able to do it. But a Tei was a tremendous man. He wasn't Jewish by birth. He converted And became one of David's most loyal men. Look what he says. Then the king then said the king to Atai, Wherefore goest thou also with us? Return to thy place, abide with the king, for thou art a stranger and also an exile. Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with us? So atai just joined forces with him. He's not an Israelite. But he comes out with David. He says, Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, verse 20, should I this day make thee go up and down with us, seeing I go whither I may? Return thou, take back thy brethren, mercy and truth be with thee. Look how Atai answered. And Atai answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth. And as my Lord the King liveth, surely in what place my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or in life, even there also will thy servant be. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, loyalty. Boy, what a guy. And David said, verse 22, David said to Atai, go and pass over. And uh Atai the Gittite passed over and all his men and all the little ones that were with him. And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook, Kidron, and all the people uh Passed over toward the way of the wilderness. I entitled it, David is on the Run Again. There's a little bit of a uh uh flashback here of when he was running from Saul And he had a pull out and run from Saul. Now he's on the run again. Let's pray. And we'll get just get started on the message tonight. Father in heaven. We ask now, as we look into your word again this evening and we're studying the life of the man after your own heart, God, I pray that some of David's spirit I pray that some of the passion that David had for you would spill over into our hearts and lives. I pray, Lord, that mistakes David made, that we would learn from them and avoid. Some making wrong decisions. We can learn principles from David. And so I ask now that you would be our teacher tonight, Lord. This is your word. We're your people. This is your body, the church. So please, Lord, speak to us tonight. Teach us. Change our lives. Transform our minds, Lord. That they be in tune with you and your will. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord, as I preach. In Jesus' name, amen. I say it so often I hesitate to say it again, but it's repeated in Scripture over and over and over. And it's such a uh such a large part of our life, but the fact of the matter is life is really a series of trials and difficulties. say it often, well, some t some of us here are just coming out of a trial. You've been through it. Maybe in recent months you've just been through it. Maybe some of us are right smack dab in the middle of a difficulty right now. Maybe you've been praying and seeking God, maybe weeping. I don't know. Personal lives. Maybe some of us Drawing pretty good, ha had it pretty good for a while, you know, thinks. And uh who Lord knows, maybe around the corner there's a trial, but Life is made up of trials and difficulties. Nobody gets through life without having to deal with difficulties. I put some things down, and again, I've said these many times over the years, some of these But some trials are more difficult than other trials, right? Sometimes something hits. Anybody here ever do this You see something coming, you see a trial coming, just anticipating, say, oh, this is going to be trouble. I know it. And and uh you worry about it. Anyone, can I get a witness? I know we're not supposed to And we worry ourselves sick and uh and then when it finally comes, it wasn't that bad after all. Anybody know what I'm talking about Yeah, so some trials are more difficult than others. On the other hand, sometimes we see something, we say, ah, that won't be nothing. Kaboom! And uh it's a lot more than we thought it was. Some trials are more difficult than others. Some trials are more intense than others. Some trials are self-inflicted. We just bring it on ourselves. Some trials are others inflicted. Somebody else did something in we Suffer consequences or feel the effects of some others' decisions. Some trials are God-inflicted. In other words, I really I was trying to do right. I don't think I did anything. Nobody else really did, but a trial comes. And um God sent that trial. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that something like that would have happened? Job. Job was a righteous man doing right. God challenges Satan and man, Job goes in this trial, and God had a plan and purpose. So sometimes God sends trials our way and we really don't know immediately what the reason is. Sometimes we never really know, maybe till we get to heaven. But he puts us through trials to strengthen us. And in reality, ultimately all trials are um have to pass through the permissive will of God. Whether it's self-inflicted or others inflicted, it still has to pass through the permissive will of God If God can't bring some good out of a trial, whether it's my fault, someone else's fault, if God can't work some good out of it, he's not going to allow me to go through it You follow? But if he said if there's something good can come at us, then he lets us go through it sometimes Some trials come early in life. My heart goes out. Sometimes the young people that just go through hard times early in life. Sometimes they come later in life. David has gone through some trials later in his life. Sometimes they come both. Often trials are all through life. So David has had his share of trials I mean, he kills Goliath. Man, it's a tremendous victory. He defeats the Philistines. He's appointed. uh chief of staff of uh of uh uh King Saul's military and from that point on it seems like it's just one difficulty after another Saul chasing them and and struggles and just one thing after another with hills and valleys all through there. He's had his share. He's gone through a trial right here. Um I thought this was interesting. I was looking at the overall life of David. I was just kind of doing a survey of David's whole life in my mind. And it seems like on the later part of his life, his trials, for the most part, are self-inflicted. Isn't that interesting? When he was younger, it seems like his passion and commitment to Christ was strong, and he could kill giants. And he could forgive King Saul and he could he could uh restrain himself from doing harm to a man trying to kill him and he just had victory after victory after victory, even in the midst of being chased by King Saul. But now later on, he's king, things are going well, he's older, things are established, he's seen the blessings of God, he's seen the promises of God fulfilled. And now he starts making decisions and bringing things on himself. And by the way, this deal with Bathsheba and Uriah, this isn't the last sinful decision he makes. Later on, he's got some more where thousands of people in Israel die because of a sin David commits, sin of pride. And so it's interesting, and you say, well, what's the lesson on that? I'm looking at the crowd. Most of us are not teenagers here. Most of us have been around a little while. You know, the lesson I take away from that is this. We must never let our guard down. We never get to a certain point in life where we don't have to deal with sin and self and pride and self-seeking anymore. We never get to that point. We have to follow Peter's advice. Be sober, be vigilant, because our adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. And he doesn't leave us alone when we get gray hair And he doesn't leave us alone when the wrinkles show up and the age spots and arthritis. And I think sometimes if a life has been faithful, if someone's been true to the Lord Sometimes I wonder if the devil doesn't pour it on even stronger because of their faithfulness to the Lord. And so we we we can never give up. We never let our guard down. Now we looked at verses 1 through 12. And we saw Absalom's plot to overthrow David. And so he starts winning the people's hearts over. You know, he stands at the gate. Remember, we looked at this I think last week and oh if I was those guys up there, they don't care about you. Those those guys up in Jerusalem. I'll tell you if I was king, I'd take care of you, you'd get stimulus checks You know, free phones. It would be great if I was king. And he's making all these promises and he's saying all these things. Not because he cared about the Israelites, because he wanted the position And so he has this plot he puts into place, and then you get to verse number ten, and then the plan starts unfolding. And he sends out these folks, and he rounds the people up, and the conspiracy is strong. Now look in verse 13. I'm going to take a little rabbit trail. It says, and there came a messenger unto David saying, Um The hearts, there came a message unto David saying, the hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. And I thought, my first thought was this, before I really looked at it a whole lot, just reading, I looked at it, I thought, how can that be? David's been a good king. David has brought this thing together, the blessings of God. The ark is established in Jerusalem. The country is unified, always done, they've been victorious over their enemies. How can this be that The Jerusalem, the men of Jerusalem are going to Absalom. My first reaction was: maybe that messenger's lying. Maybe he's just saying, maybe he's just trying to intimidate David and say, hey, all of Israel's against you When in reality, I've had this in the being in the ministry from day one almost, back in Indianapolis and uh all through the years, every now and then someone comes and says So they'll say something like this. Preacher, you know everybody's no b nobody agrees with what you're doing. Uh I had a lady tell me one time, none of the women in the church believe anything you preach. You know there's a lot of people think this, and I learned early on, when someone says that and they come and say, you know, there's a lot of people don't agree with this. You know what I you know what my question is? Can you name one? Who exactly are these lot of people? And uh the 99. 99% of the time is, well, uh they don't want me to tell you who they are You know, something like that. And so my first thought was, well, that's what's happening to David here. This messenger is showing up, and he says, All of Israel, all the men of Israel are against you, they're all for Absalom But then I cross that off my list of possibilities of what's happening here because of something we read back earlier in the chapter, verse number six. Says that on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. Now look at this. Show Absalom what? Stole the hearts of the men of Israel. And I come over to verse 13. It says, the hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. So maybe this messenger isn't lying after all. Maybe he isn't exaggerating. He may maybe, and I've come to the conclusion, this messenger is very, very accurate. The men of Israel have turned against David. Now not all of them, because he's got quite, as I said a little bit ago, he's got quite an entourage that is very, very loyal to him, and they're fleeing the city with him. We'll look at that later. And so I think the messenger is probably being honest and pretty accurate. Israel has turned against David, the men of Israel, for the most part. And it says there in verse 6, we didn't really look at this too much in the previous message, but it says Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say Absalom won the hearts of the men of Israel. There's a difference between stealing something and winning something. Everybody understand that? Sometimes somebody can win an election and someone can steal an election. Somebody can win someone's heart over, or they can steal their heart over. And the Bible says that Absalom, he didn't win these men over to them. That would have been a legitimate means. That would have been uh a sincere, honest way of saying, hey, listen, these are the facts of the matter. And the people say, boy, you know what? That's right. That's not what happened. Absalom stole their hearts To steal something means to obtain something illegitimately. It means to obtain something by deceit or by force. Absalom tricked an entire nation. He deceived an entire nation to support him rather than The man that God anointed. Now, how did he do this? How does this happen? Now, this is my thoughts tonight. I've got a few thoughts. And again, we're not told directly, we're not told clearly, so this is just some thoughts. On how did the whole nation turn against King David that just a few short time before loved him dearly? How did that take place? I got a few thoughts. Number one, I put this down. Did David lose his moral authority? How many people have ever heard that term, moral authority? Moral authority. What do we mean by moral authority? When David lost his moral authority, somebody help me out now. What do we have in mind? We say moral authority. Respect, okay, yeah? Nate? Okay. Because of his actions and his character. Okay. Somebody else? Moral authority. Has he earned the right to declare something right or wrong? This is the idea of moral authority. It is earning the respect of people because of my moral character. Let me word it another way. Gaining the trust or respect of people because of my integrity. And when I forfeit my integrity, when I forfeit my moral character Then I am losing the respect and the trust of those who I influence So the moral authority is someone, if somebody has moral authority means because of their integrity, because of their good character Because of their excellent conduct, people think highly. People trust them. People follow them. People have confidence in them. And when someone loses their moral authority, they behave in a distrustful way, they lose their integrity, they have bad character, bad behavior. And then people don't trust them. And people don't respect them, and they're not going to follow them. And so what I'm thinking here is maybe Israel no longer trusted David because His lack of integrity in his actions with Bathsheba and Uriah. Maybe they no longer trusted that David is going to do right. Up to that point, I am sure, I'm confident in my mind that the nation of Israel, for the most part, believe that when push comes to shove, David's going to do what's right. David is a man of integrity. He's a man after God's own heart. We can trust him to do what's right. And now, lo and behold, he didn't. So I'm wondering, as Absalom is there stealing the hearts of Israel, one of the reasons they were vulnerable To be swayed over to distrust David, maybe because he lost that moral authority. And they weren't confident that David was going to do the right thing. And of course, Absalom just fostered that thinking. Perhaps Israel no longer trusted David to do right. I want to suggest to you that moral authority is vitally important. That you and I establish moral authority. In other words, we live our lives in such a way and we conduct ourselves in such a way and we maintain and establish integrity in our lives in such a point that people say, you know, I can trust her. I can trust him. They're going to do right. I think moral authority is vital in the home if we're going to raise children the way God wants us to raise children. And what I mean by that is this: our children must be confident that mommy is going to do what's right. That daddy is going to do what's right. I can trust them. And I tell you, that is a twenty-four hour, seven days a week responsibility. How we talk in the home and how we behave ourselves, and how honest we are in interacting with others, and our children are watching. And moral authority is vitally important in the home. I put this down. Moral authority is vitally important if we're going to have an effective ministry. I found this to be true. Now folks can get saved. A total stranger come by, give them a gospel tract. God can use that and souls can be saved. But in a lot of our witnessing, a lot of our scenarios that we're in as believers trying to share the gospel of Christ with others. We're in situations where we need to win the trust of people to what we're saying before they trust the one we're talking about. If people don't trust me, if I'm a liar, if I'm dishonest, if I lack integrity, if they don't know that I'm going to do right or not. Why in the world would they listen to anything that I have to say about righteousness and sin and a salvation? You follow what I'm saying? They're going to listen to that What's that called when somebody behaves one way but speaks another way? Hypocrisy. Jesus rebuked it strongly. The Pharisees lost their moral authority because everybody knew they were phony. And John the Baptist comes along, and Jesus comes along, and lo and behold, these guys are the real deal. And so I wonder if maybe the nation of Israel, their hearts were won over to Absalom, not won over, stolen over by Absalom, is because maybe David had lost his immoral authority. The second thought I put down, I was thinking, how in the world does this happen? I put this down. I believe maybe David had neglected his responsibilities as king. You know, for the last several years he's been pretty distracted. Uh the last several years he uh uh he was using his position for his own well-being. To cover his skin. I mean, he's manipulating the army and military strategy so that he can eliminate someone that might expose him. He's been hiding behind a lie for two years. You know what I found something to be true about sin? Sin is very distracting. From the things that are right and good. Sin is a, it's more than that, but sin is a distraction. It's hard to be focused on seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness when I'm seeking first my own pleasures, my own desires, my own will, my own pride. You follow what I'm saying? And so for several years now, David has been focused on himself, not on God's will for Israel, not on what God was doing And wanting to do through him for the nation of Israel, he's been on himself. And listen, people see that And uh they and I'm no doubt the m the the soldiers there and David has Uriah killed, they're thinking, what in the world? We know better. We know that's not the way you fight Who's calling the shots here? You see what I'm saying? And so I'm wondering if maybe they uh were influenced and stolen over to uh uh Absalom because David had been neglecting his responsibilities at as king. He used his authority for his own gain I put down sin as a major distraction from Christian responsibilities. I think sin's primary effect is turn my eyes off the Lord and off of my responsibilities and focus on myself. I think a classic example was right out of the gate in Genesis chapter 3 When Satan shows up and they're looking at that fruit forbidden fruit, knowledge of good and evil, and Satan very subtly and very effectively Got Eve's eyes off of her responsibility that God had given and focused on something that would That she would enjoy, that would bring pleasure to her, something about herself. You follow? And what Satan did was distracted Eve, got her off of the will of God, off of her sponsor. And onto something God said you have no business being involved in. And here we are today. And so one, I think maybe they were able to, Absalom was able to Steal the hearts of Israel. Maybe David lost his moral authority. Maybe David neglected had been neglecting his responsibilities as king. Let me give a third reason, and this is a little little different But I wonder if Joab's harshness might have been a factor. Now, we haven't talked a whole lot about Joab. We've been focused on David, but Joab was one of David's right-hand men. And Joab was a very loyal military leader. Joab was a very good soldier. I think Joab was loyal to David. I think he was a good soldier. He knew how to kill the enemy. He knew strategy. But I look at the life of Joab, and this is one harsh, brutal man. This guy, this guy was cold-blooded. Oh, he was loyal to David, and he was a good soldier. He's going to fight their battles, and you know, he's going after, if it's an enemy of David, brother, he's after him. But man is he cold hearted. Uh he's self willed Joab was a man that had little or no compassion, little or no mercy on anyone. His only concern was getting the job done. Now, I'm grateful for loyalty. Would you agree with me? Loyalty is a good thing. And doing my job is a good thing. But I tell you, we have to have compassion also Because doing right in a harsh, brutal, cold-blooded way is not going to win people over. And so I'm wondering David's tolerance. Now, by the way, Joab's attitude on all of this, his disposition on all this, is the complete opposite of David. David was very compassionate. You know, David win a battle, he'd share all the spoils with with everybody he could. You know, if Solomon or or Saul's there and uh man here's your chance to kill him, and David says, No, no, no, ain't touching God's anointing, no way. And Joab's the exact opposite. So David's been tolerating this guy, I would imagine, because of his loyalty and his effectiveness. But man, he's cold-blooded. There's no mercy there. And I'm wondering if people see that and say, you know, we're really tired of getting beat up by this guy all the time. Man, somebody slight, slightly out of line. Whoa, they're done. Take your Bible, if you would, keep it here, if you would, and come with me to Ephesians, the book of Ephesians. Now a lot of us are going to be familiar with this, but I'll tell you, we need to make sure we have this ingredient in the mix Of our demeanor and our and and our attitude. Ephesians chapter four Anybody want to guess where I'm going? 32. Come down to verse 32. And be ye what? Kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. And then he qualifies this. He says, all right, to this degree. Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I tell you, one of the characteristics, one of the chief characteristics of a child of God, of God's people. Ought to be kindness and ought to be compassion. And I tell you, I think that is a missing ingredient in our world. Would you agree with me? We do not live in a kind world. I would not describe society as compassionate. Now, there's exceptions and there are displays of compassion. But brother, just cut someone off in an intersection and see how kind things are. You know, take take twelve items into the ten item line at Walmart and see how people react. You follow what I'm saying? We don't need Joab Christians is what I'm trying to say We ought to be loyal, we need to do right and do our ministries effectively, but we need to lose the harshness. And we need to lose the mercilessness And we need to infuse it with a good dose, a good vaccine of compassion. And by the way, we can give out some booster shots of compassion, would help some of us. And so I'm wondering, you know, Joab's there, and this guy's just rough. And maybe he's a factor on why people are just You know, we're tired of this. And I'll tell you this, I believe this all my heart. This world is looking for someone who cares about them. This world is looking for compassion. They're starving for it. Dr. Lee Robertson, he used to, I heard him say it so many times. He says the ingredient in successful ministry is compassion. Compassion. So number one, maybe David had lost moral authority. Number two, maybe David ha because he neglected his responsibilities when he's distracted trying to cover up his sin. Uh maybe Joab's harshness was a factor in all this. Let me give you a another thought here. I think there was no doubt within the nation of Israel there was an an an element of people that were still loyal to Saul. No doubt there was certain element of Israel that viewed David as an uh an illegitimate to the throne. Saul's son ought to be there. By the way, you even have an element of that within the New Testament church. Paul had to deal with People within the church who never really were loyal to the Lord. They never really were loyal to the church. He names them. In 1 Timothy 1 and verse 20, he warns Timothy about Hymenius and Alexander. These are two men that were in the church. And he warns Timothy about them. And he doesn't use these words, but he says, listen, they are not loyal to you or. the Lord or the body of Christ, they're loyal to themselves. In fact, in 1 Timothy he says they blaspheme God by their actions. And then in 2 Timothy chapter 4, he mentions Alexander again. Alexander the coppersmith, he says, has done me much harm. He says, uh, he's done me much evil. And so Paul, early, early, early on in the New Testament church, Paul recognized the fact That there wasn't a hundred percent loyalty to the Lord or to the church within the church. That there was an element there that was disloyal. They were loyal to themselves. And so David, no doubt, was dealing with that in Israel. Now the Israel was unified, Israel loved him, but I'm pretty confident there was a certain percentage that in the backs of their minds was I wish Saul's son was king. Later on in 2 John, John mentions A fellow that was in the church that was not loyal to the Lord and not loyal to the church, his name was Diatrophes. And he says, Diatrophies has withstood my leadership. Diatrophies has withstood me. And he loves to have the preeminence he wants to be. It's all about diatrophies. And he says to him, he says, uh, he's pla he pratid against us with malicious words And so even within the body of Christ, there's not a hundred percent loyalty to the Lord or to the to the people of God. And I believe David perhaps had to deal with that. I got two others here real quick reasons. I I just thought how in the world does Absalom steal the hearts of Israel Fifth reason I put down is possibility. I know this is a factor, no doubt, but David's under the judgment of God. David's under the chastisement of God. And this is still part of the fallout, where God has removed his hand of blessing. God has removed his hand of protection. And man, it affects the people. Take your Bibles, if you would, come back here. Two places, Psalms chapter 12. Would you come back there real quick with me? It's an interesting statement. Now It's not directly applies to David, but I think there's a principle here. Psalm chapter 12, and look with me if you would at verse number 8. Psalm 12, 8. Verse 6 and 7, he's talking about the Word of God, and it's preserved. God has preserved His Word for every generation. Then verse 8, Psalm 12. Look what he says: the wicked walk on every side. Every side, when the vilest of men are exalted. Now, what this verse is saying, I wrote in the margin of my Bible, what this verse is saying is you get what you honor. If you honor wicked men, guess what you're going to get? Wicked men. The whole world's all worked up because a couple men got in a slapping fight on TV. the other night and the whole world, half the church is all worked up. Listen, what do you expect? You exalt wickedness, you get wicked people. But so that's what this verse is saying. The wicked walk on every hand when the vilest of men are exalted, when the vilest of men are Money thrown at them and they're exalted in their worship. What do you think society's going to be? Now David isn't exalted because of his wickedness, but David is exalted and he behaved wickedly. And I'm telling you, that affects the people who are influenced by him. And so David is under the chastisement of God here. I put this down. Failure in leadership often produces division within the ministry or within an organization. When leadership has lost its moral authority and people don't trust the leadership, don't be surprised when there's division within the organization or ministry underneath that leadership. I'm thinking right now, within the last year, two significant ministries where there was immorality in the leadership, two of them here in the United States Where there was immorality in the leadership, and I tell you, those ministries collapse. And there's infighting and there's division and there's social media explodes. Two world international ministries that if I named them, some of you would know. And I think David has behaved himself immorality. He has disregarded the m the the instructions of God to him as a king. And that is having an effect because God's chastisement is upon him. One other verse there, real quick. I'd like to look turn to Proverbs. Chapter 16. And then I have one thought and then we quit. Proverbs chapter 16. And look with me if you would at verse 7. Now we're going to take this verse and then we're going to we're going to um what's it called when you take a photograph and it's the black and white of it? It's uh Not the negative, there's another word. You reverse that thing. Never mind. Proverbs, what did I say? 16. Look at verse 7 When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. All right, how many people understand what that verse is saying? If you do right, your enemies, you're going to be at peace even with your enemies. Now let's reverse that. Or man, I can't I'll think of it tonight in bed. The word I want. Trans, not transfuse it. Let's just look at the other way around on that. Transpose, maybe. Maybe that's what I want. But anyway, when a man's place please the Lord, it maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. In other words You'll have less enemies if we please the Lord with our life. But when a man's ways do not please the Lord, what does that say? His enemies are not at peace with him. So I think there's an element here where David has displeased the Lord. Severely And now these people who already in the back of their minds, they had a little animosity towards David, they already had an attitude there, and man, this has opened the door For them to come out and out against David. I found that people quit in their hearts a long time before they quit with their feet. People turn on someone in their hearts and minds a long time before they turn on them with their lips and their actions And David has been pleasing the Lord, and whatever these people were thinking before, whatever disgruntled they had or dissatisfaction they had were with David before when he was pleasing God, it kept that at bay. There was no avenue to vent. But now, uh, now they have an opportunity Last one here, I put this one down. One, we said that David lost his moral authority. Number two, he maybe neglected his responsibilities. Joab's harshness was perhaps a factor uh Israelis were some of them are still loyal to David. David's under the the chastisement of God and he's still feeling the effects of that. I put this one down. Absalom was very persuasive Absolutely pretty slick. And no doubt there were some good people who loved David that got caught up and believed the lies. And repeated the rumors. And went along with the crowd. And they made their decisions based on social media. What everybody was saying, and Brother Absalom got people talking, and he stirred the pot, and he was very, very good. At undermining the trust of people in David. You know, there's someone else out there that's very, very good at undermining God's people's God's people's trust in the Lord. Anybody know who that might be? Satan himself. He is very good at getting you and I to question God. He is very good at messing with our minds. And getting us thinking, you know, I don't know. And the next thing you know, we're saying stuff and we're behaving in ways and we're doing things We would have never dreamed of, but we let Satan get to our heads. And I think Absalom was very, very good at getting in people's heads And messing with their faith and messing with their trust. Now, David did his part, you know, to uh to nurture that, to make that a possibility. But Absalom, boy, he knew how to exploit that Now here's the thing, you and I got to watch out. You and I, can I tell, can I say this? You and I need to keep our nose in this book continually. We got to stay on our knees before God continually, because not one of us is above being influenced by Satan himself. And we need to watch out. Remember what Jesus said to Peter? He said, Satan hath desired to sift thee. I think that sifting he was talking about was sifting out, separating David or or or Peter's trust in the Lord. He says Satan wants you to get your faith off of me. He wants to get your trust off of me. And that's what we got to watch out for. I want to be loyal to the King of Kings. And when the Absaloms of this world rise up against my king, I don't want to give ear to them. I don't want to follow them. I don't want them influencing me. I want to stay loyal to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn From Absalom's actions on how he stole the hearts of good people, of your people, and turned them against your man. You're king. And I pray you'd help us as individuals and a church to keep our guard up and be wise and not let the Satan, the Absalom of Satan, steal our hearts. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to work on guarding my moral authority. Any like that? I want to make sure I keep my conduct. People can trust me. Amen. We want that. We got to work on it. I wonder if there's some would say, uh preacher, I'm not going to let uh doubts and people who criticize and find fault, I'm not going to let them turn me against the Lord. I want to keep my eyes, guard my ears. Any like that? Sure. We'll be careful about that. And uh how about kindness? I just want to be kind. I want God to help me be compassionate. Any like that? I need that. My hand is raised. I need that Father, bless our invitation night. You know what our needs are. Speak to us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.