2 Samuel chapter number 5, we're going to begin reading in verse number 11, and I want to read down through verse 22. 2 Samuel 5, beginning verse 11 down through verse 22. The Bible says And Hiram, king of Tyra, sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters and masons. Why is he sending all these guys, cedar trees and carpenters and masons? Well it says, and they built David a house. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel And that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake. And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he was come from Hebron. And there were yet sons and daughters born to David. And these be the names of those that were born unto him in Jerusalem. Here we go Shame Shammuah and Shobab and Nathan and Solomon And Ib Ibhar also, and Elishua, and Nepheg and Japhtheah And Elishama and Eliadah and Eliphalet. How'd I do? Nope. He said, Kate. And when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David. And David heard of it and went down to the hold, and the Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. And David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto David, Go up, for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand. And David came to Baalperazim, and David smote them there and said, The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me as the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Ba Baal Perazim. And there they left their images, and David and his men burned them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study and this portion of David's life. And Lord, we ask once again this evening that you would help us see lessons here and principles that apply to our lives And so that we can live lives that please you and live lives that um fulfill the purpose for which you've given these lives to us We need your Holy Spirit to do that. He's the author of this book, so we're asking, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that Spirit of God would speak through me and teach us these lessons to be learned here from these events. So I yield my will to you and present my body anew with all my heart I ask, Father, you be the preacher tonight. You speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's been quite a journey for David to get from a shepherd boy on the hillside of in the wilderness uh uh uh of Jerus of Israel, to the point now where he's sitting on the throne as king of Israel in Jerusalem, the newly established capital, if you will, of Jerus of Israel. And uh what a journey it has been. And we've spent a good bit of time dissecting the events that took place and all the experiences David went through to go from that 15 that 14, 15-year-old boy, that young boy, to where he's at now. There has been a series, if you reflect back over what we studied on David's life, it's been quite a series of ups and downs. There were some tremendous, miraculous highlights like when he, as a young boy, takes out Goliath with one stone from a sling. And then there was some awfully terrible lows when he's groveling like he's insane before a pagan king fleeing from King Saul. So David had his ups and downs in these past, we guesstimate, about 15 years. There's been some great victories. There's been some uh defeats uh during that time as he's making his journey uh to the throne of Israel. Um there were some times of great joy. And there were some times of great heartaches. David has gone through all this. There were personal successes, we've seen some of them, where he exercised tremendous grace and forgiveness and patience. And showed mercy where mercy was not necessarily required. But then there were some awful failures also, and some real defeats, personal defeats. And yet here's the thing, I said all that to say this. Through all that we've studied David's life from a young teen boy to now uh king of Israel, probably around 30 years old, we're guessing. Oh, I think the Bible tells us here in a little bit. But um uh to this point in his life, all that he's been through, the thing that stands out in my studying this is that David was faithful to the Lord. Through it all, he was faithful to God. I think one of the I think one of the greatest I think one of the clearest manifestations of someone having faith in God is evidenced by their faithfulness to God. Faithfulness. David's faithfulness. Now here's the thing. Faithfulness is not always easy. Has anybody learned that? Anybody experienced that? Being faithful to God isn't always easy. Sometimes it requires dying to self. Sometimes it requires being faithful. Sometimes it requires doing things that I really don't feel like doing. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever, now be honest, it's just us here tonight, Wednesday night, and uh everyone out in the world on the internet, but um anybody here ever It's church time, Sunday morning maybe a Sunday night or a Wednesday night. It's been hectic, busy, and you think to yourself, you know, I think I'd just like to stay home tonight And just kick back. And uh come on now, anybody ever feel that way? Robin's the first to raise their hand there very eagerly But because we have faith in God, because we love our Lord, because we want to be true to our God We get up and we go anyway, and how many people ever this? You went, you really didn't feel like it, you went, and when you left you say, Boy, I'm glad I went to church tonight Anybody like that? Yeah. Happens. Uh I not personally, but I heard happens to preachers also, I've heard that And same thing for any area of the Christian life. Reading our Bible, sometimes you get up, it's a busy day, it's like, ah But no, no, no. I take my I'm gonna nope, I'm gonna be faithful, take a little time, sit down, read the Bible, and boy, you go through the day and lo and behold, something comes up. That's exactly what I read that morning, God gave me right what I needed Faithfulness is necessary in the Christian life. It's necessary. If I'm going to live a victorious Christian life, I've got to be faithful. Faithful. It's not always easy, but it is absolutely necessary if I'm going to grow as a Christian. In all my years in the ministry I can't think of one Christian that I've worked with or I've known or I've interacted with that grew because they were unfaithful to God. But I tell you, I've seen some Christians, a fellow or a young lady, teenager or adult maybe, get saved, and boy, they got rough background, maybe they got very difficult circumstances, but they just trust God, I'm going to be faithful. And boy, I've seen them grow. Seen them grow. Seen them grow. Faithfulness is not always easy, but faithfulness is absolutely necessary if I'm going to grow spiritually. If I'm going to experience God's blessings, I have got to be faithful. I was thinking, as I was thinking about David, and we're up to this point, and I mentioned this before in a couple of previous messages. I want to reiterate it here We need to understand what a significant point in time this is for David and for the nation of Israel. The throne of David is being established. Which is going to lay the groundwork for God's future kingdom here during the millennial when Christ sits on the throne of David And rules this world from Jerusalem. So this is such a vital time in the history of Israel. And I was thinking about David's faithfulness through all of this. As a man after God's own heart, he was faithful to God And I got thinking in my own Christian life about men that I looked to as mentors. One thing I early on, I made a decision early on in the ministry that I wasn't going to go to my peers for advice and for input in the ministry. I mentioned this numerous times before. But I I was going to go to people that have already been in the ministry for years, that have already been through what I'm going through, that have already seen the outcome of the decisions they've made in their ministry, and I want to get their input. And I got looking at some of these men, and even as I'm speaking now, I'm seeing faces and men that have been mentors to me. One thing that stands out in my mind is this: they were faithful to God. They would not have gotten to the point they were if they had not been faithful. And many of them, thinking a number a number of them in particular, went through horrendous heartaches I mean personal heartaches. I got to know some of them well enough. And some of the preachers, evangelists that we've had through here over the years um that are now with the Lord, I got to know them well enough that they were some heart-wrenching heartaches Personal heartaches in their lives, yet they stayed faithful. And they got up and they did what God called them to do, and they fulfilled their ministry, and they finished their course and they kept the faith and they fought a good fight. And they were able to influence others. They were faithful. Numerous ones. Bill Barons comes to mind. What an influence in my life he was. Brother Charles Holmshire with the Lord now. Lee Robertson early on in losing the death of his daughter, and he said several times there was such a blow uh to them just unexpected as a young uh child and um and how God used that and he stayed faithful stayed faithful So, David, through all these ups and downs and victories and defeats and joys and sorrows, he stayed faithful to the Lord. He stayed faithful to the Lord. Now, I'm leading up to something with this. As important as faithfulness is, it is impossible to be faithful to God and not face opposition from the world, the flesh, and the devil. It is impossible. You can't be faithful to God. I already referenced one area where the the flesh will fight us. We don't feel like going to church. I don't feel like doing this. Thursday night visitation. I really don't feel like going visiting tonight But we stay faithful and we stay at it. And I'm telling you, when we decide that we're going to trust God, I'm committed to Him, I'm going to be faithful to my Lord. You mark it down, this old sinful nature of ours, this old sinful flesh is going to fight it. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about This old flesh fights my spiritual growth. It's not a friend of me being faithful to God, my sinful nature. This old world will fight it. Tooth and nail. The devil fights it. Now I think we make a mistake if we get in our heads or we imply. Now we wouldn't deliberately do this. Some folks do, I think. Or we imply to a new Christian that, you know, if you trust God and you're faithful, boy, you're going to be popular. And things are going to go your way and it's just going to be easy street. It's going to be a parade and everybody's going to love you and everybody's going to cheer you on. We make a big mistake if that's what we anticipate in living a faithful Christian life. Right or wrong. We make a big mistake. We're setting ourselves up for disappointment and discouragement and bitterness even. Some of these guys on TV, some of these guys hawking money and just becoming millionaires off of giving this idea that if you send money or if you're faithful or you do this then Everything's going to be your way and God doesn't want you to be sick. And I'm telling you, there are people who not only are sick because they were faithful, they gave their lives in being faithful to the Lord And so we set ourselves up for disappointment and failure if we think, oh, I'm going to be faithful and uh everybody's going to cheer me on. Now, here in America, for uh For for many years in America, we've lived in a s what I'm I consider a spiritual incubator A spiritual bubble, so to speak. For many years, at least in general, we had a government that supported the church and supported the uh Christianity In fact, they don't tax us. From the beginning, the churches were viewed as something beneficial to a country. beneficial to the society. And so we're not going to tax them. We're going to give them every advantage we can. They've given us freedom to go door to door and and uh share the gospel with people and freedom of speech. Of freedom to worship and assemble. We've had that for years and years and years, and we've gotten this idea, I think, that that's the way normal Christianity is. That is not. That is an exception to the rule over the history of the church. And by the way, those freedoms and that support, quote unquote, from our government is slipping away pretty quickly. We're seeing it dissipate. And so we need to understand, I saw a quote, they were being humorous. I was reading on the computer a quote, they put this American Christians are learning that there actually is a price to pay to be a good Christian. We've had it pretty easy. We've had it pretty good. David is now king of Israel. This significant point for 15 years, give or take, he has been going through ups and downs and battles and struggles and failures and successes And through it all, he just stayed faithful to God. He had his struggles here and there, and he had some failures, but overall he stayed faithful to God. He stayed faithful to God. He stayed faithful to God. And now he's sitting on the throne of Israel. What God had anointed him for, he's now experiencing. And the capital is in Jerusalem, and he's building the city, and the country is united. And now it's going to be easy street from here out. And everybody's going to love them, and everybody's going to support them. The title of my message, and it's going to go a couple weeks, this one will, is David and the Anybody remember seeing it in the bulletin? David and the Philistines. Question, are the Philistines coming and saying, yay, hip, hip, hooray, David is king? No. They're not. Anytime you and I determine to live for God and fulfill God's will, mark it down, there's going to be opposition. David has learned already, and he's going to it continues on. David has learned already that walking with God means walking against the current. Anybody a i I I like to fish and I don't as much as I used to. I used to river fish a lot more than I do now because it requires more effort. And um But uh I tell you, you get out in that river, maybe the Potomac out here or the yacht, one of these rivers, you get trout fishing, you get your waders on, you get out there, that current in the spring sometimes is moving pretty strong And I learned early on it's a whole lot easier to go upstream and fish down than to go downstream and try and make my way up against the current. Everybody follow what I'm saying? Hey, I got news for you. You and I how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many people would consider yourself a disciple of Jesus Christ? Amen. I would assume I got news for you. We are going upstreet. We are going against the current of this world. David learned that early on. He's going to continue to experience it. We are going against the grain. Somebody told Billy Sunday one time, they said, your preaching rubs the cat the wrong way. He said, well, turn the cat around We are rubbing this world the wrong way. We are going against the grain. When we're faithful to our God We're going against the grain. We're going against the current. Now, I got some lessons here. I said all that to get into this. David is now king. By modern Christian standards, we would anticipate everything being wonderful. He's been faithful, he's done all this, now he's the king, everything goes his way. We're going to find out that's not so And there's some lessons I see here in these verses we read that we can apply to our lives. I'll just give you what the lessons are. Then we'll come back and look at the first one. Number one, as uh we're trying to live for God and be faithful to God in a world that is opposed to us, we need, first of all, we need assurance. I see that in verse 11 and 12. We'll look at that here in a minute. Then we're going to need to avoid carelessness. David right off the bat gets a little careless if look there in verse 13 And he starts taking more wives. He starts taking these concubines. We're going to look at that. That was a bad move. That was a mistake on David's part. He got careless. And he gave in. Then we're going to notice, Lord willing, that we need to be alert. Verse 17 through 21. These Philistines are uh building up against him. They're uh they're assembling together. They're getting they're building their army up against him. He needs to be alert. We need to be alert. And then we're going to notice we need to be active in prayer. Two things David does here is a tremendous lesson. Is that before he took any action against the enemies of God's people, the enemies of God, he spent time in prayer. He got direction from God. Great lesson there. We'll look at that. And then we're going to notice we need to engage the enemy. We cannot ignore the enemy. We have to engage the enemy. Now, this is way ahead of myself here, but If David was aware of the Philistines building their armies around them, they're assembling together, they're building up their arsenal, they're getting ready. And even he's aware of it. If he would have ignored it, do you agree with me? That'd have been a big mistake. He needs to engage them, he needs to deal with it. Listen, if you and I ignore the enemies you and I face As Christians, we're dead meat. We need to address this sinful flesh. We need to have, we need to be prepared to deal with the sinful world in a uh sp a devil that's opposed to us. And so there's some lessons there. Let's look at the first one there. We need assurance. David is now king. No doubt it was a bit intimidating, I would imagine And so God does a few things here to assure David that he's right where he needs to be and that God is in control. Look with me, if you would, at verse 11. And Hiram, king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters and masons, and they built David an house. Now, that seems a little innocuous. Yeah, so what? Hiram, king of Tyre, he built David a house. Wonderful, that's nice. I don't think there's things in the Bible, I don't think God puts things in the Bible just because they're nice. I think God puts things in the Bible for a purpose and a reason for us to learn from that And I think God is telling us something here. I think he's informing us of something, that what David really needed was another king that was his friend. David needed some assurance here in this. Being king over God's people in a world populated by the devil's children, Philistines Here's the people of God, the children of Israel. The rest of the world is in darkness. They're pagans that hate God's people. That's not going to be easy. And there was no room for doubt in David ruling over king. He had to know that he was smack dab in the middle of God's will. He had to know that God was with him. Because what he's endeavoring on, what he's embarking on, is not going to be easy. And there's no room for doubt, and there's no room for certainty And I want to suggest to you that in your Christian life and in my Christian life, there is no room for doubt and there is no room for uncertainty in serving God and living for God. I I had to learn early on that this was God's will for me to be pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm telling you, if I had doubts about that, if I was uncertain about that throughout times, there have been times I'd have left a long time ago. And same thing in any ministry, on a bus ministry, we're revamping our buses, and some people are going to get involved in there. You need to know that this is God's will. God is with me in this ministry Because I tell you, there's going to be discouraging times, there's going to be difficult times, there's going to be times you'll walk away if you're not absolutely certain you're in the will of God and you're right where God wants me to be And that's true in any area of the Christian life. There is no room for doubt, and there is no room for uncertainty. I like John chapter 5 and verse 13, says this: These things have I written unto you That believe in my name, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. I tell you what, it's going to be very difficult for someone to grow in their Christian life if they don't have the assurance of their salvation settled. Amen or not. You've got to get that settled. I have never seen a Christian growing and strong in the Lord and be an effective witness for God that doubted their salvation and had questions. about their standing with God. That has got to be settled. There's no room for doubts. There needs to be assurance there. Listen to Proverbs chapter 3 and verse 26. The Bible says this For the Lord shall be thy confidence. And whatever we're endeavoring to do for God, whatever we're endeavoring to serve the Lord, whatever ministry or area we're trying to serve the Lord We have got to know that God has put us there and that God is our confidence. We're trusting in Him, not in our own abilities, not in our own skills, not in our own talents, not in our own wisdom But the Lord is enabling me. God is using me and working through me. Must be that assurance. David, if he's going to be an effective king, he has to be assured that he is exactly what God, where God wants him to be, doing what God wants him to do. Again Proverbs 14, 26. In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. Now I notice two things here that God did. That helped David be assured, that helped him perceive that the Lord was with him, that God had established him. The first one is he found a good friend. Hiram. Now, this is the first time Hiram is mentioned in the Bible. He's actually referenced several times. He was the king of Tyre. Tyre was a city, a region. It was a city primarily, but it was an extended area. And uh it was an extremely powerful city. And by that I mean this, it was very, very influential in the area, in that region. Uh it was very, very prosperous. It was a commerce city, it was a port city. And Hiram was a s was a very wise and gifted king and he was able to uh uh develop that city when he became king. I I forget how many years he was king, it's pretty m uh uh extended number of years And um he developed that under his leadership. That city became very, very influential, became very, very prosperous. He built the great ports there and for the ships to come in and out. develop their commerce. He was a significant person. And he and David became good friends. And he became almost an admirer of David and supported him tremendously, as referenced here in other places, if you study the life of David, other places that mention how Hiram helped him and Hiram supported him. What he needed was a good friend as he started out. What he needed was a good supporter. By the way, later on Hiram became a supporter of Solomon And would send workmen and materials to help Solomon when he became king. And uh Hiram was a good friend for David, and I believe that's exactly what David needed And I want to suggest to you, we need, we need other Christians in our lives to help us live the Christian life. God does not have any Lone Rangers There's a reason that God established the church. And by the way, the church is a called out assembly. God's people getting together, God's people interacting, God's people supporting and praying and encouraging and exhorting one another. There's a purpose for that. God has a reason. To design the church the way it is because we need the support of one another to be what God wants us to be Um I put down uh six six characteristics of good friends. You might want to jot this down. Uh I thought these were pretty good. I came across it and kind of modified it for my thinking I put number one, a good friend encourages us in our faith. A good friend is going to encourage us in our faith. Let me say this. We think of friends, we always think about kids. I tell you, adults have friends also. And our friends as adults are very, very influential in us And I'm telling you, if we got a friend that does not encourage us in our faith, but rather hurts our faith and hinders our faith and diminishes our faith, we need a new friend. We need folks who are going to help us grow in the Lord. We need friends that are going to support us. I like a statement made about David, or I'm sorry, Daniel. And it says that he was a dissolver of doubts. I love that statement. In other words, when Daniel was around, people's doubts about God dissolved. Their faith got stronger, their confidence got stronger. That's the kind of friends we need. And by the way, that's the kind of church we need, a church that put that draws us to Christ, that encourages us to trust God. Amen? Friends support us. I remember when I first got saved, and I've referenced these guys numerous times over the years. But old uh Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox. I have never had an idea whatever happened to those guys. I went off to college, we lost touch. But I tell you, when I walked in that church that Sunday in May 1979, you talk about uh green. You talk about an odd b an oddball. I walked in there and I've told you before, you know, the long hair, the bell bottoms, all of that walking in And um, you know, this was uh uh a pretty uh not real formal church, but more formal than ours. And I sat there by myself. I sat over on the side and Old Arden and Terry, they saw me, they knew I was a visitor, they knew I looked pretty pretty worldly. And man, they just made a beeline over there. Hey, what's your name? What are you doing here? How'd you wind up here? Are you a Christian? There's sorry. And those guys took me under wing And I I don't believe I would be here today if it wasn't for those two good friends I had early in my Christian life. And they supported me and they encouraged me and they helped me to trust God and get to know the Bible and live for the Lord That's what we need. Good friends, encourage us in our faith. I put this down. Number two, good friends challenge us in our struggles I tell you, sometimes it's good to have somebody just come up beside us, maybe sit down beside us, and say this, ask this question. How are you doing? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Are you okay? Are you doing alright? I want you to know I care about you. I'm concerned. How are you doing? And we need that. I'm grateful for preacher friends of mine from for years. Every now and then get a call. Hey, I just want to call and check and see how you're doing. I'm doing good. And sometimes and sometimes God gives you a friend that's close enough. This is what we say. Tell me if I'm right or wrong. People say, how you doing? We say this. Oh, I'm fine. Right? Oh, I'm good. Yeah, it's great. But every now and then God gives us a friend, a close friend, and we're able to say this. Oh, I'm having a rough time And just someone you can bend their ear and just spill your guts a little bit too. That's good friends. That helps us live for God. Somebody's willing to challenge us. Hey, are you alright? Everything okay? Number three, I put this down. A good friend will counsel us in our uncertainties. In other words, we're not sure about something. I'm not sure what to do. I get a good Christian brother, a good Christian sister, and they'll say, well, listen, let's go to the Lord. Let's try and figure out I'll help you figure out what's the best way to handle this, what's the best thing to do. And that's that's what a trend does, helps us And uh counsels us in our uncertainties. I put this down. Number four, holds us accountable in our decisions. I don't think we do this, maybe, and you have to be careful about this But it's good to have somebody that can come and say, hey, Brother Dennis, remember you made this decision. Are you holding up to it? I had a young preacher, it's been a number of years ago, uh, but he was having some struggles and uh he was in another state and he called me up and I've known him I knew him before for a long time And he said, he says, Pastor Le Man, would you do something for me? I said, sure. He said, would you call me every Saturday morning and ask me these questions? He gave me a list of questions. I said, sure. I knew what he was doing. We talked about it. But he's wanting me to hold him accountable for just some decisions made. And he says, I promise you, and I told him, I said, I'm going to ask these questions, but only if you promise me that you'll tell me the truth. He says, I will, I will. And so we did that for quite a while. And holding us accountable, a good friend, I put this down, number five, keeps us in their prayers. And number six, I put this down, contributes to our success. A good friend is part of our success. I doubt seriously any of us have gotten to this point in our Christian life without the influence of somebody, another brother or sister in Christ that helped us, invested in us, right or wrong? Somebody helped us. They contributed to our success. I thought of Randy Miller, pastor out in Illinois. We became best friends in Bible college. I showed up Bible college in August of 1985 or 81. I didn't know anybody. I'd never been that far away from home in my life. And um one day I'm sitting at lunch by myself. They did it all Oh family style lunch at that point. I mean there's thousands of students and I'm sitting there just by myself eating he Randy came over, sat down, he said, What's your name? We got or sat across from me And we got talking a little bit. He says, I have a bus route. Would you come Saturday and work on my bus route with me? I said, sure, I'd be excited to. Old Randy took me under a wing and he learned I learned how to work a bus route and how to go out soul winning and I learned so much from Randy. And uh he contributed to my success. So David here, he's king of Israel now. He's got a tremendous responsibility on him. He needs this assurance that he is exactly in God's will. And God sends Hiram. It just encourages him and supports him. Let me give you the last one here, real quickly. Not only did he find a friend in Hiram But number two, he saw God's sovereignty, and this is what I want to end with this morning. Look at verse 12. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel. And that he, the Lord, had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake. That word perceive there means this: to be aware of, to observe, to recognize. And I think what's happening here in verse number twelve is David is looking back over his his life up to this point. He's looking back From when he was anointed king by God privately, and now up to where he's over this kingdom, united, they're established. And he says, I see God's hand through all of that. God did it all. Notice, look, look how he words it there in verse 12. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel. God did it. He saw God's hand. He saw God did all of this. I tell you, the ability or the willingness, I maybe should say, to see God's hand working in our life. Will bring tremendous confidence. I want to challenge us, all of us, I want to challenge us, look back over our Christian life. And look and see how God worked in your life and the people he brought into your life and the things God did and the things God allowed us to experience. Experience to get us to where we're at. And we look back and we say, you know, God was active this whole time. Sometimes we don't even see it. God is doing things in our life and God is molding us and God is challenging us and chipping away. We don't even see it at the time, and then we stop and look back and say, man, God, look what God did. I didn't even notice it. And I think that's what's happening with David I like to, when I'm soul winning, uh, I will on occasion, if I'm witnessing somebody, I'll ask them this question, has anything been happening in your life recently to make you think about God, religion, or the Bible? You would be amazed when people stop and think of it and say, well, you know, actually, yes. This happened. I was in an accident or someone died or this happened or And they'll say, yeah, you know, there has been things happening. You know what that tells me? God is working in people's lives. We need to stop and look back and notice what God has done over the years and how God has used people and circumstances and situations and difficulties To bring us to the point we're at, that's what David's doing. He sees the sovereignty of God, he sees what God was doing The ability to see God working in our lives brings great confidence and assurance. We see that God is in control. God is active. God is leading us and directing us Now, here's what I want to end with. And this is what I was challenged. How about instead of focusing on all the things that our selfish will is disappointed with? Rather than spent dwelling on all the things in life that our selfish will is unhappy with And let's stop and focus on what God has been doing in our lives and how God has been working in our lives. And how God has been leading and directing us many times, unbeknownst to us at the time, but yet God was leading. I'll tell you what it'll do. If I can stop and I can see God's hand If I can see God's hand in my life, that'll help me be more grateful for what I'm going through. God is doing something. Here's the problem: we are so spoiled as American Christians That if everything is not exactly the way my selfish will thinks it should be, or my selfish will is uh expects If we we've gotten to the point where that where everything isn't exactly the way we want or think or should be, man, we're so unhappy, we're critical, everything's terrible, everything's awful Why can't we stop and say, wait a minute, there is a God in heaven that's been working in my life and been in and uh directing and been active That has brought me to where I am. He's got a plan and a purpose for me. And I think that's what David is doing here. He says, the Lord brought me to this, the Lord established me as king. God did this And we can rejoice. Even when our country is a mess, we can still say, hey, God is alive, God is still in control, and He's working in my life. Amen? Let's just determine to be that way. Why don't we this for the rest of this week? We got a few four days left of this week. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. We've got three days left of this week. Let's just start saying, you know, I'm going to watch for God working in my life. What God is establishing in my life. He's the one that does it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us and challenge us. Open our eyes, Lord, to see that you are the one working. You are active in our lives. Help us, Father in heaven, to rejoice in that and to find great confidence And not live our lives so negative, so frustrated, and rather say, yes, God is working, God does have a plan, and He's active in my life. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to put my eyes on Christ and watch and look for what he's doing in my life. Any like that? Preacher praying, I need to do that. I need to do that. That's what David did. And he's able to go forward as a very successful king, powerful king, I believe, because he got that assurance that God was with him, God established him God was working. Father bless our invitation now I ask in Jesus' name a