17. 1 Samuel 17. If you have your Bibles. And I always always said this since I've been in the ministry. I said Christians ought to bring their Bibles to church. Amen. And um boy, that was weak. Although for a second there I thought I was in a Methodist church or something, but uh Christians ought to bring their Bibles to church. Ah, there we go. And uh so if you have your Bible, turn to 1 Samuel chapter 17. See, if you don't, then you've got to assume that what I'm saying is correct. Alright, and that's a lot of trust you put in me, I guess. But uh I'm gonna begin reading in verse number forty. Things have been building. How many fo How many folks have felt the tension? building as Daniel is getting closer and closer to encountering Goliath. Anybody feeling the tension? And it's building up, it's building up. And here we are. David is about to face Goliath. What did I say? Daniel and Goliath. The tension just went out of the whole thing. It went flat. David and Goliath. Verse number, I want to begin reading verse number 40. See you guys, I say the right thing a thousand times, nobody says a word. One time I say the word word, and all of a sudden it's a big issue. Ready? Verse 40. And he took his staff, this is David, not Daniel, he took his staff in his hand. And chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had, even in a script And his slaying was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine. And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David, and the man that bare his shield went before him And when the Philistines looked, and when the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him. For he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of fair countenance. And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, I'll give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then said David to the Philistine Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and give thy carcass to the host of the and give the give the carcasses I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. Wow, you talk about confidence On David's part. Let's pray. And I've entitled it, David Engages Goliath. Here it is. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study tonight. And please use this event here to challenge us in two thousand eighteen, many, many thousand years later And I pray that our hearts would be stirred and our faith in you would be strong and that we would be confident in your omnipotence, Lord, and your willingness to give us victory and work through us. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. I yield my will. And speak through me, Lord, and help us and challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Back in the it was early 80s, it might have been the late 1970s, there was a book came out by a fellow, Tim LaHaye was the author, and it was uh the title of the book was The Battle for the Mind So anybody here remembers that book. It was a bestseller. It went through, Christians, I read that. He had uh he that was actually a very good book. And uh he made some tremendous observations from Scripture in there, and the battle for our for our lives, and the battle for living a Christian a victorious Christian life Really takes place in the mind. In the mind. How we think very much determines what our behavior will be Why do they act that way? Because they think a certain way. How we think very much determines our behavior. How we think very much determines the decisions we make. The thinking process that goes through our mind very much affects the decisions we make, whether we're going to do this or not do this, or we're going to go down this road or we're going to go that way in life. It always how we think. It comes back to the mind. That's one of the reasons the Bible places a tremendous emphasis on our thinking and having the right thinking. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. We reference that passage a lot. It's a key passage in the Christian life. Paul's writing to the church at Rome and the believers at Rome, and he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Then he makes this statement. He says, and be not conform to this world. Don't be molded into this world's values and priorities and worldview. Don't be conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed. How are we transformed by the Renewing of our mind. And he says the way we're going to grow as a Christian, the way we're going to develop as a Christian, the way we're going to uh um uh live the life that Lord would have us to live is our tr our thinking, our mind needs to be transformed. In Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 5, he says that we are to have the mind of Christ. I've often said, I've thought this for a long time, I've often said that I believe true holiness is basically thinking the way God thinks. Seeing things from God's perspective, valuing things in our mind the way God values things. That's what holiness is. And he says we are to have the mind of Christ. We are to have a worldview that Jesus has were to have the attitude, the thinking that Jesus Christ has. Wouldn't it be don't we sing about that if I could see this world the way God sees? What are we saying? That I would I would see this world, think of this world the way God does In 2 Corinthians 10 and verse number 5, he says that we are to bring into captivity every thought. Bring into captivity of Christ every thought. And so what I'm getting at is this: how we think, our worldview, the way we see things, the way we uh process Our lives and the events around us determines how we behave and the decisions we make. And I think in this chapter here, I went back and started looking back over it again just as a whole event. And we see some real insight into the mind of David. We see as David as a young man who knew God and understood who God was and God's power and God's plan. As a young boy. And we can see how what his thinking process was. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 27. And I know we've looked at a lot of these already, but I want to put them together and get in the head of David. How is this kid thinking to get into this position? Verse 27. Uh the last part it says in the and um and chapter sixteen, I'm sorry, verse twenty seven No, not chapter 16, verse 17. Oh, I got the wrong verse written down here. Let's skip that one. Go to verse 29. I'm sorry, verse 26. All right. Bear with me now. You threw me when I said Daniel. Chapter 17. Verse 26. Everybody there? How many people are with me? Say amen. How many people have no clue what I'm talking about? Say amen. Alright, good. Look at verse 26. David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be none of the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach from Israel? Look at this. For who is this uncircumcised Philistine? This is in David's head. This is his thinking. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? Would you agree with me? That's a little bit different thinking than the way Saul was thinking. David's thinking in his head, who is this guy? Come down to verse number 29. Again, we're getting into David's head. He says, David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? David sees David's mind is processing this whole event in a completely different way. Than everybody else is. Look at verse number 37 in the first part. David said, moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine He saw it in a completely different light. He had a whole completely different perspective. His mind thought a different way. Chapter verse 46 and the first part of verse 46. This day will the Lord deliver into the uh deliver thee into my hand. Verse forty seven And all the assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword, spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. And I got looking at these statements that David made, and it c it dawned on me, David thinks completely different than everyone else. That's the way Christians ideally should be. We have a whole different mind in the world. Did you ever try to talk to somebody, maybe an unsaved person or someone, about spiritual things? And it was like talking to a brick wall. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like they just don't even get it. And it's like they don't even they're not even their thinking process is not on the same wavelength as ours You know what the Bible says that is? That is called being spiritually blind. Satan has blinded them. They don't comprehend. And so David has this whole different thinking. David's whole mindset is this. This is what I'm getting at. David's whole mindset was based upon this premise. His whole thinking was based upon this premise. God is all powerful. That was the that was the foundation of all his Worldview. That was the foundation of his whole process. God is all-powerful. God is able to give us the victory over this enemy. And I tell you, some Christians, and maybe I'm talking to some in the auditorium here this evening, you're defeated from day one simply because you start with the premise, I'm doomed You start with the premise I can't ever have victory. You start with the premise I'll never uh it'll never happen. This needs never going to be met, this situation's never going to be solved, this circumstances are never going to change And we begin with this premise that God is not all-powerful, and God is not willing to give us the victory And David had it completely different. David, and not only did David believe that God was able to give the victory, he believed that God would give the victory. Did you catch that? Look again at verse 37 He says, the Lord that delivered me out of the pole of the lion, out of the pole of the bear, he, what's the next word? Are you looking? Will He didn't come after Goliath, oh yeah, God can give me the victory. He was absolutely convinced that God would. Over in chapter 46. Did you see that? I highlighted the word, verse 46, this day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. David had no doubt about it. He had no doubt about it. Anybody recognize the name Donald Gray Barnhouse? Anyone recognize that name? He was a great, I think he was Presbyterian back, I think, in Philadelphia, years ago, New York or Philadelphia. He wrote a series of commentaries are really pretty good. And um he was um uh when he was young uh he was candidating at a church if I remember the situation correctly he was candidating at a church And he was there to preach a sermon, you know, for them to assess him. And one of his seminary professors Came and sat on the front row. He's just a young man, just a young preacher, boy, seminary professor, sat on the front row and was glued to him And um Barnhouse preached his message and poured his heart out and was true to the Word of God and preached his message. And afterward his seminary professor came to him and he says, Um, all right, I'll not be back and uh I'm not I'm not gonna listen to any more s your sermons as far as your candidating is concerned. And he said, Well what was that all about? And he said, I just wanted to find out if you were a big God or a little God preacher. He says, What do you mean? He says, to this today I heard you preach. And you believe in a big God, and he says, I'm confident God's going to use you. If you were just a little God, uh preached a little God, then God wouldn't use you, but you believe in a big God. You follow what I'm trying to say It was the way he saw things. It was his perception of who God was. It was perception of God's power. It was perception of God's willingness that made David different than the others. And so this whole battle with David and Goliath, this whole encounter, comes down to two ways of thinking. You have Saul and the armies. We're doomed, we're doomed, there's no way. And then you have a young boy that's walked with God for most of his youth. And he knows God, he knows God's power, and he saw what God can do, and he has a whole different way of thinking And he sees this from a completely different perspective. And so the victory here is really in the mind. David's great faith and his great confidence came from his thinking processes. The way he saw things. He observed what God was able to do, killing a bear and a lion He saw what God could do through him. He saw what God could enable him to do. He observed that. Then he processed that observation And then he came to a conclusion. This Philistine is no match for God. His thinking, his thinking Now, the passage we read here, beginning in verse forty and down through verse forty-seven, I broke it into three parts, and we're only going to look at one tonight. We do have a little bit of business later on, so I'm only going to look at the first point and we'll be done by 9, 9. 30. easily. But uh I've I've broken into three parts. Uh verse number forty, the first part I've I've titled this, David's Arsenal. We're going to see what David's arsenal is as he goes in to engage Goliath. And then we're going to see David's approach as he comes up to Goliath, how this approach takes place. And then David makes a very significant announcement. Just before everything explodes. Alright, so let's look at David's arsenal in verse number 40. I want to read it again He says this, and he now remember Saul had just said, Listen, all right, you go out there, God be with you. I can hear Saul leaning over to his associate and saying the kids dead meat And uh says, uh, but oh wait a minute, I can't send you out here, put my armor on. And David tries it on and what happens? He puts it off and he makes an important statement. He says, I cannot wear this, I cannot use this, because I have not what? Proved it. We're going to come back to that So that's all taken place. And now he's put he's put off all of that armor, Saul's armor, verse 40, and he took his staff in his hand. And he chose them five smooth stones out of the brook and put the st uh and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even a strip. And his sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine. So he has this arsenal. He's got a staff. He's got five smooth stones that he got out of the brook. He puts them in his script, and he has a slave So let's look at. Would you agree with me? You're going to war against a hardened, massive weapon of destruction giant And you're going to pick out what your arsenal is going to be going against this guy. I don't know about you, but I would want the bazooka of the day, right? I would want um what was that show John uh John Wayne comes in he's got a big 50 caliber on each thing, boom boom boom boom boom boom, you know. Anybody are real pious, like you don't know what I'm talking about That's what I would want. But David, he's thinking differently. He doesn't see this the way anybody else does And he gets a very, what I'm calling a very peculiar arsenal. Now let's look at what he picks out. Let's look at what he takes out to the battlefield to engage Goliath. First of all, he has a staff. This would be what we would refer to a lot of times referred to as a shepherd's crook. How many people know what a shepherd's crook is? You ever see at Christmas time and you have the uh little baby in the manger and and Mary and Joseph and the sheep and the angels and the shepherds show up and they're always carrying a crook, a stay, but it has a little hook around it. Does anybody know what that little hook is for? Melissa raised her hand first. Right. If the sheep are stuck out on the thing or they're running off, sh it'd be great for parents, small children. It works beautifully. Say good grief, David. What are you going to do with a shepherd's crook against a possibly eleven foot giant? So he has this little shepherd's brook, and I'll be honest with you, I don't know what his intentions were with that, but I'll tell you why I think he took it here in just a moment. And then he gets five smooth stones out of the brook. Now that's interesting. The first question that comes to mind, we've already talked about this, Brian and I, the first question comes to mind, how many giants were out there One giant out there, Goliath, the champion. And he picks up five smooth stones. If there's only one giant, why would he get five smooth stones? Well, I did research and I looked at all what all the big Bible scholars said and I got uh boiled down to basically two Speculations as to why he took five. Now I want to point out, first of all, the Bible doesn't tell us why he got five. Right? Bible doesn't say that. So anything we come up with is what Speculation. And so if you don't agree with me, you're no doubt wrong One reason they suggest that he got five smooth stones is because Goliath had four brothers. That's a very popular thing. He says, all right, David's there. And the thinking is this. This is what the thinking behind that conclusion is. He got five smooth stones, because David in his mind knew that if he killed, if and when, or whenever he killed Goliath, his four brothers are coming after him. They're going to be ticked. They're going to be mad. You killed our brother. We're coming after you. So he had to be prepared to take out four other brothers. Now that may or may not be the case. Here's where I take issue with that. One is David was just introduced to Goliath, just Moments before. He just showed up there. This is all new to him. So did David know that he had four brothers? I don't know. We don't know. And were the four brothers there? The Bible doesn't mention that. And so I'm a little skeptical in that he got the five stones just in case the four brothers come out of nowhere and come after him. The other thinking is, and this is my thinking, which of course I believe is correct Um, I think David's just a practical guy. He's just a guy. I have his tremendous faith, and he knows he knows God's gonna kill this guy. There's no doubt in his mind. God's going to deal with this fellow. He's been blaspheming the God of Jehovah. He's been blaspheming the armies of Israel. God's going to deal with him. And um he had no doubt about that. However, David's not a dummy And so there's a very real possibility that that first stone might miss. That first stone might Knock them loopy a little bit and not take them out. And I think David just wanted to be sure if one doesn't get them then I'll use two. If two doesn't do it, I'll send three. If three doesn't do it, I'll send four. If the four doesn't do it, I'll send f And if that doesn't do it, then God'll strike em with lightning or something I think David was just being practically minded and and uh thinking, how many of you guys go deer hunting and you usually shoot the deer with one shot? Look. How many you you usually shoot the deer with one shot, but you always take more bullets than one bullet with you. Right. Because just in case. And I think it's nothing more than that. Is David just got five? There's five there, he got him, and uh he went out. And so I don't think there's any deep spiritual meanings here. I don't think there's any real significance there. I think David's just being realistic and being practical and saying, you know, it wouldn't be hurt to take five with me. Now I got thinking about that. Knowing a lot of independent fundamental Baptists, if he was day nowadays, they'd have probably criticized him for taking five because of his lack of faith. Right? But uh but that's David. So he has he has this staff and he has these five stones And probably just to have a few in reserve, just to be sure. But here's the question: as the Bible goes out of, the Bible makes the statement, five smooth stones Why does it say that? Well, I think the fact that the Bible says that tells us that David picked them up deliberately. And he's just not picking up just five rocks that happen to be there, but he's looking and he's finding five smooth ones. So what would be the importance of having a smooth rock? Why would he want to have a smooth rock? Because it would be aerodynamically more accurate. You get some goofy, odd shaped, uh shape like uh zucchini and you sling that, man, you've got that thing going all over the place. But you get some smooth stones and sh much more accurate. Alright? So this is giving us some real realistic uh uh uh uh uh information about what David's doing. So he's got his staff, he goes down to the brook, there's Goliath, I defy you. He comes up. Nope, not that one. And he gets five of them. Then he says he sticks it in his script. Now a script was what I would call an ancient version of a backpack. It was a little sack they would wear around their shoulders a lot of times, like a satchel type thing. And the shepherds would have their stuff in their little script, their little backpack. Here's a question. What in the world would most likely a young shepherd have in his backpack? What? His lunch food. There's no doubt there's food in that thing, I'm sure. An old peanut butter and jelly sandwich that's moldy from last week that he forgot about. If you know my hunting backpack, there are things in there that science has yet to discover. So he's no doubt he's got some cheese balls or whatever left over from what he was given out. Um what else would he have in there? A shepherd boy. I'm trying to picture this in my mind. So he's got this little sack. Remember, he didn't come anticipating fighting a giant. He just came from the field. I would think there'd be ointment, right? Some sort of oil for the shepher sheep. That's what the shepherds did. So he's got some ointment in there and he's got um uh no doubt some food and some granola bars and stuff like that and uh some uh Gatorade stuff down in there. Uh I don't know. I'm guessing some sort of ancient version of pocket knife I'm sure he's got something like that in there to do whatever. Rope. Anybody out in the wilderness that has any common sense taking a rope out with them for whatever. And so he's got some stuff in there. And uh you say, what's the significance of that? None whatsoever. I'm just trying to imagine in my mind what this it what this uh is taking place. So he's got his staff He's got these five stones, he's got them in his script, and um and he has a sling. The sling, as I studied this, I came to this conclusion. The sling is the ancient version of a modern day twenty-two. Right? It's a basically a squirrel gun. You're shooting rabbits, varmins, squirrels, chipmunks, that type of stuff with it. It is not a 50 caliber machine gun that you go to war with. You'll be hard-pressed to find wars taking place where they're using slings against each other. Now there are some mentions a few guys that were very good with the sling. But I'm calling the sling the ancient 22. So he's gone out against a heavily armored Big guns, champion of warfare with a staff A little backpack with some rocks in it, and a little twenty-two, basically. Now the way the sling worked, um, and I always pictured this when I was little, that the sling was Remember those slingshots you get a go out and find a stick and you break it and it has a little Y in it, you know, and you get some surgical tubing, you tie it to it on there and you put it Anybody remember those? And then they came out with the really cool ones where it wraps around, you know, it comes down, has that little bar, and you shoot ball bearings. Remember that? You shoot windows out and hit cars going by and stuff like that I never did that. Other people I heard did that. That is not what he has. This is an ancient sling, and is is actually a tremendous little weapon And perfect for a shepherd. He didn't have to carry a lot of armor, he didn't have to carry arrows around with him, he didn't have to carry a spear. He could just get his his uh bullet, so to speak, just anywhere he could find a crick, something like that And what the thing was, it had a leather pouch type thing, just a leather pouch, you know, not sure the size of it, probably, I don't know, four by six, something like that, a little leather pouch And it had two uh leather string type things that came out of it, one on each side. One they would take and they would tie around their wrist and tie it and secure it The one rope, and it would come out, and then you'd have the leather pouch, depending on the length of the person. The other one they would bring down and they would hold between their thumb And their their joint of that finger, they would hold it there like that. They'd put the rock in the little pouch, pull it, snug it tight. And then one one I was reading, they said usually about three revolutions, and that thing got up to velocity And they'd let that go, and it would absolutely be a powerful force coming out of that thing. The one article I was reading about these ancient slings is they could shoot that thing long distance. And that's important. All this comes to play here in just a little bit. So would you agree with me? That's a pretty strange choice of weapons to go against a great warrior None of the other soldiers were armed this way. It does not fit the mold of military operations. Right? He's not fitting the mold. I doubt there is one soldier in the Israeli army that would have chosen a staff, five stones, and a sling. If Saul would have said, Alright, Eli, you go out against Goliath, he would have looked for the biggest shield, the heaviest spear, the strongest arrow, I guarantee you. But not David. Not David. Sometimes, this was my application for this. Sometimes God uses unusual tools. Sometimes God uses people and instruments that do not fit the mold Over my years in the ministry, and I want to be careful, but it's because I don't want to be disrespectful, but there were some people that God used in great ways that were just a little bit unusual. Did you catch on the Billy Sunday thing, Sunday night, did they catch, did you catch where they said that when he was out with people, when he wasn't in the pulpit when he was people, he was very reserved Very quiet, said little or nothing. I venture to say most people wouldn't say, oh, that quiet guy there, reserved, very timid. uh he won't amount to much. But God uses some very peculiar instruments to accomplish his will I remember I was down at Highland Park, they had a massive bus ministry. We ran when I was there in the bus ministry, we ran forty-two buses Most of them Sunday morning, they come in Sunday morning, pick up, brought in um a thousand, twelve hundred kids on Sunday morning The buses go out, dropped them off, they came back, refilled, uh refueled up, we filled them up with a whole nother team of workers, and we sent at least half of them back out in the afternoons and brought in another 800 to 1,000 kids in the afternoon for what we called afternoon Sunday school. Massive operation 1800 to 2500 kids on a regular basis coming in on the buses only. Uh do you know how that whole thing started? Uh it was fell with uh just a fellow in the church that got stirred up about some kids in his neighborhood that he ought to bring him into church. He started bringing them in his car And um uh his car filled up, and one of the, he saw on one of the streets there was a Hearst for sale. For just a couple bucks, he bought a hearse, cleaned that thing out, put little seats all over in it, and started bringing in kids in a hearse to Sunday school. And that was how the bus ministry started at Mountain Lake at Highland Park Baptist Church. How many people say that's kind of peculiar? Yeah, send your kids out there on the hearse and go to church. It's different. You know what that is? That's a stone and a sling and a staff going out to war. God uses some strange things. God uses some unusual things. I thought about Jonah. Jonah's fleeing God's will, and the storm comes. And this just gets me every time how God exposed Jonah's condition. It was by casting lots. I guarantee you, Jonah never dreamed in a thousand years that he would be exposed as a fraud, a disobedient prophet, by a bunch of sailors in the middle of a storm casting lots, and lo and behold, he's exposed. I'm telling you, God uses strange, unusual, peculiar things to accomplish his will. I thought about Elijah when God sent him by the brook Cherith. And here's a prophet of God, and he's going to stand before kings. And what did God use to provide Jonah or uh Elijah's meals for him? Ravens. How many people here know anything about a raven? They're basically a crow, but a lot bigger. How many people ever drove down the road and saw a crow sitting on an old dead possum? How would you like that bird to bring you cheeseburgers every day? No. That would not be my choice. A bald eagle, you know, that'd be cool. You know, a parrot or something, that'd be nice. But a raven, they're nasty. But yet God uses peculiar things to accomplish his will. Um I thought about Noah and the Ark. They'd never seen rain. And I and again I'm being facetious here, but I can hear God saying, Noah once you build an ark. A what? An ark, what's an ark? It's a big boat. What's a boat? And just an unusual thing. Did you ever hear uh Bill Crosby saying of that? And uh what in the world? But yet God uses peculiar things to accomplish his will You say, preacher, I just really don't fit the mold. Ah. You're perfect. That's exactly what God wants to use And so his arsenal is very peculiar. It's very peculiar. God uses unusual tools. And I got thinking about those stones in the brook there, and it says he got them from the brook. I wonder how many of the Israeli soldiers had stepped on those very stones. Walking across back and forth while they're putting the battle in array and making a scene and no doubt at night they're sending little spies back and forth and checking the other camp out I wonder how many of them walked across the very stones that they never dreamed God would use to bring them deliverance. So listen, don't despise the little things. Now, we're going to be careful there. We need to stay within the perimeters of Scripture. Right? We can't go outside. What God says is acceptable. But sometimes God does things way different than the way you and I think they would be done. And we've got to understand that. So his arsenal, first of all, is very peculiar. But then I put this down. Second of all, his arsenal was definitely proven This was proven materials. These were proven weapons. Remember when Saul put his armor on him and gave him his sword and dropped that helmet of brass, clunked down on his head David said, I can't use these because I have not what? I've not proved these. I've not been trained in these. I'm not familiar with it. I'm not sure exactly how these things work. But David comes over here now and he has some things that he has proven. He knows what these are. He knows how a sling works. He knows what a sling can do. He knows the potential of a staff. He knows how far he can shoot a stone. He knows how hard he can sling that thing. And he's using something that he was very, very familiar with. He is using something that he was very, very skilled with. It didn't fit the mold, it wasn't what you normally use in an army, but it was something David could do David didn't know much about swords at this point. He didn't know much about shields. He didn't know much about helmets. He didn't know much about coats of mail. I don't work with that stuff. But here's something I can do. Here's something I am familiar with Here's something I have worked with a lot. And I don't know about you, but that encourages me. And we touched on this earlier. But you know, God uses us with the abilities and gifts He has given us God does not expect me to use abilities that only Brian has or only Verne has. He expects me to use the gifts and abilities that He's enabled me to do. Am I making sense? And so these are the weapons or the tools that David had proven. They were instruments that he used in everyday life. There's no doubt about it. David was an expert in the use of a staff. David was an expert in the use of a sling. And of the two, particularly the sling, it required tremendous amount of time, a tremendous amount of practice. To get that thing down and be able to sling that thing and be accurate. I guarantee you, I guarantee you, this is one of the f when David goes out against Goliath, it wasn't the first time he slung a slang slang a sling He'd been doing a long time. He'd been picking off foxes coming around. He'd been picking off uh different critters coming around and bothering the Sheep and I don't know, I uh he's a boy. He's a boy. So he's out there shooting chipmunks and birds out of trees and he's messing around with that thing And he knows what he's doing. He has proven this. He has proven this. These uh the slang and the staff were just everyday parts of his life. tedious everyday responsibilities. But yet he could use that. And I'm not thinking of David slinging that sling and using his staff and throwing rocks around with that sling Never dreaming. Never dreaming that just the things he was doing on a day-by-day basis is something God would use to bring such a tremendous victory And what I'm trying to say is this: a lot of life is made up of simply tedious everyday stuff. How many people have found that to be true? Most of life is not sensational. Most of life is not killing giants. Those are rare events throughout life where God enables us to do something. Most of life is made up of just doing the same thing over and over and over, very at things. I think that's one of the reasons I say this often. The Christian life is described as a walk What is a walk? What do you do when you're walking? Just putting one foot in front of the other and doing it over and over and over and over and over. Say, oh the preacher every gotta read your Bible every day. It's all we ever hear. You've got to read your Bible every day. You know what? Reading your Bible every day for months and years on end maybe the very thing that's needed in your life to help you beat a gul a giant someday down the road. I read some of you no doubt read it maybe on the internet, but um U. S. Navy Admiral William McCravins gave a speech this past May, I think it was, in um uh at a basic SEAL training camp, Coronado, California. And uh he had been um uh he had been a seal for thirty-six years, and he gave them ten lessons he learned. from being a Navy SEAL. And the first one is what stirred everybody up and made headlines. I thought it was tremendous He says, here are ten lessons I learned from basic SEAL training that hopefully will be a value of you as you move forward in life Every morning in basic SEAL training, my instructors, who at the time were all Vietnam veterans, would show up at my barracks room. The first thing they would inspect was your bed. If you did it right, the corners would be square, the covers pulled tight, the pillow covered just under the headboard, extra blanket folded neatly at the foot of the rack. That's navy talk for bed. It was a simple task, mundane at best, but every morning we were required to make our bed to perfection. It seemed a little ridiculous at the time, particularly in light of the fact that we were aspiring to be warriors, tough, battle-hardened SEALs. But the wisdom of this simple act has been proven to me many times over. If you make your bed in the morning, you will have accomplished the first task of the day. It will give you a small sense of pride and will encourage you to do another task and another and another. By the end of the day, that one task completed will turn into many tasks completed Making your bed will also reinforce the fact that little things in life matter. If you can't do little things right, you will never do big things right. Great statement. If by chance you have a miserable day, at least you come home to a bed that is made. A bed that you made. A bed that gives you comfort, gives you encouragement for tomorrow will be better. And he said this: if you want to change the world, start by making your bed. And I thought of David. Here he was, just slinging a sling around, carrying that staff around, never dreaming that this little mundane thing, part of everyday shepherd life was going to be so vital when he faced the giant. Face the giant. So what I'm trying to say is this listen if all you have is a slang All you got is the shepherd, a little a little staff. Whatever your life consists of, take what God has given you and do your very best at it over and over as as it's required And when the day comes that God needs you to do something greater, you have some giant to conquer, you'll have those mundane tasks in place, and you'll be able to sling that slang slang that sling And take that giant out. Am I making sense? It's just the little things in the Christian life. There was a book that came out. I never read it because I didn't like the title. It said, Don't sweat the little things. And I don't know what his point was, and maybe it was a valid point, but I always thought he that's faithful in little will be faithful in much. And I think the little things matter. And I think being able to use a staff to take care of sheep matters because you might need that to face a giant someday To change the world, make your bed. Actually, and I need to end with this, but actually, what David had was ingenious. It was a military, it was ingenious military strategy to have a sling and some stones and a staff. David, without any armor on, would make him very swift. He doesn't have all this heavy armor and a helmet. He can see his peripheral vision's all there. He's not had this helmet over his head. Doesn't have this coat of mail and this big shield to lug around. Man, he can just You know? All he's got is a little backpack and a sling and this there. He can move all around. So he's very agile, he's very swift, and also he's a very difficult target. Now I'm not a warrior, I've never been in the military, but I've watched a lot of military movies, so I feel like I could And they always say if there's somebody shooting at you that you run in zigzag. Right? I don't know if that's true or not, but it makes sense. And so you got David, he's out there, man, he can zig and zag, he's a tough target. I can see guard and his guys in front of him with the shield, and he's going to try and get after David, and David's just who See what I'm saying? So for him not to have any armor on is actually pretty ingenious. And with his sling, his little 22, I was reading about it, that thing is actually a very accurate at long ranges And so he's way out of reach of Goliath. And uh Goliath's sword, man, David's back here and one the one article I was reading about it, they said that thing could go most go as you could shoot almost as far as the sound of your voice. So he could stand way back there and send that thing in completely out of danger. And so this whole arsenal that though it was very unusual, and no one else in the military had it, it was actually. Very ingenious from a human standpoint. And plus the thing with a sling was, man, he can reload that thing right away. In fact, the one article said they'll they'll put one stone in there and they'll have one or two in the other hand ready to go. Shh, boom Boom. And it's like a machine, it's like a semi-automatic. And he's just he can just sling those things out and sling those things out. Just everyday stuff. For a shepherd, a sling, and a staff, it's just everyday part of life. But in the hands of a young man who's totally confident. That God can use him to conquer a giant, they became powerful, powerful weapons. I was thinking about different people in the Bible that just did everyday stuff. But yet God used them in amazing ways. I was thinking about Naaman's maid. Anybody remember Naaman's maid? She's taken from her family and from Israel and she becomes a slave really to Naaman the captain of the Syrian army, ungodly. But little Naaman's maid, she was just apparently a sweet little young lady that had tremendous faith in God. And Naaman comes down with leprosy. And his maid, a little servant girl from Israel, says, Oh, that my master, and I'm not wording this exactly the same, but oh that my master were back in Israel. Prophets of Israel could make him well. I don't know about you, but I would imagine a powerful Syrian captain of a Syrian army, ungodly pagan man, is not going to pay one bit of attention to what a little maid says But I think that little maid did her job very well every day and had a phenomenal testimony to the point that he was willing to listen to what she said. Even something as outlandish as that, she had earned his respect. Why? Because she did what God gave her, just the little simple things, but she did it with all her heart. Naaman's maid. I thought about Moses as a shepherd out in the wilderness, just doing his job, being faithful, being a shepherd, and he sees a fire, a bush burning. And he comes over. And I believe what he learned as a shepherd in the backside of the wilderness, God was teaching him how to shepherd a million people through the wilderness as they were on the way to Canaan. So let's take the simple things that God gives us, the everyday things. Let's make our bed, read our Bible, let's uh, you know, put some tracks in our pocket, let's do those simple everyday things. And you never know when that giant shows up. That may be the very things that God will use to bring great victory. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts and challenge us, and uh help us to be faithful in the little things, and to be