2 Samuel, if you would. Turn in your Bibles, 2 Samuel chapter number 5. We've been looking at this period of time in David's life. Now this will be the last one, Lord will, that we'll be spending on this passage. We'll pick up next week in chapter 6, I believe, is my plan. But uh we've been looking at this period of time in David's life where he just became the king. And uh he has settled in on the throne. He's got uh Jerusalem as being developed and built up as uh fortifying the city as the capital of of Israel. I don't think they referred to it as the capital, but that's what it was. He's operating out of out of Jerusalem. The entire nation is unified behind King David, and they are good to go. God's promised anointing has been Uh carried out, the entire nation's recognizing David as their king. They're rallying behind him. The neighbors, for the most part, are getting in on it, Hiram. is uh sending uh an entourage over to build David a palace and welcome him to uh as king of Israel. So th all these things are going on. Now, uh what we're wanting to do is what I've been trying to do here is work our way through this section of Scripture, the spirit of David's life and try and glean some lessons for you and I as Christians in the year 2021. Now this is 4,000 years ago. But nevertheless, the Word of God is eternal. And we can learn things from David's life here that the Holy Spirit can apply to our lives. So what we've looked at so far, number one is uh we've learned that we need assurance in our life. We need confidence. And we looked at that with uh uh Hiram, the neighboring king sending over his support and letting him know that uh he recognizes support day showing him friendship. And we talked about how important having Christian friends is and having the support of one another. We mentioned that uh You know, the church service. You know, if all church was was just getting preaching, if that's all it was, then we could all stay home and just watch it online, right? Well we wouldn't even bother. Making Simon Epper. But there's more to church than just the preaching of the Word of God. It's the interaction of God's people And it's the support and the encouragement and people interacting one with another. And that's what God gave David with Hiram. Hiram's coming over, he's building a palace And uh now don't expect church members to build you a palace. All right, we're not saying that. But uh we do get support from our own. So that gave David assurance. Then, as you remember, he looked back over his life and he said, God has established me He became convinced God had established him. God did this. And so he got assurance. We said, number one, we need assurance in our life. And then we said also, number two, we learned from David, we need to avoid carelessness. When things are going well, when God is answering our prayers and things have come together, there's peace and maybe prosperity going on in our life somewhat. That's when we gotta be careful we can't get careless. David did, and he directly disobeyed God. What did he do? Somebody Took on more wise in a direct disobedience to Deuteronomy. I think it's chapter 17. And so I think David got a little careless there. Things were going well. And we have to be very, very careful about that And then we pointed out we need to be alert. Lo and behold, it's not long, and uh the Philistines are back. Those old, those pesky Philistines, they keep coming back He'll he'll beat them, he'll whoop them, and they'll come back. And so sure enough, he's king now, and those Philistines show up, and they show up in force, and they're spread out all around there. They are convinced that they have to take David out. He is a real, he is a clear and present danger to the Philistines' well-being, if David on the throne. And so they bring everyone out. And so but David was aware of that. David was alert and he was ready to deal with them. And then last week We picked up, we didn't finish it, we picked up, number four, we need to be active in prayer. If you're writing these down, if you're taking notes, number four, we need to be active in prayer. Let's come here, look here at verse number 19. Well, let's start in 17. But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines, notice all of them. They didn't send a battalion. All the Philistines came up to seek David. And David heard of it and went down to the hold. And the Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. So they are out in force. Now notice the very first thing David did. And David what? Inquired of the Lord. I put, you can put in the margin of your Bible there, David prayed. David prayed. Come down to verse number 23. And when David inquired of the Lord, now this is sometime later, he prays again, he prays, and he prays again And so we need to be active in prayer. Let's pray right now. Ask the Lord to bless our study. We'll share some thoughts. Try and finish up this section. Father. Lord, it's been a blessing to study David's life. Lord, we've learned a lot here, and Lord, your Holy Spirit has helped us in many ways. I ask now tonight on this matter of prayer And this matter of being alert that you would again stir our hearts, help us, teach us, provoke us, Lord, to live the Christian life you saved us to live To be the people you created and saved us to be. So we need your Holy Spirit to do that, Lord. And so I yield my will to you I present my body anew. Again, I pray with all my heart you fill me with your spirit, Father, and you speak through me. Be the preacher tonight. Help us be responsive. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We started this last week. And we pointed out the fact that David has learned something. He's learned the importance of prayer. And we talked about singing about praying, talking, singing about prayer, talking about prayer, preaching about prayer, reading about prayer. But uh what we really need to do is what? Is just pray. Is just pray. And uh I'm encouraged by so many folks, just in recent days uh from our church have come and said, Preacher, I'm praying for revival. Preacher, I'm praying for this. I'm praying for that. I've committed myself to prayer. I'm telling you, if we can't, if we don't do anything else, we've got to pray That's the starting point. And David learned that. And the interesting thing here is he doesn't wait until he's down in the middle of the battle When he starts praying, he his immediate response, his first response is I gotta go to the Lord about this. I need to go to God about this. I'm telling you, if we can just get that down as our Christians Something comes up, we can immediately respond. I need to go to the Lord. I need to bring this to the Lord. So David uh David learned that. We pointed out that prayer is a vital weapon in any type of conflict in battle here And then also in our spiritual conflict there. So I want us two things I want us to notice here. First of all, I want us to notice David's response Or David's request. I'm sorry, David's request. Again, verse 19. Look what he inquires of. And David inquired of the Lord, say it. Now look what his prayer is Shall I go up to the Philistines? Shall I go up to the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? So he makes this two-fold request to God. Shall I go up? And if I do, are you going to give me the victory, or am I going to be able to beat them? I put in my notes, I put down we constantly face decisions. We have to make decisions. Whatever David does here is going to have lasting consequences. He's got to decide, am I going to go out there? And am I going to confront these Philistines before they start attacking? Am I going to be preemptive here? Or are we going to sit back? Am I just going to wait and see what happens? Am I going to engage the Philistines or am I just going to um uh try and ignore it? Maybe they'll go away? Uh do you agree with me? Whatever decision David makes here, it's going to have consequences, right? But one way or another, whatever he decides is going to have consequences. And the fact of the matter is, our lives, and some of us have been around long enough, we know this very well, our lives are made up of decisions we make Of how we're going to respond to different circumstances come up. And a lot of time the circumstances we have no control over. There's a lot of things in life we have no control over Now I had to I I had to learn that the hard way, I think. When I was young, I thought I had the tiger by the tail. You know, I was I was in charge. And I found out there's a whole lot in stuff, whole lot of stuff in life that I have no control in. Can I get a witness? Anybody find that out So what I can control, I can't control the circumstances. I can't control whether the Philistines are going to come and attack me as new king or not. I can't control that. But I can control how I respond to that. I can control how I react to that. I can't control how somebody else treats me. I can't control what somebody else does or does not do A lot of our frustration, a lot of our stress that we bring in our lives is we're all worried about what other people are doing. I can't control that. But what I can control is how I respond to what other people do. Follow what I'm saying And so David has a decision he needs to make here, and that decision is going to have lasting consequences. Somebody said this. I thought this was a great observation. Somebody said that you and I are today, we are today, the consequences of the decisions we made yesterday. Regardless of what circumstance we're born in, regardless of what situations we've had to deal with, I am today the result of decisions I've made in previous days. And so David has a uh one of the first decisions as king is the Philistines come up. Am I going to go out, be prevent preemptive preemptive and go after them? Or are I going to wait until they're knocking the walls down? And so before he makes the decision, this is what I'm building up to, before he makes a decision that's going to have consequences, he goes to the Lord in prayer. And he makes a request. He makes a twofold request. His first request is this. And I thought this is important. There's a lot of lessons here. First, he asks God for direction. He asked God for direction. Shall I go up? I'm telling you, one of the greatest things we can do as a Christian is learn to ask God for directions. Now people uh say, ah man, they don't never stop asked for directions. Now to be honest, and I'm being honest here, I'm telling you the truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll stop and point it out I'm telling the truth right now. Uh I've never had a problem stopping and asking for directions. I never really I've never had a problem with that. I always thought I'd rather do that than spend two hours driving in circles and waste all that time. Just stop finding out. people that know how to do this. And so um uh so I'm just trying to impress you with how wise I am in that area. But uh But it's a good thing to ask for directions. It's a good thing to ask directions from somebody who knows the way to go. My dad, we were talking about my dad. It's been a year ago. He passed away. We were talking about missing dad. One time he told me he was a truck driver his whole life. And uh he was over up and round Harrisburg somewhere, Pennsylvania, and he was at a truck stop. And um I don't know if it was a guy came up to him or if on the CD, uh a guy asked for directions to Williamsport He wanted to go to Williamsport. And um that i i i it might have been uh below Harrisburg, somewhere between Harrisburg and and uh um Hagerstown. He was traveling '81. And he said Williamsport, and he said the only Williamsport I thought of was up northern Pennsylvania There's a little Williams port up there. And uh he said, that's the first thing that came to mind. He's and he says, so I told the guy, good knight, you are a long way off. You gotta turn around You gotta go way back up there, Pennsylvania, gave them directions. And the guys are oh man, thanks, buddy. Good buddy, 10-4, thank you. And uh, you know, and uh dad got driving down and all of a sudden Williamsport, Maryland. And he thought, oh no, I sent the guy to the wrong Williams for it. And uh, of course he was long gone. Um so it's important that we ask somebody that knows the best way there, right And so David's trying to get directions, should I go up here and or not? And I have no doubt he talked to his military commanders. I'm sure he uh you know tried to get their input, but he went to the Lord. He went to the Lord. And I'm telling you, God will give us the correct directions every time. God will tell us what we ought to do. He went to the Lord for direction. Uh I'm wondering here, David's a new king. You got these Philistines all out there. Now, I don't know. This is just asking on my part, just a question that went through my mind. I'm wondering if maybe rather than David jumping right out here and just going after them, we'll talk about that. But I'm wondering if David isn't a little bit hesitant. To right off the bat lead the country into war. I found that people who people who dislike war the most Generally speaking, are people who have been in war and have fought it. That's what I found. Some of my good friends um that had military combat, had combat experience, combat veterans. So my good friends, we'd talk about different things uh Bill Barons being primarily one of 'em. And you know, uh it kind of surprised me the first time the subject came up early on in our friendship, but that guy was absolutely adamant against our country going to war in some of these wars. And it kind of surprised me because he, you know, he was kind of like gung-ho, uh, we'll get after it. Now if we needed to, he was all for it. But I got thinking about that years later. I thought, I know why he's that way. He's been in war And he knows how horrible it is. The only people that want to go to war, they're all excited about going to war, people that watch war movies on TV. The guys that actually have to fight it, the guys that are actually out there life on the line, they don't want to do it unless they absolutely have to. You follow what I'm trying to say? And I'm wondering, David, he's been fighting these guys a long time, and I don't think he was afraid of them. I'm sure of that. But he didn't want to do this unless he was sure that God was in this and God was on this. And I'm wondering if he wasn't just a little bit hesitant To jump on the war bandwagon and go gung-ho out there after these guys when he just got settled and just got established. So he did something very, very wise. He went to the Lord and sought direction. Now here's what we have to be careful. These Philistines, they are provoking Israel to war. They're coming up, they're going seeking David. A lot of times when someone provokes us, you know what I'm talking about? Someone provokes us. Anybody here ever have someone provoke you? They say something? They try and push your buttons. You know what I'm saying, talking about? Boy, they're trying to get a reaction, trying to get that something, some kind of reaction. A lot of times We'll have a knee-jerk reaction and we'll just react right back. Right? Somebody says something, does something, man, we won't even think, and we'll just react right back at it. David doesn't do that. He's being very, very wise. He is stopping. Now maybe I'm reading a little bit into this. I don't think so. But he's stopping. They're out there. Man, they are spread out. They got all of them. This is a huge force And rather than just grabbing his sword and running out there and leading the charge, I think David takes a deep breath. He pauses a moment. And he says, I need to pray about this. I don't want to react. I'm telling you, you and I could avoid a lot of stress and a lot of fuss and a lot of fighting if we could just follow that example right there. Take a breath, pause, seek the Lord, how should I respond to this? And uh and then follow the Lord's directions I tell you, that one lesson right there would help us so much, solve so many problems, we could avoid so many problems. And so David's being very, very wise here. He doesn't react to this provocation. Take your Bible with me if you would. I want to give you some scriptures along these lines. Go to Proverbs. This is where we often end up. Proverbs chapter number 14, if you would. I want you to turn here. We've got about three passages in Proverbs I want to point out. Proverbs chapter 14. And I highly recommend, we're starting a new month tomorrow, April. How many days are in April? 30 days has September, April. 30 30 days. There's 31 chapters in Proverbs, so you come up short on one there. But what I've been doing for years and years and years is I read a chapter from Proverbs every morning. So I want to challenge you this coming month. Try and read one chapter of Proverbs each day uh that corresponds through the month of um through the month of April. Uh this morning I read Proverbs 31, the virtuous woman. And so I want to challenge it. Anybody here ever do that? I'm just curious. Anybody ever do that? Man, that's a great thing And you just do that over and over and over and over. You get to know Proverbs pretty good. Look at Proverbs 14. And verse number 29. Proverbs chapter 14, verse 29. Now look at the wording here He that is, what's that next word? Slow to wrath. Now the subject here is wrath. That probably might not have been the exact issue with David, but the principle is here. Wrath is a reaction to something that has happened or something somebody has said or something somebody has done. Wrath is a reaction to something And he says here, God tells us through Solomon here in Proverbs, he that is slow to wrath, slow to react in this manner. He that is slow to wrath is of what? Great understanding. I tell you, when God says That a certain action is a person that does that has great understanding. You mark it down. That's great understanding there. He that is slow to wrap. Would you agree with me? A lot of times getting angry or wrath is a is a heated anger, a lot of times that's reactionary Right or wrong. Man, it just blows up. It comes one minute you're fine, somebody says something, boom. I tell you, if we can get to the point as Christians, if we can get mature enough as disciples of Jesus Christ where we can stifle that reaction, that knee-jerk, and be able to call uh and be slow, bring that thing under, control that thing, and not let it react, I'm telling you, save a lot of trouble. Save a lot of trouble. He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding. But he, look at the rest of the verse. But he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly. David's not being hasty here. He's taking his time. Anybody here somebody said something? Boy, you responded right back, and then later on you said, you thought, boy, I wish I'd have held off on that I wish I'd have waited a little bit for it. I wish I'd have thought that through a little bit. And David's learned. He's not doing that. Come over with me, if you would, to chapter 16 of Proverbs. And notice with me verse number 32, Proverbs 16, 32. Along the same lines, but notice what it says here. Proverbs 16, 32, he that is what? Slow, keeping that thing down, keeping that under control, has this idea. The word has this idea, like you're riding a horse and you're going, woohoo. You're pulling that thing back a little bit. He that is slow to anger, now look what it says here, is better than the mighty. Wow. And he that ruleth his spirit, then he that taketh a city. That's what the Philistines were trying to do. They're coming up to take Jerusalem, get David. But David was slow to wrath. He ruled his spirit. He came to the Lord. Got direction from God before he responded. Come over one more. Chapter 21, Proverbs. And verse number twenty-two. Proverbs twenty-one, twenty-two. I think I got the right verse here. Uh da da da I don't think that's the one I want. Um maybe it is. I I don't think that's the verse I wanted. A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty casteth down the strength of confidence there. Um that's a that's a good verse right there too. That's a real good one, but that's not what I'm looking for. Verse 23. Twenty-one verse twenty-three. Yes, thank you, Randy. I wrote twenty-two down by accident. Verse 23, whoso keepeth his mouth And his tongue keepeth his soul from what? Troubles. Can I get a witness? Man alive. We learned by experience on that. And so the whole point I'm trying to make is this, that I notice here with David, is he didn't react. He didn't just He's a soldier, he's fighting them. I could see where his instinctive reaction would be, grab the swords, get the shields, get the spears, run on after them. But he doesn't do that He stops, he pauses, and very wisely seeks God for direction. I want to challenge us. I want to challenge us. Before we make any decisions, some decisions are big, some are just run in the mill. Before we make decisions that are going to have lasting effects, let's just pause, give it a little time, pray and seek the Lord. and then make the decision. That this applies to so many areas of life, not just in fighting Philistines, but uh how many times somebody uh see something. Let me just meddle here a little bit. Somebody sees something and boy, there's a car. There's something I really want. And without even thinking, boy, they'll sign the credit card, they'll sign the papers, boom, and they walk out and they're in debt for 20 years. And then now all struggle and say, oh, why'd I do that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Where I think sometimes if we just pause, take a breath, pray, seek the Lord, Lord, should I do this? Should I pursue this And wait on God. Wait on God. That's wise. I think David learned this throughout his life. I want you to come with me to the book of Proverbs, if you would. Or I'm sorry, book of Psalms. And I think this became characteristic of David several places in the Psalms that God used David to pen. He mentions this matter of seeking the Lord's direction in making decisions. Go to Psalms chapter 25, if you would. Now I don't know that this psalm was penned in response to this situation, but uh it shows that David, this this became characteristic of David. Psalm 25, look at verse number four. Now pay attention to David's requests here. Verse 1, he says, Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed. Let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. Now look what he says in verse 4. Show me thy ways. I circled the word thy. Show me thy ways, O Lord. Teach me. What? Thy path. Lead me in thy truth and teach me. For thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day You know what sounds like to me? Sounds like to me David's looking for God to lead him the way that God wants him to go. Anybody here ever do something your way? Say, I'm gonna do it my way. And it messed up. Anybody know I'm talking about? How about we follow David's admonition here, his example here, and say, you know, I'm just going to come to God and pray and ask him to lead me in his way In his way. A lot of things I've done over the years my way, and I've regretted. I've never regretted doing things God's way I've never regretted waiting on God, trusting God, and following His leadership. Never ever have I regretted it. Come over with me if you would, one more, chapter 27. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 11. Psalms 27, verse 11. Teach me thy way, O Lord. Lead me in a plain path because of what? Because of mine enemies. David's new king of Jerusalem. He's sitting on the throne. Man, the people are behind him, they support him. Hiram's encouraging him, building him a palace. He knows he's in the middle of God's will, and here come these enemies. And he says, Lord, teach me thy path. And he inquires of the Lord. So come back here to Samuel, 2 Samuel 5. David, we said we need to learn to be active in prayer. Should be the first thing we go to, not just talk about it. And David's request is twofold. First of all, he asks for direction And what a lesson there is in that. What a great example we can learn from that. But he has a second request. Look with here, verse 19. David inquired of the Lord, saying Shall I go up to the Philistines? So he's asking for direction. Then he asked this question, Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And so he asked about deliverance. He asked for direction. And then he says, Lord, are you going to deliver them into my hands? What's going to happen when I do this? Now I don't know. This is just me But um it almost seems a little redundant in my thinking. If God's going to lead him to go down there, you could be pretty sure God's going to give deliverance, right? I don't think God's going to lead him down there for him to be defeated. But I think David is just, he wants to be sure. He wants to be positive. This is the will of God. This is the right thing to do. So he asked for direction, and God, if I do, are you going to deliver them to me? And um I put down, I said, if God is directing David to go to war, no doubt he will be dire uh victorious, but He wants assurance. He wants assurance. And I'm telling you, we never go wrong in seeking assurance from God. Just Lord, I want to be sure. Give me some scripture. I remember when uh uh when we I candidated here in August of 1993, and uh some of y'all were a lot younger back then And uh in August of nineteen ninety three I came here and preached, there's just a handful of people. And um and uh we had a picnic afterward and played softball and we just had a nice day, just getting to meet each other, know each other. And uh brother Williams, Don Williams, was interim pastor and uh he had me staying over the mission house over there all by myself. And um I don't know about you, anybody here ever spent a night in that mission house over there? Uh a couple phones. Uh back then there was no landline in there. We didn't have cell phones then. This was prehistoric ages We didn't have any cell phones. And so I'm in there and it's like eleven o'clock at night. I'm two thousand miles away from my family, fifteen hundred miles away from my family, and I'm staying in this creepy Michelin house That uh I'm sitting there and and uh I'm thinking uh I don't believe in ghosts and stuff like that, but I was a little it was a little creepy and um so I'm sitting there I can't call anybody and I started praying And uh I felt later on the next day I was able to come over to the church and call Kathy, and I called and I said, I'm they haven't voted yet. I said But I know, there's no doubt in my mind, this is where God wants us. I was as sure of that as I was sure that God saved me. I was as sure as the sun was coming up. I knew this is where God wanted us. I didn't know what the vote was going to be But we got back and I started praying. I knew, Lord, I'm just trusting you, I'm asking you, but Lord, if you would give me a verse Just to give me assurance that if they extend a call to me, that I know this is where I should go. I mean I was as sure as the day is long. And uh I began praying. I said, Lord, just give me a verse, give me a verse. And within a few days I was reading through Isaiah, and I don't have the reference, but it makes a reference to the now maybe I was stretching this a little bit But it made reference to the mountains and the rivers and the waters. It's Isaiah 50, in the 50s somewhere. And when I read that, I thought mountain lake. Now that's not the greatest ec uh h hermeneutics you're gonna find in the world, but that sure helped me. And it was like to me it was just God being very gracious and saying That's where I want you. It's going to be alright. That's where I want you. I think that's what David's doing. He's saying, Lord, direct me. Lord, should I go down there or not? And Lord, if I do go, if you say, Yeah, do I, I uh go down after them. And if you do, Lord, Lord, you're going to deliver me, right? You're going to get us through this. And I think he was just wanting to hear God say, yep. Yep, it's going to be all right. It's going to be alright. He's the new king. He's never been in this position before. He's fought Philistines before, but never as king And he just needs that assurance from God. And you and I will never go wrong in going to God's Word to try and find assurance. Now be careful. I may have been reading into that verse a little bit there. Be careful about that. But I tell you, we never go wrong in asking God, Lord, just give me some scripture. Let me know Let me know that you'll deliver me, that you'll come through this. And so prayer, this is what prayer does. Prayer brings God into the equation. That's a great thing. I'm dealing with a situation. I'm dealing with circumstances. I'm dealing with some difficult people. They're trying to provoke me. They're trying to do me harm. I come to God, it brings God into that whole circumstance, that whole equation. And you never go wrong. You never go wrong by bringing God into the equation. And that's what David's doing. So number one, I noticed David's request. He asked for direction. He asked for deliverance. And then number two, I noticed God's response. Let me just give this real quickly. Look here at verse number 19. Shall I go up to the Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto David, Go up Now, I think that's probably all we really needed, but God goes on. Go up, for I will, I love that next word. What? Doubtless deliver them, deliver the Philistines into thy hand. God could have just said, oh, yeah, go up there. God went on and he says he he responds to David's prayer. He goes on and says, yeah, go up. And he could have just said, yep, I'll deliver them. But he wants David to know how sure this is. Yea, I will doubtless deliver them. I got looking up that word doubtless. I like that word. Doubtless. I like when God says doubtless So I got looking it up, and um uh anybody want to guess what the word doubtless means? It means to be without what? Very good. You're walking dictionaries here. Uh doubtless, without fail. I like this one definition I came across. It said this, all doubts and all uncertainty are abandoned. Do you get that? All doubts, all uncertainty are abandoned. God says it's going to happen. It's going to happen. When God says something's going to, without doubt, happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. Doubtless, doubtless. I think we need to be as alert and as active in prayer in our spiritual life As we are in other areas of life. The greatest strategy in dealing with conflict, whether it's spiritual warfare or personal conflict, the greatest strategy is to begin with prayer. Pray about it before you get in a fuss with someone, before you knee-jerk react to somebody's actions or words Take your breath. Use some David's strategy here. Get alone with God. Say, Lord, direct me. Show me what I should do. Should I respond to this or not? Lord, how? I need you to lead me. I need direction. Teach me your way in this situation. And I put this down: the greatest confidence in life are the promises and assurances of God. Now I got another thought here and I want to finish up this second. Let me just throw it at you. Everybody okay? Let me give you one more thought here real quick. Alright? You can get caught up on your rest here. I'll give you a little longer catch-up on your rest Look at verse 20. It says, And David came to Baal Perazim, and David smote them, the Philistines, there, and said, The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me. As the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal Perazim. And there they left their images. The Philistines ran for their lives, left their images, and David and his men burned them Now they come back again, the Philistines. They're relentless. David prays again, verse 22. And then look, verse 2023, David prays again. And then God gives them different directions. The first time he says, go get them. This time God says, All right, this is how you need to do it this time. And he says, Thou shalt not go up, but fetch a compass behind them. In other words, circle around behind them. and come upon them over against the mulberry trees. And let it be when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry trees Then that then thou shalt bestir thyself. For then shall the Lord go out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. Now there's a lot of speculation about what that It's going sound in the mulberry trees, is, and you know we think it's God's angels, God sending his hosts out before David doesn't tell us But I this is what I take away from that. God's saying this time we're going to do a whole little different and you wait on my timing. You do it my way. We'll show you. Don't just go charging down in there You're going to fetch a compass around behind them, sneak around behind them, and you just sit still. And when I give the go-ahead, you hear that going in the mulberry trees, then boom, then you go down, because I'm going to go ahead of them Here's the thing, and I'll just summarize here a little bit real quick. God doesn't always solve problems the same way every time. Sometimes it might have to do it a little different. Sometimes it might have to prove, well, that's the way you do that. Well, sometimes yes, but sometimes God might want it to be a little different way. God might want it to be a little different way. If David's going to defeat the Philistines, and if Israel is going to be safe, uh they're going to have to uh uh step up and engage them And this is my thought here for these two verses. Number, what are we at? Number five, we need to engage the enemy. We need to engage the enemy. Number one, we need to, we said first of all, we need assurance. We need assurance. Number two We need to avoid carelessness. Number three, we need to be alert. Number four, we said we need to be active in prayer. And then number five, we need to engage the enemy. This is what I'm trying to say We can pray and pray and pray and pray and pray and read our Bible, read our Bible, read our Bible, read our Bible all we want. At some point, we're going to have to get up off Follow what I'm saying? Prayer is the starting point. Prayer is key. But at some point we've got to get up. David did what God said to do. He didn't just keep praying. Victorious Christians are those who do what God instructs us to do. There's plenty of Christians out there that know this book inside and out. They memorize it. They can tell you all about it, but they never go and do what it tells us to do. Follow what I'm saying? Uh I saw that in Bible college. And you had all these eggheads. They knew all they they were straight A, everything. But they never went out soul winning, they never gave out tracts, they never did anything that this book tells us to do It's had all this knowledge, all this knowledge. David prayed. God told him what the deal was. Boom. He got up and did it. He got up and do it. We need to engage the enemy. There comes a point where we need to get off our knees and go and do what God instructs us to do. I put three thoughts, four thoughts down. David did what God said. He defeated the enemy. He destroyed their idols. And then God redirected the strategy the second time in a different way. All right, here's what I want to end with. I'm buzzing through this I want you to go to Joshua with me if you would, chapter seven. Is the last thought. The idea is this: we need to get at we pray. We seek the Lord, we take our breath, pray, get God's direction, but then we got to get up and go out and do it. There comes a point where we need to get off our knees And go out and do what God tells us to do. Joshua chapter 7, we have actually, let's see, what are one? Joshua chapter 7, verse 6. Here is where Israel is invading the promised land They've taken Jericho. They've walls of the Jericho came crashing down. God told them not to take any of the spoil. They were to leave it. But Achan, what'd he do? Somebody help me He took a Babylonian garment, probably for his wife. There's a bunch of what? Silver, some gold, and there was silver. And he got in, he saw that, and he says, I saw it, I coveted it, and I took it. Same three steps every time. See, desire T So he took it back to his tent and he hid it under the ground of his under his tent. He thought nobody saw him. In fact, nobody did see him except God saw him And uh so uh now there's sin in the camp. They go to the next city, Ai, just a little tiny city, and Joshua uh he didn't pray, interestingly enough. And he says, it's just a little city. Good night. We took this big Jericho. We didn't even uh just blew trumpets. And he says, Well I'll just send a bunch, we'll send a little force out there and they'll take this city, it'll be cake. 36 guys get killed. They get whooped, come running back, their tails between their legs. And look here in Joshua chapter 7, verse number 6. Joshua starts praying. He says, What in the world happened? Maybe he should have done this first, but he didn't And Joshua rent his clothes and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until the evening tide, he and the elders of Israel and put dust on their heads. I mean, this is not the way it's supposed to be. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God! He's praying. Wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over Jordan to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us? Would to God we've been content and dwelt on the other side of Jordan. Oh Lord! What shall I say when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it and shall environ us about And by run us uh round and cut off our name from the earth. What wilt thou do unto thy great name? What's he doing? He's praying. God, what should I do? God, what should I do? That's a good thing to do, right? But notice what God says in verse number 10. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Look at this, get thee up. Wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? What was God telling them to do? Tell them, quit praying. It's time to act. You need to get up and get this straightened out. There's sin in the camp. Israel sinned. Now listen, what I'm trying to say is this. There's comes a point we pray and pray and pray and pray, but we comes a point we got to put some feet to our prayers. Anybody ever hear that phrase? Made me think there was a fellow years ago, and he ended up being a good guy, just got saved, but he's come out of rough background, got saved and baptized, and uh he didn't have a job So we've been preaching on different things, and he's growing. I was working with him. Lived down here in Mountain Lake Park. One day he called me up and he said, Pastor, I've been reading in Timothy here, and it says, He that doesn't work, neither should he eat. He said and he didn't work, he was on welfare. And uh he said, what does that mean? What would you say? I'd have said um I said uh well Dave it means if you don't work you shouldn't eat He says that's what I thought it meant. And he says, I need to get a job. I said, Yeah, that would be good. I said, let's pray. And so we started praying to get a job. About several weeks went by, and I went by and saw him, and he was laying on the couch watching TV. I said, Uh, how's the job hunting going? He goes, Well, I've been praying And I I finally said, Dave, listen, praying's good, but at some point you got to go out and actually fill out applications You gotta get out and do something about it. He goes, yeah, you're probably right. And he got a hold of it and he grew and he ended up, you know, he turned out a good guy, and he got through that. But my point is this. We can lay around, watch TV and drink iced tea all day long, pray all we want. At some point we've got to get up and go do what God says We can pray, God save our community, God save the people in our community, God save it. At some point we we need to get up and go and start taking the gospel out to them. Right? We can pray for Kazakhstan to have missionaries, but at some point we got to do something to actually get them there. That's some money or something. David understood that, and when God said, yeah, go down there, I'll deliver him. So he had to get up and go. Here's my ending thought. Prayer does not replace action. Prayer empowers action. Get it? Prayer doesn't replace my witness. You say, oh, there's I got a friend, family members that are not saved. I'm praying they get saved. Good. Keep it up. But at some point, you need to go and share the gospel with them. And what prayer does empowers my witness. I put it this way, prayer doesn't replace my witness, prayer empowers my witness. And so prayer never replaces action. It always empowers it. It always empowers it. And David prayed. Philistines come up. Man, they're provoking. They're wanting war. They're after David. He prays. God tells him what to do. He grabs his sword, he goes down and does it. You and I as Christians, as a church, we pray, we go to God's word, what are we supposed to do? And we get up and we go out and do it. Amen? We engage them. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to learn from these lessons of David Lord, to wait on you, to get assurance, to be careful when things are going well, to be keep our guard up. Pray and then to act. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many of us would say, how many of you along with me would say My prayer life definitely needs attention. I have a tendency to react, I have a tendency to do things what I think, rather than stop and getting direction from God. And you, along with me, would say, I need to learn to pray about stuff first. Anyone like this? Come to the Lord before I open my mouth. Before I react, before I get the sword. Come to the Lord. My hands raised. I'm in that same situation. I wonder how many of us say, preacher, I need to start acting I need to find out what God wants me to do and then do it. Here's a lot of times we know what the Lord wants us to do. But we dilly-dally around, we horse around, and we never get up and actually do it. If David would not have acted, they'd have been defeated I wonder how many say, preacher, I need to act on my faith. I need to act on what God says. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask God to help us. Father, bless our invitation. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.