No, when you show up at church here, who's gonna be here or what's gonna happen, do you? Missionaries from the Philippines and all kinds of things going on, so praise the Lord for it. And it's good to to have you here, Brother Don. 1 Samuel chapter 17. We're studying the life of David. Turn the mic on. There we go. Studying the life of David, I am thoroughly enjoying this. And uh like all our studies and series we do, it's taking forever to get through it. But um I just enjoy getting in there and studying it and looking at David. I'm learning so much. I've never studied this chapter as thoroughly uh as I have uh uh in uh for this what we're doing on Wednesday nights. I've preached from it many times over the years But I'm really enjoying going through uh verse by verse. Uh several things we're finding out. David and is a David is an amazing young man And he comes from an amazing family. And one of the things that stood out particularly in our last study was the uh Jesse and uh what a uh tremendous father Jesse was And we can see how God used his father and his father's influence to develop such a man of God, such as David. I want to begin reading in verse 22. And we're not going to get through this entire lesson. I'm going to break it up into a couple, this message, but we'll get into the first point or two. Verse 22, the Bible says in 1 Samuel 17, the Bible says David left his carriage in the hands of of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army and came and saluted his brethren And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines. And he spake according to the same words. Now the same words there are what was in the previous in the chapter, earlier in the chapter, we already looked at that. And David heard them I underlined that. David heard what Goliath was saying. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. And the men of Israel said, they're speaking to David now, this young David, have ye seen this man that has come up? Surely to defy Israel is he come up, and it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel. And David spake unto the man, the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach of from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? Now my impression there, and we're going to look at this in more depth, but I want to state this now, my impression there is David is kind of saying this. He's saying, you know, why does somebody need something to be given to them to confront this guy? Why isn't somebody just going out getting it? You follow what I'm saying here? He says, uh he is, what shall be done to the man that taketh, killeth his Philistine, and taketh away the approach? So they just told him. I think what David is saying here, he's saying, why would that be necessary to do this promotion? Why wouldn't somebody just go out and get them? So we'll look at that later. Verse twenty seven, and the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. And Eliab, his David's eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men And Eliah's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride. and the naughtiness of thy heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? I want to speak tonight on David's introduction to Goliath. And I don't believe up to this point, I don't think David knew about Goliath. I don't think he knew he even existed. He just knew we were at war with the Philistines He shows up and he's introduced to Goliath. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask your blessing now on our message tonight. I pray you would challenge us in our walk with you to grow in our faith. I pray you'd stir us up to serve you fearlessly. Give us confidence and courage as we try to impact this world with the gospel. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, I present my body anew, yield my will, and pray you'd speak through me as we always desire, Lord May I ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. There's two aspects here that impress me, and we've touched on both of these previously, but Uh I just want to mention them here again. One thing impresses me in studying this and reading this passage is uh David's character David has tremendous character, and we're going to look at that here in just in a minute, but as a young man, and the responsibility he shows and the character he displays is incredibly impressive. Something else that stands out in my mind that to me is very, very impressive, and of course everything God does is impressive, but is God's timing. And if you catch that all through here, we find out at very key moments, this Goliath is stepping out into the forefront. And uh I thought it was interesting, verse 23. It says, and as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion. And as David shows up, as he's talking, it just so happens. That Goliath comes out at that very moment. God's timing is amazing. I put this down in my notes. God is wise. How many people agree with that? God is all wise. And God is in control. And this looks from the from Israel's eyes, the Israeli soldiers, from Saul's perspective, this whole situation looks hopeless. This is overwhelming. We have no chance. There is no way in the world we're going to win this war. A lot of people are going to lose their lives, and this is going to end up bad. That's their perspective. And they failed to realize that there's a God in heaven who is very, very wise. There's a God in heaven who is in absolute control, and God's timing is absolutely perfect. And so David shows up here at the very moment that Goliath is coming out. And that impresses me with this thought that we can trust God's timing. I don't know about you what your experience has been, but my experience is is God, I want to say never, I'll say hardly ever works on my time frame. Anybody ever find that to be true? I mean if if if I once if I'm asking God to do something, I want him to do it right now. Not tomorrow, not five years. I want it right now I want to put it in the microwave, press the prayer button, and ding, I get the answer right away, right? I think sometimes we have this mentality of God, he's like a vending machine. How many people remember vending machines? I don't even know if they still have them. I guess they do. But you put a few coins in, pull a button, you get what you want. And a lot of times that's the way we are as far as our timing is concerned. God I need this, I want this. But I found out uh here's an old statement. It's a kind of a cliche, but it's true. God is seldom early but never late. And so I look at this and the timing that's taking place when all this comes together And then the final result when Goliath was laying here dead with his head cut off, David standing on top of him with his uh with his head in his hand and his sword in the other hand How God brought this together is just incredibly impressive. And so David's character and God's timing come together to produce a tremendous victory. Now here's my outline. I'll give you the first one or two points we'll get to tonight. But I noticed first of all, this is David's introduction to Goliath. I notice first of all David's intensity In his arrival. And I get it from verse 22. If you would look at that again with me, David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage. And what's the next word? ran over there. You're going to find through this chapter, David does a lot of running. David is intense. Uh I like him. I put this down. One, he's intense in his responsibility. Now I've already referenced that, but you notice in the first part of verse 22, what does David do? He shows up there, he's he's excited. I'm trying to picture this in my mind. He shows up, he's behind the the our our uh uh uh the Israeli s uh side the Israeli army He's behind the lines, he's coming up behind them, they're all facing out this valley where Goliath and the Philistines are over there. He comes up behind them. How many people agree with me as a young boy, maybe a young teen or mid-teens? We don't know his age exactly. But um how many people agree with me? That would be awfully exciting for a young guy to show up. Did anybody here ever get so excited about something you forgot what you were doing, you just ran off Right? Anybody here ever do that? Oh man, I was so excited. I forgot to close the car door. One time I was excited I went in, I forgot to turn the car off. It ran for an hour and came back out. Oh man, I didn't turn the car off So I would imagine in David coming up there, and here's this battle, he's going to see his brothers, man, he's got this job from his dad to take these cheese balls and cornbread there and um uh But what does he do? Look at verse 22, the first part. What's he do? The very first when he gets shows up, what's he do? What does he do with the carriage? He doesn't just run off. He does what? He leaves it with the carriage keeper. You know what that tells me? This kid's responsible. He says, I just can't run off. I gotta make sure the carriage and whatever hauled it, the donkey or camel or whatever, the horse carried it Um uh he says he leaves the carriage with the in the hand of the keeper of the carriage. So apparently there was somebody, their responsibility, some soldier, some military guy His responsibility was to take care of the carriages. I'll be honest with you, I'd rather take care of carriages than fight Goliath. Right? Coward, yes And so David gets up there and he ha keeps his wits about him and he he understands I can't just neglect this and he he is he displays tremendous responsibility here That impresses me. Second thing I notice about David's intensity is his readiness. Now that's where I underlined the word ran. And he goes running out there. He doesn't come lollygagging along and doing that. He runs in to find his brothers. And I've said this many times over the years in preaching on David. uh uh many times, but David was an intensely passionate man. Whatever David did, he did it with all his heart. I mean, he, when he's praising God, he is praising God with all his heart. You read the Psalms, some of the greatest expressions of praise that have ever been recorded in all of history Of course these are inspiration of God. And so David is intense. And uh, you know, when he's killing Philistines, he's not killing one or two, he's killing his tens of thousands And he is all out. And when he shows up at the army place, he doesn't lolly gag over to his brothers. Man, he is running over there. He is wholehearted. The word that comes to my mind when I think of David running over there is zealous. Somebody tell me, what does the word zealous mean? What are we talking about? Somebody is zealous. They are what? They are incredibly passionate. Anything else? They're anxious. That makes you think a little worried, but they're they're uh excited. They are fired up. They are out and out wholehearted. Now we have to be careful. It is possible to be misguided in our zeal. It is possible to be misguided in our zeal. If you would take your Bible, turn to me to Romans chapter 10, and we're going to look at a couple verses in Romans. Keep your place here in Samuel. But Romans chapter 10 and verse number 2, I've been around a little while and I've run into some folks that had tremendous zeal, but their zeal was misguided And in Romans chapter 10, Paul references the Jews, and he says that they uh had a zeal. Look at verse 2 of Romans 10. He says, For I bear them record, that's his Jewish people, his brethren, according to the flesh. I bear them record that they have a great zeal of God. How many people think that's a good thing? Have a great zeal of God. Sure, we're going to look at that in a little bit. But look what he says. But not according to what? Knowledge. Boy, they were all zealous for God. They were all zealous living for God. We're going to do right. And uh, but it wasn't grounded in the truth. It wasn't grounded in the Word of God And there's a real danger of zeal without knowledge. We see that. Does anybody here ever have somebody come by your house and knock on your door, a pair of folks? And you get engaged in a conversation about God and about spiritual things, and boy, they can get pretty fired up. The Mormons, Jehovah's Witness, man, they can get pretty fired up, and they're pretty zealous And they've given for the Mormons, they've given two years of their lives to be out there. But I'm telling you, their zeal is not according to knowledge. It's not based on the Word of God. We had I had a couple years ago. Well last fall there was the Jehovah's Witness were coming down. It was a warm day out. I was Saturday, I was cleaning the car and I saw uh them coming house to house. They got to my neighbors And uh I saw that it was uh Jehovah's Witness and I thought, oh goody, goody, goody, this is gonna be fun. So I got my tracks and got my little Bible ready, I had everything all ready for when they come to my house And I was just kind of standing there. They're gonna come in here and they pulled out the neighbor's driveway and they passed my house and went to the other neighbor's driveway. I said, Wait, wait a minute Well we had a couple of years ago they come by, it was um an older lady, two older ladies. That's a very relative term, but um They came and we got talking a little bit and challenged them a few things and it was very, very friendly. And then finally I asked the one lady, I said to her, I said, how did you become a Jehovah's Witness? I said, were you raised or did you convert to this? And she goes, oh no, I was raised in it. My parents were and all this. And I said, okay, that's interesting. I said, what about you? And the other lady was kind of quiet. Uh stand on the side. She goes, well, I just converted uh just about ten months ago. I said, where did you convert from? She goes, I was Methodist. And I told her, I said, ma'am, I don't mean to be disrespectful, but you've made a terrible, terrible mistake. I said, this is a false doctrine. I said, if you believe in this and you're putting your faith and trust in what they're teaching, You're going to die in your sins. You're going to be separated from God for all eternity. He made a terrible mistake. And boy, they got worked up. That got the other lady worked up. And I said, listen, I'm saying the truth, and I can show you from the Bible that what I'm saying is true. No, no, no. And she took her and then they left. I think that marked us on their little map. But um the thing that broke my heart when that was over said here's a couple ladies that are stirred up, fired up, but there's no biblical basis for their zeal So it's possible to be zealous. David was a tremendously zealous man. He was passionate. But we need to be very, very careful that our zeal and our passion is rooted in the truth. And in the Word of God. And uh Brother Don was talking about this big cult over there. Very passionate. There was a big cult down in Puerto Rico when we were down there. Brother Jimmy when he was down there was telling. I don't know if he ever showed you that big building there. Millions millions of dollars and big following. And it's all not rooted in the truth. And so we have to be very, very careful. Zeal without knowledge can do tremendous harm Zeal without knowledge can do tremendous harm. However, knowledge, let me take the other side of that coin. Knowledge without zeal does very little good. Does very little good. And so zeal is vitally important in the Christian life. And we're going to see that. I'm going to give you some verses to support that. Zeal is incredibly important. God wants us to be zealous. But we must be zealous in a good thing, in the truth, on what is uh in the gospel of Jesus Christ, on the Word of God. There was a fella, and I mentioned him over the years, and he's a good guy. I don't mean to speak ill of the fellow. Well he's mistaken. When I was in Bible college and um I and I still follow him a little bit follows me on uh computer Uh but when I was in Bible college, you know, uh we would come to chapel or church services, and this fella, I never saw him out soul winning, soul winning. Never never worked in the bus ministry, not in any as far as I knew, and I've been there I was there the whole time he was. I never saw him involved in any outreach type ministry at all whatsoever. Zero zip, nothing But brother, he'd come to chapel and he'd come to church service and he had his Bible and he had his Greek New Testament and his Hebrew New uh Hebrew dictionary and he had all these books and boy wouldn't the preachers preaching, he'd be looking up stuff and and doing all that. And listen, knowledge is great, but knowledge without zeal does very little good for this old sinful lost world. And we can stack up our books and we can memorize our verses and we can have all our doctrine down to the T, and we should, but if it's not on fire for God, it's not going to do much good to this old sinful world. Am I making sense? And so zeal without knowledge can do a lot of harm, but knowledge without zeal does very little good. So it's possible to be misguided in our zeal, but it's also and often the case where we are misunderstood in our zeal. And people out there, the world cannot comprehend and can't grasp a Christian that is on fire for Christ, that is on fire for the gospel And they don't always understand it. If you would turn to Romans chapter 12, just a page or two over. Look what God says here about zeal. Romans 12 and verse number 11. He says here, uh verse 10, he says, be kindly affectionate one to another with Brotherly love in honor preferring one another. In other words, be nice to everybody. Be nice to each other and die to self and prefer others Then he says in verse 11, not slothful in business. Huh. Serving, uh, not slothful in business. What's the next word? Fervent in spirit. That word fervent is the idea of zealous, passionate, fired up. He says, don't be slothful in business, but fervent in spirit, what? Serving the Lord. Can I give you the Dennis Leatherman version of that? Get fired up about serving God. Don't be slothful in it. Don't be lazy in our Christian life. Don't be negligent in our serving the Lord. Give it all you got. Be fervent. Be boiling over. Be zealous about it. I have never in all the years, 1985 to so we're on 38 years now, been in what I consider full-time Christian ministry. And in 30, is that right, 38? Thirty-three years. Yeah, thirty-three years. And all these years, I have I cannot remember one time where God used in any significant way, any great way, a lazy Undisciplined, negligent Christian. Never saw that. Somebody that just could care less and And as lazy sitting around watching TV all day long and just doing nothing for God, I never saw anybody of God use them in a great way In fact, if I go through the Word of God, the people, the men and women that God used in a great way were people that were very fervent for the Lord. That were active and and uh uh busy about the Lord and busy about their responsibilities. So I look at David here and I see this intensity on his part. Let's come back to our text here I see this intensity shows up here. Man, he makes sure that he's very intense on his responsibility. Got to make sure that carriage is taken care of. Then when that's in everything's okay there. He's flying over there to where his brothers are and to what his responsible is. Uh I put here, I said an over I put down an overabundance of zeal is not the problem in our churches today. Say, oh, what's the biggest problem in the churches? I tell you what the biggest problem in the churches isn't that we're too fired up about the things of God. If anything, we need a revival of zeal. In our churches. I'm speaking across the board here. And so David was uh intense in his um in his readiness, in his zeal. Then I noticed something else in verse 22 about David And it says this, and he ran unto the army and came and what? Saluted his brethren. Now that doesn't mean he went, yes, sir. That's not what he's talking about, saluting. He's showing respect to them. He's coming up and he's and he's approaching them, and he's approaching them in a very, very respectful way. And that's my third observation about David's intensity He was tremendously respectful. He respected his brothers here. I can find nowhere in David's life, as recorded in Scripture, where he was disr disrespectful. to any of his elders or anyone that was in authority over him. How many people ever read through your Bible or you read in your devotions about the period of David's life when Saul was chasing him all over the country? Anybody read that? You know that story? You're familiar with I mean Saul's chasing them everywhere. Not one time would David speak despairingly of King Saul. You know who David called a dog? You know who David called a flea? Not King Saul. Who did he call that? Himself. David said, Am I a doll? I'm just a dog. I'm just a flea out here. Why are you chasing me? And it's amazing David's phenomenal respect that he showed to authorities over him and to people who were elder to him, even when they did not deserve that author that respect And I believe David respected Saul. I started to think that David respected Saul not because of who he was, but because of the position he held. But you know, I think David respected Saul The things he said and the way he treated them and when Saul died, how he wept over King Saul, and just this tremendous respect. That David displayed throughout his life as a young boy, all the way through when he became king. And I've found that those who provide, those who are the best leaders of today, Are generally those who are the most respectful followers of yesterday. The best leaders in the military, the best leaders in any situation. are those who knew how to follow, who respected leadership, who respected authority, those who exercise authority most effectively are generally those who respected authority when they were not in it. You follow what I'm trying to say? And what we see here are the very early indicators of a tremendous man of God. And we see here the very early indicators of a tremendous leader. Whom God is going to use in amazing ways, not just to kill a giant, but to lead a nation and to be used of God to give us tremendous amounts of inspired scripture. And I see here a very uh responsibility, I see here zeal for the things of God, and I see here a tremendous respect For elders and authorities. So I'm looking at this, and I notice here that David has an intensity upon his arrival here on this battlefield. Now we're talking about his introduction to Goliath, and that's my second point I'm going to have to end with this one. But that is this not just David's intensity upon arriving on the battlefield, but his introduction to Goliath at the battlefield. And look at verse 23 It says, as he talked with them, his brothers, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name Out of the armies of the Philistines. All right, there's that amazing timing as he's talking with them. And he spake according to the same words, and David heard them. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and they were sore afraid Now David's standing here. Picture this in your mind. Picture this Middle Eastern battlefield, this valley there, there's a stream going through it. Very very deep uh banks on that steam uh stream and then this openness and uh they see the goliath come out the armies there's the armies of israel david's all excited he showed up there he's speaking with his brothers And this guy comes out, and um David observes a couple things. There's several things, I believe, that stand out in his mind. Now, for forty days, the Israeli army had been hearing Goliath say this. They've been encountering this guy. For 40 days. This is David's first time. This is the first time he's laying eyes on this guy. This is the first time he's hearing his statements. This is David's introduction, and I think there are two observations that flooded David's mind. Now this is my thinking. Number one, David observes Goliath's defiance. It says, in verse 23, there it says, and David heard them. Goliath is out there. Who come out and fight me? I defy the nations of Israel. He's blaspheming God. He's insulting God's people. And David hears all these words. I would say it's safe to assume David had never heard anyone in his life talk like that About his God and about God's people. I'm suggesting David is hearing things from a man that he had never heard people say before. And that has a profound impact on David's heart and mind And we'll see that in the following verses. There's a real danger. Now remember, the soldiers, they've been hearing this for 40 days. Now I'm surmising here, so I I can't defend this from scripture, but just my experience I would suggest to you The first day Goliath showed up, it probably scared them to death. No doubt it did. They're 40 days later and they're still scared. But I want to suggest to you, when he first defied the nation of Israel, when he first def the blaspheme God, I want to suggest that sent a shockwave through King Saul's hearts and minds and those people. But they had become insensitive to it. And there's a real danger of becoming insensitive to blasphemy and to wicked speaking. We live in such a world today that you can't hardly go through a day where you, if you're out in public at all, that you don't hear God's name blaspheme, right or wrong? You can't hardly go anywhere today where you don't hear some of the most filthy language that 50 years ago sours would blush. And that's not indictment on sailors, Ken. But um I thought about hey, because we got sailors in here. Were you Navy, Ron? No, you weren't. That's right. They don't blush. But um But do you agree with me? Uh I was down two weeks ago, I had a Tuesday and the weather was decent and I took my canoe, I went down to Savage Reservoir, my one of my favorite places in the world. I was down there, it was all quiet, and there was Hardly anybody I didn't see anybody else around actually. And then I heard some people talking. Here is a boat up in a little uh little um uh cove like thing. I come around here, these guys were, and they're probably a hundred yards off or more, and all of a sudden the most filthy language in the world coming out of their mouth. And I thought, my word, here we are in a beautiful place, out away from everything, and you can't escape God's name being blasphemed. And if we're not careful, this is what I'm trying to get at, if we're not careful, we become insensitive to that. And if we're not careful, it doesn't bother us anymore. I don't know about you, but I remember back when I first got saved. And somebody would take God's name in vain. And throughout the years, and we've got to be very, very careful, and we've got to ask God to stay sensitive to sin and not to become cold and indifferent about it. And I'm reading this and I'm trying to picture in my mind this young man, David, and he shows up and he hears this giant of a man. And he's saying these horrible things about God's people and these horrible things about God. And that has to have a profound impact. on his mind. We l uh we we live in a danger of losing our sensitivity and then to allow ourselves to be exposed Through television and computer and radios and things we read, uh, and then our children are exposed to this. And we must, we have to ask God, Lord, help me to be sensitive to sin and these types of things. And then the second thing I think that flooded David's mind, he stands there, and again, this is my imagination, but he's there and he hears Goliath, and that that has to be a shock to him to hear this guy saying this stuff And we see how he responds a little later. I think that reinforces my thinking here. But then something else has a profound impact on David, and that is this. Not just the defiance. Of Goliath out there, but the dread of God's people. Look at verse 24, and it says, All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled for him and were sore afraid. And David, and we'll get to this here in a little bit, in the next lesson, but David is absolutely floored by how the people of God are responding to this. And he says in so many words, why in the world are you guys tolerating this? Why in the world doesn't somebody stop this? And it has a profound impact on David. I would say it's safe to assume not only did David perhaps never heard anybody talk about God and God's people the way uh uh Goliath did. But I want to suggest to you, never before had David saw his nation's army respond like this. You read back, and they fought the Philistines before, and they were aggressive, and they'd beat them and they'd And they'd had tremendous victories. And the Philistines would bounce back and come back and they'd go fight him again. But not now. And I think David is an absolute shock. That his nation is responding this way. How many people would, along with me, if we heard that our armies were running away? From the enemy and fleeing from the enemy and scared and cowering. How many people would say that would be disappointing? Yeah I was reading a book, this has been a number of years ago, about European theater, Brother Harry, and the Battle of the Bulge And how the Germans had pushed back against that, pushed that bulge into our line. And um and I was reading the book in uh 101st Airborne, they were making their way towards the conflict where we were being pushed And there was armies, there were soldiers who were up there fighting, and they were coming back. And the soldiers walking up the 101st Airborne saw all our troops and our allies coming back and they were defeated and they were bruised and these guys are saying stuff, you're gonna be killed, you're not gonna make it. And they were absolutely dumbfounded to hear our men saying stuff like that coming from back. Of course we ended up winning, we know that. But that's what I thought of when I thought David standing here and seeing his nation cowering before somebody who is blaspheming God and blaspheming them. And that has a profound impact on David. However, David responds in a completely different way than his entire nation does. David, David saw this challenge from God's perspective. And all the king Saul and all the army did, all they saw this was from human perspective. And David had a completely different response. You read down through here, and again, if we had time, we could look at this, but you read down through here, there's not a hint of fear on David's part. There's not a hint of cowering on David's part. In fact, he's incredulous that they're responding this way. In so many words, he's saying, what's the matter with you people? Isn't there a God in heaven? Isn't there something to fight for? Isn't there a reason besides getting King Saul's daughter and getting a bunch of money? We have a bigger cause than this at stake. And he responds completely opposite the way everyone else does. And it brought this to my attention. Those who see issues and circumstances from God's perspective are always in the minority. Are always in the minority. The people who turn nations around, the people who do great things for God, without exception, are people who start out in the minority. Now once David accomplishes and God uses him and King and uh Goliath is dead, his head's dangling there, then all of a sudden, oh yeah, we'll go fight. Shh, then they all come running out But what it usually takes is just one person that sees things the way God sees things to turn things around. They're always in the minority. David here. Faith and victory. But also, and I wanted more time, but let me just give you the reference. In 1 Kings 22, verse 7 through 18. I read this in my devotions a few weeks ago. And here we have I'm trying to remember who the king was. Let's uh Let me turn there real quick. 1 Kings 22. But here you have the other side of it. 1 Kings 22. And verse 7, you got Ahab here and Jehoshaphat. And they're teamed up and they're going to go to war against somebody. Who are they fighting there? Syria. And look in verse number uh seven. And Jehoshaphat said, before they go to war, King Ahab, the wicked King Ahab, did I ever mention, I can't stand that guy He gets under my nerves. It's under my skin and on my nerves. But he's there. He's got all these false prophets. Oh yeah, you're gonna kill him. It's gonna be great. We're gonna have tremendous victory God's judging them, and these false prophets saying, Don't worry about it, go out there, you're going to have an amazing victory, and they're just putting on this big show. Well, Jehosaphat has a little bit of spiritual discernment. Verse 7. He says, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord? Instead of all these clowns, that we might inquire of him. Look at this. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Well, yeah, there's this one man, Makaiah, I'm putting this in my own words. The son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire, Lord. Yeah, he's of that, he's one of those fundamentalists. But uh look what he says about him. Look at the verse. But I hate him. Look, for he doth not prophesy good concerning me but evil. You know why? Because Abahab was evil. I hate him. And then look what happens here. And he says, Well, don't say that. And Jehoshaphat said, let not the king say so. He said, Don't talk like that. Then the king of Israel called hither the officer and said, Hasten hither Makaiah, the son of Imlah, and they get him in there, and the king of Israel sit down. and on their thrones and they put on their fancy robes and all the garb. In verse eleven, Zedekiah the uh son of uh that guy made him horns of iron and said, Thus shall the thus saith the Lord, with these, thou shalt Push the Syrians and have consumed them, and all the prophets said, Go up to Ramath, Gilead, prosper, for the Lord shall deliver it under the king's hands. And the messenger that was sent to call Micaiah, the fundamental independent Baptist. Spake unto him, saying, Behold now the words of the prophets declare good to the king with one mouth. They're all together. Let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak that which is good. What's he saying? Go along with the majority. Those who see situations from God's perspective are always in the minority. Everyone's saying the biggest the biggest church crowds in the world, smile, today's your happy day. Look what happens. And Micaiah said, As the Lord liveth, what the Lord saith unto me, that will I speak. I'm going to give you God's perspective. So he came to the king, Mekiah, shall we go against them to battle? He answered, Yeah, go ahead, be fine. He's being sarcastic. And the king said to him, How many times have I jured thee that thou tell me nothing but which is true in the name of the Lord? He said, I saw all Israel scatter upon the hills as sheep that have no shepherd that have not a shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master. Let him return every man to his place. And then I like this. And the king of Israel, Ahab, leans over to Jehoshaphat, and I think he says it like this, Did I not tell thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me but evil? Now the point I'm trying to make is this. David saw Goliath from God's perspective, and everyone else saw him from the human perspective. Micaiah saw the battle from God's perspective, don't do this, it's going to be terrible. And everyone else said, no, no, no, go, it'll be great. And the point is this, those who see things from God's perspective are always in the minority. Always in the minority. Whether it's a positive thing or a negative thing when we see it from God's perspective. And David is displaying tremendous character. Tremendous faith in the face of an entire army that is scared to death, he says, no, I see this in a different light. God is in this, God can give us victory. Faith in God produces optimism. Over in Burma, Adrniram Judson. Anybody recognize that name? What a tremendous missionary. He was lying in a foul jail with 32 pounds of chains on his ankles. His feet were bound to a bamboo pole. One of the other prisoners. Now he was over there preaching the gospel. He's in prison for preaching the gospel of this terrible situation. Dr. Judson, what about the prospect of the conversion of the heathen? You're here in jail. How are you going to win all these things? What about the prospect of winning the heathen? And heered at his jeered at him Without hesitation, Hudson Taylor respond Judson responded and said, The prospects of God, the prospects of reaching the heathen are just as bright as the promises of God. I thought, man, what a challenge. David said, oh, how are we going to beat Goliath? How are we going to beat Goliath? David says, no, no, no. Our prospects of beating Goliath are as great as God's promises. And that's why we have to face challenges in our life. We have to see them from God's perspective. Amen? I hope that was helpful. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Pray you'd help us to learn from David. Pray you'd help me, Lord, to see the challenges in my life and the obstacles to my Christian life. Help me to see them from your perspective, Lord. And not just from the world. Help us to claim your promises, I pray. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this evening would say, preacher. I just wanna I just want to claim God's promises. And I and I know we're there's folks in here that are facing tremendous challenges. You say, preacher, I'm not going to look at this the way the world sees it. I'm going to look at it the way God does. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand? I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm afraid I've come a little insensitive to sin. It's just so saturated. Our world is so saturated. I'm just so everywhere. And it got where it doesn't bother me anymore. And maybe along with me, you would say, preacher, I'm praying God would help me to be sensitive. And when I hear things that are not pleasing to God, I see things that are not pleasing to God, that that would bother me and would not be indifferent to it. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. Just becoming insensitive And God will help us. I know He will. And we can learn from David. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless now our invitation. Help us, Lord, to have faith in you. Help us to stand for you. Help us to go forward. And your promises, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed, capital