You got it there, 1 Samuel 27. Look at verse number 1. It says, look at this. And David did what? Said in his heart. I under I s actually circled that little phrase, said in his heart. That's a uh Important uh statement to notice here. David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. True or false? False. God promised him he was going to be king. That's not a true statement. There is nothing better for me than I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines. Not true. And Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more in any coast of Israel, so shall I escape out of his hand. Well, that's somewhat true. And David arose and passed over with the 600 men that were with him unto Akish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath. David dwelt with Akish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, and Ahinoam and Jez uh the Jezreelites, and Abigail the Carmelitis. uh Nabal's wife, and it was told David that David, that David, it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath. And he sought no more again for him. I'm titled the message tonight, David's Lapse of Faith, and I kind of want to just give some, maybe some introductory thoughts here to get us started as we study this phase of David's life. Things are changing. Now in David's life significantly. So let's pray and we'll uh give some thought to this here tonight. Father in heaven, we are grateful for a midweek service We can get together. We pray now, with our Bibles open before us, that you would speak our hearts. I ask that um you would challenge us to be consistent in our walk with you and to be strong in our faith We need you to help us do that, Lord. And so I yield my will to you. I yield uh I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart, as I always do, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit And that you speak through me and that you would speak our hearts. You would challenge us. And Lord, if some of us are leaning on our own understanding, I pray you'd help us to uh trust you rather and rather than lean on our own understanding. So please bless and help me, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Wise decisions will produce positive results. How many people believe that? A wise decision will produce positive results. A foolish decision, on the other hand, will produce negative results This is a very important principle. It seems very obvious and very simple, but it doesn't seem to be very obvious and simple to a lot of people. We need to understand that principle. If I make wise decisions, it'll produce positive results. Foolish decisions will produce negative results. I need to understand that if I'm going to be strong in my Christian life I've been pastoring long enough now, I've seen enough people who get saved, start to live for God, and then they start to make foolish decisions, and I've seen the effect it has on their Christian life It's a very negative effect on their Christian life. And then on the other hand, I've seen people make very positive decisions and they grow and strong and go on for the Lord So it's an important principle to be understood. But I think that principle, wise decisions produce positive results, foolish decisions, negative results, I think that's something that needs to be taught to the next generation Young people need to be taught, just like you and I, maybe we were taught or we learned the hard way, that the decisions we make will have lasting consequences. And that's why I always encourage young people: you ought to listen to older folks that have been through it, that have experienced the three things, they've made the decisions you're making, they can tell you what the results will be. I did the wedding Saturday for Courtney and Carl, and one of the statements I made, when a person is about to get married, there's a lot of advice. Everybody has advice for a young couple getting married And uh some of it's okay, some of it's stupid. And I told them, don't listen to all the advice you get. But I did encourage them to listen to the advice of folks that have been married a long, long time They can help you, that advice will tell you, because they know that decisions we make have lasting consequences. Now we know this to be true because of our own experience, right or all? How many people here ever made a foolish mistake and you paid for it? Anyone here? Yeah. And uh some of y'all are still paying for it. Um made a foolish mistake say, oh what in the did you ever say this about yourself? What in the world was I thinking? And we make this we make a foolish decision and later we realize, man, uh now I've I I've got to deal with the consequence of this. Anybody here ever make a wise decision and it paid off for you? Anybody here? Yeah Yeah boy man I'm glad I did that. Pastor Matt, when everything was the whole when the whole world was falling apart here a few months ago, he got he had five dollars, he invested it into one of the oil companies Five bucks. He just had five I don't know where he got I don't know where he got five bucks, but um he invested it in an oil company. He came to me the other day. Man, he's made like five hundred percent profit on that thing. It's just Picked up. I said, man, I wish I'd have known that. He says, man, I'm glad I did that. Uh what I'm saying is this, we know from our own experience we've made some good decisions. Man, I was I'm glad I made that decision. It paid off for us. Not just materially, but spiritually and everything. By the way, let me put it this way. How many folks uh making the decision trust Christ paid off for you? Yeah. That's a good one Remember when I first got saved, uh, I used to tell folks, for once in my life, I made a smart decision. I trusted Christ as my Savior So decisions have consequences. You make a wise decision, positive consequences, make a foolish decision, negative consequences. Now we're going to look at David here. We're studying his life And um another another thing in life that is true is this the closer you tend the you often when the closer you get to somebody Or the closer you get to something, the more you notice the flaws in that person or that thing. Anyone know what I'm talking about? From a distance, wow, they look great. From a distance it looks wonderful. But then you get there and get close up and you get close. I've told this story many times in various messages and uh I enjoy it and it fits in here But on our tenth anniversary, uh my wife and I went to um the the pin Poconos And we stayed at Mount Erie Lodge. Anybody here ever hear of Mount Erie Lodge? It's very famous back uh a long time ago. And um we went to Mount Erie Lodge, and I mean I, Brother Heimbo, I spent some money We got a honeymoon suite for the week. They usually just give it two, three nights. I got it for the whole week. And um it had its own sauna in the room, had its own sauna. It had a heart-shaped jacuzzi. Ooh la la. And it had a swimming pool in the motel room, in the room. It had a swimming pool in there and just everything. I mean it was Incredible. And uh we went up there and uh we were just having a big time and uh it was they had a ski slope there. It was actually in the summertime it was a golf course and the winter it was a ski slope So you can tell the degree of difficulty of this ski slope. They had a little toe rope. I tried getting Kathy skiing. That's a whole nother story. That didn't work. That was a bad decision. That was a foolish decision to try and get her to ski I still pay for that. But anyway, uh they had in the evenings for the evening meal, everything was fancy as can be. In the morning they had breakfast. It was all served family style. This huge uh dining area probably a thousand people is what I figured it would see, tables all over. I mean elegant, elegant, elegant. And in the evening meals you would dress up because it was the evening meal and it was fancy and so we took our best suits and she had her nice dress and I had my suit and we go walking in there and here's the thing in that Dining area, the whole place was the all the walls were mirrors. The whole thing and the whole dining area is mirrors. And so we go walking in there, and of course there's hundreds and hundreds of people, probably two-thirds was full And we're walking in there and I notice the mirrors over there and Kathy's on my arm and we're walking in, I look over in the mirror, and I've got my suit on, dark suit, she's all dressed up, and I look over there and I'm thinking, yeah Looking pretty good, you know? And uh looking in the mirror and walking across there and I'm just feeling pretty good. I look pretty good, my suit and all slicked up. I had hair then and um walking in and uh we sat down but our chair our table was close to the wall where the mirror was. When I sat down I looked over and uh my tie was crooked and my pockets were stuffed inside and I saw some flaws that I didn't notice from a long way off But we got closer, I noticed some flaws, so I tried to fix them a little bit. Yeah, looking good. Then we got home and I'm getting ready for bed and I look in the mirror in the bathroom, close up, yikes Then it was pimples, hair coming out the ears, and it didn't look good at all. And what I'm trying to say is I look good from a distance. But the fact of the matter is that's the way we are a lot of times. We'll see something from a distance and we'll imagine, oh boy, that's wonderful. And we'll have it all figured out in our mind, but then when you get up to it and you get involved in it, it's not quite the way we thought. Anybody here ever go on vacation somewhere? You had it all built up in your head, it's going to be something you got there. Wasn't anything like what you thought it was, a dud. Yeah. Well, we're studying the life of David and from a distance and we look at David, we look at his overall thing, and we think, man, this guy is something else. He is, man, he's killing giants And he's sparing the life. He's disciplining himself and not taking Saul's life when he had every chance. This guy is a spiritual superman. But then we get to chapter 27 of 1 Samuel, and we find out a little closer, he's not the Superman that we thought he was. We find that he has some flaws of his own. I see three, I've entitled the message, David's Lapse of Faith, and I see three lapses In David's decision making here and David's actions that might help us to avoid making the same mistakes. The first one I see is this. I put it this way: his lapse of memory. His lapse of memory. Now the Bible doesn't specifically say that he uh forgot some things We're not told directly that he had a lapse of memory. So it's my speculation, and my speculation is this one of two things has happened in David's thinking. Either number one, he's forgotten that God has promised him that he would someday be king. Either he's forgotten that, or he's pushed that out of his thinking, and he has allowed the circumstances and the situations he's in to completely cloud This promise, this profound promise that God had given to him when Samuel anointed him and stated, You will be king. In fact, Jonathan knew that David would one day be king And King Saul himself stated, on two occasions, David, you're going to be king. David, you're going to be king. And somehow that slipped David's thinking. Now, I I know it's very easy that we can get overwhelmed in our circumstances and we can allow our situations we find ourselves in to And just the issues of life, it's easy sometimes to allow them to cloud out and overshadow the promises of God, and then we get worried Uh anybody here ever worry about stuff and then afterwards it really wasn't nothing, God took care of it, we worried for it. Yeah, we do that all the time And we know what God says, and we know that God has promised to provide for us and take care of us and protect us. We know all these things. But then we get in the situation, we get in the circumstances where everything's going crazy, and though we know those things, either we forget about them or the circumstances overshadow it. So whatever the case was. David had a lapse of memory, is what I'm saying. He has completely forgotten or pushed out or allowed to be overshadowed this promise that God was going to make him king. He did not have to flee to the Philistines. We're told repeatedly in Scripture that we are to memorize Scripture over and over and over through Proverbs in various places It says we are to memorize scripture. Thy word, Psalms 119, Thy word have I hid in my heart. What's that talking about? Memorizing scripture, memorizing scripture. It's one of the reasons we try to memorize a verse every single month here, trying to get them in our hearts and minds. Get them in our hearts and minds Why? Because we have a tendency to forget or push out of our thinking these promises that God has, these instructions that God has given us, these warnings that God has for us. And we get caught up in the circumstance, we get caught up in the minute, we make a decision based on what's happening to us rather than what God has said. If you would, turn in your Bibles with me real quick. Now keep your place here, but go to Joshua chapter number one. I think God had this a little bit in mind for Joshua. Joshua chapter one. Moses has just died. Joshua has become the new captain of the host for the nation of Israel. He's going to lead them into the promised land. But God tells him to do something. Now Joshua is obviously very fearful. He's very anxious about this. God addresses that, but he tells him to do something very clearly That I believe is to help Joshua not forget that God has promised them that they're going to possess the land. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 7. Joshua, only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest serve that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee Turn not to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. Alright? He's saying, listen, you've got to get in the law there. I promise you, I'm going to bless you. Now look at verse 8 This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt what? Meditate. What's it mean to meditate? Think on it. Think on it. The idea is kind of chew it over, over and over. Just keep bringing back to mind. Just meditate that. Think of every aspect of it. He says, Joshua, don't you be afraid. You're about to go into that promised land that I promised you're going to possess. I want you to meditate in my word. Now look when he tells them to do that But thou shalt meditate therein when? Day and night. Every morning you get up, I want you to give thought to the Word of God. Peace and when you go to bed at night You get your nose in my law. You look in my word. I want that book. I want what I have said to you, my word to you. I want you to keep it in front of you, in the forefront of your mind, day and night Why? Because you're going to be at war, you're going to be overwhelmed with circumstances, and you need to remember, I have promised you that this land is going to be yours. And God does that all through Scripture. He tells us over and over and over again. In Psalms chapter 1, verse 1, he says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night David is saying, under the inspiration of God in Psalms 1 there, that God, that when we meditate in God's word, we keep God's word in the forefront of my mind, our minds. We make our decisions based upon God's promises, God's warnings, God's instructions, then God will bless us. And so, for whatever reason, David has Put aside or forgotten or allowed this his his circumstance to overshadow what God has clearly promised him And so there's a lapse of memory here. Second of all, I put what I used for the title, if you come back here, I put he had a lapse of faith. He had a lapse of faith. Again, look at verse number one of 1 Samuel 27. And David, here's that key phrase, this gives us insight what's going on in David's mind. David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. He said where? In his heart. In his heart. He didn't go to the Lord in prayer. He didn't look into the Word of God. He didn't recall what Samuel had told him, what God had told him through Samuel. What he did was I'd written the margin of my Bible right beside that statement. I circled that David said in his heart, and in the margin of my Bible I wrote this. He leaned on his own understanding He leaned on his own understanding. Is anybody here familiar with Proverbs chapter three, verse five and six? Anybody know I preached some about a month or so ago. Trust in the Lord with what? All thine heart. And then God makes a very clear, direct Statement. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and what? Lean not unto thine own understanding. And in all thy ways acknowledge him, he shall direct thy paths. David is doing the exact opposite of that. Whether he's forgotten or whether he's overshadowed or he's just disregarding what God has said to him, now he gets talking to himself. He said in his heart, he's talking to himself, says, You know what? Saul's going to kill me one of these days. I have got to get out of here. I've got to escape. My only hope is to get over with the Philistines, the enemies of God's people. That's my only hope, my only hope. I tell you, we start leaning on our own understanding, we start making stupid decisions. By the way, that's a good quote right there. We start leaning on our own understanding, we start making stupid decisions. Why is that? One of the reasons is our understanding is limited. All we see is a here and now. We're limited understanding. We have access to a God that has unlimited understanding, perfect understanding. He knows the end from the beginning. Now, which is the wisest decision? To decide to trust my own limited understanding or to have faith in the God that has unlimited understanding? Which is the wisest decision? Obviously, God And so David, for whatever reason, lapse of memory, disregard, overwhelm, whatever reason, he makes a decision to lean on his own understanding. Now this uh this is a hasty decision. You read down through, I read over this and read over it, I thought, man, this comes out of nowhere He just out of the blue all of a sudden makes a very hasty decision. It's an unscriptural decision, as we just pointed out, and it is a very short-sighted decision All he sees is the here and now. I've got to do this right now. And he fails to look beyond. Now I got thinking, what was it that prompted David to change his strategy? He's been doing well. He's been avoiding King Saul. It's very frustrating. But he's been avoiding King Saul. When there was direct contact with him, he did the right thing. He deferred his anger, he deferred vengeance to the Lord. I'm not going to touch he's doing everything pretty well up to this point. Then all of a sudden, everything changes And I got thinking, why why would why such a hasty why such a hasty change in strategy and behavior? Well, I think uh I came up with several reasons just speculating on my part. One is he just had a couple great victories He just overcame a great opportunity to take vengeance into his own hands with Saul, and he backed off once again, twice now. And so he's kind of on a spiritual high He's just had some significant spiritual victories. And I'm just operating, I'm just speaking now from my own experience. I've found That a lot of times when I have a great spiritual victory, anybody want to guess what follows that not long after? A great defeat A great defeat. I've seen it so many times. I mention it so often. We'll have revival meetings. We'll have a special day. God will show up in some way. And man, God stirs our hearts. We get a great victory, and um and then within a day or so afterward, boom, boom, boom, people start struggling I'm telling you, Satan sees when we get a victory and he pours it on. I'm wondering if maybe David just had a great spiritual victory. He's been doing pretty good. Maybe he's just getting a little self-confident. Maybe he's just a little bit, you know, uh that's okay now, and he starts leaning on his own understanding. I don't know. Uh another thought came to my mind. If you come back to chapter 26. And look with me at verse 2 and 3. There is a change in the situation a bit that may have affected David's decision. Look at verse 2 of chapter 26. Now we already worked through this. But this came to mind. Look at verse 2. Then Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Zif, having 3,000 chosen men. That's a heap of men. David's got 600. He's got three thousand. How many is that to one? That's uh five to one, is that right? Something like that? Pretty close five to one. Uh that's not real good odds in the military. Five to one And these are chosen men. These are his elite. These are the special forces. And then the implication there is uh Saul's kind of scattering out here Saul's got David narrowed down. He the Ziphites have turned on him and they spilled the beans. And now Saul's got David narrowed down. He's got his elite forces. And maybe David is just Looking at the circumstance, say, hey, this isn't good. I've been able to avoid him for ex uh for a good while here now, but You know, he's coming down on me now. He's got he's dialing in on where I'm at and what I'm doing. And maybe as a David as a military man is saying, listen, something's got to change. Eventually, Saul's going to get me He's thinking on his own understanding. He's leaning on his own understanding. He's pushed God's promise completely out, and he's simply looking at the odds, looking at the circumstances, and maybe he says, I've got to do something different And there's another factor maybe here. The Ziphites. Now, David helped the Ziphites. We made a big deal about this He was a blessing to them. He helped protect them. And they turned on him not once, but twice. And maybe David is just discouraged Maybe David is thinking this way. Maybe you and I have thought this way. The whole world's against me. Anybody ever think that way? Everybody's the whole world's against me. Um uh uh there was somebody else in the Bible got in that frame of mind. Anybody know who it was? Elijah After Jezebel threatened him, coming after him, Elijah said, I'm the only one living for God. The whole world's abandoned God. And he changed his strategy, went up in the wilderness and hid in a cave, and wanted to die Just out of the blue. Elijah, great victory. And uh all of a sudden he changed his strategy, changed his mind, uh his way of thinking, and next to that there. And I kind of see that a little bit with David here All of a sudden, he makes this change. And so he has this lapse of faith here. He's forgotten or disregarded God's word, God's promise to him, God's instruction And now he changes a course and there's a lapse of faith. I put this down. Failure and a lack of faith are unpopular subjects to study. I don't know about you, but I'm studying scripture. I'm going to preach, I want to preach on somebody that's been victorious. I want to preach on somebody's success. But failure and lack of faith is a powerful learning tool when we see others What I'm trying to say is this. The Bible is full of people in the Bible, great, what we would call heroes, and yet we see times when they failed in their faith. W w when they lacked faith and they made failures. Can you think of anybody I'm trying to get you all to talk to me here a little bit tonight. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that would be considered a great hero besides David But they had some real issues. They had some real failures. Anybody think of anybody? Jonah? Samson? Noah, he gets off the ark, ends up drunk. Who else? Who? Moses killed a guy, struggled, struck the rock twice. Peter denied the Lord, said, I'll never deny the Lord. I mean, you just go through. Who's the father of the faithful? Abraham. He follows the Lord out, doesn't know where he's going. He finally gets to Canaan, and a famine in the land, first thing he does, runs back down to Egypt. And over and over and over and over and over and over, all through Scripture, these great men of faith, many of them mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11, the hall of faith. And yet you look at their lives and you find there were points where they failed and when they struggled in their faith. Now, why would God put that in the Bible? I think all things are put in the Bible for our examples So that we can learn from it. We can grow. And so you get in a state and you say, I'm in a situation in my life, it's kind of like a famine And uh, you know, boy, I'm struggling all of that. Well learn from Abraham. Don't abandon the Lord, just stay faithful to God, trust him. By the way, Abraham made a foolish decision going down to Egypt in the Abra in in uh in uh the famine and uh he ended up lying about his wife, remember? Oh she's my sister and then Pharaoh takes her. That was bad. And then he comes back home with a little gal Hagar Little Egyptian gal, she ends up being uh not her fault, but it ends up being a lifelong issue. And over and over and over we find some of God's greatest men Make some of the foolish decisions and struggle in their faith. The Bible's filled with records of men's failures and the consequences, so that we can learn from that. We can learn from that. I don't know about you, but I would rather learn the consequences of making a bad decision by observing it in someone else than by experiencing it myself You know? Uh uh man, I saw what happened to them. I saw the decision they made and what it cost. Whew! I'm gonna learn from that. I tell you, that's wisdom right there. And by the way, failure and lack of faith is not a permanent condition. David is able to come back. God's not done with him. And I wanted to point this out. Maybe you or I, or somebody here listening to me, you've made some mistakes, and maybe you've struggled in your faith and maybe made some bad decisions. That's not the end of the story. God is able to take our worst decisions and our lowest failures and our weak faith, and God is able to take that if we'll trust Him and come back, He'll turn that thing around. One of my most encouraging verses in Scripture Is Proverbs 24, 16. A just man falleth seven times and what? Riseth up again. And riseth up again. Every single every single human being that God ever used in any way has had failures in their life at some point Has had struggles in their life. In Mark chapter 9, there's a Lord's up on the Mount of Transfiguration and disciples are up. And he comes back down, and three of the disciples go up with him. He comes back down. There's a father there that has a son that's possessed of a devil. How many of you agree with me? That would be heart-wrenching He has a son that's possessed of a devil, and this father is desperate. And he's brought his son to the disciples, and the disciples can do nothing. And this this father is just devastated. And Jesus comes down, he sees what's going on, and he says, What's up? And I'm putting this in my own words, obviously, and he says, My s I brought my son to the disciples, and they could do nothing. And Jesus kind of rebuked the disciples, you know, where's your faith? And uh finally he says to the father, he says, uh uh something I'll take care of him. And the father made this statement, and this has helped me so much. The Father says, I believe, but help thou thine unbelief. I read that sometimes, and I pray that prayer to the Lord. Lord, I believe, but my faith seems so weak. My faith seems, God, please help my unbelief. I know what you say is true. I know your word is true. I know what you promised is will come to pass. But Lord, sometimes I don't see it and I struggle. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I've prayed that prayer so many times. Lord, I believe, but help mine unbelief. What I'm trying to say is this: failure in my Christian life and maybe struggling in my faith. My faith uh isn't that strong. That's not the end of the story. Take what faith you have. As weak as it is, put it in the Lord. Lord, help my unbelief. And God will come through. And you know what happened? That daddy's boy was uh Jesus cast the devils out and he was made well. You talk about one happy daddy. That was a happy daddy there. His faith struggled. His faith was weak. The Lord was awfully gracious, awfully kind. God's not done with David. We're going to look here the next couple weeks as we go through chapter 27, 28, where he gets himself in a mess. But I'm telling you, that's not the end of the story. Whatever mess or struggle or weak faith you and I might have, it's not the end of the story. God can still raise us up. Faith, uh failure and lack of faith does not equal a permanent condition. I I read this quote somewhere, I don't know where I got it. Lapse of faith does not equal collapse of faith. So, number one, he had a lapse of his memory, is what I'm suggesting, and there's a lapse of faith here, that's pretty obvious. And then I got a third one real quick I want to give you: a lapse of responsibility. You say, where do you get that? Look with me if you would at verse 2. And David arose, and he passed over with the 600 men that were with him. I underlined that, and I wrote in the margin of my Bible, influence. When David wandered out of the will of God, he brought a heap of people with him. He just led, that verse tells us that David has just led 600 men, plus their families, plus their households, into the enemy's camp. He's just led these guys into grave danger. In fact, he just led his family, 600 men, their families, their households, he's just led them out of the will of God. You say, where do you get that out of the will of God? In 1 Samuel 22, verse 5, Samuel the prophet, told David directly, do you stay in Judah? Now, David's gone over into the Philistines. He's just led them out of the will of God. Short-sighted decisions often lead to long-term trouble. David made a decision based on the moment, based on the circumstances, and now he's going to get himself into a mess. We're going to see that. By the way, this decision he makes, he's frustrated at the in at the end of chapter twenty-six. He's frustrated with Saul He keeps telling them he's not going to chase them. He keeps chasing them. There's definite frustration here. But now this foolish decision is going to lead him into total despair. Turn with me real quick, chapter 29. And we'll just jump ahead here a little bit and look what David is getting into. Chapter 29, and look with me at verse number 4 Um I'm sorry, that's uh chapter thirty, I'm sorry, chapter thirty and verse number four. Then David and the people that were with them. Now he's in Gath, he's in with the Philistines, he's allied himself with the enemies of God's people. David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept Until they had no more power to weep. They've just been, he's been out marauding. He comes back. His families or households have been taken, kidnapped, and taken captive. And here he is, he has no more power to weep. And David's two wives were taken captives, Ahinoam, the Jezreelites, Abigail, the wife of Nabal, the Carmelite, and David was greatly distressed, and the for the people spake of stoning him. Because the soul of all the people was grieved. Brother, he went from frustration to total despair. Now, God's not done with them. God's going to get him out of this. But what I see here is a decision based, a hasty decision, based on the circumstances that disregarded God's clear promise. And boy, what a mess it brought on him. What a mess. What I want to challenge us tonight is this. Let's be wise in our decisions. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not unto your own understanding. And all your ways acknowledge Him. He'll direct your paths. He'll direct your paths. What a principle to live by. What a promise to live by And let's just decide to do that. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from David. I pray, Lord, that we would learn to trust in you with all our heart, not take things into our own hands, not lean on our own understanding But just take our circumstances, stay faithful, keep your promises, your word before us, and allow you to lead us and direct us. I wonder with our head bowed and eyes closed, How would we say, preacher, I've really got to learn to trust in the Lord with all my heart. Is there any like that? I've got to. I've got some circumstances. I've got situations I have a tendency to take it in my hands, lean on my understanding. I've got to just let the Lord lead me. Any any others? Many hands, any God bless you, all around. It's a lifelong struggle in the Christian life My will, God's will. My understanding, God's clear word. We've got to be wise in our decisions. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.