There's going to be folks in heaven getting great rewards that uh we didn't think much about down here. And the Lord keeps the record, doesn't he? And so appreciate that, Chester. 1 Samuel chapter 17. How many folks are awake tonight? Say amen. How many folks are not awake? Say amen. I figured there'd be a few. Wasn't a beautiful day today. Beautiful. Felt a little fallish actually in the morning when I got out early this morning. And uh that was scary. But um it was a beautiful day and we're glad you're out. A couple weeks ago while you're finding First Samuel seventeen there, a couple weeks ago we got a report in the mail on the city water here in Mountain Lake Park. How many people, anybody here on Mountain Lake Park City Water? Couple folks around. Did you get that paper in the mail thing there? Anybody, did you look at it? It has a water quality data table on Mountain Lake Park, and it goes down the regulated contaminants that are in our water. Lead, copper, chlorine, fluoride, arsenic. uh barium, a bunch of other acids I can't pronounce. And they're all good. They're all well within the area. But there was one I noticed, it's selenium. I think I'm saying it right. Selenium is that close? And uh the highest level allowed by law is ten. units. Mountain Lake Park is 19. 8. So it's almost double. So I got looking at it and I thought, well what in the world is that? And then over here it says source of contaminant. get this runoff from fertilizer and leaching from septic tanks. So I thought the great thing about this is when I water my plants I'm also fertilizing them at the same time. And it's wonderful. Saves me a lot of work. So praise the Lord, amen. Alright, 1 Samuel 17. I want to begin reading in verse 31. Now we actually started this section a couple weeks ago, and we're st and we're studying the life of David, and we're We've come to an event in David's life that is absolutely captivating. And we're going through this a little slow, and I just want to dissect this and get every lesson out of it as we can as we're coming through I think uh just about every kid in every Sunday school class of the world knows about David and Goliath. Man, what a story. Even the world uses this event to illustrate uh the the the the little guy against the big guy, David against Goliath. Now we've gotten in here. David has been sent uh the armies are facing each other philines and uh israelite army under the leadership of king saul they faced each other the philines sent out their champion goliath He defies the armies of Israel. He defies the God of Israel. And Israel is scared to death. The military of Israel is absolutely terrified. Uh apparently Jesse finds out about it. David's dad, his boys are out there on the front line. He pulls David, just a young shepherd boy, pulls him off the mountainside says I want you to go to check on the boys, see how they're doing. I think Jesse knew about Goliath in the situation. I don't believe David did. He just sent him there. David gets there. He's as David arrives Uh Goliath just happens, quote unquote, Goliath happens to step out, and he makes his defiant speech, as he's been doing. On a regular basis, David hears what Goliath is saying, and it shocks him that somebody would have been bold enough to blaspheme God so brazenly And then he sees the armies of Israel, how they respond, and he is shocked by how Israel is so cowardly in their response to Goliath. And so he is responding to that. Now we're getting to verse number 31. And uh it says this, and when the words were heard, which David spake, Now what David was saying was, listen, why aren't you going out there? Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? When the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul, and he, Saul sent for him, David And David said to Saul, let no man's heart fail because of him, Goliath. Thy servant will go and fight this Philistine. And remember, we pointed out, David never refers to Goliath as a champion. He never refers to him as a giant. He refers to him as a Philistine, as an uncircumcised Philistine. He never refers to him the way the rest of the army does. Verse 33. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. For thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock. And I went out after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him. My sermon also slew both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. David said, moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the Lord be with thee. And Saul armed David with the armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he also armed him with a coat of mail. And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he essayed to go, or he tried to go, he started to go out there, uh for uh He essayed to go, for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off of him. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of your word tonight I pray that we could learn some practical lessons. I pray your Holy Spirit would teach us some practical lessons in our own lives. That David illustrates here and is an example for us, a model for us. Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you would be our teacher. And I yield my body anew to you and my will, I yield it to you, and pray that you would help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Here we have what I'm calling David's commission. Here's where he's been introduced to Goliath indirectly. And now he's being commissioned. Saul ends up at the end of this. Saul says, all right, go on out there. You see what you can do. And he's commissioned by Saul to go out there. Now we looked at a couple weeks ago, if you remember, for those that were here, verse 31 and 32, we noted David presents his case. Saul calls for him David presents his case. Now there's a lot we can learn from David. The more I'm studying the life of David, the more impressed I am with this man. He waits for Saul's call. He doesn't push his way up there He doesn't, you know, take charge or anything. He just knows his place. He waits for Saul to call. Saul calls on him. Uh and then he when he does get there, he doesn't dictate to Saul what he should do. He goes offers himself. He goes, listen, I'll go out and fight this guy. He doesn't say, you need to do this, you need to do that, you need to do this. He simply offered himself, offered his services. And then David listened to what Saul had to say. Saul cautioned him there, and he listened to him. Now that leads me to our second point in this section. First of all, was David presents his case Second point is this, what I want to look at tonight is David expresses his confidence. David expresses his confidence. Look with me again at verse number 33. He says, and Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. And David said unto Saul, and then he goes down and he rehearses this previous events in David's life where he saw firsthand, he experienced firsthand, how God enabled him To defeat this line in despair. And so uh David is incredibly confident going into this. Now I want to park here for a second. And I want to address an issue that comes up here before we actually get into verse 34 down through verse 37. We'll do that Lord will in another time. But here I notice, and I want to back up and look at this, and I notice that David faces three obstacles to exercising his faith. There are three issues here that have a powerful potential to quench his confidence that God can actually defeat this giant through him And I'm convinced in David's mind anybody could have went out there in the power of God and defeated Goliath. He just happened to be the only one willing to trust God that had that confidence But I see here three very, very powerful issues that have the potential to quench his faith and to quench his confidence. There's a statement in the book of Daniel, and I don't have the reference on the top of my head, but there's a statement about Daniel. And it says this. I think it's Nebuchadnezzar is talking to him, if I remember correctly, but he makes this statement about Daniel. He says that he is a dissolver of doubts. And he makes that statement two or three times. He says of Daniel, he is a dissolver of doubts. There was something about Daniel's faith. That when somebody got around him, any doubts they had in the presence and existence and power of God, whenever Daniel was around, those doubts dissolved. He was a dissolver of doubts. I don't know about you, but I would like to be And I don't know that I've attained this, but I would like to be somebody that is a dissolver of doubts. That somebody has doubts about God. Maybe somebody has doubts about God's ability to save their soul. Maybe somebody has doubts about God's ability to give them victory in their life. I would like to be somebody that God could use to z dissolve those doubts in that person's heart and mind. Anyone with me on that? I would like for our church to be a dissolver of doubts. that our presence in Oakland and Garrett County and surrounding areas, that our presence here would be, the influence of our presence would be such that people who previously doubted God Once they encounter us and our witness and our attempts to be a testimony of the Lord's power, their doubts are dissolved and their faith becomes strong in the Lord. That's what I would like for our church. I would like to believe, and I'm confident it's true, that our missionaries heading out would be go out and around the world, the depews just arriving over in Japan, that their presence would be dissolvers of doubts. Now as I read Daniel here, or uh uh David here, I see in David somebody who is a dissolver of doubts. Is confidence in the Lord and the Lord's presence and the Lord's power is so secure That when it's all said and done, boy, people are believing God is able. God is able. God is able. But there's a danger here. There are three Hindrances to David exercising that faith, to David having that confidence. And we touched on a couple of them earlier, but I want to come back and look at them a little bit more uh thoroughly. One danger, I think, one attempted hindrance to David's confidence, David's faith, was the apprehension of the military Again, verse number 11. I know we've preached on this, but I want to come back and tie it in with a few others. Look at verse 11. When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were what? Dismayed and greatly afraid. Uh look up at verse number twenty uh verse number twenty-four. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, Goliath, fled from him and were what? Sore afraid. Now we already discussed this a bit, but I want to back up a little bit and Put picture in our minds. Let's try and visualize this. Here is David, just a young boy. He's got absolute confidence in God. He has absolute faith in God. He's not exactly sure what all is going on But would you agree with me if you came to a battlefield and your side, your side was scared to death, How many of you agree with me that may be a source of questioning whether we can actually pull this off or not? Right? If the if the jet if uh who's the top military guy in our country now? Is it Mattis? Madman Mattis, is that who it is? Whoever it is. Mad dog, not madman. Uh anyway, can you imagine if we were going to go into a conflict, let's say with North Korea or somebody? And he would get on the television and and we'd see him before all the troops and he would say, Guys, I'm scared to death And all the captains, all the leaders would say, We are absolutely scared to death. How many of you all would be a little bit concerned about that? Yeah. And so Daniel's showing up here, and he is seeing this abject fear on his military leaders, his military heroes. I put this down. Fear is like a virus. Fear is very, very contagious. You can be very, very confident, but you get around a lot of other people who are afraid. And it that fear will creep into your own heart and mind. Fear is like a virus. I saw a little uh video clip on the computer. It was a prank they were playing on folks, and what they did was they set up a street uh not real busy, just a fairly empty street. And across the street they set up the camera hidden. And they had a fella, there was a building, it was an intersection. So they had the camera here and they had the intersection. There's a building here. There was a fellow hidden around the corner of the building. And they waited till there was a person or one or two people walking up the sidewalk And when they got to a certain spot, that fella hidden around the corner would come screaming, racing out around there, and hollering and yelling, run, run, run! And he'd go, and they'd video how the people reacted. Anybody want to guess how those people reacted when this guy came running around screaming, run, run, run, guess what they did? They were scared out of their minds. And they began running. And there was absolutely nothing there, and they had no idea what they were running from or why they were running. But that fellow, putting on that he was afraid, immediately put into their hearts fear, and they responded accordingly. And so David has tremendous faith in God. David has tremendous confidence in God. But you get around a military people and they are afraid. I'm telling you, that is a powerful, powerful influence to produce fear in his life. Fear spreads and grows You get somebody afraid. You get afraid, and then every little thing that happens, that just feeds that fear. And you get more afraid and more afraid. Fear overwhelms reason. Reason. What do they say when, folks, if you get stranded somewhere, you get lost in the woods? and you become afraid, they always tell that person lost in the woods, they always tell them, don't what? Don't panic. When you get out there, you get afraid, and if you let that fear take over, you begin to panic. And when you panic, you lose all reasoning abilities. And you end up doing things that are harmful, and you end up doing things that are irrational, and you end up doing things that uh uh uh that uh that hinder your six your re uh your uh Rescue rather than helping. Don't panic. Why do they say that? Because fear overwhelms our reasoning abilities. Uh when uh the first time I hunted in Colorado, my dad took me out. This years ago, we're out in southwest Colorado and they took us different places and dad was assigned this one area and um and then you follow the trail back And um the it was the first or second night we were there, and so we came time to pick up. They came and got me, and we came up to where dad was supposed to be up by the dirt trail there, and he won there And so we waited, waited. It was dark. Of course, we thought, well, maybe he's, you know, he waited till dark. Maybe he's got some elk in there underneath him. So we gave it a half hour, 45 minutes, maybe an hour, and he didn't come out. So finally we went down to where he was and he wasn't there. is gone. And we're like, man, we searched all around, we started hollering. I'm telling you, it's about two hours. It was to about midnight. We could not find that. And how many people understand I was scared. I was scared. And so we went around and finally the Bob was the guy. He's a friend of our family. He was the guy and he said, well, let's go back to the cabin. You know, we might need to bring in some help, try and find him. And I'm thinking, oh, he fell down, he had a heart attack, something. I'm just thinking all these horrible things. And uh we get back to the cabin, guess who's sitting there just happy as a Lord? Dad, it's like two miles. And um we said, how'd you get here? He goes, well I got down, I got a little turned around. I saw the crick and I had checked my compass and I knew the crick headed right back to where the cabin was, so I just followed the crick It's a nice little walk, it was enjoyable and I had a good time. I said, Dad, I'm dying out here. I thought you were uh and I choked him and it was gonna kill 'em right there. Now I was very, very happy But what dad did was, I said, were you afraid? He goes, I got a little concerned, but I never got worried, real worried. I hate it when he's that way. But um What happened was he didn't let fear take over his reasoning, and he thought things through and he understood what was, and he did not let fear take over. And I'll tell you, there's fear is a very real issue in the Christian life. It's a very real struggle. We can claim to have all this faith in God, and then things start falling apart around us And things start coming down, and we start having this, and then all of a sudden we lose all this rationing, and we know what the Bible says, and we know what God's done for us, and we know all these things. But if we're not careful, we lose our spiritual reasoning when fear comes over. And so fear uh overwhelms our reasoning. Fear overcomes our faith When I get so scared of a situation where I am no longer trusting God, I get so my fear so overwhelms my faith and my confidence in God and God's word That it comes so overwhelming, and faith vanishes, faith dissolves. What does that lead to? Hopelessness. Hopelessness. And it is possible to become so fearful and say there is absolutely no hope in this situation. There is absolutely nothing can be done. It is hopeless. And that is the absolute absence of faith when we get to that point. So what I'm driving at is this David. was able to, was strong enough and kept his mind enough that he was not going to let the fear of others around him Take over his thinking, engulf and overwhelm his faith, he was going to keep his faith in God. Fear is a very powerful, powerful thing. The media uses fear, do they not? Oh, the world's gonna end in twenty hours. Tune in at eleven o'clock and find the details. Why don't you just tell me now if it's gonna end in twenty hours? Oh, Ebola has broken out in Africa, and now they found it in Texas. Remember that a few years ago? And man, they just played that up. And the chances of you and I getting Ebola were so minute But they had us convinced everybody was going to get it and we were all going to die within two weeks. Why do they do that? Because they want ratings. They want us to tune in. They know the power of fear. Businesses use that. Oh, the heartbreak of psoriasis. Remember that? If you get psoriasis, your whole life is ruined. You have to have this cream. To avoid your run, oh my word, there's a spot, I gotta buy that cream. Right? Power of fear. Media uses it. Businesses use that. I'll tell you who else uses it very, very effectively. Satan uses that. And he will do everything he can to try and get us afraid. Try and get us afraid. Remember when Israel was at Jordan and they at Kadesh Barnea? And they sent in twelve spies into the promised land who go and check it out, see what it's like. They sent 12 spies. 10 were bad and 2 were good. And when they were in there, ten of them came back and said, Oh, the place is amazing, they got grapes, they got all this, but there's giants and we're like grasshoppers in their sight. And you know what they did? Satan used them to spread absolute fear throughout the nation of Israel. And they lost all reasoning and they lost all comprehension of the promises of God. They had the presence of God right there They just saw him divide the Great Sea, uh the um not the Great Sea, the the Dead Sea, Red Sea. One of those seas, they divided, and I know they did But fear came in and took over. I'd make a guess, an educated guess. I'm talking to some folks tonight You may never admit it, but down inside your heart, there's some things you're scared to death of. Absolute fear. I want to tell you, follow David's example and do not let that fear take over. The confidence you have in God. I'm talking to some folks, you've seen God do amazing things in the past. I'm talking to some folks, God's changed your life in the past. Don't think for one minute he can't do that again. And so one of the obstacles to David's confidence and faith that Goliath could and would go down under the power of God was this issue of fear. A fear. 1 Timothy, or 2 Timothy 1:7. God hath not given unto us a spirit of what? Fear. But of power and of love and of a what sound mind Timothy knew God through Timothy was telling us listen, that fear of whatever situation, that fear of whatever circumstance, that fear of whatever person You're afraid to live for God, to trust God, that whatever that fear is, that is not of God. Israel's army being afraid of Goliath, that fear was not of God. God hath not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love, and I believe he added that last two words on there for a purpose, and of a sound mind. God wants us to think to reason spiritually, and we lose that reason. And so David overcame this obstacle of fear, the anxiety is the way I put it of the military. He did not let that get into his soul. He did not let that get into his mind. He did not let that affect his confidence in God. And I'll tell you, we live in a world that's scared. We live in a world that's scared. Remember Y2K? Everybody's scared out of their minds. And you know, any number of things. We live in a world that's scared. We must not let the circumstances of the world We must not let the circumstances that God allows us to face, the situation, we cannot allow that to overwhelm our faith and confidence in God. It must be true. Let me give you the second obstacle he had to overcome. One was fear, uh one was the anxiety of the military. The other was, and again, I know we looked at this, but I want to tie them together, is the anger of his brother. Now I said that fear is a virus. You get around other people, everybody else is scared, you start getting apprehensive. If you're not careful, but I want to suggest to you that anger is a virus also. Anger is contagious. Jeffrey, you're happy as can be. You walk into a situation, somebody's mad, within five seconds, you're mad too. Right? You just get angry. Um I t I told the story a number of times down its cheeks one time and this lady didn't pull up all the way, the guy behind her Man, all of a sudden he just lost it. He's screaming at her and cussing her and he was so angry. And guess what my response was? I got angry at him. And anger breeds anger. Anger breeds anger. So here you have Eliah, and the Bible says, look, look there, look at verse number 28. And Eliab, his elder's brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled against David. Now, your average person, your average Christian, can I say that? Your brother got mad at you. I mean, he is angry at you. Your average Christian is going to get angry back. But I noticed, and again I know we preach through this, but I noticed the Bible does not say that David's anger was kindled against Eliah. He would not allow that virus to get into his heart and mind. I tell you what's killing some of our homes, listen to me. I tell you what's killing some of our homes is anger. In our homes, in our marriages, between husbands and wives, parents and children, brothers and sisters. And I'm telling you, it is killing faith. It is killing our confidence that God is able to give me a happy, stable, Christ-honoring home. Anger is a work of the flesh, and the devil knows that. And if he can get one person to stir up their anger, that is going to spread like wildfire, and the next thing you know, the whole home is angry at everybody. It's true in churches. It's true in churches. I wonder how many churches their testimony has been destroyed Because the person got angry and that anger spread, next thing you know, it's a big explosion, and the whole town knows about it, and their witness into that town is hindered. Right or wrong? And so David is in a very volatile situation here. Here is a young man that has absolute faith in God has absolute confidence that God is able to do a powerful, powerful work here and get the victory. But first of all, he's got this whole army that is scared to death, and there's a real danger of him becoming fearful and losing his faith and confidence. That doesn't get to him. Then a brother blows up on him. And there's a real volatile situation where Satan could use that to get David completely off track and get him all worked up and angry and lose all confidence. I put this down Faith and anger do not mix. If I am angry about something, I am not trusting God. If I am angry at another person, or that person gets angry, and I respond in angry, I am not living by faith. I'm acting on the flesh. My Bible says, I want to show you some verses, and we've touched on these a number of times, but I think they're so important. Go to Ephesians chapter 4 with me, if you would. And I know we preached on this when we went through the Sermon on the Mount, but I want to hit it again By the way, Proverbs tells us, make no friends with a angry man Why should I not be friends with an angry man? Shouldn't I be friends with everybody? Why should I not be friends with an angry man? Because what? They'll make me angry. It's contagious. I visit the hospitals a lot. I get in nursing homes. You know what they'll say? If you think you have the flu You need to what? Either don't go in or wear this mask and wear these gloves and all of that. You know what we ought to put on the doors of our houses and our churches? If you are angry Either cover yourself with the Bible or don't come in. Now I'm not telling you to do that because we might diminish our crowds a little bit. Make no friends with an angry head. Look at Ephesians chapter 4 and verse number 30. Alright, here it is. This is a popular verse. Everybody knows this. Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God Whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Well, how in the world would I grieve the Holy Spirit? Well, he tells us. Look at verse 31. Now the second word in this verse is very important. Let what? All. How much? Uh a little bit, maybe just a little bit? Uh all right, let most uh come on, I can have just a little itsy bitsy teeny weeny bit of anger, can't I? Look what he says, let all bitterness and what? Wrath and what? Clamor, evil speaking, be put away from you. With all mouths. How much anger? Oh. Why did he say that? Because anger is such a virus. Along with these and and isn't that an ugly list that it's included? I know some folks say, well there's righteous indignation, it's it's you need to get angry but just don't sin. That verse tells that's an awful ugly list that anger is listed with. He says, put it off, put it off. And then look at verse 32, and be ye what? Kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Colossians chapter 3, just a few pages over, he repeats this almost verbatim Colossians 3 verse 8. But now ye also I'll let you give you a chance to get there. Colossians 3 verse 8. But now ye also what? Put off. Put it off. And the idea here is like a jacket. Get it off of you. Get it off of you. Put off what? There's that word again. All these, no exceptions, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man and put on the new man And he comes down through there. Verse 12, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against them, any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Cut that virus off. Kill that virus. And so I'm impressed with David. He's just a young boy. And he shows up, and he, as far as I can tell, is the only person in that entire army that is not scared. What a testimony of his faith and his confidence in God. Then his brother blows up on him and is very angry. His anger is kindled. And David resists that, and his faith is in God, his confidence is in God. And then I see a third. obstacle to David's faith. Now we're right on the doorstep of him going out and taking this giant out, this Goliath out. But there's another obstacle that I think that Satan throws up to get David to lose his faith and dissolve that confidence, and that is this: the argument from logic. The argument from logic. And I think this is where a lot of people fail. Look at verse 33. Come back there with me, and I'll end with this. Verse 33, 1 Samuel 17. And Saul said to David, I underlined these next four words. Saul said to David, Would you read it with me? Thou art not able. Why not? Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. Why? For thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. Now we're going to see in the next lesson that David already had conquered any doubts in his heart and mind about what God could do. But Saul's argument was this. David, you've got to think logically here. You've got to be realistic, David. This guy has been a soldier, a warrior since he was a youth. You are only a youth. Now think this through a little bit. David, you've got a reason here. You've got to use logic here I've been using this phrase more and more in the last year, and I'm seeing it all the time. You know how Saul was thinking? He was thinking under the sun. Right? This is under the sun thinking. Saul is looking at this humanly. Saul is looking at this as if God is not a factor in any of this. David, this is In Saul's mind, this was David versus Goliath. That was under the sun. It wasn't David versus Goliath. This was God versus Goliath. And logic says, and actually under the sun, Saul was absolutely right. Logically, there is no way in the world, realistically, there is no way in the world this kid is killing That champion. That is there's no way. There's no way that's happening under the sun. I was at a meeting this past week about drugs in our community, and they were asking the churches to come together. and just, you know, what we have or ideas we have or whatever uh to help address. And their term, they probably used it ten times, their term is the epidemic. of heroin and meth and drugs in our community. And I tell you, that's a that's a terrible, terrible thing And so I went out of curiosity what they had to say and what the situation was, and maybe, you know, you know, I don't know. I just wanted to see what it was about. And there were some ideas, and they bantered some ideas around. But you know what phrase kept coming to my mind with all their ideas? You know what phrase kept coming to my mind? Under the sun. With few exceptions, God was a little or no factor in the solution to drugs in the lives of our community. And finally, I just stood up and I said, you know, we can do all this stuff to try and limit drugs from coming in, and that's fine, and we should, but until the heart and mind is changed. That desire is still there. It's going to keep coming. Until the demand is erased, the supply is going to be there. And I said, as Christians and as a Bible-believing church, we understand this is a spiritual matter. There's an emptiness in the hearts and minds of these people that only Christ can fill. There's others that responded positively, a few others. But that is Saul's thinking. And I'm afraid a lot of times in our churches, that's our thinking. Oh, this is a problem. Oh, there's no way, realistic. Now I'm not excluding, you know, I think we have to use some common sense sometimes, but we must never forget there's a God in heaven. And this is the body of Christ. And we have the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. And so does Be very, very careful about using logic to come to conclusion about spiritual issues. Under the sun, logically, no. David could not beat Goliath. Saul was absolutely right. Under the sun. You say, oh, I got somebody. I've been trying to win them to Christ. Their heart's so hard, they're so far from God, there was no way in the world they'll ever get saved. You know, humanly speaking, that's probably true. Humanly speaking, that's what my dad said about me There's no way. But it salvation is not a human issue. It's a supernatural issue. And God is able. You say God will save someone against their will? No, God will never save someone against their will. But I found out God sure is able to make them willing. God can break them down and back them in a corner where they have nowhere to turn but Him. And so don't ever say, don't ever say, this person can never get saved. You're thinking like Saul's thinking. The issue was not whether David could conquer Goliath or not. The issue was whether God could conquer Goliath or not. The issue is not whether this person can ever get saved or not. The issue is can God save them? Let me ask you this question: Is there anybody God can't save? Is there so hard is there any heart so hard that God can't break it? No. And so Well the issue is not that. Um uh somebody says there's no way I can ever have victory over this sin. I know God saved me, but I had this sin, I can't have victory. There's no way it's too powerful, and I I can't have victory over it. You know, humanly speaking, that might be true. There are some sins that are so powerful. But I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven that can give victory over any sin. There is not one sin more powerful than the blood of Jesus Christ. They were talking the other night about addictions, addictions, addictions, and they kept making this statement. They kept saying, addiction is not a choice. Addiction is not a choice. Well, this is what I said. I said, you know, addiction is not a choice. Addiction is a consequence of choices. Somebody made a choice to engage in this behavior. Somebody made a choice to ingest this into their bloods. Once that choice is made, then that addiction takes over. And humanly, you say, there's no way these people can ever have victory over that. I'm here to tell you, there's a God in heaven that can deliver anybody from any sin. There are certain sins that are so powerful, that have such a grip on a person's heart and mind. Humanly it may seem impossible to have victory, but I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven that can give victory There's a preacher out west. He's on YouTube a lot. The guy's a knucklehead. And he's going around saying homosexuals can't be saved. Homosexuals can't be saved. I'm here to tell you there's not a sin that devil can come up with that the blood of Christ cannot deliver from. It can be saved. Now, it's tough. That's a powerful, powerful sin. But you'll never convince me there's any sin so powerful that Christ can't deliver and forgive and cleanse. Amen or not? That's Saul's thinking. That's under the sun thinking. Yes, God can. I can't effectively serve God. I'm just not, I could never do anything for God. Oh hus. When I was studying that verse, what is it, 34, where Saul's saying, Thou art not able, when I was studying I thought, boy, I wish I could just go back in time for two minutes and say, Oh Saul, hush And I'd get out of there real quick because he'd probably chop my head off. But I'm saying you can serve God. I was thinking about, and you'll forgive me Jerry for using it for illustration, but I was thinking when Jerry and MK started coming here, you remember, he always said, I don't like kids. I don't like kids. Remember that? I'd say, Lord, please don't kill 'em. God, please don't kill 'em. And we bought that bus and we were in here praying. Jerry pulled up, and I'll never forget. He pulled up there, he opened the doors, tears streaming down his cheeks. God's called me to run this bus and reach kids. How many kids have been saved was Jerry and Connie's worked that bus for all these years. Don't tell me God can't use you Hey, I got an idea. Start saying somebody you don't like. God's gonna call you to reach them and work on that. Uh Oh, the issue is not whether I can win whether someone can get saved or not. The issue is not whether I can have victory over sin or not. The issue is not whether I can effectively serve God or not. The issue is not whether I can be a soul winner or not. Oh, I can never be a witness to somebody. I found that the people who think they can't be a good witness that step out in faith and try it anyway, those are the ones God uses mostly. And if people say, Oh, I can win anybody to Christ, forget that. It's God does the saving. Listen, if you're sitting there saying, Oh, I would go soul winning, I'd get involved in soul winning, but I don't think I could ever do it. Listen It's not you doing it. It's God doing it. It wasn't David killing Goliath. It was God killing Goliath through David. I know I'm harping this. But man, I just see so many churches. Church say, oh, we can't have revival, we can't have revival, we can't fill the church, we can't see. I'm here to tell you whether we're seeing it or not, I don't know. But I know we could. I know God can do something. Thou art not able. Boy, that just irked me when I read that. Thou art not able. It's not whether I can have the joy of the Lord or not. One of my um favorite authors, A. W. Tozer, I really like reading A. W. Tozer, he said this: God is looking for people, and I inject here, and churches. God is looking for people through whom He can do the impossible. And he said this: what a pity that we plan only the things we can do by ourselves. If David would have said, if David would have listened to Saul and say, wow, you're right, I didn't think of it that way. I'm just a youth, and he's been a warrior since his youth. I'm glad you pointed that out to me. There's no way I could do this. If David would have just viewed them what he himself was able to do, they would have been destroyed. But David understood that there's a God above the sun. That God can do great things. I don't know what your issue is. I know it kind of ranted maybe tonight a little bit, but I'm saying this There's a God in heaven. I don't ever want to lose sight of that. I don't ever want to lose confidence in that, that God can do the impossible. If we will just trust Him. Have confidence in him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that you'd help me as a pastor, that this would grip my heart and mind thoroughly. I pray you'd help us a church. I pray for the young people sitting up front here and all around. That your Holy Spirit somehow would convince them that you can do great things in their lives if they'll just trust you. Moms and dads, us grandparents. We need revival in our church, Lord, and we're looking to you to do it through us. So please hear us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, I need to remind myself. I need to get refocused on the power of God. And that he can do in my life what needs to be done and get my eyes off myself and off my circumstances. Is there any like that tonight by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's what I need. God bless you. And maybe an old-fashioned altar is a place to come and say, God, here I am. Take me and use me. God, work through me. Revive our church. Do that which we cannot do ourselves And I'm convinced if we'll plead with him and yield to him, God will do it. God will do it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.