Fairly extended portion of scripture. We're looking at the life of David, of course. Absalom has risen up in rebellion against David He is uh uh seeking to usurp the throne. And uh we're gonna see here in a little bit. He isn't satisfied with just taking the throne from David. He is gonna Seeking to kill David. This is the second significant person in David's life that is set out to kill him And so David is responding to that. Of course, all of this has fallout from his sin back in chapter 11. And everything all right? What'd I say? Second Peter, who's going to Second Peter? That's not where we're at. Listen, you have to go by what I mean, not by what I say. Yeah, I got the wrong notebook. Oh no. Uh no, 2 Samuel chapter 15. There is no fifth t chapter 15 in 2 Peter. This is getting off to a rough start tonight. So nevertheless, David is dealing all this as fallout, if you were paying any attention to anything I said there. Setting up here. So I want to read extended portion. David is uh what I was trying to get at was this in 2 Samuel chapter 15. David is fleeing the city. His son has has uh overthrown uh the palace. His son is uh uh uh running him out of the city, so he's fleeing. And that's what we've been looking at. But I want to pick up here in verse number 24. I'm going to read down through verse 37. The end of the chapter. I know it's fairly lengthy, but I want to keep this all together here in context. Look at verse 24. And lo Zadak also, and all the Levites were with him. Now, this is as he's leaving the city, crossing the brook Kidron out into the wilderness. It's got these people going with him. Now look what they have. And all the Levites were with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they shut down the ark of God, and Abiathar went up until all the people had done passing out of the city. And the king said unto Zaduk, Carry back the ark of God into the city. If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me again and show me both it and his habitation. In other words, the tabernacle, where the ark uh is to be. But if he thus say, I have no delight in thee, if God says that about David, David saying this Behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good to him. The king said also unto Zadok the priest, art not thou a seer? Well what would be another term for a seer? Profit we learned that in track money. Art not thou a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, and Ahimez, Ahimenez, thy son. And Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, see, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness until there come word from you to certify me. Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem, and they tarried there. And David went up by the ascent of Mount Olivet. And wept as he went, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot, and all the people that was with him covered every man his head, and they went up, weeping as they went up And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. Now remember, Ahithophel was David's right-hand man, his dear friend, a counselor, and now he's He's uh fallen out to the enemy, so to speak, to Absalom. Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. It came to pass that when David was come to the top of the mount, Mount Olivet, Where he worshipped God, behold, Hushei the Architect came to meet him, with his coat, rent, and earth upon his head Unto whom David said, If thou passeth on with me, then thou shalt be a burden unto me. But if thou return to the city and say unto Absalom, I will be thy servant, O king, as I have been thy father's servant hitherto, So will I now also be thy servant. Then mayest thou for me defeat the counsel of Ahithophel. So Hushai is a counselor also So David, what's happening here, we'll talk about this a little bit, but David is putting a man, what would you call, a mole in, so to speak. Then mayest thou for me defeat the council of Ahithophel. And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the priests? Therefore it shall be that what so what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house, thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests Behold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimenez, Zadok's son, and Jonathan Abiathor's son, and by them ye shall send unto me everything that ye can hear So Hushei, David's friend, came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem. Let's pray. I've entitled it David yielded to the will of God. You'll see where I got that title from here in a minute. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of David, this event in David's life, and particularly David's actions and Maybe you can help us see a little bit into the heart and mind of David as he deals with this situation. I pray, Father, that you would help us and speak to our hearts I ask again, as I do every time I preach your word, I teach, I ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit, that you would be the teacher and the preacher tonight and speak through me. I yield my will. Present my body anew and pray with all my heart that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Psalm chapter 3, if you would turn over there with me just quickly And we're not going to dissect Psalm chapter 3, but um it's not very long, and I want to read down through there. If you'll notice, get over there to Psalm. I'll give you a moment to find it. Psalm chapter 3 When you get there, look right above verse number one. Underneath the chapter number, before verse one, there's a little statement giving the background of Psalm chapter 3. Notice what it says. A psalm of who? David, but look what it tells us. When he fled from Absalom his son. So this will help us as we look at David's response here as he deals with the Ark of the Covenant being brought out with him. Sending some people back, the priests and Hushei, back into the city to help him. This gives us a little insight into David's spiritual state. And how he's seeing this and how he's thinking about it. Let me read down through here. Verse number one of Psalm 3. It says, Lord, now let me stop here. We don't know exactly when this was penned. This is when he it came to him. We don't know when it was made public. You know, at what point in these events did he sit down and pen this, we don't we can't say for sure, but it was sometime when this was happening, maybe after then he presented it as a as a psalm to the people of Israel But he says this, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me, many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God. Selah Now who would he be referencing there, maybe he'd be saying that? Who who would you think he'd be talking about? Absalom, no doubt. They say of my soul, there's no help for him in God. Absolutely, you know, maybe saying, you know, he he doesn't have a chance. My dad doesn't have a chance But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, my glory and the lifter up of mine head. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Now we're going to look at that crying unto the Lord with his voice. We'll look at that here in a bit. I laid me down and slept, I awakened, for the Lord sustained me. No doubt he's out in the wilderness now at this point I will not be afraid of ten thousand of people that have set themselves against me roundabout. Arise, O Lord, save me O my God, for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheekbone. Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Now he's referencing back to previous experience in his battles with the Philistines and and the enemies of God's people. He said, Lord, basically saying, Lord, you took care of me before. A salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon my people. Selah So I think Psalm 3 gives us a little bit of an insight into David's frame of mind, his thinking as he's going through what we're reading here in 2 Samuel 15. Now I want to before we look at the text here, if you're back now, keep your place in Psalms, because I think we're going to reference that. And before we start breaking down this passage. I want to give what I consider to be some characteristics of a spiritually mature person. I don't know. Maybe you might give a little different list than what I'm going to give, and you know, people might have a little different take on it. I jotted down six characteristics of what I think would be of a spiritually mature person. If we asked the question, if I put it out in question for it, what would you think is a s what would be a characteristic of a spiritually mature person, no doubt a lot of us would have different thoughts on that. Here's what I thought I put number one down. One characteristic of a spiritual mature person is that they love God dearly and sincerely and they love others. And I get that from Matthew chapter 22, when Jesus was approached, and they asked him, what's the greatest commandment? And Jesus responded, he said, the first commandment, he said, as far as greatness is concerned, is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. And then he says, the second is like unto it, thou shalt what? Love thy neighbor as thyself. And so if that's the greatest commandment in the mind of Jesus Christ, And that's the great greatest commandment according to the Son of God. Then I would say a spiritually mature person would love God with all his heart, soul, mind, and love his neighbor as himself. In other words A spiritually mature person would be characterized by a loving attitude, a loving disposition. Can you give me that? Spiritually mature person. That's the greatest commandment. Second one I put down, characteristic of a spiritually mature person, is they have biblical discernment. Biblical discernment. Would you agree with me? A little child, four or five-year-old child, they don't always have the best discernment. Right, they would uh they can put themselves in pretty bad situations if they have no guidance. But as a child grows into the junior age and teenage years and then twenties and as they grow they ideally begin to develop discernment what is right and what is wrong, what is true and what is false. And I put this down and as a person develops spiritually, as they mature spiritually they begin to see, hey, you know, this here really isn't that good, and this here really is pretty good. I ought to, this ought to be a part of my life. How many people, as you grew spiritually, you began to see things before you never thought much of it. Later on, you say, you know, that probably ought not to be a part of my life. Anybody like that? You develop discernment And then other things you really never thought much of, and you grow spiritually and say, boy, you know, I ought to be a part of that. That ought to be involved in my life. Discernment. And so a spiritually mature person has spiritual discernment. They can, they're able to make uh uh decisions on whether something is right or whether it's wrong as they get to know the Word of God and they get to know God. They have some discernment there. Um uh discernment between that which is true and which is false. I know when I first got saved I was uh had some influences around me, spiritual influences, a couple of guys at work. It was interesting. They never ever witnessed to me, ever. They worked with them for a number of years. They never, one time, in fact, I didn't even know they were Christians And when I got saved, almost within a month's time, they started approaching me with Calvinistic doctrine. So I'm a brand new Christian. I almost know almost nothing about the Bible. And they started approaching me. And at first, you know, I didn't know. But as time went by and I got in Bible Institute, I began to study my Bible and read and grow, suddenly I realized, you know, these guys are off the mark. Biblical discernment between what is true and what's false spiritual maturity there. And then between discernment, being able to discern between what is good and what is best. Now that takes a little maturity. Sometimes we'll allow something that's good, but we'll allow that to replace that which is what? Best. And so discernment is a characteristic, I think, of spiritual maturity, a sensitive along with that I put this down, a sensitive, uh being sensitive to that which is wrong. That which is sin. Another one, and I can't elaborate on all these. Number three, I put down patience. Being patient. How many people still have some maturing to do in that area? Yeah But being patient, a mature, strong, mature Christian, they're able to be patient in trying situations. Number four, I put this down, disciplined. Little children aren't always disciplined. I learned early on working in the children's ministries, back years ago, working in the children's ministry. You learn a lot about family life working with the children Rather than just everything. School teachers, you learned all kinds of stuff. Uh man, they just open their mouth and mom and dad are like, ah And so they're not real discipline, uh, along with that, faithfulness taking responsibility. An immature Christian does not take responsibility for their actions, they are not faithful and disciplined. Number five, strong in their faith. Strong in their faith. Faith is the backbone of Christian life and growth. And then this was, I said all that to get to this. Because I think David here is going to display to us some tremendous spiritual maturity in his reaction to Absalom and all that's going on, in spite of his horrendous failure. Nevertheless, he displays some real maturity here, and this is the sixth one I put down, submission to the will of God. Submission to the will of God. If I can get to the place in my life, if I can get to the place in my spiritual life as a Christian, Where I can honestly and sincerely say and act on it, not my will, but thy will be done. When I get to that point, in whatever the circumstances are, whatever the situation may be, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. If I can get to that point, I'm reaching spiritual maturity. Because we sure like to do our will, don't we? And this old flesh wants to do things my way, what I want, when I want, the way I want. But if I can get where I Paul put it this way, die to self. Say, not my will, but thy will be done. We've been touching on this a little bit in Sunday school and other messages, but uh John the Baptist put it this way: He must increase, but I must what? decrease. And that to me is is spiritual maturity. If I can yield my will, if I can submit my will to the will of God, In any and every circumstance, any and every situation. I've had people say this to me. I'm telling you, I've had people say this to me. I know what the Bible says, but this is what I'm doing Do you agree with me? That's pretty immature spiritually. I know what God tells me, but I'm doing it my way. That is not spiritual maturity. And so I want to suggest to you that David here is displaying some spiritual maturity. Now, one other thing I want to say about submissive or spiritual maturity is this. Being spiritually mature does not necessarily correlate with the length of time I've been saved. You follow what I'm trying to say? In other words, a person may have been saved a very long time, but be very spiritually immature. Anybody here ever meet adults that were about the maturity of a five-year-old? Well, that's true in the spiritual realm also. Just because I've been saved a long time doesn't necessarily mean I'm spiritually mature. However, the flip side of that Generally, spiritual maturity does take some time. Generally, it takes a little time to learn the ropes and learn things sometimes the hard way. Every now and then you come across someone that gets saved, and brother, they grow and mature spiritually very, very quickly. But usually it takes a long time. I know for me it took a while. In a lot of areas. So time is necessary for spiritual maturity. David's had a lot of time. He's an older man now. He's been knowing the Lord for a long time. He's seen some tremendous victories. So time is a factor, although it doesn't equate maturity. It's often necessary for maturity. And the second thing is trials. A lot of times I need to go through some dark valleys. A lot of times I need to go through some difficult things to learn to trust God, to grow and develop my faith. to be what it ought to be. And um some of the most mature, godly, humble, and humility would be another factor, mature Christian Godly, humble, pure, sweet Christians I ever met have been ones that went through tremendous difficulties. Tremendous heartaches personally and just in life in general. Has David been through some difficulties? Good night. Ran all over by King Saul. He's seen victories. He's seen failures. He's been exalted and praised. He's been hunted like a fox. He's been through some trials and it's and it's it's helped him develop and grow. Alright, so we said all that. David's displaying some mature ma spiritual maturity here. It's been developed in the trials and now he's displaying it. Here's my Real quickly, I'll give some observations. I want to work our way down through this passage. My first point's the longest, so bear with me. Number one, I noticed that David was submissive to the Lord. I get that from verse 24 through 26. And Lozadak also and all the Levites were with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar went up until all the people had done passing out of the city. The king said to Zadok, carry back the ark of God into the city. If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, he'll bring me again. He'll show me both it and his habitation. But he, God thus say, I have no delight in thee. Look at this. Behold, here I am. Look at this. Let him do to me as seemeth good unto him. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, I underlined that statement, I wrote in the margin of my Bible, submission. David was submissive to the will of God. If God brings me back, okay. If he says nope I'm going to run you down. This is it. It's the end. Whatever he does, I'm submitted to it. David's submission. What's our tendency? What's our tendency when somebody mistreats us or does us uh does an injustice to us. What's our natural tendency to do? Push back, retaliate. Oh yeah? Did you ever hear this? Worse yet, have you ever said this? There ain't nobody treating me that way. I'm telling you right now, that is not the fruit of the Spirit, that's the work of the flesh. That type of thinking. And it's natural, you say, uh I'm telling you, it's natural. That is the instinctive reaction. We are instinctively rattlesnakes, venomous snakes. Rather you cross that line, you cross my uh you cross me. Do snakes hiss Yes. And man, those fangs come out. Am I right or wrong? I don't have a rattle. I have a more of a copperhead. But that's our reaction, isn't it? Is the strike back. David's learning here a little bit, and I don't see David striking back. He mentions these two fellows here, which are interesting. He mentions Zadok. Who in the world is Zadok? Zadok is the high priest in Israel at this time. He's the number one guy in the tabernacle. He's the guy that enters into the Holy of Holies on the one day of atonement and puts the blood on the mercy seat. He's the 11th high priest down from Aaron, the first original high priest, appointed by God. And so would you agree with me? Zadak is pretty significant in the spiritual life of Israel. He's it. He's the guy you go through to find atonement from God. And that Old Testament economy. He is um He joined David after Saul died, then his allegiance went over to David. David was the anointed of God. Zadok knew that. He saw that. And when God removed Saul, his loyalty went over to David. And he remained faithful to David all the way through David's life, even much later on when Um when uh Anijah, uh Adonijah rose up again at the end, he stayed faithful to David And so Zadok is out there with David. He's coming out with him. He's bringing the ark along with him. And he mentions another fellow here, another priest, Abiathar, there in verse number. Which verse is it? Yeah, verse 24, there, Abiathar. And uh he mentions Abiathar. Now, Biathar, he wasn't a high priest. There's only one high priest, but he was a priest. He was leader. He had a significant position in Israel, particularly in their spiritual life. He was faithful to David. The thing about Abiathar is, and we'll probably end up talking about it later. Abiathar was very faithful to David in Absalom's rebellion. But later on when Adonijah, at the end of David's life, just as he's handing the throne over to Solomon, Adonijah rises up Just before David dies, and um uh Abiathar, he defects over with Adonijah in the end. But nevertheless, at this point, these guys are supporting David. They've seen what happened, they've seen Absalom, they've been watching him, no doubt. Maybe they anticipated something like this. They weren't dummies They were in touch with God. And whatever the case was, when David fled, Absalom comes in, they go with David. And I got thinking about that, you know, it must have been reassuring to have the men of God supporting what you're going through. And, you know, usually Sometimes God lets us go through things totally alone. Paul has said on a number of occasions, no man stood with me. And he indicated on a number of occasions in his writing that there were times he was facing trials, he was facing opposition from the Jews and the government, and he said, Nobody stood with me, I was alone. That's happened sometimes, but usually God, when we have a difficult time, God will often Send somebody along to help us and to support us. And if you've been through some storms, if you had to deal with some stuff, to have somebody say, hey, I'm with you, a man of God, somebody that or a lady of God, and whatever the case Somebody that knows God and loves God is faithful to God, and they say, hey, we support you. That is tremendously encouraging. Can I give a personal illustration? About twelve about uh fourteen years ago Um we had this thing blow up on the internet on me. I had preached a message on homosexuality and that thing blew up. And I mean to tell you, some of y'all were here, it was it was rough. And um it it took a few days till it got out there and got public and then um I mean then the death threat started coming and uh just the horrific stuff started coming. Um Several days into it, I didn't hear from anybody. The church was good. I had a preacher friend call me, say, hey Brother Leatherman, I I've been hearing what's going on. I just want you to know I love you, I'm praying for you, I'm supporting you. You know who the first preacher was to call me? Byron Fox Byron Fox said, hey, I heard what's going on. Brother, we're f with you. We're for you. Called me up and supported me. I'm telling you, and you may have been in sim situations different but your own where somebody just says something like that and it means the world to you. Anyone know what I'm talking about? The second preacher called me, it was about a week or so into it, was Dr. Pat Creed. He said, Brother Dennis, just want you to know, love you. Praying for you. It's going to be okay. We'll help you. They offered to get lawyers and stuff and all this. And um I tell you, to have some men of God Or some Christians that love the Lord and come alongside and say, hey, we're with you. We support you. We're in this with you. It means the world. I can't imagine what it meant to David to see Zadok And uh and uh Adonijah show up and say, David, we're going with you. Had to mean the world to him. And so these two guys here are mentioned. Notice in verse 24 And it's beginning to look to me like I'm not going to get through this message. You knew that before we even started. Look at what it says. And Lozadok also and all the Levites were with him, bearing the Ark of the Covenant of God. So they're bringing the Ark of the Covenant out. Now notice it makes this statement. And they set down the Ark of God. And Abiathar went up until all the people had done passing out of the city. Now I first read that. I didn't think much of it. Then I got looking at it and studied a little bit. I wonder what it means. They set down the ark of God. And Abiathar went up. And so I got a little looking there and looking stuff up and seeing what some other fellows that are smarter than me had to say, and I come to this conclusion. What they were doing was they got to the Brook Kidron there, and David has at this point several hundred, maybe a couple thousand people are coming out with him. I mean, it's significant And they set that ark down. This is what I think is happening. I think they start offering sacrifices up to God on David's behalf on these people coming out. They set it down and Abiathar went up. He started offering up sacrifices. And so they're very concerned for David's spiritual well-being as long as his physical well-being. But David responds and he sends them back. And he says, you guys go back, you take that thing back to Jerusalem and put it where it belongs, in its habitation. And David's displaying a little, he's displaying submission here in this particular case. First of all, the ark was not David's, it was God's. And David's trying to be very, very careful that he doesn't claim something, or something isn't claimed for him that is not his. The ark was God's ark. David had no right, and by the way, Zadok and Abiathar had no right to move that ark without the directions from God. That was to only be moved at the Lord's leadership. Remember when David brought it into Jerusalem initially? Some time ago we studied that? What did David do before he ever brought it in? He went to the prophet. He went to the Lord. Um, before he ever sought to build a temple. They didn't do nothing with that art until they were sure God was okay with it. And David immediately picks up what's happening, and he says, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, don't you bring that thing out here. You put that thing back in its habitation. You put it back in the tabernacle where it belongs. That ain't mine. I don't have any right to move that thing for any personal reasons or any reason at all without the Lord's leadership. And by the way, it ain't the priest's ark either. That ark needs to stay there. Sometimes people will say, and I learned I tried to adopt this mindset early on when I came here as Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not my church. Some of the time sometimes people say to one of our church members, Oh, you go out there to Leatherman's church. If they say that to you, tell them, it ain't Leatherman's church. It's the body of Christ, this is Jesus Church. This is his body. Every molecule of possessions on this property has been dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ. and the advancement of the gospel. It's not mine, it's not yours, it's God's. And we don't have any more right to do anything with the church unless we have God's direction than they had to move that ark unless they had God's direction. This is God's church. And we need to remember that. And every Saturday night, Pastor Matt and I pray here. I've done it since 1993. We get down, we kneel every Saturday night, about 10 o'clock usually, and we pray, and one of the things I say every week, Lord, this is not my church. Tomorrow this is your church. I'm taking my hands off. You show me and tell me what to do And that's the attitude David had towards the ark. Submissive. So the ark was not David's, it was the Lord's. It wasn't Zadoks or Abiathars, it was the Lord. They had no right to move that thing without God's leadership. They had no right to use it for any personal gain or personal reasons. And neither do you and I in the church or our ministries. And second of all, the ark was not a good luck charm. Israel tried this before, remember? They were going to battle with the Philistines, and uh was it Saul got the bright idea. Let's bring the ark out, then we'll surely win if we have the ark out here. Number one, he had no right to move it. Number two, he was using it for his own personal advantage and supposedly and he was treating it like it was a rabbit's foot. Does anybody still carry rabbit's foot for good luck around? Well when I was little we had rabbits but we'd carry them around. I always wondered, wasn't too good, didn't work out too hot for that rabbit A good luck. And if we're not careful, sometimes we'll treat the things of God as if it's some good luck charm. Well, I'll take my Bible with me, that way I'll get a big deer. Uh no. Uh I take that Bible around with me. Uh, you know, I have this little cross in my pocket Now I'm not a Yes, if you have a little something in your pocket as a reminder to, you know, that who you are, I know you can get these little sometimes people carry a little cross or a little coin with a verse on it, just a reminder, hey, I'm a Christian. I'm not against that. I'm all for memorial stuff. We're going to talk about that Sunday. But if I think that carrying a cross or wearing a cross around my neck is going to bring me some spiritual luck. Or blessings of God, you're wrong. And Israel learned that the hard way That orc didn't do carrying an orc around. A disobedient Christian carrying an orc around or carrying a Bible around or carrying a cross around ain't going to do him any any good at all And so David says, you take that thing back. That's not some good luck charm. We don't have any right to carry that around. The ark represented God's presence. It was the place of atonement. There was very specific instructions given on what was to be done with that ark where it was to be done and how it was to be done. Does anybody think David maybe learned this somewhere on how to treat the ark? Yeah. Moving that thing into Jerusalem, put it on cart, like it's a piece of lumber, some furniture, a sofa, throw it on the cart, we'll move it. It wasn't just a lumber, it wasn't furniture, it was the ark of God So David says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You know what that was? That was an attitude of submission to the Lord. This has to be done God's way. The church is not mine. It's the Lord's. The ministry is not mine. It's the Lord's. The gospel is not mine. It's the Lord's. Now look at verse 25. And I'll end with this. So they uh set the ark down. Verse 24, they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar uh went up. I think he's offering sacrifice all the people until all the people had done passing out of the city The king said to Zadok carry back the ark of God into the city. Now look at his statement here. I see submission. This is where I got the submission totally. If I shall find favor, note that word, in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me again and show me both it, the ark, and his habitation, the tabernacle. Just don't bring that thing out here. If God shows me favor, He'll bring me back. Would you agree? That sounds like a submissive man to me. God decides he's going to show me favor and let me come back, then fine. Look at the next verse. But if he thus says, I have no delight in thee, if God says about David to David, I have no delight in thee. Behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good to him. What a statement. What an attitude. David is at a crises point. His son is raised up against him. He's going to try and kill them. Everything David has lived for for the last 40 years almost is in jeopardy. And late in life he's running out of his city, he's fleeing. And he says, you know, I see two things he's submissive to. Number one, the grace of God. In verse number 25, I highlighted that word favor. Anybody want to guess what word that word favor comes from? Grace. It comes from the exact same Hebrew word, our word, the word translated grace, exact same word, this case, favor. David is saying, I'm totally dependent on the grace of God. Somebody help me. What's a simple definition of grace? A simplistic definition of grace? Unmerited favor, or sometimes I define it another way. Does anybody remember? God's riches at our expense, that's the acronym. Ah. Grace, the simplistic definition, is receiving something I do not deserve. What do you think David is referencing when he says, if God in grace, God in giving me something I don't deserve, lets me come back, lets me see the tempest the ark, lets me see the tabernacle. Anybody think maybe he's referencing back to the fact that he had just sinned grievously against God? And the judgment, the lit the law's judgment on his sin was that David's life should be taken. David says, I'm a product of grace. And if God gives me something I do not deserve, And lets me come back and see and w where the ark is and the t and uh the tabernacle. He said, that's the grace of God. I tell you, it's good for every one of us as sinners To submit to the grace of God. I hope you follow what I'm trying to say. None of us deserve the least of his favors. I've said this often over the years. If I got what I sometimes we gripe about, well, I deserve better than this. I deserve that. You hear the advertisements sometimes. You deserve a new car. You deserve this. If we got what we deserved, every one of us would be burning in hell right now. And so what I need to do is just submit to the grace of God. God, if you in your grace choose to give me something or do something for me what I don't deserve, praise the Lord. I'm submitted to that. So I see David here as submissive to the grace of God. David knew what he deserved And he said, if God in his favor allows me to come back. So he submitted himself to the grace of God. But then in verse 26, I put this down: he submitted himself to the goodness of God Look at verse 26. I've read it two or three times already. But if he, God, thus say, I have no delight in thee. And I think David's in his mind is thinking, you know, he has every right to say that. Behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seemeth good unto him. I put one, he submissive submitted himself to the grace of God, and he submitted himself to the goodness of God. And this is what I'm taking away from this. David knew that regardless of what God did, even if God allowed his life to be taken, now get this God is still good. The goodness of God. Look what it says. Let him do to me as seemeth good to him. Does God make mistakes? No. Is God ever unkind? No. Let me ask this question. Does it ever seem like God made a mistake? Huh? I mean, from our perspective, does it ever look like, man, that's a mistake? Yeah. Because a lot of times God has done things and allowed things that I don't know the answer to. I don't understand. But David, by faith, understood that regardless of what God allowed, get this, God is still good, and I can trust him. He submitted to the goodness of God. David knew that regardless of how things appeared, God is still good. God is still wise. And he says, I don't deserve anything if it's God. It would only be God's grace that he lets me go back. And if not, and this is it. Let him do what he knows is good. God, I trust him. Whatever he chooses to do, he's a good God, and I trust him. Even if it doesn't work out the way I think it should or the way I want it to be, I'm telling you, that is spiritual maturity If I can trust God even when things don't make sense. Are you with me? If I can trust God even if it seems like this isn't, even if it's not the way I would like it to be or want it to plan out But I can trust God. He's good. He's wise. He knows what he's doing. Here's the thing to keep in mind. God has more information available to him than you and I do. And so I understand that as I mature spiritually, I begin to understand that and say, all right, God has more information to I trust him. I trust him. Remember when your kids were little, you tell them they'd do something, they'd say this. You know, you wouldn't you make them do something or you wouldn't let them do that or whatever, and they'd say this. Well, why? And dads are notorious for this, is what? Because I said so The fact of the matter is there's a whole lot more information in the brain of mom and dad than there is in the brain of the little six, seven, eight-year-old kid, twelve, thirteen, fourteen-year-old kid. And their God has a whole lot more information than I do. And if he, in grace, lets this turn out, I submit to that. And if he in his goodness and his wisdom has it go this way, I submit to that. And that, I'm suggesting, is a sign of spiritual maturity. Spiritual maturity. What's Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 say? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and the other side of it, and what? Lean not into thine own understanding. What he's saying is you submit to the Lord and you just trust him. You just trust him. I'm going to end it there. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. When things don't appear the way we think they should, help us to trust you. Lord, help us to understand everything we have that is even remotely good is by your grace. So help us to trust you. I wonder how many would say, preacher, you know, sometimes things don't look. Like the bio the way the Bible says that they are, you'd say, Preacher, I just need to learn to trust God, even when it doesn't appear to me to be that way. Anybody? Anybody like that? Sure, I need it all the time Lord, I'm just going to trust you. I don't see it, but I'm going to trust you. I'm going to trust you. And submit to it and trust the Lord. Doesn't mean we don't take steps, we're going to see that, but it does mean we begin The foundation of faith and submission. Father, bless now, ask. We'll give you a little invitation. And maybe some of us just need to bring something to the Lord and say, Lord, I'll put this in your hands. And I'll just submit this to you. And so bless us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's