Evening. I like I said, I this afternoon I was just kind of going over things and I got thinking about it. We are asking everyone to turn in their nominations for deacon, trustee, and all of this next Sunday evening. We'd like to have them in by then so we can get the process rolling in time for the new year. And uh I thought if I pr if I teach on this next Sunday night, it'll be after everybody's turned it in for the most part. So I went ahead at the last minute and made the decision to uh switch my messages. And it's really not a preaching tonight. Um it's more of a teaching thing, just a Bible lesson on deacons and particularly um how they came about and the responsibilities and all of that And so it's more of a teaching than a preaching type thing. We're going to have an invitation at the end. I'll just tell you right now what I would like to see at the invitation is uh God's people, our church, really praying for our church and for this coming year that God will bless us. This past year from my appraisal of this past year at Matt Lake Bapt Independent Baptist Church has been unusually blessed. Um I think from my perspective it's probably been one of the most blessed years as far as events and growth and soul saved and baptized since I've been here. And we certainly would like the Lord to continue to bless us and continue to go forward. So when I'm done with the message, the invitation is going to consist primarily of uh asking church members just to commit ourselves to really pray that we can go into the new year and continue to have God's blessings on our church in the new year. And very much the blessings are very much dependent upon the leadership of the church and folks that hold some of these positions. uh throughout and the whole church body as a whole, but th they play a significant role. And so we want God to bless and God to lead on all of this. If you would notice in Acts, did I give you the reference yet? Acts chapter 6. If you would turn there when you find that Also find 2 Timothy. I'm going to begin with the passage in 2 Timothy, and then I'm going to We teach them primarily from Acts chapter 6. Now if you got a pen and paper, or if you got a pen, you've got a fly leaf of your Bible, I want to give you, just to get us started here, um Our Baptist distinctives. We ought to know what our Baptist distinctives are. There's a reason we are Baptist. It's not just because we think it's a cool name. Or uh it's not just because daddy was a Baptist or anything like that. There are certain distinctives that identify us as a Baptist church. Now I'll say this right up front. I think you all understand this. Baptists aren't the only saved people. We get to heaven, there'll be other folks there. Now they'll be Baptists when they get there, but um but uh no We're not the only one saved I had a lady years ago. I I think it was a lady, I'm pretty sure. She wrote me a letter, she didn't sign it, but um He says, you all think you're the only one saved. You think your church is the only one going to heaven. We don't think that at all. In fact, our church can't save anybody. But let me give you this. If you've got a pen, if a fly leafy revival, let me give you a little cross stick here, Baptist. Many of y'all maybe are already familiar with this, but I want to give it again just to kind of start the lesson tonight. B Write this down. B stands for the Bible is our soul authority. That's where it all begins. The Bible is our sole authority. In other words, we have no other authority than the Word of God Pastor Leatherman is not the authority of the church. The Bible is the authority of the church. If Pastor says something contrary to the Bible, we go with the Bible. Well you don't do it the way I heard uh it's been a number of years ago, but apparently there was a church in the county here had an evangelist and he made this statement the first night service. Now I somebody told me that was there, so this is pretty uh pretty uh reliable information. He said the first night of the revival, he said the evangelist said, Y'all can just leave your Bibles home this week. I'll just you won't need them uh when I'm preaching. I've got a word from the Lord Now listen, if you ever hear a preacher say that, it's time to get up and go out. They tell you not to bring your Bible. So, number uh, first of all, let her be, the Bible is our sole authority. Write this down. Now you all are gonna we're gonna have to go quicker than this, alright The Bible's authority. A. B. A. Autonomy of the local church. In other words, we are everything. We don't need anything outside of the church. We answer directly to God. Somebody asked me yesterday, said, why are you independent Baptists? What's that different? We are not part of an association. We're not part of a convention. We are autonomous, self-supporting, answered to the Lord, self-contained. Doesn't mean we don't fellowship with other churches. Don't mean we interact with other churches of like faith. But we're autonomous. B P, B-A-P, Baptist P is priesthood of all believers. Every saved person can go directly to the Lord in prayer, can interact directly to the Lord. You don't have to go through a priest. I'm more than glad to pray for the church members. I try to pray for every single name of the members of the church several times throughout the week But you can pray directly to the Lord. I don't have to come to me and me go to the Lord on your behalf. You can go, every one of us. Now, T. V-A-P-T, T is two ordinances. Two ordinances the church has. In other words, we have Believer's Baptism and Communion, Lord's Supper. Believer's Baptism and Lord's Supper are the two ordinances of the church. No others outside of that. We don't have sacraments. But we have two ordinances, baptism and communion. I, V-A-P-T-I, I stands for individual soul liberty. In other words, you can interpret and study the Bible for yourself Everybody can learn and understand the Bible. Many years ago, the Catholic Church would forbid their members from having a Bible. They said it was dangerous. for the c average man to read the Bible. They needed the priest to interpret it for them. Now every individual can uh has sole liberty there to study the Bible and come to their own conclusions. S B A P T I S Saved church membership. You cannot be a part of the church if you're not saved. You're not part of the church. So saved church membership. So how are you doing? B is what? Bible is our sole authority. Autonomy of the local church. P priesthood of all believers. T two ordinances. I S. Saved Church. Let me give you the last two more. T, Baptist, two offices. Pastor and Deacon. Pastor and Deacon. Now some folks end the Baptist distinctives right there. I like to add a last one, S Baptist, S separation of church and state Is a distinctive of the Baptist Church. We have never been a state church. The Baptist Church has never been part of the Catholic Church. We did not come out of the Catholic Church. We were never part of the Catholic Church. So technically we're not a Protestant. We are Baptist and very distinct in that. So I said all that to set touch on these two offices in the church. pastor and deacons, and I want to look particularly at the deacons. Alright? Now, are you you got your Bibles there? Look at 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'm going to read down through here real quickly. We're not going to spend time in this passage. I think a lot of us were familiar with this. Notice verse 1, 2 Timothy. This is a true saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. What is the office of a bishop? That is what That's the pastor. That's the pastor. Pastor is referred to in the Bible as bishop, elder, sometimes minister, and pastor. So this is referring to the pastor. Is everybody there? Second Timothy? That's what I said. First Timothy? First Timothy chapter three. You all thought I said second Timothy, don't you? Goodness. Now we do have those hearing aid things back there, so keep them in mind. This is all right, now are you there? All right This is a true saying. If a man desires the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop, then, again, referring to what we would call pastor, A bishop then must be blameless. The husband of one wife. I've often said that and felt like my desire in life is to be a one-wife husband and a one-church pastor. So the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior. How many people want your pastor to behave? Yeah, me too. Uh given to hospitality, apt to teach, not given to wine. How many people don't want your preacher to drink? Yeah. Amen. Uh no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre, but patient, not a brawler, not covetous, one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without, outside the church The community, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. So there's the office of pastor, bishop, and the qualifications that God gives for that. Now he says, likewise In the same way, must the deacons be grave. Now he goes down, he addresses the deacons. Be grave? That means just they take their responsibility seriously, is what it's talking about. It doesn't mean they walk around with a long face, grouchy, mad. Just they take their responsibility very seriously, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre, holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. Let these also first be proved. Let them use the office of a deacon, being found blameless. Even so must their wives be grave. Now that's one reason right there why we don't have women deacons. Because their wives must be grave. And so that would exclude women, right? So anyway, and same thing over with the pastors, a husband of one wife. It's kind of difficult for a woman to be the husband of one wife. And well nowadays it's uh No, it's still they can pre listen, let me say this, they can pretend that all they want. It ain't so. So anyway Let uh verse eleven, even so must our wives be grave, not slant slanders, sober, faithful in all things. Let the deacons be Be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well, for they that have used the office of deacon well purchase to themselves a good degree and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Now come back to Acts chapter six. In Acts chapter 6, we have the introduction of deacons to the local church. I believe this is where you first have deacons, the need arise for them And uh the uh they're introduced here and the the the pattern is set. Acts chapter 6, and notice with me verse number 1 And in those days, now remember this is very, very early in church history. It's not completely organized yet. All these in these qualifications that we just read have not been given yet. This is very, very early in the church's development. And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. So here you have the situation. Uh and we'll come to that, let me just read on down. When then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them And said, now this is the twelve uh apostles have been or set up. They replaced Judas in Acts chapter one, you remember, they replaced Judas, and they got these guys. They are functioning at this point as pastors The church is not completely developed yet, and so they're functioning as the pastor here. Later on, they'll pass off the scene and pastors will uh head the churches up. So that's the setting. The twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you, seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost, and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. And the same pleased the whole multitude. This is the church. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Procurus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenes, and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch, whom they set before the apostles And when they had prayed and laid their hands on them, and the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly, and a great company of the priests that were obedient uh were obedient to the faith. So they had this need arise They went through this whole process, chose out seven men, they appointed them for this responsibility, and God blessed, and the church grew. So let's pray real quick and I'll just give you a few thoughts. Father, uh bless now as we study this important role in our church. We want to be right, Lord. We want to follow your instructions. So we ask that you would help us in Jesus' name Amen. So the Bible gives us pretty clear instructions, qualifications for the deacons. We saw that there in Timothy. And uh here I want us to consider tonight. How the deacons came about. That's my first thought is how does a man become a deacon? A pastor, how does a person become a pastor? They receive a divine call in most cases In October of October 5th, 1985, I was senior in Bible College. After six years, I'd crammed it all in. I was finally a senior. And um uh God dealt with my heart and I sensed that God was calling me to pastor. Before that, I was intending to be a uh elementary school teacher. It was my intention I felt sense that God was calling to me to be a pastor. So most of the time God will call a man to that office, to that role. A pastor can pursue the office. A man can pursue the office. of pastor. Do you notice there in Timothy, if any man desire the office of a bishop, in other words, does he deserve is he pursuing it? Is he out looking for it? A lot of times when a man is called to preach, he'll put his name out. If he doesn't start a church somewhere, maybe there'll be a church looking for a pastor, he say, here, I'd like you to consider me. I'd like for you to pray about whether it's my office uh whether I'd be the one for that office. Uh we came here in 1993. Um uh uh I heard about the church, I'd sent Dr. Williams some information about myself God used that, one thing led to another, we ended up here. And so a pastor receives a divine call, and he pursues that many times, but a deacon is different. In the Bible, you do not have a deacon receiving a call to be a deacon. Nobody gets up in testimony time or in a revival and says, God has called me to be a deacon. That's not the way it happens. That's not the way it is in the Bible. A deacon is not necessarily pursue the office. Nobody comes up and says, Pastor, here's my resume to be a deacon of the church. I'd like to pursue that office You don't see that here in the book of Acts. You don't see that anywhere in there. Rather, a deacon is selected by the church congregation. Did you notice there in Acts chapter 6, verse 2? Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them. You know what they're doing? They're having a church business meeting. Again, everybody together. Listen, we've got a situation that needs to be dealt with. This is the way, and of course God's leading them. This is the way we're going to deal with it. So we call the church together. And he says to them, uh look verse three, he says, Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men. They're instructing the congregation, you Choose out seven men to meet this need and fulfill this office. So notice, first of all, under this whole idea how a man becomes a deacon, first of all, how this office came about The pastors here, the apostles at this point, acting as pastors, they determined there was a need in the church. And verse number one tells us what that need was. Verse 1, it says that the widows were neglected, and thus, notice up above that, there was murmuring going on There was division in the church. There was fussing going on. And so the apostles called the church together. They said, listen, we need to deal with this. We need to fix this. There's some division. And so uh they address that and uh the purpose of the uh the need to c that brought the office about was the fact that there was some division and we need some men to address this. So uh the people were divided and particularly in this case here uh it was the widows were being neglected in the ministration apparently They were being overlooked and somehow and caring for that later on in Timothy again he gives very detailed instructions how to care for the widows and whatnot within the church. He gives lays out pretty clear there. And uh the church's responsibility and far as that is concerned with the deacons and that or with the widows, that's another message. But the issue here was is they were being neglected. Let me just throw this out God gives special care and promise of protection to widows and the fatherless. You read through your Bible very carefully. And God, over and over and over again, says that he will specially take care of the widows and the fatherless. And in the book of Exodus He gives strong judgment on people who assault or misuse deep uh uh widows. And he says judgment comes on a family and on uh and on a person that is going to mistreat or be unkind to a widow. And so the apostles were very wise and very correct when they noticed there's something incorrect here with the deacons They immediately took action and says, wait a minute, we need to straighten this out. I don't know. I can if this is my thinking. I would imagine they would say, hold it, we don't want God's judgment on this new church And we're going to make sure these ladies are taken care of. And so the whole situation that brought this about was the people were murdering. And there was an issue here with it with the widows going on. So what'd they do? The pastors didn't come running in and say, all right, we'll take care of this, we'll take care of this. No, no, no. They delegated responsibility. Now, why did they delegate the responsibility? Look at verse 2. Why did the pastors delegate this to these seven men they had elected? What's it say? Aha, so they can concentrate on the Word of God. We don't want to be drawn away, get caught up on this, and there would be a lot of ramifications getting in between this and say, we're going to focus. on administering the Word of God, getting the Word of God, advancing it, providing leadership, spiritual leadership for the church. And so they delegate this responsibility. They did not want the distraction of God's people complaining. So they choose that. Now this is where it gets interesting. Look at the second part of verse 2. It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and what's that next word? Serve tables. Here's interesting. That word serve is the exact comes from the exact same word that's translated deacon Throughout other portions of Scripture. What we read in Timothy, 1 Timothy chapter 3, that word, and so likewise was the deacons, it comes from the exact same word. Here it's translated serve, other place it's translated deacon. You could almost, now I'm not saying we should, but you could almost read it, it is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and deacon tables. So there we have the idea, the introduction of thought of the idea of a deacon. The deacon, that word serve, and the word deacon simply means to be a servant of, and it's a sense of a servant of the church. serving the church to keep the peace, to keep the unity, to keep that thing functioning so the pastors can stay focused on their responsibility as pastors. And so that's how it came about. So number one, we said under this, I said that how the office came about, this is how a man becomes a deacon, first of all The office came about because of this need. Then notice real quick, I'm trying to go through this quickly, but notice how the deacon is selected. I think it's important to notice here how he's not selected. The pastor doesn't just come and say, you know, we need some guy. It's probably going to take seven. I don't know that the number seven is of any significance. Some churches say you have to have seven to be biblical. I think that's just what they felt like they needed. That's my thinking But it this is not the way it happens. The pastor doesn't come down, all right, we need alright, it's going to take seven fellows to deal with this. Alright, I'm going to choose you and you and you and you and go the pastors didn't go through and pick them out And God's, I believe, is overruling this. And what they did was they called the congregation together and says, Y'all pick them out. That's the Tennessee version. All y'all pick them out And so the way they're selected is the pastors, well, before they got the congregate, well they got the congregation together, then the pastors gave the qualifications. Do you see that there? Verse number three. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you. You guys pick them out among you, but here's what they've got to be. They have to have honest report, and we're going to look at these. They have to have be full the Holy Ghost, wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. And so the church is to pick out these seven men who meet these qualifications that they give. Then verse 6, they're presented to the church. They're presented to the deacons, or to the pastors, I'm sorry, the apostles. They're presented to them for approval. Look at verse 6. Whom they set before the apostles. They said, Alright, here's the seven we picked out. They brought them to the apostles for their approval. And then prayer was a key part in all of this. And this is what I say, when we nominate people, we ought to spend time in prayer over this They prayed here or there when they said their pray and when they prayed they laid their hands on them. Uh some have suggested, I'm not convinced this is exactly what's happening here, but I am intrigued by the idea Some have suggested that when they laid their hands on them, that was a process of election that maybe they went by and who they the ones they thought if they approved of them holding that office, the congregation, they would that was the way they were voting. I'm not sure if that's the case because it happens after they prayed. You notice there's a separate. And when they prayed, they laid their hands on him. It doesn't say they laid their hands on them and prayed But they prayed, then everybody came and laid their hands on them. So I'm wondering, I'm just thinking out loud here, if that isn't a process Where they're going by and saying, yes, I approve of this, this, this, kind of like we vote today with pencil and paper, maybe that's what it was. I'm saying that's a real possibility. The point is, it was not a popularity contest This was a very serious spiritual decision that was made. And then it's interesting, the pastors actually initiated the office. And then they presented the responsibilities and the qualifications for the deacons. It's never vice versa. It's always the pastor is given the responsibilities, deacons. And so we'll talk about that in a minute. So number one, our first point was this, how a man becomes a deacon. Now, I want us to consider real quickly the type of men. Who should serve as a deacon, the type of men. In every church, you have folks that are various levels of maturity. Some people are very mature spiritually, others are very immature spiritually. You have this whole spectrum of levels of maturity within the church. You have a whole spectrum of levels of s the strength of their faith. We talked about this morning about the strength of our faith. Some people in a church are very, very strong in their faith. Others are weak and struggle in some areas. And it's always been true, even in the New Testament church. You have in every church you have people are different levels of a spiritual Christian and a carnal Christian. And some folks are much more carnal, more worldly. They live more along in that end. Then you have others are very much more separated unto the Lord and much more spiritual. They're more influenced by the Holy Spirit. And so you have this whole spectrum here within every church at varying levels in their Christian life. Now the deacons, according to this and other portions of Scripture, are to be chosen from the mature. Christians. From the spiritually the that are strong in their faith, that are spiritual and not carnal, but are mature and not immature is who they are chosen from So let's look at the qualifications again. Everybody doing all right so far? Everybody okay? Alright, look at verse number three. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men. Now here he gives the requirements. Of honest report. In other words, and I'm maybe oversimplifying this a little bit, but in other words, men that we can trust. Honest report. Uh uh man that people would say this about him. Now I don't know a whole lot about that guy, but I know this. You can trust him. That guy will be where he says he'll be. That guy will do what he says he'll do. He's an honest report. Um he'll finish the job. You give him a job, he'll get it done. A man of integrity and faithfulness. They have good testimonies. So their honest report. Then he says, full of the Holy Ghost. God's work can only be done in the power of the Holy Spirit. And every aspect of it I've often said this. I've I've often done this. You've heard me do this before, many of you. How many folks believe your pastor ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Sure. Good night. I want to tell you, the Bible teaches that every member of the church ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit just as much as the pastor is. The Sunday school teachers ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit. the children's church workers, the choir members, nursery workers, the ushers We ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit. We ought to die to self and be filled with the Spirit. Spirit of God working us. God's work requires the filling and the power of the Holy Spirit. And that is true with deacons also. So if they're going to be filled with the Holy Spirit, they've got to be pure in their heart and life. They have to have a passion. I'll tell you one thing The Holy Spirit will do. When a person is filled and controlled by the Holy Spirit, I'll tell you one thing that happens, they have a passion for reaching lost people for Christ. You can't be filled with the Holy Spirit and not be stirred in your heart to reach lost people for Christ. Because that is the heartbeat of God And the Holy Spirit of God dwelling me and controlling me, I'm going to be stirred to reach the lost. And the love of Christ constrains me through the presence And the power of the Holy Spirit in my life. So they're filled with the Holy Spirit. They're honest report. He gives another one here: men of wisdom. Wisdom. This has the idea that they're able to make scripturally sound decisions. The decisions that are made are true to scripture. They're solid. They're not off the wall. They're not out there on business principles so much, but they're scripturally sound. Um I think it's also this, they're able to use some common sense. Um I I think our country could use some common sense. I was listening to a fellow, I won't say who he is, that's running for president uh president, and uh this afternoon I was listening to a speech he gave before a little bit, and um he was saying, he was saying, he says, everybody running our country has no common sense. I thought that's some common sense right there. And uh he didn't say exact that way. He put it something like, These people are stupid, is what I think the way he said it. But um uh we uh we don't want uh We don't want stupid people making these decisions for our church. Can I get an amen there? They want some wisdom about them. They don't want it spiritually sound in their decisions, a little bit of common sense Then of course we had the whole list in Timothy. So number one, how does a man become a deacon? Well we notice that there. There's Anita Rose The congregation chose them out, uh the leadership gave the approval on that, and they became a deacon. The kind of men, uh uh full of the Holy Ghost, honest report, wisdom, and they do that. Now, what are the duties Let me give you real quick. What are the duties of the deacon? Number one, we notice what their duties are not. Now this is important to understand. Through the years, churches have had strange views of what a deacon is and what he's supposed to do. A deacon is not a grand jury. What I mean by that is they don't go around investigating church members and looking for issues that need church discipline. Well, I'm a deacon. I'm looking for sin. You know what I you know what verse I think of on that? You better get the speck out of your own eye before you go around looking for beams in the in Uh wait a minute, you better get the beam out of your own eye before you go around looking for specks in others. And uh that is not the job of the deacon to be some sort of grand jury and constantly putting people on trial to See whether they are uh they are fit for the church or not. That is not that. Uh another thing a deacon is not is not a congregational representative. Bringing complaints to the pastors drives me nuts. It doesn't happen. And by the way, let me say this right now. I meant to say this in the beginning of the message. I thank God for the deacons we have now. I really do. I may I made the statement, God is blessing our church in Tremendous Lake. I'll be the first in line. I'll be the first one to sign the paper that says our church would not be what it is today were it not for the godly deacons we have. And the other leadership that may uh make up our church. But I thank God for this. So this is not a reaction in any way, shape, or form. I thank God for our deacons. But a deacon is not a representing the church. And uh I've seen this over the years where folks here in other places where folks would uh uh somebody would have this idea that the deacon, one person said, I see the deacons kind of like Unions. Where the pastor is management and the deacons are the union representatives. I said, brother, you are messed up. That's not in the Bible. Well, Pastor, I'm a deacon, and there's a number of folks in the church congregation that are displeased. I said, really? Who are they? Well, I'm not at liberty to give you their names. Well, then I'm not at liberty to listen to what you have to say. If they got a problem, tell them to come and talk to me. It's not the representative of the people. That is not the role of the deacon. He's not a union rep, the congregation rep. He's not a ruling board. And our fellows are on board with this. I think we all as a church understand this. The the deacons, nowhere in the Bible, are the deacons given any authority in the church. other than perhaps what the pastor would delegate to them authority along those lines. And so they had no other authority in the church other than what the pastor delegates. Remember, the word deacon means servant. To serve. Not to rule. Not with authority, but to serve. And even the pastor, the only authority the pastor has in the church is what Christ has delegated to the pastor. Jesus is the authority. And he gives the pastor responsibilities to provide the leadership for the church and the direction of the church and the instruction of the church, but he's the authority And so the deacons are not given authority. So what are their duties? If they're not church congregational representatives and they're not a grand jury and they're not a ruling board, what in the world do they do? Their duties are very simple, to serve the church. If I understand Acts chapter 6 correctly, the primary duty of the deacons is to keep the church unified. And issues come up and situations come up, of course, under the leadership and direction of the pastor. They keep that thing together Keep that flock together, working along. I kind of look at them, I said this years ago, but I kind of look at deacons kind of like the pastor is the under shepherd, Jesus the shepherd, pastor is the undershepherd, he's given responsibility to lead that flock And the deacons are kind of like the sheepdogs. And they just kind of run around there keeping that thing in line. So if a deacon starts barking at you, um no, I'm kidding. But they kind of just help keep that thing together. You see what I'm trying to say? And they just serve the church and they serve the pastor and keeping that thing working and keeping that thing functioning and keeping that thing well oiled and working together. They serve the pastor in the sense that they allow the pastor to focus on the teaching and preaching of the spiritual leadership, the the ministries of the church providing that leadership, and he doesn't get caught up on these other things and they keep that thing working away there. God's highest title God's highest title in the Bible that He gives to a man. If God wants to honor a man with a title What does man do? If man, people want to honor a man, they'll give him a title like doctor. Yeah. Dr. Kenton Moyer. Or they'll give him a tile. In England they'll W Sir. Uh they'll what's it called? Night You. Sir Dennis Leatherman. Thank you very much. That's reverend. Or they'll give that title. They want to honor a man. When God wants to honor a man, you know what title he gives them? My servant. My servant David. My servant Moses. The greatest men in the Bible, God referred to them as my servant. So that tells me the office of a deacon, the very word, means servant. That is something highly honored by God. To serve God. And serve the body of Christ as a deacon. What a tremendous privilege. What a tremendous honor. What a tremendous responsibility. Now that's equally true for pastor, and really It's true for all of us, as we have a part in building the body of Christ, serving our Lord and Savior, our great shepherd. And keeping this thing going forward. So I hope you'll pray. I think we need deacons, the church that play a vital role, trustees or legal responsibility we have. Other areas, treasure and all that. These are all important roles. And so let's pray that God will continue to bless as He had. And we can go forward. And This is my hope. I'm just talking to you night as your pastor. This is my hope and my vision is to see God do even greater things in the coming years. Two times this summer, and this isn't the sole measure of God's our success or God's blessing, but twice this summer, did you notice we had to set up chairs in the back? Do you notice that? I'd like for that to go forward and maybe see that on a regular basis. We almost, unless something the next two weeks unusual happens, we almost bap average one baptism a week. We haven't even been close to that. Wouldn't it be wonderful if next year we'd average a baptism, at least one baptism every week? Wouldn't that be exciting? But we've got to walk with God. We've got to do things right. We've got to stay humble before the Lord. We've got to follow that Bible. And uh then God chooses whether he's going to do these things or not. But I sure would love to see it go forward. And so what I'm asking tonight is that's a little Bible, brief Bible study on what a deacon is and his responsibilities But what I'd like for us to do tonight as we finish out the Lord's Day is let's just really pray together as a church in the next coming weeks that this new year will be a near of God's hand of blessing and protection. And revival be upon our church. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless us. I hope this lesson was helpful, Lord. I pray we'd see ourselves as you see us, and our church as you see it, and we'd be able to function according to the pattern laid out for us in the Bible. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, as Jennifer gets situated there at the piano, how many would say, Preacher, I'm going to give my heart and give myself to pray for God to send revival and his hand of blessing be upon this body of believers. I'm going to diligently pray for that. And God would lead and direct. How many would join with me by the uplifted hand? Sure, that's what we want. Goodness. And let's just start it off tonight, maybe an old altar, and say, Lord, we want your hand. Protect us, bless us, direct us, and ask God to do that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.