Notice down in verse number twenty, but wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? I want to talk about dead faith. this evening. And let's ask the Lord to bless. Now Lord, it's been a good day, Lord. It's been a busy day, a bit challenging in some ways, but uh you're always faithful and we rejoice in that Lord And uh as was said, God, we just want to acknowledge you tonight. We consider it a tremendous privilege to serve you. And I pray that you would help us to serve you in faith And help us to live in faith. Help us, Lord, to do what the Corinthians were instructed to do, to examine ourselves, to see whether we even be in the faith. I pray that our faith would not be dead, but it would be alive, living faith. And so fill me with your spirit. I pray with all my heart I present my body anew I yield my will to yours and I I ask Lord you'd you'd have your way in our lives in Jesus' name amen. Ah there was a fellow had three boys, a farmer. He had three boys, Ron, Don, and little John And they were all members of the church. They all claimed to be great Christians. You'd talk to them and they'd say how much the faith they had and how much they uh trusted the Lord and how much they loved God. They had the words there and they had the talk in place, but their walk wasn't They hardly ever came out the church if they did, it was very seldom. When they were in the church services, they didn't participate in any way, shape, or form In fact, looking at their life, the way they lived, it wasn't a whole lot different than the way an unsaved person lived. Yet they said they had great faith. They said they were Christians. One day, Don was out working in the field and he got bit by a rattlesnake. They immediately called the doctor, and the doctor came in and By the time the doctor got there, the poison had spread, the venom had spread throughout his body. And the doctor said, I'm sorry. To the father, he said, I'm sorry, but there's very little I can do for your son, Don The outlook for his recovery is very dim. So the father and the doctor said, I suggest you call your pastor. And so they did that. They contacted a pastor. The pastor came out very quickly. He knew the family. He knew the boys. He knew their situation. He knew what they claimed, and he knew how they lived. And uh the pastor arrived and he said they told him what's going on. He he visited with him. He says, now let me pray. And he stood over Don's infected body and boys gathered around their tears. And the pastor prayed this, O wise and righteous father. We thank thee that thou and thy wisdom did send this rattlesnake to bite Don. He hasn't been inside the church in years and has shown little interest in you. We trust that this experience will be a valuable lesson to him and will lead to his genuine repentance. And now, O Father, wilt thou send another rattlesnake to bite Ron? And another one to bite little John, and Lord sent a really big one to bite the old man For years we have done everything we know to do to get them serious with thee. Thank you, God, for rattlesnakes. I think that was a pretty wise pastor. I don't think it's exactly what Don and John and Ron were really thinking of. But there's one thing to say that I'm something, and it's another thing to actually be that. And there was a real issue back in the early church, and it's actually been throughout history, and that was this: a person trusting in their works to save them. A person depending on how I live to make me acceptable to God. If I do certain things and I do enough of those things, then I'll earn merit with God and God will accept me. And it's called a work salvation. We see it all the time we're out visiting and knocking on doors and we ask folks as I say often, do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven? I'll hear statements like this. Oh I hope so, I think so, and if you press them what they're trusting in a lot of times, well you know, I go to church. I'm a pretty good person and I do this and I give money. I had a lady down in Chattanooga one time. I asked her if she knew for sure she was going to heaven She goes, Oh yeah, absolutely. I know I'm going to heaven. I said, how do you know? What are you trusting on? What gives you that assurance? She goes, I helped my neighbor catch her chickens. And uh that was her good work. That was going to get her to heaven I'm telling you, catching chickens for your neighbor isn't going to get you to heaven. Might get you a free chicken dinner, but it's not going to get you to heaven. Take your Bible if you will. We're going to look at a number of verses. If you would turn to Matthew, chapter number 7. We're probably going to look using our Bibles a little more than we normally do. Matthew chapter 7, verse number 21. I think this is one of the saddest passages in all the Bible. Matthew 7 and verse 21. Now the issue that was has been common throughout history has been people trusting in what I do, in the works I do, my performance, my lifestyle, to make me acceptable to God. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 21, the Lord Jesus made this statement. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. Let me back up and read that again. I want to emphasize one word. Not everyone that Saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Now look what he look what next look at the next statement. Many will Say, now remember in James, you say you have faith, you say you have faith, but you don't have words. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord. Have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and thy name done many good wonderful works? What are they trusting in They're looking to their works. They're looking to these things they're doing. Look at this. Verse 23. Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. One of the issues throughout history has been people trusting in their works, in their things they do, in giving money to the church and being baptized and being a church member. I'd have fell one time attended here for a period of time. I never was able to lead him to the Lord. As far as I knew, he died very religious but lost And I visit him in his home and his wife was very sick and he was somewhat elderly. I said, Sir, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? He goes, Yes, I'm sure I would. I said, how do you know? He said, I've been Sunday school superintendent in the church For 41 years I am sure I'm going to heaven. He's depending on what he did, something he did to get him to heaven In Hebrews chapter 6, and for sake of time we'll not turn there if you want to jot these references down. In Hebrews chapter 6, verse 1, and chapter 9, verse 14, the Bible references twice a phrase, dead works. He says we need to repent from dead works. And I've touched on this in a previous message, but what exactly are dead works? If you remember the definition I gave, and I want to encourage you, maybe jot this down. This isn't original with me, but this is a good definition of dead works. Dead works are any good works that I do to make up for bad works. A dead work is any good work I do to make up for bad work. In other words uh during the week or something I do something that's bad. I say a bad word. By the way, Christians should never say bad words And so I say a bad word and I think, oh no, that was uh that was bad. That's a bad work. So I need to do something good to counter the bad I just did. I need to do something good to make up for the bed I just did. So I'll go and I'll throw a couple I'll throw $25 extra dollars in the offering plate to make up for that uh curse word I said earlier in the week You know what kind of work that is? That's a dead work. It doesn't do you any good. It doesn't accomplish anything as far as my standing before God or God's acceptance of me. So some people have in their heads that if I do enough good things, if I'm a decent person, if I try to be honest and I'm a good citizen, then somehow that'll make up for my failures, that'll make up for my shortcomings. And I'll be accepted. That is dead works. Um the Pharisees were notorious for having dead works. They depended on the works and Jesus clashed with them continually. That their clothing they wore and the rituals they went through and the traditions they held to were not making them acceptable to God. And what's true for the Pharisees is true for the Baptists. Being a member of an independent fundamental Baptist church never got one person into heaven. Giving to the church your tithe and faith promise, all that does not make me acceptable to God. Only one thing makes me acceptable to God, and that's the work and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so one of the issues throughout the history of time has been man trying to earn their God's acceptance, earning merit with God by the things I do. It crept into the church in the book of Acts, I think it's chapter fifteen, you find where people were getting saved and the Jews that were getting saved, some of them Pharisees, had actually trusted Christ But they were requiring of the new converts, many of them Gentiles, that they accept the Jewish law before they could ever be saved. In fact, they said These Gentiles have to be circumcised, or they can't be saved. They were injecting works into the plan of salvation So it's been an issue. Now, and that's that's been going as long as time, we still deal with it today. But apparently, there had crept into the church the opposite. Of that error. The pendulum had swung to the other extreme And there was a thinking, apparently from the book of James, there was another issue that developed, and it got to this. I'm not saved by works. Works does not earn being merit with God, only Jesus Christ, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, accepting my personal Savior And the pendulum had swept so far to the other side it got to the point where people thought, well, if I just say that I acknowledge the facts of Jesus Christ, if I just have a mental acknowledgement of the facts of Jesus Christ, then that's enough to save me I can just say that I'm saved. I can just say that I have faith. If I give the right answers to the right questions, then I'm saved. Look with me if you would come back here. I hope you kept your place in James there. We're going to jump around different verses, but keep a uh a marker here in James. He says in verse 14, if you notice, and we've been trying to bring this out, verse 14 says, What does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith? Verse number 10 16, and if one of you say unto them, verse 18, Yea, a man may say thou hast faith, and I have works, show me thy faith without thy works, I'll show thee my faith by my works. And James, of course, under the inspiration of God, is confronting this idea that I simply, if I just say it's okay, if I just say I have faith, well then everything's alright. Some apparently had perfected the talk of their salvation, but had no walk of their salvation. In other words, they had all the right answers, but it had never affected their life in any way. The Pharisees had dead works. These guys had dead faith. Their works were meritless, their works accomplished nothing for them, they were dead. But these guys, their quote-unquote faith, just saying stuff Didn't earn them any merit with God. I want to say to you, dead faith won't save a person any more than dead works will save a person. Empty words won't save a person any more than empty works will save a person Your Sunday school teacher can come to you and say, Do you know that when you die you're going to heaven? Oh yeah. Romans 3. 23, for all sinning comes short of the glory of God. Romans 5. 8, God commands love towards us while we were at sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 6. 23 The wage of sin and death, uh the God uh wages in uh wages sin and death, but to get to God's eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord, through whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. For the m uh confession is mouth is made uh for the mouth, confession is made unto salvation for the heart, man believeth unto righteousness, and I'm slaughtering that verse there, and they can spit back all that and say, Yeah, I'm saved, I know all the right words That just saying that doesn't save a person any more than a guy's trusting in his baptism will save him. Dead faith. Dead faith. If something's dead, what does that tell me about it? Or a small crowd, you can talk to me. If I had a dead possum here, I'm holding up, what would that what would I say, this possum is genuinely dead. What would you find what would you know about that? It's good for nothing. You could boil it maybe and eat it, but uh it's lifeless Right? If something if something how many people are glad you came to church found that out? If something's dead, it is lifeless. It's without power, it's inactive. If your battery is dead There's no charge. So no benefit. Produces nothing. Nothing comes out of it. So the Pharisees and many others had dead works. These characters had dead faith. Their faith was lifeless. There was no life in it. They produced nothing as far as salvation and eternity was concerned. Their faith was dead. Now I want to talk about just quickly what dead faith is. Two thoughts about what dead faith is. Number one Dead faith has lifeless words. Lifeless words. Look at verse 17. Even so faith If it hath not works, it is dead. Verse 14 is what I'm looking at. What does the prophet man, though he say he hath faith? And have not works, can faith save him? In other words, all this guy had, the only thing about his faith was the words coming off his lips In Proverbs chapter 14 and 23 it says this, in all labor there is profit. It's good to work. Amen? And all Amen. It's good to work. In all labor there is prophet. That guy years ago came and they got saved and God was changing their life and he needed a job. And he said, I'm looking everywhere to find a job, and I was trying to help them. And I said, Listen, if you can't find anyone to hire you, get you a broom, I'll lend you a broom. Go down to McDonald's or Sheep and just start sweeping their sidewalk off and just Go work, go do something. And I said, if you do a good enough job and you work hard enough, somebody will hire you for something. It's good to work. And all work, the Bible says there is profit. But The talk of the lips tendeth only to penury. The word penury means extreme poverty. In other words, you and I can talk and talk and talk and talk and talk all we want. It's not going to do us a bit of good. We've got to work. We've got to get out there and do it. And that is true. That's what James is talking about. We can talk about God all we want. We can talk about the Bible all we want. We can quote all the verses all we want. But until we genuinely trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we're as lost as a guy that's trusting in his baptism to save him. That's what he's addressing. Just saying. Just saying. Oh yeah, I'm safe, but there's nothing there behind it. Because what's that? There is a species of Christian. That can talk the talk, but the walk is missing. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly, to Matthew chapter number 15. Matthew chapter number 15. And when we're done in Matthew, we're going to go to Luke. So keep your Bibles here handy. How many people brought your Bibles with you? Got your Bible with you? Amen. Let's use them. We preached on it this morning. Matthew 15, look at verse number seven. Boy, the Lord dealt with this. People just saying one thing. The Jews were Pretty bad at this. They just say, say, say, say, say, but they had nothing. Look at verse 7. Ye hypocrites! Wow. Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their What? Mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me All they had was what they said. All they had was their talk. There was no life. But in vain do they worship me, teaching for the doctrines, the commandments of men. Vain. Something's vain, it's empty, it's lifeless, there's nothing there. All they had was the talk. Come over to Luke chapter 3. This is John the Baptist. And all these Pharisees and folks are coming out to be baptized. I read this in my devotions a couple weeks ago. And it caught my attention. Verse 7 of Luke chapter 3. Then said he to the multitudes that came forth to be baptized of him. Now look at his look how he talks to them. Oh generation of vipers! Who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to Say within yourselves, Oh, we have Abraham our father, for I say unto you, God's able to these stones raise up children unto Abraham What's he saying? John the Baptist was telling him saying, listen, if you want people to take your Christianity seriously, then you've got to have more than just the talk. There needs to be some walk behind it If you want to be respected as a Christian, if you want to be respected as a person of faith, then my faith has to be more than just words on my lip. It has to be the life that I live. And he's rebuking these Pharisees. You guys are coming out here, you're saying all these big things, you're making all these big speeches, you're putting on this big show, and there's nothing to you more than simply words You vipers, you hypocrites. And we need to be very, very careful in modern-day Christianity that we do not just deteriorate into saying stuff. We need God to change our lives. We need to be transformed within by the renewing of our mind, not simply just saying stuff, saying stuff, saying stuff. And he's rebuking them here That they had lifeless words. They were just empty words. But then if you come back to James, I hope you kept your place there. Come back to James. He goes on to another issue. He says, you say you have faith. All right, show me where your faith is. How does it affect you? In what way does it affect your life? You say all this What ways it affects your life? He says, I'll show you my faith. Look at my life. Look what it's done to my life. Look how it's changed me. So lifeless words are dead faith. Just saying stuff and there's nothing behind it. But not only lifeless words, but loveless words. Look with me if you would at verse 15 of James chapter 2. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, I mean they're in bad shape. And what do you Say unto them, all right, here's the words. Up in verse 14, it was lifeless words, verse 17, lifeless words. Here there's more words, but these are loveless words You say unto them, depart in peace, and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding, you give them not the things which are needful to the body. What does that profit? Let me ask you a question. The fellow in this illustration that James is giving, he said to him, Oh, listen, you be warmed and filled and go on. Does that guy love those people? No. He could care less. His love was just a show. His love was just words. And his professed concern for them did not go beyond his lips. His heart was not in it, his soul was not in it, he didn't care for those people. It's just words. Just words. And that faith is dead. And a person can say, I have faith in God, I have faith in Jesus Christ my Savior. But if there is, if all it is is words, I'm telling you that person is just as lost as the person who's trusting in their baptism, their offering, their good church membership to get them to heaven. Loveless words. Loveless words. Romans chapter 5. Come on over there. We're just going to look at what the Bible says about this. Romans chapter 5. Great, great chapter in the Bible. Everybody doing okay out there? Everybody alright? Alright. Don't just say it, show it. Alright, let's try this. Everybody happy? Don't just say it. Show me your happiness by your works. Alright. Look at chapter 5, Romans chapter 5, and verse 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have access by faith unto this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Listen We're saved by faith. Amen? But we're saved by faith, not saying I have faith. You follow me? And not only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed. Look at S Because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. This passage is teaching, among other things, that when we genuinely exercise faith in God, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and we're and He saves us because we genuinely exercise faith in Him One of the results of that is he puts love in our hearts that the Holy Spirit has put there. The love of God is shed abroad. You know what I found out after I got saved? Now I am certainly not where I ought to be on this, believe me, and some days I do better than others. One thing I found out after I got saved, I cared more about other people than I did before I got saved. It really did. I like it when we have somebody, whether an adult or a child, after they get saved, suddenly they become very concerned that their friends get saved. They become very concerned about others and the well-being of others. Now, to them loving others and caring about others, is that what saves them? No! Faith saves them, but when they are genuinely of faith, it's not just words. Suddenly, that love is evidence of the fact that that faith is in place. Follow what I'm saying? The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. Take your Bibles with me. We're going to go to two more passages. John, 1 John. 1 John. Back past James. Boy, this is a significant passage here. This is important. I think sometimes we get a little careless. And I'm saying we. First John chapter five I'm sorry, did I say five? I meant four. First John chapter 4 verse 19, here's a passage we're familiar with. We love him because he Amen. You say, well, I s I love God. I love God. I bet uh uh uh I I would bet you, but I bet ya. Um If I went around here, every one of us, myself included, if I came up and said, Do you love God? Uh yeah. We love him because he first loved us. Look at this next next verse. If a man Say, I love God and hate his brother. What's that next four words? What's that next statement? He's a what? A liar For he that loveth not his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment we have from him: that he who loveth God love his brother also. Listen, just say, oh I oh yeah, I love God, and just say that. What's the evidence that I really love God? According to that passage, what is the evidence that I really love God? I love my brother. Just saying, oh, go well and do well, be fed, be warm. I don't love them. It's my actions, it's my behavior that shows is evidence that is testimony to the fact that I really love that person. Just saying I love God doesn't mean I love God. But if I genuinely love God, then loving my brother is going to be testimony of the fact that I love God. We have to be very, very careful I've heard people say, I try, and God knows, I uh, you know, I gotta I I don't believe I've said this, I've tried not to, but I've heard people say You know, in a serious way, I joke around sometimes, but in a serious way people say I hate that person. Man alive. Did you just read what we just see what we just read there? I had some folks that profess to be saved and very vocal about it, made this statement to me. I hate people. We hate people. I didn't say it. I wished I had, and I thought a little slow. Do you ever think of great stuff to say about 20 hours after you had the opportunity? I should have asked right away, do you love God? You say, oh, be warm, the guy's naked and destined of food, oh be warm and be blessed, be fed. And I just say that. That's loveless faith. That's dead. There's nothing behind that. One more passage, and we're real familiar with this. 1 Corinthians chapter 13 First Corinthians chapter thirteen And the first three verses, familiar passage. Brother, if we look at this and take this seriously, it's very convicting. Though I speak. With the tongues of man, I mean this guy can talk. He can tell you how it is about being Christian. He can tell you about faith, brother, he can tell you all about it. And the tongues of men and of angels. Good night. I would imagine angels can be very oratorical. Right? That's a big word. That's a very oratorical word. I speak with the tongue of men and angels, and I have not charity. Unbecome what? Signing breasts, tingle symbol. It's meaningless. It's just noise. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand mysteries and knowledge, though I have all faith, I say about all my great faith, so that I could move mountains and have not charity on what? Nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body and burn to have our charity, it profiteth me what? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing What's James talking about? Paul preaches strongly and teaches strongly in Romans and Galatians and Ephesians. He teaches strongly about the fact That works, trusting in works, is dead where not saved by works. And James comes along and he teaches and he preaches strongly, just saying. You have faith isn't going to save you either. Just saying you love people isn't going to do you a bit of good. There's no benefit in that at all It has to be more than just words. It has to be more than just talk. Now the works that James is talking about, we're going to look at this here in coming messages, the works that James is talking about is not something I work up. It's something God does in me. When I genuinely have faith and I genuinely trust Jesus as my personal Savior and I'm trusting him from my heart. That's why I think Romans 10, the Lord put this in there, if a man can that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart. Thou shalt be saved. He's a don't just go around talking, talking, talking that you're saved. You believe in your heart. And when that is the case, and James is saying What he's teaching here in other ports of scripture, he's teaching it, when I genuinely exercise faith in Jesus Christ, I've genuinely trusted him from my heart, I've trusted him as my personal Savior, then God produces these things in my life It's not like, oh man, I gotta go find someone that's naked and destitute of food and give them food and make sure they're warm so that I can be saved. That's not it at all I'm saved by being faith, but if my faith is genuine, it's not just words, then when that situation I'm presented with, inside my heart, I'm stirred. The love of God is shed abroad in my heart and I want to take care of him. I want to help him. I want to be a blessing. The works is the fruit of genuine faith, of genuine salvation, not the cause. And he's saying, listen, if that fruit isn't there, and all you're doing is just saying you have faith, then there's something seriously wrong with that. You follow what I'm saying? You follow what's going on here? This really isn't a complicated passage of scripture. I put this down. Works cannot save my soul anymore. Well, no, let me take it back. Words cannot save my soul any more than works can save my soul. It's faith. Salvation does not equal faith plus works. But faith that is genuine produces works. And here's the danger. You say, preacher, we know all this. What are you talking about? Well, one, we're preaching through the book of James, so God wants us to understand this. And two, there's a real danger. I think in second generation Christians, quote unquote. The children of godly parents. The grandchild the you have mom and mom and dad get saved, maybe out of sin or whatever. Now this doesn't happen all the time, but there's a realistic danger of this. And they raise their kids up in the church and in the fear and admonition of the Lord. They teach them about salvation. Those kids get saved. They've never been out there. They get saved maybe at a young age and they grow up. And they raise their kids up And if we're not careful, our kids simply know the right words. They've heard it from grandma and grandpa, they've heard it from mom and dad, and they when you ask them, they'll say, they'll say, they'll say. And what has always scared me, what has always worried me, is that we have a generation that says they have faith. But it's never been genuine heart salvation. We had a revival when I was in by down at Tennessee Temple University. We had a massive revival. I mean, it was powerful. God was in that thing Christians getting right. The university, if I remember correctly, was running about 4,000 at the time. These are people there studying to serve God, a Bible college, a good strong church. Vangelist came in and preached. One day he preached in chapel along these lines. He did not preach a work salvation. He did not preach a lordship salvation. He preached saved by grace through faith. But a genuine faith that actually saves your soul. He gave the invitation four hundred. Bible college students trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. 400. Now, did some of them, were some of them, just getting assurance? I think probably yes. I think there was a bunch that were raised to give the right answers, but never had gotten to the point where they made the right decision. Follow what I'm saying? And so Paul told the church at Corinth, examine yourselves. Make sure you're in the faith. Is my Christianity just words? Or can I honestly look at myself in the mirror of God's word and say, God? Is working in my life. God is changing. God is doing things. Not perfect. Good Greeks. Some of the best Christians in the Bible sinned horrendously. That means they weren't saved. It just meant they were still human. But we must be sure that our faith, our Christianity, is more than just saying, that our love for others is more than just lips, that our life has been changed. I hope I didn't muddy the waters. I hope this is clear. And maybe tonight we need to just say, Lord, help me to be real. Lord, help me to be genuine. Let your love, Lord, I want your love to be shown and shed abroad in my heart. Maybe I don't know why God's timing is here. I believe this is the message. Maybe there's some would need to say, you know, all my Christianity has been, it's been my lips. It's never been in my heart. It's never been in my heart. I told you about the fellow during Sunday school, an older man He said, I've got it here, but I don't have it here. I think that's what James is talking about. I've got all the words. I can say, say, say. The Lord's never saved my soul. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope, Lord, that you can uh I hope by Lord I've been true to your word here. I believe I have. I pray you challenge us to know that we genuinely have faith and it's not just words, but it's real in our hearts, it's true in our lives. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many is Christians tonight? You say, Preacher, I I hear what you're saying, I understand this passage, and I'm saved. I know God has saved me. There's no doubt about it. It's genuine, it's been real in my heart. But you know I'm not living it. as much as I know God would like me to. And there's areas of my life I really need to yield to the Lord. There's areas of my life I need to let God take care of. So that I have a testimony. That my testimony of my life matches What I know is true in my heart. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas that I really need God to help change and develop and get in line so that my testimony, my faith is is what it ought to be. Any like that? Uplift, God bless you. Bunch of hands around. Maybe we need to come and say, Lord, help me. Do what you need to do in my heart. Make this real. Let me ask this question. I ask this very seriously, very soberly. So someone here tonight say, preacher, I've got to be honest with myself and I've got to be honest before God. And my Christianity has been lip Christianity. It's not been heart Christianity. It's been my words, but it's not really been my life. And I need Jesus Christ to be more than just a name on my lip. I need him to be the Savior of my soul. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Settle that and make that clear. Is there any like that tonight? I need to be sure that. God bless you. How about is there any others? I want to be sure. I I I I I think all my Christianity's been has just been lips, and it's not genuinely been The salvation of my heart and soul. And I want that settled. Any others? Any others? Now Father, bless us. Help us to be sensitive to your spirit. Help us to be clear in our hearts and minds. Settled. I pray, Lord, you'd bless this imitation and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.