1 Samuel chapter 4. I'm going to read down through verse 13. We really should, time forbids it, but we really should read all the way to the end of the chapter to get the whole context of uh of uh what is taking place here and uh let me make sure my mic is on I am still if you'll bear with me I am still on New Zealand time And right now it's like uh morning there, I think. So uh bear with me. 1 Samuel chapter 25, verse number 4. Did I say the right reference? Okay. Twenty-five, verse four. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did share shear his sheep. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, get you up to Carmel and go to Nabal and greet him in my name. And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, peace be both to thee, and peace to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. And now I have heard that thou shearest, thou hast shearers, and now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not. Neither was there aught missing unto them, all the while that they were incarnal. And young men, and they ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore, let the young men find favor in thine eyes, for we come in a good day. Give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand. unto thy servants and to thy son David. And when David's young man came, they spake to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David and ceased And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Listen to this, who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants nowadays that break away, every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? So David's young men turned their way and went again and came and told him all these sayings, all those sayings. And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword, and they girded on every man his sword, and David also girded on his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men. And 200 abode by the stuff. I've entitled the message David's Conflict with a Fool. David's Conflict with a Fool. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. I thank you, Lord, for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and what this church means to me personally and be back home again in such a blessing. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, I ask that you would speak to us and I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me your word to each of our hearts and lives as you know that we have need. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray that you would help us, Lord, to grow in our faith through the Word of God. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've noticed over the years that often things will go very well. Maybe we'll have a revival meeting. We've got a revival meeting coming up here in a few weeks with Brother Sommerdorf. Uh maybe it's a revival meeting or a special day or maybe just God does something in your life and uh you seem to get victory and and and spiritually th things are going well and you just feel like you're on top of things spiritually. And then somebody comes along and says something stupid. And you react and you feel like you've lost all that ground you gain Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, I was doing so well, and somebody came or they or somebody you come across and somebody does something stupid. And man, it sets you off. And uh the next thing you know, we uh it seems like the spiritual progress we made, we lose it all. And um I think that's part of Christian life. And that is part of this was kind of the the emphasis of my message really. But that is a fact of life that if we're going to grow spiritually, and if we're going to be what God wants us to be spiritually, and if we're going to live a victorious Christian life, we've got to be able to deal with stupid people. To put it bluntly. Right? We've got to be able to deal with people who say foolish things and do foolish things And so that's what this is all about. This is what happens to David here. In verse 2 and 3, last time we were here, let's see, when was the last time I spoke here? Long time ago. We looked at verse 2 and 3, and we were introduced to a couple, a husband and wife. And we were introduced, the husband's name was Nabal. How many people remember Nabal? Yeah, what a character he is. And we noticed we looked at them pretty in pretty much detail and tried to get to know these folks and what they're like. And we found out, if you'll remember, we found out that Nabal was a very, very prosperous man. Go back up there to verse 2. He was a man in Naon whose possessions were in Carmel. And the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. And so that was an indicator that Nabal was a very, very prosperous man. Nabal was a very powerful man. He had a lot of influence. It says that he was very great. And the implication there is that he was had tremendous amount of influence, a tremendous amount of sway, you might say, in his community. So he was a prosperous man. He was a powerful man in a lot of ways. If you look down there at the end of verse 3, it says he was of the house of Caleb. He had a tremendous heritage. Uh Caleb's and the house of Caleb was a highly respected uh uh family within the nation of Israel. Caleb was uh was a uh uh uh a man uh what does the Bible say back in Joshua that he had a uh he was wholehearted for the Lord. He was wholehearted. Caleb was a good man And so Nabal is his offspring several generations later, but we notice also that Nabal was a very unpleasant man. We find out here that he was a fool And uh he was very unpleasant. Notice there in verse 3. But the man, in the middle of verse 3, but the man was churlish and evil in his doings. And so we meet we met Nabal, unpleasant guy, very powerful, very wealthy, but not a nice guy, not somebody you'd want to be around. In fact, his name Nabal means fool. Can you imagine a mother naming her child Fool. Oh, here's your baby. Oh, what'd you name him? A fool. I don't know that he was named that from birth. I've got a sneaking suspicion that was a name he picked up as he went through life And we're not told that, but I ha I suspect that. Then we met his wife Abigail. Now Abigail we found out she had brains. Look what it says here. She was a woman of good understanding in verse 13. She had brains. Now I'm really, really tempted to say something about blondes right there, but I'm not going to, because I'm married to one. She had brains. She was an intelligent woman. And when it says there that she had good under good understanding, it means she had insight. She understood a situation. She could see a circumstance and immediately pick up onto what the exact situation is here and what's at stake and what this meant. And so um she wasn't a dummy by any sense uh uh any way, shape, or form. Uh she had brains, and I put it this way, she had beauty Notice it says, and of a beautiful countenance, the Jews suggested that she was one of the four most beautiful women listed in the Old Testament. Now that may or may not be the case, but the Bible says that she was a beautiful countenance. So she was an attractive woman, she was an intelligent woman, and she was a blessing. And we'll see this as it plays out that she was a tremendous blessing to the folks that she came across. So we got this couple. And you have Abigail, polar opposites of each other. Abigail was a pleasant Attractive, intelligent, a blessing, Nabal was powerful, wealthy, and an absolute, unkind, unpleasant fool. And here they are together. And so we have the setting. Got Nabal and Abigail, and uh they're there. And now David This passage here, the rest of the chapter, is David's interaction first with Nabal and then with Abigail. It's a fascinating story. It's something you would write people would write novels about maybe, about David's interaction with Nabal and Abigail. Now, I'll just give you a little heads up. Now, some of you are familiar with this event here, and you've no doubt familiar what happens. But I'll give you a little heads up. This is not David's finest hour When he interacts with Nabal, this is not his finest hour. In fact, uh, we're going to look at that a little bit. And the interesting thing about the Word of God is this is God does not whitewash the sins of his people. God records it exactly as it is. And in fact, God does not whitewash the sins of anybody. Our God is a holy God. And He does not excuse, He never condones or excuses sin in any way, shape, or form. God never gives anybody a quote-unquote license to sin. He deals with it, whether it's one of his children or whether it's an unsaved. God is a holy God. So David, this is not David's finest hour, and God points that out to us, and we're going to see how this thing plays out I put this down. God always confronts our sin. God always does. Maybe not immediately, maybe not in a way we anticipate, but God always deals with our sin one way or another And we're going to see that here. Chapter 24, David expresses tremendous self-control. Remember what happened in chapter 24? Saul was pursuing David And David is hiding out in the wilderness, and Saul finds out where he's at, and he brings his army down after David, and David hides himself in a cave. How many people remember this? And Saul comes into the cave to relieve himself of all things. David's up against the wall, no doubt, the darkness of the cave. Saul doesn't know he's there. Here is David's opportunity to take the life of a man that's trying to kill him. David could have, humanly speaking, justified killing King Saul in the in uh in self-defense. He could have used that argument. In fact, his men around him urged him to take advantage of this opportunity to deal with, to dispatch Saul. But David refuses to do that. And David exercises tremendous self-discipline and does not do what maybe naturally would have happened, and he cuts the The skirt, the edge of uh Saul's robe, cuts that off, and then later on he got convicted about that. He said his heart smote him for doing that And I believe in chapter 24 we have an illustration. We have an example of David at maybe perhaps his finest hour. Of exercising tremendous grace and exercising tremendous self-discipline. And I'll tell you, if you and I want to get ahead in the Christian life, we have got to learn to exercise self-discipline. I mean in every area, your prayer life, Bible reading, uh anybody here ever want to kick yourself for not praying like you should, and then afterward you realize, man, I should have prayed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh man, I should have read my Bible and then you just you just want to kick yourself. You know what that is? That's a breakdown of discipline of disciplining myself to do right. Anybody here ever uh have an opportunity to witness to somebody and you missed it and afterward you just, oh man, I could have shared the gospel with them. Discipline, discipline, discipline is a great challenge in the Christian life. So in chapter 24, David exercised tremendous self-control, tremendous discipline. However, we get to chapter 25 And he interacts with this fella Nabal who is a fool, and we notice he loses control of himself. And David ends up doing some things that are shameful and could have been really, really bad. A few words By a genuine fool, set David off. Set David off. Anybody here ever have somebody say something just foolish to you, and man, it got under your skin? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here just do something so foolish and y you know what I'm talking about? Now before we get off on that too much, we need to stop and remember there's no doubt been times When we said something foolish and uh set someone off and after anybody here ever do this? Oh, what in the world was I thinking? Why did I say that? What was I thinking? Why did I do that? We do something foolish. How many folks here, if somebody s how many folks here, if you say something foolish, unthinking, you just say something and it is foolish You want somebody to be very patient with you and gracious with you when you say something foolish. I do. And my living is speaking. And uh, you know, if you say something dumb, you say something foolish, you get in the flesh, or you do something, it's like, oh, oh, I hope they'll uh we want people to give us the benefit of the doubt, don't we? If we do something dumb. That's not the way I am. That's not me, I'm sorry. Now, with that in mind, we need to turn that around And we need to remember to be patient with other people when they do that very same thing. We need to be gracious to other people when they act the fool. and and and talk a fool. And that's what we're learning here. That's what we're going to see. David struggles with. David struggles with. David has some David has several outstanding characteristics. We're picking these up. One of them we noticed earlier was uh was humility. I think one of the greatest attributes a Christian can have is the attribute of humility. Pride is the enemy of the Christian life. Pride is the enemy of spiritual growth. And humility, God giveth grace to the humble God, he that exalteth himself shall be abased, but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. God respects and honors and blesses humility. And so we saw that in David throughout our study of his life. Another characteristic we notice of David was his discipline. I mentioned that here a bit ago. David on a number of occasions Displays tremendous self-discipline. But there's another characteristic, and we're going to see this as we continue to study his life, and that is this. David was a passionate man. Passionate man. Now what do you think of when you say when when I say David was a man of great passion, uh what do you think of? What w w how how would you how would you picture that? Somebody of great passion. How would you define that? Somebody talk to me. What would be somebody of great passion? They care a lot, that would be, definitely. What's that? Have a lot of feelings, emotions. Alright, they would love. They could love. Is it possible for a person to love passionately? Sure. Is it possible for a person to hate passionately? Yeah. So, passion, here's my definition of passion. I looked it up and how it's used different ways. Passion is simply a passion would be possessing strong emotions. Uh I very uh often and emotionally I I I found this definition, an intensely zealous person, intensely zealous. A passionate person, man, when they when they're doing something, it is with all their heart. David, when when David was praising God, read the Psalms. When David's praising God, he's praising God with all his heart. When David's killing Philistines, he's killing them by the tens of thousands. I mean, it's got all of his, he puts all himself into it in fighting the enemies. However, when David's blowing it and David's sinning, he's really doing it. So David was a disciplined man, but he was a passionate man. Now here's what I'm trying to get at. If I can discipline my passion, that's a good thing. To be passionate about something, be intensely zealous, but keep that under control. Keep that discipline and channeled and focused on the right thing. Passion without discipline is wildfire. Passion without and you just get fired up and you can't you can't control that, uh uh that can be frightening. That can be frightening. But passion under discipline is a good thing. I think some of us, some of our churches, could use a little bit of passion. A little bit stirred up, being a little zealous about the things of God, a little bit stirred up about serving God and winning the lost. and passionate in our prayers. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Passionate in our prayers. Earnest. So some of us, some of our churches could use a little bit of passion. Let me say this. Some of us could use a little bit of discipline Self-discipline. We get all wound up and we lose control. And so David uh is learning that balance. God is preparing him for the throne, and he's gone through these experiences And he's learning to balance it. And so, and one way God helps David here is he has him run into this guy, Nabal, who is a fool. The ability to deal with foolish actions of other people without being foolish myself is very necessary in the Christian life. To be able to interact with somebody that's very, very foolish, that's acting the fool, and not responding kind, and not be allow myself to get caught up in that and respond foolishly, that is necessary to live a Christian life. Whether we like it or not, throughout our lives we are going to have to deal with people who do offensive things. We're going to have to deal with people who say things that are very offensive and are unkind. We live, now there's good people, and I'm on this trip, I ran into a lot of good people, but the truth of the matter is we live in a very unkind world. We live in a very unkind world. And uh a very uh very foolish world in a lot of ways. And so we've got to be able to deal with that. If every time somebody says or does something stupid, I lose it and I fly off. I'm not going to get anywhere in my Christian life. My witness is going to be powerless. I have got to learn to be able to respond in a mature spiritual godly way when people act and say and do foolish things. And that's what we're learning here with David. So let's look at this passage, and I broke it down into three points, three segments here, the verses I read. The first thing I want us to notice is David's request. Verse number four down through verse number nine. David makes a request to this fella named Nabal. Now think about this. David is out, he's in the wilderness, he's got six hundred men at least probably more at this point. He's got six hundred men that are uh uh attached themselves to him, they're loyal to him. Saul the king is trying to kill him for no other reason than simple old old raw envy on Saul's part trying to kill David. Uh the six hundred men have attached themselves to him And so David has the responsibility of providing the supplies and food and materials for 600 men. How many people agree with me? Providing supplies for 600 men out in the wilderness on the spur of the moment, didn't have time to prepare, that would be a bit of a challenge. Yeah, in a wilderness. You need water, you need food, you need supplies, and uh so uh he has uh he has a tremendous burden on his shoulders And he comes across this guy, Nabal, and he makes a request that this fellow would help him supply his men, his entourage that he has with them. And it makes a simple request. Now I want to notice a few things about this request. First of all, it was a very respectful request. Look there at verse number 4. We already read this, but let's look at it again. He says there, David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep. Alright, he's got word, Nabal's shearing his sheep. He's got a lot of sheep. Very, very wealthy. And so he sent out ten young men, out of the six hundred plus. He sends ten of them down. And David said unto the young men, Get you down to Carmel, go to Nabal. And greet him in my name. Now, as far as we know, David knows nothing about what kind of person this naval guy is. He knows he's shearing his sheep. He probably knows he's fairly wealthy. Um no doubt. He's heard his name in the area there. And uh he goes, this guy will help us out. So he sends his fellows down there And he gives them clear instructions. He says, get you up to Carmel and go to Nabal and what's the next word? Greet him, uh, greet him in my name. Now here's the thing. David sends his fellows down, and there's speculation as to why he sent them, and David didn't go himself. But whatever the reason is, he sent these guys down And he says, I want you to do something, fellas. When you get down there to Nabal, you greet him in my name Now he's approaching this appropriately. He's approaching this in a very respectful manner. The word greet there means to make a very careful and appropriate request. It means to it has a hint of humility to it. So he says, fellas, don't go down there and just barge in there and demand something from this guy. We're going to do this respectfully. We're going to do this very humbly and very graciously. And shall you go down and greet him in my name? Now I think David is telling them to greet Nabal in his name So that he's clarifying to Nabal who actually is making this request. It's not just some vagabonds running around somebody nobody never heard of. They just show up and say, oh, give us some stuff That wouldn't fly. So he says, you go down there, very humbly, very appropriately, very respectfully, you greet him in the name of David. Now remember, David was the chief of staff for King Saul. Remember, David was known throughout all of Israel for slaying tens of thousands. He was a national hero. Respected and loved in the eyes of the nation of Israel. So these ten guys show up and uh he says, uh greet him in my name, just so he knows it's not just some strangers. He knows this is coming from. And again, I think there's a hint of humility on David's part. Perhaps in his position he could have made a demand. He could have came in there and insisted that supplies be provided, but he doesn't do that. Look verse 6. He has them make some tremendous statements. And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, very, very wealthy man, peace be both to thee. That's peace personally. And peace to thine house, that's peace to his people, and peace be unto all that thou hast. That's all his possessions. And so David shows up very respectfully, humbly, appropriately, greeting this man through the ten fellows and wishing a blessing on him. He's being positive. He's trying to imply, listen, I'm for you. I'm not your enemy. I'm not here to pilfer you or or take advantage of you. I want God's blessings on you. I want God's best for you and your household and everything. I want you to prosper in every way. And uh how many people agree? That's a good way to make a request. Yeah. And so David's coming very respectfully to Nabal and requesting help in meeting the needs of all these folks he has with them. So number one, I put this, it's a respectful request. Number two, I put this down, it's a very reasonable request. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, he shows up. He wants supplies for 600 men And who owes how many other folks? Man, that's a huge, that's a huge request. How many of you ladies would panic if 600 people showed up at your house? And say, can you feed us and provide for us? Uh no, I can't. Uh and so uh you say, man, that's kind of that's kind of presumptuous of David to think this guy would provide uh supplies for 600 plus people. It's not very reasonable for him to ask that. But I'm saying to you it was a reasonable request because David had done something for Nabal Look with me, if you would, here, at verse number seven. He says, Now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught missing of them all the while they were in Carmel. Ask thy young men, they will show thee. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, that sounds like extortion. Uh the mob used to do this in the cities in New York Hey, listen, give us some money and we'll make sure nobody hurts you. We'll make sure your building doesn't burn down. That's not what David was doing. David is saying this in a very gracious way. He's pointing out, hey, we took care of your fellows Remember, we just read in the previous chapters numerous times when the Philistines were coming into Israel, marauding and raiding their cities and pillaging their cities and murdering their people. This was an ongoing event. And if we study this, and if I understand it correctly, I believe what David was doing was He had put a protection up around these guys and took care of them because they were fellow Jews. They were his people. And he had provided protection for them. He took care of them. Now he's saying it in a roundabout way, not just coming out and saying, hey, listen, I took care of you guys, you take care of me He just said, look, he says, listen, nobody was hurt when we were around there. Nothing was taken while we were around there. Come over, if you would, to verse number 15, and notice how Nab's servants describe David's actions. And you pick this up here in verse number 15. Well, verse 14, one of the young men, this is uh later on in this uh ongoing uh Drama. But one of the young men told Abigail Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed on them. We'll see that here in a bit. But look what they say in verse 15 But the men, David's men, were very good unto us, and we were not hurt. Now he doesn't say they didn't hurt us. They said we were not hurt But look at this uh neither missed we anything as long as we were uh as long as we were conversation with them when we're in the field. Look at verse 16, the first part. They were a what A wall unto us, both by night and day. All the while we were with them keeping the sheep. They were a wall unto us. David built the wall. That was my political statement. But anyway, sorry. They said, David was a wall unto us. Now what did they Talk to me now. What do you think they meant by saying David and his men, they were a wall unto us? They were what? They were protection. They provided safety for us. They provided protection for us When um down in when I go down to um St. Lucian down in Dominican we go down there, every single house down there has a c has a big cement brick wall and on top they'll have razor razor blade um um barbed wire wire all around the top or they'll break in glass all glued down in it. I mean it's just rough. Why do they do that? To protect them from people that want to hurt them and take their possessions And Nabal's servant said, David and his men, they were a wall to us. We were safe. When they were around, we felt safe. When they were around, our possessions were secure. David's not showing up to Nabal here and just making some unreasonable requests. David had earned the right to ask for this Ah, we're gonna see that. We're gonna see that. Um he asked, don't you think Nabal knew that? Nabal's gonna make a few statements that betrays uh the truth. So my point here is this: David isn't demanding anything. He's making this request a very reasonable compensation for what he had provided for them. I believe respect in good manners, which is what David showed Nabal, and I think David unbeknownst to David what kind of man Nabal was, and I may be mistaken on that. But at this point, I don't know that David knew that what kind of guy he was. So he's showing tremendous respect. He's exercising very good manners in this request. And I believe I believe Christians ought to be respectful to other people. In fact, I want to suggest to you, Christians, let's just bring it home to us, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to be some of the most respectful people in all of the community. Treating people with good manners, treating people respectfully, there is never an excuse for a child of God to be rude to anybody. Now we live in a rude world. Very rude world. I was sitting in the airport Monday, or maybe it was Tuesday. It might have been Sunday. I don't know. It's all a blur. But uh this gal was sitting on the floor, we're waiting for the flight, and you know how they have those little plugins for your phones all over in the seats and everywhere they was all So this go had it plugged in. This guy came over, he's in this suit, big fancy guy, and he comes over and he says, um, he goes, uh, are you using that? And she goes, yeah, I've got it plugged in I about slugged a guy. He says, uh, well what do you have it plugged into? What are you charging anyway? And she said, well I got my phone here. And I don't know what the deal was, but man, he just laid into this young lady sitting there And um uh I said, hey, good to meet you, Nabel. And um No, I didn't say that But we live in a rude world. And I tell you, when you have Christians who are kind and respectful and have good manners in a world that is rude, you stand out. You stand out. And so David makes this uh my first point is David's request. It's a very uh respectful request. It's very reasonable. He's not asking uh for a handout in any way, shape, or form. Oh, and by the way, look at verse nine. The end of verse nine, it says, um Uh give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh into thine hand. He doesn't say any specifics. Listen, anything you can do would be a help. It's basic what he's saying. Listen, whatever you could do would just be tremendous And notice God puts a little statement in here at the end of verse 9. David's young man came, spake to Nabal, all these words. What's the last two words? And they ceased. You know what that tells me? They knew when to shut up. They made their case. They made the request. Whatever you can do, and they shut up. Do you ever have somebody that asks you for something and they just nag you and nag you and go on and on and on and on and on? It's like ah These guys knew when to shut up. They made it clear. They made their request. They did it very respectfully. They did it very graciously. It was a reasonable request. And then they were quiet. And let Nabal respond. So, number one, you have David's request. Number two, in verse 10 and 11, I notice Nabal's response. Now, here's where it gets interesting Everything so far fits the narrative of who we picture David to be. I can see David doing all of that. Now we learn something about this guy, Nabal. Look at verse 10. And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Sure, whatever you guys need, I'm glad to help you out. No, that's a different version. This one here, Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And uh who is this the son of Jesse? There be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master. So I then take my bread and da-da-da-da-da. He goes on I noticed Nabal's response. The first thing I noticed about his response is that it was a very dishonest response. He says, who is He says, Who is David? And the question is, did Nabal really not know who David was? David knew exactly, or Mabel knew exactly who David was. David was the he the national hero uh for an extended period of time. And Nabal betrays his dishonesty when he asks the next question. And who is this son of Jesse? If he didn't know who David was, how did he know he was the son of Jesse? Nah, nah, gotcha. It was a dishonest answer. And so we're learning something about Nabal here. He acts like, I don't know who this guy is. Yes, you do. You know exactly who he is. I don't know who he is. And then he not only is a dishonest response, but it's a very disrespectful response. David treated him with tremendous respect, tremendous grace, humility, very reasonable. Look how he answers. Shall I then take my bread, my water, my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? There's an implication being made here. He's implying that David is nothing more than a rebellious, negligent parasite. All he is is here. Running off from their masters and just living off of other people and they're a bunch of rebels and they're a bunch of uh um Oh, what's the word I want? Just a bunch of beggars asking for stuff. They won't work for it. He's attacking David's integrity here. And that's important. He's implying David is the kind of man and his his men that uh he's implying, here's the thing, he's implying that David and his men are the kind of men that David and his men were protecting Nabal from. Pillaging and just taking what they don't deserve and isn't theirs. And he's accusing David of being the kind of person that David no doubt was risking his life to protect Nabal from. How many people that would get under your skin? Yeah. The implication. He's a churlish fool. He's a fool. So he's making an implication here, but he also is exhibiting, and we noticed this earlier, he has an entitlement attitude. Entitlement. We live in a world, we live in a society today where everybody's entitled. I'm entitled to this, I'm entitled to that. That was Nabal's attitude. Did you notice the little word he used over and over and over in verse number 11? Actually two words. My, I, I, my, my, my, I, I, I, my, my, my. What do you call somebody that says mine, that says all mine? You call them what? Selfish. Mabel was incredibly selfish. He had this this entitlement attitude. This is all mine. I deserve it. It's all mine. I'm entitled to you doing this stuff for me with no obligation on my part to you. No hint of gratitude. No hint of concern or empathy for David and his situation. He benefited from David's protection with no sense of obligation on my part to do something back in return for him. How many folks here, if you suppose you're late at night, it's bad weather, it's raining, falling for two to six inches of snow, you're driving home from church. And you got a flat tire and you don't have a s and the spare's flat or some reason the spare don't work. And you're like, oh and somebody comes by and in the rain and snow and in the cold they take your tire off replace it for you and do all that for you. How many folks here would say, you know, I kind of obligated to this guy to at least express some sort of gratitude. Anybody here? That's common sense. That's just decent humanity. NABOL has none of that. None of it. Because this is mine. I don't give you anything. No hint of gratitude, no concern for David. A self-centered and selfish fool is what he is. Maybe one of the chief characteristics of a fool is self-centeredness, an obsession with myself. Study the book of Proverbs sometimes and what it says about the full. It's a fascinating study. Over and over and over, Proverbs, he references the full The fool, the fool, the fool. And one thing you'll find out about a fool is he's obsessed with himself. He's obsessed with everything about him. And he's a fool. And so we have Nabal here. We have his response. Now, here is where it gets important. First point, David's request. That's reasonable and it's respectful, and everything's fine there. You have Nabal's response, and that's a little disturbing that he would respond that way, but now we have number three, we have David's reaction. And that's where it gets bad. Now I don't know about you. Sometimes I uh think too highly of people or I I expect too much sometimes, but I really expected David to respond in a better way than what he did. Notice with me, if you would, verse number 12. So David's young men returned their way and went again and came and told him, David, all those sayings, everything Nabal said. And David said unto his men, look at this, don't worry about him. God will take care of us. No, that's not what David said. Gird ye on every man his sword, and they girded on every man his sword, and David also girded on his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men. And 200 abode by the stuff. He's coming down after Nabal. That's his response. David is personally after this guy. And he's got 400 men with him. Now, I don't know, I can't say this with certainty, but I would think 400 men is a little overkill. You know, he got this guy, and he's a fool, and he's got all this, and David's gonna show up, and David's gonna uh a surprise attack on him And he's bringing four hundred men. That's like trying to get rid of a mouse in the kitchen with a double barrel twelve gauge shotgun. You know. Yeah, he's gonna kill the mouse Here's the thing. David's gonna David's gonna kill Nabal, but he is gonna make a mess of stuff. I mean that's where he's headed. There's no doubt. David can deal with this guy. There's no doubt about it. But brother, David's going to make a mess. You know, you can get in a fight with a skunk and win and come out a mess. And David's not thinking. Here's the thing. David has allowed a fool, David has allowed a fool to prompt him to act foolishly. And that's the danger. And that is where you and I have to learn to not react to things out of our passion. But res respond to things or act on things according to principle. In chapter 24 David acted on principle. I'm not going to touch King Saul, he's God's anointed. As badly as I, as great as this opportunity is as badly as I may want to, as justified it could be in my mind, I'm not going to do that because that violates principles of my convictions. But now David's acting on passion and he's reacting. If we can just get this out of this message. If we can learn to act on principle rather than react, we'll be a whole lot better off. Isn't that how fights start? Somebody says something, does something, and rather than saying stop and wait a minute, wait a minute, I gotta act on principle, we just react. We react to it. And then they get mad, then I get mad. Then she or they get mad. Then I get mad. It's a big difference between acting and reacting. Big difference. Chapter 24, as I said, David acted according to principle. I'm not going to touch God's anointing. In chapter 25, David's reacting according to his emotions. He's allowed his emotions to take over. Now, what was it that set David off? What was it about Nabal's actions that set him off? Was David mad because he wouldn't give him supplies? I don't think that's it. I don't think that's what set David off because he wouldn't provide him. My personal opinion is this, and studying it, I think what set David off was Nabal attacked David's integrity. That got him. That got him. The one thing David was very, very careful about was maintaining integrity. How many times did we read early on day it says this? And David behaved himself wisely David behaved himself wisely. David behaved himself wisely. Now you have this fool coming along suggesting that David does not have integrity, that he's trying to rip him off, that he's trying to take advantage of him. And that got David. And that that got him going. I remember I had to deal with this. I mean, in in life you have to deal with that sometimes. And the first time it hit me in the face and I had to learn to react respond and I I didn't do real well initially. I was youth pastor. And I'd been there for a while and established myself, and I'd like to believe I established a pretty good testimony as youth pastor. And one day I got called into the pastor's office and there was a fellow, a very influential man in the church sitting there, and uh the pastor said, so-and-so here is has something to say. He's concerned about us I said, okay, I have no idea. And he says, you had the teens at a bar where they served liquor, and you had an activity of dinner at a bar. And I said, that's not true. I'm I've never been I myself I've never been in. I said, what was the date and where was it Well he gave the date and he didn't know the exact name of the place. So that very night we had been at another church activity and I had 500 witnesses that we were there and weren't where he said it was It was a bald face lie for whatever reason. And I tell you, that was an assault, and he and he was trying to suggest that I was lying, that I had somehow uh you know was trying to deceive people. And I tell you, it was a straightforward attack on my integrity And I'll be honest with you, that got under my skin. And he got out of the hospital about a week or two later. And um I kept my cool and I said, listen, Pastor, I said, what he's saying is not true. I'll tell you that. Any of the teenagers can tell you that. I can take you to where we were. I can verify this. That is absolutely not true. I wasn't there a whole lot longer after I had resigned and left. Not exclusively for that, but that was a factor. I tell you, when somebody attacks your integrity, that's hard to take. That's hard to take And I think that's what got David is when Nabal, the fool, attacked his integrity. You say, well what's the deal? We have got to be able to deal with people who say and do foolish things without responding foolishly Now David running down there with 400 men, swords girded, fixing to kill this guy, that was foolish. A lot of innocent people were going to die if David got away with this. And God's teaching David something. He's going to be king. And there's going to be people around him say and do stuff very, very foolishly, and he cannot overreact. He's got to act on principle. There's a great truth in Scripture that we've got to learn to accept. God said, vengeance is mine. I will repay. And I learned something. God's a whole lot better at dealing with fools than I am. God's a whole lot better with people who mistreat me than I'm at dealing with them. And what I need to learn to do is just say, God, I'm going to put this in your hands. I'm going to let you deal with this. And I'm not going to take the situation into my own hands. Paul put it this way: die to self. Die to self. And so David's learning that. David's learning that. Two things we've got to be able to deal with in the Christian life. Number one, foolish people without acting foolishly, and we've got to be able to deal with our own anger. Well, I'd like to, if we had time, I'd like to talk about anger in the Christian life. Two places, in Colossians and in Ephesians, God says very, very clearly, put off all anger. Put it off. And wrath and bitterness and malice, he has a list of things. And he says, put that off, put that off, put that off. And David's learning he needs to do that. And you and I need to learn to do that. This world would be a whole lot better shape if all humanity would learn to put off anger. Let's put that off, how different it would be. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you'd help us to learn from this incident in David's life where he interacts with a very foolish man, an unkind, rude, selfish man. And Lord, we're asking you to help us to learn, one, not to be that way ourselves, Lord, but when we do run across this to be Christian, be Christian. And uh and uh not react this way. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me grow in my patience And my grace towards other people that are unkind. Anybody like that? Yeah, I do. My hands raised. We need the Lord to help us. I think it's a lifelong, lifelong lesson in dealing with that. And I'm not going to ask you to respond just between you and the Lord, but I tell you, anger is a big issue. Does so much damage. David got angry, almost killed a lot of innocent people. And we need to learn to get this anger under control. We need the Holy Spirit to fill us and enable us to put that off and not let it come a passion take over us. And And put that aside. So, Father, you know our hearts, you know what we're dealing with in our lives. We ask you to help us to learn from your word. To be gracious and uh to be respectful, to be patient, and to act on principle, not react with passion. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's gonna play just a few verses of imbecile.