Chapter 6. Boy, what a great Sunday we had, didn't we? Man alive. What a blessing. Got up that morning. Well Saturday you know it was kind of snowy all day. Got up Sunday morning and uh Man, it was blowing and it's cold and they're calling for a big storm coming in and all of that, and I thought, great, here's our missions emphasis Sunday and big day and uh you know I s some people are are uh a little more uh p uh optimistic maybe than I am in some ways. I heard a guy say he says you should never borrow money from uh an uh pessim uh uh an optimist, all we'll just borrow money from a pessimist, he won't expect to ever get it back. But uh anyway, I woke up a little pessimistic. I thought, man, you know p folks aren't gonna come out, the faith promise is going to be low. And uh lo and behold, Sunday morning. We had a great crowd Sunday morning. We had visitors and uh Faith Promise, and Sunday night is another story, but faith promise, Sunday night, came in almost the same as what we had Sunday morning. So we almost doubled uh what we had Sunday morning. Anyway, and I meant to get the figures before this evening service, and I walked up here and forgot But um uh I've uh we're over three thousand dollars more a year. If I if am I correct, Paul? Am I somewhere in the right range? Paul, you weren't here, sonny, you were sick Uh I think we're uh over three thousand dollars more a year and very easily enough coming in to cover Brother Fluge and uh give us a little breathing room there. Isn't that great And uh boy, just an exciting thing to see uh God working through his people. So we praise the Lord for that. Now we're moving ahead. Galatians chapter 6. We're looking at family life for the believers and uh dealing with differing personalities, differing levels of spirituality within the church family. Dealing with different uh levels of growth in the Christian fa uh in the in the body of Christ. And uh tonight we're going to look at how do you deal with folks, with someone that is defeated, somebody that is has fallen perhaps or is out of fellowship with the Lord. They're a brother or sister in Christ, part of the body of Christ, one of our family But they're either away from the Lord or they've uh blown it in some way. There's actually a lot the Bible says about that. Look at Galatians chapter 6, verse 1 Brethren, so he's talking to who? Christians. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, He's failed, he's defeated, he's fallen. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. How? In the spirit of meekness? Why? In the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, why? Lest thou also be tempted I want to talk about dealing with the defeated. Let me, before I pray, say this. All of us probably know someone that is But let me put it this way, not as close to the Lord now as they were at some point in the past. Probably all of us know someone like that. Let me bring it a little closer to home. Probably all of us know what it's like. To be in the condition where I'm not I wasn't as close to the Lord as I was in a previous time. You follow what I'm saying? It's called being backslidden. So all of us know someone that's backslidden and uh you're a good looking crowd, and I think you're all pretty good Christians for the most part, but um every one of us, no doubt, have had points in our Christian life where we are what we would describe as backslidden. Right or wrong? Everyone that don't agree with agree with that, you're backslidd right now. So how do you deal with folks like that? We've been there. We know people that are there Uh let's pray and see if God can help us with this. Father in heaven, we do look to you for help. Lord, we're so grateful for the church. You bate you paid for the church. You bought the church with your own blood God, you love the church dearly. You're to be married to the church. And we're part of that. So help us, Lord, to do our part. to keep the church what you intend for it to be. I pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds. Give us wisdom. And give us a spirit of Christ. I yield myself to your Lord. I present my body and you ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and help us to be helpful. to folks who have fallen and and uh and we ask for your grace now in jesus name every amen everyone and we've touched on this last week but i want to Come back to it a little bit. Everyone within the family of God. Now, do you know what I mean by within the family of God? Right? Everyone saved, and particularly our church here. Alright. So all of us that know the Lord, we're in the body of Christ, we're part of the church here, we operate in one of two states. And by that I mean in one of two conditions. Either we are operating under the control of the flesh Or we are operating, we're being governed by the Holy Spirit. Flesh or the Holy Spirit. If we're governed by the flesh, if we are, and and by the way, right now, as you sit there, as I stand here, every one of us Are either being controlled, our lives, our the way we think, our behavior, our attitude. Right now, as you're sitting there, I'm standing here, every one of us is either being controlled by the flesh or the spirit There's no other option. If I'm under the control, if my thinking is dominated by my flesh, and my behavior, my attitude is is controlled by my flesh, my flesh is determining what that is Then I am, to use the Bible term, I am in I am carnal. I'm under the flesh. I'm under the control of the flesh. If I am controlled by the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is dominating my thinking, my attitude, my behavior. Then I am what the Bible term is spiritual. So I'm either spiritual under control of the Holy Spirit or I'm carnal under the control of the flesh. Now, within the church, then the family of God, within the church, within our church, the ideal The ideal condition would be for everybody to be controlled by what? The Holy Spirit. That would be ideal If every single member of the church was controlled on a consistent basis by the Holy Spirit of God, you would have an amazing church. Now that's the ideal. Reality. Reality is not everybody is going to be controlled by the Holy Spirit Right? Not everybody is. Every church you go to, or I will go to will visit it, every church in existence. Will vary in the percentage of its members that are controlled by the Holy Spirit or controlled by the flesh. What do you think it would be like if you had a church where everybody was operating under the control of their flesh? What would it be like? It would be liberal. It would be chaos. Look in Galatians chapter 5 there where it describes the works of the flesh. That tells you a little idea what that church would be like. There would be divisions, there would be uh uh sensuality, there would be drunkenness. There would be false doctrine. In fact, the church of Corinth, in the very beginning, he says, I could not speak unto you as spiritual. But as carnal, even bathes in Christ. And what was that church like? I think we underestimate how bad the church at Corinth really was. Can you imagine Brother Chip being out and doing a showing up at a church to a scripture meeting? That night they have Lord's Supper and everybody's drunk And they're drinking wine and stuff and just getting drunk. He'd be on the phone and say what's that? In Romney. Ken's listening tonight, by the way. He'd be on the phone to me saying, Man, you and Believer never going back to this church. That's the way the church at Corinth was. You know why? Because they were dominated by the flesh. They were carnal. The members, the major if not all of them, the majority of them were cardinal. They had a guy in a leader pos the leadership position of the church who was living in a fornicacious, adulterous relationship with his mother-in-law. I mean, you talk about sick. And they were fine with that. So if you had a church where everyone was under the flesh, you can only imagine what that would be like. So any church you go to, anyone in existence, is going to be in varying degrees of spirituality or carnality. Depending on the percentage of the people that would be carnal within it, or the percentage of people that would be spiritual. Now, again, ideally, it would be for everyone to be spiritual For everyone to be under the control of the Holy Spirit. But that's just not reality. I would like to think that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I would like to think, and I do believe, that the vast majority of our folks, for the most part, are spirit-controlled. I think that's a good church Well the Spirit of God is working in people's lives. They're submissive to Him. Now, I can't honestly say that it's 100% There's no church in the world could say that. And history tells us, and scripture tells us, you have from the strongest spiritual leaders all the way down to the teenager that was saved last Sunday. The flesh is a relentless and powerful enemy for every Christian. We have all heard of great spiritual leaders, some of national renown. Godly men, men who I would have said are some of the most godly men I've ever met in my life, and we find out that they were the flesh, had the victory, and their lives and ministries destroyed. We all know new believers get saved, and I think for the most part, many, if not most of them, are genuinely born again. And yet they never get the victory over the flesh, and the flesh destroys their testimony almost before they even get started. So, the question is, and the issue tonight, and the message, and I don't know if I'll get through all of it tonight, but the issue is this. How do I, how do we as a church, and how though how do I as an individual deal with someone who has been defeated by the flesh? How do I deal with someone who is, to use a term that's pretty common, they've fallen? Someone that is uh that's carnal. How do I interact with them? What do we do with them? Let me give you some suggestions and some things you might want to jot these down. I think they'll be very, very helpful. Number one. First of all, and I emphasize the importance that this is first of all, I consider my own spiritual condition. The very first thing I do, I come, I find out somebody's fallen, somebody's in the flesh, somebody's gotten carnal. The very first thing that ought to come to my mind is, boy, how's my walk with God? Look at Galatians chapter 6 and verse 1. And there's two aspects here that I want us to look at. Brethren If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are what? Spiritual. What do we mean by being spiritual? I'm controlled by the Spirit. The Holy Spirit is leading me. I'm governed by the Holy Spirit. I'm yielded to Him. So if I come to somebody that's overtaken in a fault, they've fallen. They're defeated by the flesh. Very first thing I needed to do is say, all right, what about me? Am I under the control of the Holy Spirit? Am I yielded to the Spirit of God? If I'm not, what do I need to do? I need to get that right. Let's read on. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. And we're going to get back to that. But look at this next phrase. Considering thyself. So it's interesting to me when you look at the passages of scripture. That are dealing with my interaction with someone who has fallen, someone who's carnal, someone that's not right with God, the very first thing I'm supposed to do is consider myself, determine my relationship with the Lord. How do I do that? I think just a very simple and basic is Galatians 5, 19 through 23. Are the fruits of the Spirit evident in my life? Are these things characteristic of me? Love and joy and peace and long-suffering and gentleness and goodness Faith, meekness, temperance, uh against such there's no law. Those things need to be true about me if I am going to be able to scripturally interact with someone who has fallen, someone who's uh in the flesh. What do you think would happen? What happens if a person is in the flesh? And they are going to try and interact and deal with someone who is carnal in the flesh. So you got one person who has the characteristics of the flesh, the works of the flesh, verse number 19, 20, and 21. Being confronted or being confronted, I guess is the word I want, by somebody who has the same, exhibits the same characteristics. What are you going to end up with? Strike. You're gonna have the blindly and blind. You're gonna have a fuss. You're gonna have disaster. So first thing I have to do before They come in and say, boy, do you hear about or suppose I'm out somewhere and um I see a church member and uh they're carrying two six packs At Foodland. They're coming out at Foodland. Connie, you're raising your hand. How about that? All right, let's let's say Connie's working at Foodland at the cash register. And um Dave Heath comes walking up with two s with two six-packs. I forgot Connie works here According to Scripture, what's the very first thing ought to go through Connie's mind? And I don't mean to pick on you, I'm just trying to illustrate. Well, according to what we've just read so far, what would be the very first thing ought to go through Connie's mind? How's my walk with God? Am I right with the Lord? That's where it starts. Keep your place here. We're going to come back to this verse. We're going to look at this a lot. Come with me over to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Now there's a lot in Corinthians, particularly 1 Corinthians, that applies to what we're studying because the church was fallen, the church was defeated, the church was carnal. And so we can go there and find a lot of stuff. So Paul, under the inspiration of God, is trying to correct them. He's trying to, and I'm getting ahead of myself here, he's trying to restore them. To where they should be. And one of the issues he's dealing with is the Lord's Supper. And he brings out this point about the Lord's Supper. Look at chapter 11 and look at verse 28. So important. But let a man, what's the next two words? Examine himself. I circled that word himself in red ink. And let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. He said, before you do anything spiritual at all, you need to examine yourself. Come down to verse number 31. For if we would what? Judge ourselves. I circled the word ourselves and I put an arrow between himself in verse 28 and ourselves in verse 31. We should not be judged. Now here's the interesting thing. The word examine in verse 28 has this idea, scrutinize. What do you think of if you're going to scrutinize something, what are you doing? You're putting on a motor. You're checking that thing out for every little flaw. You want to buy a car, a used car, man you go through that whole thing and find everything you possibly can. You scrutinize it Guess what God says we're supposed to do? We're supposed to do that to ourselves. This is a carnal church. They're getting drunk at the Lord's Supper. And he says, man, you guys, first thing before you deal with anybody else getting drunk, you examine yourselves. You scrutinize yourselves. You find out what your walk with God is really like. Here's the thing, our human nature likes to scrutinize, but scrutinize what? Everyone else. Well you go in your average church, United States American, you ask someone uh about anybody in the church that has any fault Boy, they can recite them like that. God says that's what you need to do yourself. And it's interesting to come down to verse 31 where he says And we should judge ourselves. I got looking up that word judge and how it's used. This is really interesting. It means this We should judge ourselves. It means this. To step back away from and confront it. To step back away from and look at it. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I need to judge myself. I need to get myself out of myself. Just step back a little bit and look at my life. Look at the direction my life is going. Look at my behavior. Examine, compare it with scripture. What am I really like? It's convicting. Boy, we can do that with others. We've got a man we can just go on and on and on about how other others do that. God says, listen You can't even start to interact or correct or help someone that's fallen until you stop and judge yourself, examine yourself, critique yourself. You can't even do anything to help anyone. Turn with me again, if you would, to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7. Jesus brings up this subject. And verse 1. And again, we could go through a number of passages in scripture. I'm just pulling a couple out. Matthew chapter 7, verse 1. Judge not that you be not judged. Now, I don't want to go too far off down or another trail, but let me say this. That is not saying we should not use discernment. That verse is so misconstrued. Let's read on. For with what judgment you judge, ye shall for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you. In other words, God's going to hold you to the same standard you hold others. Now look, here's where it gets down to what we're talking about. And why beholdest thou the moat? That is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye. He says, Alright, you're considering you found someone that's not right with God. They've fallen. They've done something wrong. They're doing something wrong. They're living in the flesh. They're carnal. And you can see that moat in their eye. But he says, before you do anything about that moat, you've got to stop and consider there's something in your own eye. Read on. Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat out of thine own eye? Behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote that is uh out of thy brother's eye. Now there's so many things here. One is, what the how does this thing end up? How do both the people, if they do what God says, how do both the people end up? Both of them end up right with God. Right? The beam's out of my eye, the moat's out of my the other fellow's eye, and we both end up right with God if we do it the way God says What if we don't do it the way God says? What if we do it how it starts out? And the word beam there has what we would call a two by four. The Lord is being facetious here, really. And he's exaggerating, and nobody could possibly have a beam in their eyeball. So he's exaggerating here. But for sake of the illustration, he says, you've got a beam sticking out of your own eye. And you're walking up to this guy, and the word moat there would be what we would call something like a splinter, very speck. There's so much here, man, how would you know that spec's in the uh in the other guy's eye if it's that small You've been doing some pretty close scrutiny, right? If I can see a speck that's in Dave Wagner's eye, that means I've been really checking him over. Right? But God says what to do that you need to do that to yourself. You've got to get that beam out of your own eye So if we do it the first way, verses uh three and four, how does that end up? If I'm going to be hypocritical about it, I'm going to try and take the speck out of his eye and I've got a beam out of my eye, I'm not going to get the speck out, we both end up what Blind. We both neither of us get right with God. So coming back to my first point, and what this principle here is: I am not going to be able to help anybody that's not right with God if I'm not right with God. It's going to end up in a fight. It's going to end up in division. It's going to end up the devil getting the victory. It's going to get ugly. The testimony of Christ is going to be hurt So before I do anything, I stop and say, wait a minute, what's my relationship with God like? Am I right with the Lord? When I encounter a fallen brother, the very first thing I do is critique myself. Notice an important word here in verse 5 of Matthew 7. Thou hypocrite first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly. So I can't help someone that's not right with God if I'm not right with God. Hey, if I'm not reading my Bible on a consistent basis, if my heart, if I'm not obedient to the Lord's leadership and direction and commands and will for my life, I am not going to be able to help someone else. Right? If I've got a stinky attitude towards the authorities in my life, how in the world am I going to go and disciple someone and help them that's struggling with the flesh? In any way, God says I can't, we both end up not right with God. And so the very first thing we do, and I don't want to belabor this illustration, but Connie's at the casual distort taking everybody's money. Dave comes walking up with two six packs. He forgot she worked there. Very first thing Connie does. And by the way, this happened. I saw it. No, not really. No, it didn't happen. Dave's back there sweating bullets. Um it didn't happen. But the very first thing is Connie thinks, man, what's my walk with God like? Am I in a position with God where I can do anything that would help him in any way? So, number one, what do I do? I consider my own spiritual condition. The fall of another Christian should immediately prompt me to evaluate my walk with God. Now, if this is done sincerely, and if I do this under the influence of the Holy Spirit, What's going to happen to me? If I see someone that has fallen, I come in contact with a brother or sister in Christ, they've fallen, they're living in sin, they're carnal, however terminology you want to use The very first thing I need to sincerely yield my mind to the Holy Spirit and say, God search me. I need to judge myself where am I at? If I do that sincerely, it's going to make me humble Now my first thought as I was studying this, I thought, you know, that might produce a holier-than-thou mentality. They might say, well, I'm not buying six pack of beer. I'm not doing what they do. So I must be spiritual and they're carnal. That is not what we're talking about. I don't compare myself to them, their behavior. I judge myself by the word of God. And when I examine myself and I seek I stand back and critique my spiritual condition by the word of God, I think what it produces is a humility on my part. I'm humble before the Lord. Because if I'm not humble before the Lord, I'm not right with the Lord. If it produces a holier-than-thou attitude, then that tells me immediately. Then I'm not right with God. I'm not in a condition to be able to help them. I hear occasionally, well more often than I like, I hear of preachers who have fallen. We all have Um, you know, I have evangelists come through and they'll say, Man, did you hear about uh Dr. So-and-so or Pastor So-and-so? I said, No, whenever they say that, well, first thing I say is no and I really would rather not But you know what it does to me? Scares me to death. It's like, man, if somebody of that caliber was defeated? Where does that put me? You know what? It ought to prompt us to examine ourselves. Man, I need to make sure I'm right with God. I need to make sure my heart is guarded. I need to make sure I'm walking with the Lord And so that's the very first thing. Back in chapter 6 of Galatians, considering thyself. That phrase means paying close attention to myself. I found, this is true, of preachers and just all levels of position in the church and all levels of spirituality. I found this That those who loudly condemners are often guilty of either the same or very similar sins. as the one they're condemning. I found that to be true. Boy, they're just railing. And with anger and condemnation on another person. If that is characteristic of a person, a lot of times I'll think, huh. A lot of times you'll find out in the end that person was guilty of the same. So first thing I need to do is examine myself. I've come across a brother or sister in Christ. Uh their salvation's not an issue. But something they said or a sin or whatever, and here they're doing something wrong, they've fallen into sin, they've gotten carnal, their attitudes out of whack, they're living in disobedience to God. What do I do? How do I do I just ignore it? I just pretend I didn't see it and walk away. Just I didn't hear that. No, the first thing I do is, man, how's my walk with God? I need to check myself out. Number two, let me give you a second thought. And this one is very, very important also, because this this next point will affect the rest of my behavior. It will be the motive, it'll be the driving force of all my interaction with this fallen brother or sister. And that's this. It must be clear in my mind that restoration is the goal. I come across somebody that's not right. I examine myself, Lord, I need to be right, God. Okay, in my Bible reading, I need to pick that up. And I go through this and I just try and humble myself before the Lord and make things right. All right, what do I do? First thing, all right, everything I'm going to do is going to be with the goal of restoring this person back to fellowship with the Lord. Nothing we do with a fallen brother sister, we never do it to make them pay. There's a real the flesh will want to get angry when another Christian's actions Another Christian sin hurts our ministry or hurts our church's testimony or hinders my service for God. The flesh is angry Man, how does our church look? They're acting that way. How does that make us look? Yeah, I I worked with them, invested all this time and effort into them, and tried to help them and tried to be a good guy. And then they do this. Well, I tell you what, I'm going to make sure everybody knows what they did. Brother, you missed the point completely. The whole purpose of everything I'm doing is to restore them back to fellowship with Christ. And again, I get that from Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. Look what it says. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault Ye which are spiritual, what's the next word? Restore. What does it mean to restore something? Alright, put it back in place. Bring it back to new. You know who I thought of preparedness? I thought of Ron Coddington. I don't know why, but I just thought of him. No. Ron likes antiques, right? You do antiques. And uh Kathy's dad with antiques. You know what? I don't know. I think Ron does this, but uh Kathy's dad did this. He would go out and he would find an old pie state for something on somebody's front porch Man, it had weather, the paint's peeling off, there's scratches in it. I mean, it looks like in their mind they say we need to get rid of that thing one of these days. It's an eyesore Kathy's dad drives by and he sees that and he doesn't see an eyesore. Guess what he saw? So he would buy the thing and he was kind of a little shifty about this. His last name was Shiftlet, so he was but uh he'd go up and knock on the door and he says, uh Hey, you want to get rid of that pie safe? Yeah, you know, that thing's been keeping cut the porch. What do you take for it? I don't know. I'll give you twenty-five bucks. All right, great, take it You know what he does? Or did? He'd restore it. And he'd strip that thing down and he'd fix the hinges and replace the the little knobs on it, the little handles, and maybe the glasses cracked and replaced the glass. And when he was done with that thing, it looked like it was brand new. And he'd take it down to Whistville and put it in a booth down there and sell that thing for $2,500. He restored it Brought it back to dignity and value and something to be of use and a blessing to people And the Bible says if we have a brother or sister in Christ and they've fallen, they've blown it. They're not right with God Their attitude's out of whack, their behaviors out of whack. We are not to approach them with the idea of we're going to embarrass them, we're going to humiliate them, we're going to make them pay for doing this. That is not it at all What we're to do is everything we do are to get them where they are brought back to a position where they're a value for the cause of Christ, they're a blessing to people, God can use them and bless them, and they're back to what God intends for them to be. That's the whole purpose of everything I do. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. All actions and interactions, and in some cases separation, is for the intention of restoring the fallen one. 1 Corinthians, I believe it's 1 Corinthians, 1st or 2 Corinthians, and I don't have the reference at the top of my head, speaks about situations where I need to separate myself from a disobedient brethren. I mean a brother or sister in Christ, somebody that's saved, but they're not living right. And we're told not to eat meat with them, not to fellowship with them. What is the purpose of avoiding that? So they don't affect me, so I'm not caught up in what they're doing. Well, that's a side reason. The primary reason is so that they can get right with God They can be restored to fellowship with the Lord. That is the reason for all of it. This follows the Lord's pattern in Hebrews chapter 12. Every Christian ought to read Hebrews chapter 12 very regularly ought to be very familiar with that. That's where the Bible talks about the Lord chastening us. My biggest issue with some churches is they teach you can lose your salvation. To me, the Bible is very, very clear, a Christian cannot lose their salvation under any circumstances. Now that is not a license to sin, as they say, and accuse me of preaching. We've never preached, I don't know anybody that believes in eternal security believes that you have a license to sin. Hebrews chapter 12 is very clear that a person is saved, they can never lose their salvation, but if they sin, if they fall, if they live in a backslidden carnal condition God will chasten them. We understand that. And the whole purpose of God's chastening If you read the chapter very carefully, is to restore them back to fellowship with him. Is to correct it, to bring them back to righteous living. And so I am to mimic that principle in my interaction. Now, I don't chasten people. That's God's job. We, and now you, I don't know what you're, and I'm not meddling, I'm not setting this up as a pattern, but we didn't let our boys paddle each other, discipline each other. That was mom and dad's job That's I think. And so now we would like we certainly would hope when they were young that they would help each other do right. Listen, I don't have an authority to chasten Andy Clemens. That's between him and his Heavenly Father. No, he hasn't come and chasten me. But what we do, my responsibility is to work towards the same goal that God is working towards to get them restored, to help them. By the way, I would say young people, I've said this for years. A young person ought never date or become close friends, male or female, with anyone who does not help them be a better Christian. Under no circumstances. If a young person or an old adult as far as that goes, if the person that they're wanting to be with or be around or so attracted to, if they are causing them to lower their standards or violate their convictions, They're not helping them. And our job, our function is to restore people back to fellowship. So number one I need to consider myself. Number two, I need to be clear in my mind that restoration is the goal. Let me give you a third one real quickly. Compassion must be the dominating factor. In Mark chapter 6, verse 34, the Bible says, the Lord looked on the multitudes, and he was moved with compassion because they were like what? Anyone remember? They were like sheep without a shepherd. Now what is the word, what is the mental picture you get of those words? A sheep sheep without a shepherd. What is sheep doing? They're just scattered. They're getting into trouble. They're in danger. They're just out there. Can we fit that into our subject tonight? They're carnal. They're not under the control of the shepherd, but they're doing their own thing. And Jesus was moved with compassion. He was stirred some inside him said, this isn't good for them. This is hurting them. They need the shepherd. And that is the mentality we're to have when we deal with someone who has fallen, someone who is out carnal, badly. Our compassion ought to be stirred Man, that's bad. That's bad for them. They're gonna it's gonna hurt them. There's gonna be consequences in their life that could possibly be devastating, and our hearts should go out to that There's no room for holier than thou. There's no room for condemnation. In Luke chapter 15, verse 20, the prodigal son is coming back home. And what does the Bible say about the Father? The Bible said the Father had compassion on him. You know what some fathers would have done? But come on, they'd have had a two by four. Boy, boom, you're gonna pay for that. It's not our mentality towards people who are fallen. He went running out to him. His heart went out. In Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 2, he's talking about the priests, the human priests who were pictures of Christ. And he says that they were moved with compassion with the people who they were offering the sacrifices before, because, and I'm putting in my own words here for sake of time, because they understood they were susceptible to the same sins that they were making atonement for in the sacrifices they did for the people coming. Does that make sense? Compassion As I studied this passage, this subject throughout Scripture, I found that the whole tenor of Scripture on this subject emphasizes three things. Caution, patience, and compassion. Every passage I could find that dealt with people who were with with uh Christians or people of God who are dealing with folks who are not right with God, it always, the whole spirit of the passage was being very patient about it, being very cautious how I go about this, and having compassion on that one. Even to the point where we may have to view a brother-sister who is fallen We may have to get to the point where we view them as if they were unsaved. And what is our attitude towards the unsaved? Do we hate them? Are we mean to them? Do we condemn them? No, we want to win them to Christ. We want to love them. We want to influence them in a positive way. It's interesting. You read the book of Nehemiah, and in the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah prays and confesses the sins of Israel. Now as far as I can tell, Nehemiah was a good guy. As far as I can tell, Nehemiah was a godly man. He was an engaged And the uh the idolatry and all that that Israel, the nation of Israel, is going on. But when he confesses the sins, when he's listing the sins that Israel was doing, guess how he worded it We have sinned against you. We have disobeyed your commands. We have violated your principles He doesn't stand with the holy eye, yeah, they not that way at all. You know why? Because he loved his people These were his brothers and sisters. These were God's people. This is what he was a part of. He loved them. Even though he wasn't involved in their sin, compassion and such. In the book of Daniel, Daniel prays and confesses the sins of Israel. And he does the exact same thing. Daniel, would you agree with me? Daniel was a good guy. Daniel was exceptional. But yet when he prays and confesses the sins of Israel, he says, we, we, we have done this. We have failed here. We've not done this. We have done this. Compassion. Others. When confessing the sins of the nation of other of God's people, they would include themselves in the guilt and the responsibility of the sin. Every person, every believer is operating either under the control of the flesh Or under the control of the Holy Spirit. Every one of us here, right now, one of those two things are governing us. What we're thinking about, what our attitude is, all of that. It's either flesh or the Holy Spirit of God. Now, ideally, we want to all be under the control of the flesh. But that's, and by the way, I meant to say this earlier, that is a fluid thing. You follow what I'm saying? A person may be under control of the Holy Spirit Wednesday and be under control of the flesh on Sunday Ideally, we want to walk with God and stay as close to God. That's why we go to church three times a week. And I can say that tonight because everybody's here. Praise the Lord. That's why we read our Bibles every day. That's why we want Christian radio and Christian influence. Because we want to maintain that being in the Spirit. But it's fluid. It changes. And so, inevitably, we're going to interact with a brother or sister in Christ, who for either a very brief period of time, just that momentarily we catch them off guard, or They deteriorate into where they're living consistently in the flesh. How do we act? How do we interact with them? First of all, I stop and check myself out. What's my attitude like? Where am I with the Lord? Step back. Whoa. Look at Dennis Leatherman. Where is he? Next thing I do is I need, all right, everything I do, I've got to do everything I can, and everything that I do is to get them back under control of the Holy Spirit. Restore them back to where God wants to be. Do my part. I want to be that influence. I want to be an influence in them that brings them back. Thirdly, I need to have compassion in my heart. I got to genuinely care. You know what? Because if any of us say I would never do that, we're sitting ducks. We're sitting ducks. It may very well be that next year, this time, you or I may be the one that's needing someone to bring us back, right or wrong. Now I've got about four other points we don't have time for, so I'll pick it up next week. But I think this is a good start. And what we want to do, our goal is to have every member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church operating under the control of the Holy Spirit. Amen? And guess what? It takes all of us to help all of us do that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. To incorporate these principles here that we've already looked at into our lives. Lord, help us to be patient with one another. Help us to have a genuine compassion for others. Give us wisdom. And Lord, I pray. That whatever takes place, whatever others say or do, that we would respond in such a way that would draw us closer to you. We'd be a little more humble, a little more yielded, a little more like Christ. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.