Alright. Well I'm not gonna be very uh very long tonight. I'm not uh it goes against my upbringing to be short, but I'm I'm gonna try to be pretty short. Um But uh God's good, isn't he? God's pretty cool. And you know, he's not only like the best God that there could be. Because there's not another one. I'd say ever, but he is the only God, so but uh he's a great heavenly father. That's kinda cool Um my text verse is actually five chapters long, but I'm going to shorten it down to like one verse because of like yes. And I want you to like me too. But um but uh Genesis uh twenty nine and uh I believe twenty-seven. Genesis twenty nine twenty-seven I'm sorry, let's do twenty-six and twenty-seven. I'll let you guys find it. And Leyden said, it must not be done in our country to give the younger before the firstborn Fulfill her week, and will give thee also Give thee this also of service, which thou which thou shalt serve with me yet, seven other years. Um has there ever been so have there has there ever been something that you really want? I mean like really want. And I'm not talking when you're an adult. Because when you're an adult you're allowed you hide these feelings much more. But when you're a kid Those are the things that you really want. Alright? When when you're not smart enough to know that acting silly about a thing is just silly Then you tend to act well it'd say silly. But um when you're a kid, you can put like the like a toy. Above like the price of gold. You'll work eighty-five years. You don't even know how long eighty-five years is. You may not even count to eighty-five. It doesn't matter. But you'll work for it And you'll beg for it and you'll plead for it. You ever had something like that? Um something that you do and then and then when you get older, you you realize there's certain things that that you're willing to give. up some things for. Uh for instance, if you guys want to learn a uh learn a uh I don't know a new uh talent to say you want to learn to play piano. You gotta give up some time to play piano, right? And then it but if you want, you know, like a new car, then you have to give up a lot of money for a new car. And and if if you want something bad enough, anything about a house, you have to give even a lot more money up for a house. And the fact is, is that there's certain things that you're like, man, I'd I'd give anything to get that, right Okay, well, let's uh examine a man. He's not real. But let's examine a man who is kind of like that. Um in the German classic fairy tale, Faust. Has anyone ever heard of it? Faust? Alright. Um well Dr. Fowl sells his soul to the devil for uh magic and knowledge. Um there's a play written about it, and I can't and I account for the life of me, I think Marlowe wrote it. Um it's called Dr. Faustus. Um it's really old, very old tale. It's about a guy selling a soul to the devil. You know the whole shoulder angel, shoulder devil thing that we that we see in like cartoons? Yeah, like with Bugs Bunny, like actually probably Daffy Duck had the shoulder angel and shoulder devils more. But um like one was evil and one was good. That actually comes from Dr. Faust. entire idea of an angel on his shoulder comes from that uh from that fairy tale. Anyway, so he sells a soul. And so Mesopheles, which is one of the devil's minions, comes and uh and like I said, this isn't Bible, this is a fairy tale And he uh comes and hangs out with him, grants all of his w wishes for about twenty four years, and then his soul is the devil's and he goes to hell on some of them, and some of them he gets forgiveness and goes to heaven. uh the older ones he goes to hell. So that's there you go. There's your nice little fairy tale that you can tell your kids tonight. But um But we actually we know, and one of the reasons it's a fairy tale, an absolute story, is because we know you can't actually sell your soul. Right? You can't really sell your soul. And if you could sell your soul and you could really get all this stuff for it, it'd be kind of a bad deal for the devil because you can just get it right back and get saved. Right? I mean You're like, ha ha, I'm getting saved. And then you take all his stuff, right? But um But when you're saved, like I said, you can't sell your soul. And you know why you can't sell your soul? Because it's God's. Unfortunately. It's kind of like uh like uh having a car. Alright? It's not your car. And I'm I'm gonna use this apparently I preach teenagers a lot. So here's a teenage example. So you're gonna have your own car, it's your parents' car. But they let you drive it, right? So here's the thing. Your backpack's in there, your sunglasses are in there, your hoodies in the back seat, your McDonald's wrappers on the floor. Um see what else do teenagers? Hmm. Your iPods in there. I don't know any of the possessions teenagers on maybe a stuffed animal that you don't know anyone to know about, you know? So so you have all these things, right? And they're in your car. Well here's the thing, you can't sell your car. It's not yours to sell. And even if you tried, your parents would be like, yeah, you don't have the title, dude. And you would fail. But you know you can sell. You can sell your backpack and you can sell your hoodie and you can sell your sunglasses and you can sell your iPod and you can sell everything inside of the car that is yours. So let me make that illustration pop a little more. You can't sell your soul because God already bought it with his own blood. Right? That doesn't mean you can't sell parts of your life to the devil. Alright, I'm only going to examine three areas, and then we're going to be done, and I'm going to let you guys go home. Three areas that you can sell to the devil. You can make a deal with the devil for. to get stuff. Now unfortunately there are little rules with these. Because and uh unfortunately they usually don't work out the way you want them to. But you know what? You can sell them. Like I said, you can't tell your soul. And I feel really strong with this mic right now. I feel very powerful. Okay, maybe I'm not though. So um But there but there are three areas I think it may be more, but there are three areas I'm gonna focus on that you can sell. You know you can sell first of all? You can sell your name or your reputation. Alright? Um But let's look at uh Esau, who didn't technically sell his reputation, but he sold his birthright. Okay? Like I said, my text is like five chapters. So Genesis 27, 28 through 30. I'm just gonna read it to you guys. Twenty-seven, twenty-eight through thirty. Therefore God again, this is uh So this is uh Isaac talking. Yep, Isaac talking to Jacob, and he's blessing Jacob instead of Esau. I'm sorry, this is the blessing, this is not a his birthright. But Jacob, and I apologize, I meant Jacob, not Esau But then the same story. Jacob actually sold his name, as it were. Alright, I'm gonna teach you what I mean by that. He sold his name to get a birthright. To get the or not a birthright, to get a blessing. He's already gotten the birthright, but he sold his name to get a b um a blessing. And here's what I mean by that. His name is Jacob. However, he said it was Esau. Like I said, let me uh read this to you. Therefore, God give thee of the dew of heaven, of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of the corn and wine Let the people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee, be Lord of their brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee. Cursed be every one that curses thee, and blessed be he that blesses thee And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made the end of the blessing of Jacob, and Jacob was scarce gone out of the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau's brother came in from hunting So, Jacob and so if you guys know the story, Esau's going to get a blessing from his father. And by the sounds of it, by the way, it's a great blessing. Sounds like a cool blessing. But Esau's going to get it. Until Jacob's mom hears about it. Jacob and Esau's mom hears about it. And then she tells Jacob, go put some goat skin on you, give your dad some goat meat, we'll make it taste like venison Yeah, you'll get the blessing instead of your brother. Alright, we know how that rut works. Uh if you've been in church for very long. So Jacob decides to sell his name for someone else's name. Alright? And does it work out? It works. He gets the blessing, right? But here's the thing. Then Esau comes to his father and he's like, Hey, what'd you do that for? I don't can't don't you have any blessings for me? And you know what? He can't give the same blessing to him. Can't. Here's something you're gonna learn about selling your name or selling your reputation. By the way, right now it does look like it all works out for Jacob. I'm not gonna say if you don't sell some things to the devil, if you don't trade some things in your life that aren't supposed to be yours, that are supposed to be God's, that you that you have brainovers you can trade them. I'm not saying that it won't work sometimes. I'm not saying you won't get anything Because sin is great for oh well. Because these things sometimes do work out. The devil's not stupid. You don't um Great uh when you get into like a really good pyramid scheme, you don't get nothing back. You get a little back. So you're gonna get something. And and Jacob gets what he what he bargained for. He got the blessing. But here's something about selling here's something about selling your reputation. That uh you don't know, you can't trade back for it. No matter what Jacob did, even if Jacob felt really bad about it, you can't just give away the blessing. It's already happened. His name has already been, and in his brother's eyes, his name is already dirt. He's already been ruined. Esau hates Jacob. Not just dislikes. He hates him. In fact, he makes a vow a little while later saying, hmm, when my mother is dead, I'm going to kill my brother. Esau really hates Jacob. Now I don't know. That's the thing. I don't know if Jacob thought that it was worth it. I really don't know if Jacob thought it was worth it to, you know. Get that blessing in exchange for his brother wanting to hunt him down and kill him. By the way, his brother was a lot bigger than he was. Because well one of them dwelt in Pence and one was i in the wild all the time, so I'm assuming that j Esau was bigger. But um I don't know if you thought it was worth it. I don't know if people thinking that you're a bad person, a schemer, a liar is worth the things you get out of it. Because mind you, you will get something out of it. Most likely. If you're if you're any if you're smart at all You can lie and cheat and steal and scheme and get something out of it. But what happens to your reputation in Christ? Is it worth it? It's kind of like buying a brand new car. We were actually talking about this today. Buying a brand new car? I'm not against it, but the thing is, once you buy that car, what happens is the value? Immediately. It drops like a thousand or two thousand dollars. As soon as you turn the key and drive it out of the parking lot that you buy them. This probably looked really good to Jacob. This lie, this scheme, this idea, looked really good to Jacob. And then he'd pulled out of the parking lot and his brother wanted to kill him. What are you gonna trade for your name? Um my dad did some work for a guy and I uh I'm not gonna say his name. because uh yeah I guess he he's actually a little bit famously known around uh my dad's uh business and uh and not just my dad's like actual company, but like in the entire uh oil and gas industry, they know who he is. Alright, I'm not gonna say what his name is because that's that's improper, but uh I don't know, he's not listening right now, right? And he was mean to me as a kid, so you know what? I'll bet her off. No, but um no but he he has this reputation of being a total jerk. Now here's the thing, you can make if you work for him, you can make a lot of money. Like a lot of money. He's one of those guys. But everyone quits after like a year. Because the guy is a jerk. The guy's a liar. He's deceptive. And everyone knows it. Now the guy's worth like about $200 million. So, like I said, you'll get something out of it. But is your name really worth money? And I know I'm preaching to Christians, but as Christians, we are not above reproach. We're not above Sometimes towing the line, sometimes bending the rules a little bit. I'm not. I should be, and I know that, but but doesn't mean I'm not tempted to just I know I was told to do this, but if I did this, it was better. I know, I know, I know I I know I said I was here till like seven last night and I only went home and I went home at five then came back and then clocked out. Well I had someone clock out for me. By the way, I mean this is listen, I worked with college students. I worked with Bible college students. Pe Christians aren't Christians are not above being deceptive. We're not above being liars. We should be. But we're not above uh being rule benders. We're not above breaking the law even. But when you get caught, is your name really worth it? Um Now a lot of times you get caught like that. Uh oh there's uh that guy who worked for the uh and I apologize, he works for the um I think it was the EPA. It was it just came on the news a couple weeks ago. He worked for the EPA, I think. And he was the glob he was like the global warming like guru. And he got paid over a million dollars. And he told and but he's never in the office because he told everyone that he was working for the CIAA. Alright? It's a true story. And over one and a half years, or actually I'm sorry, over five years got paid over a million dollars. And he told he always sent in requests, you know, telling them he had to pay him you know he was sending his uh his bill saying, Listen, I was I'm over in Afghanistan this week, I'm over here this week. And he never left his house in South Carolina. Here's the thing. He might have gotten a million dollars, and that's great. Because a million dollars is awesome. But if he doesn't go to jail, which he will He's never gonna work again. Not for the kind of money he was making. And if he was already in that position, I'm assuming that he was making some pretty good money before then. And he'll never be back up there. So the question is, what is your name worth? Because like I said, the uh you can't trade it back. And you know, one day you might want it back. You might wish you had. Let me go to uh Genesis 32 And verse 6 is 7. So Jacob, let's let's continue with the story of Jacob. Jacob's like, oh yeah, okay, so I lied about my name. Sure everyone thinks I'm a deceiver now, but now I have this great blessing, right? And now Jacob's worth quite a bit of money. Huh. Well let's go down to 32, 6, and 7. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau. And also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. Hmm. And Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed, I bet And he divided his people that was with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, and two bands. So, twenty years later, after Jacob, you know, lied and stole from his brother. And he hasn't he maybe na maybe he hasn't given a second thought since. Maybe it's kept him up at night? I don't know. All I know is that he sold his name. He lied about who he was. And now four hundred men are coming with his brother. Now, if you know the story, Esau's like, yeah, it's on the past. But that's not what Jacob thinks is gonna happen. Jacob's pretty sure he's gonna get killed and his wives are gonna get killed and all of his kids are gonna get killed. And all this stuff that he's worked for the past twenty years to gain will be taken. That's what Jacob thinks So what I want to ask Jacob, if I could, was that lie and that blessing, because by the way, the father did have two blessings. The second one was not admittedly as good as the first one. But he did have two blessings. Was that blessing worth risking your family's lives or your wives' lives and your children's lives and all the stuff that you've ever gotten over the past twenty years? Was that worth it? I don't think so. You see, we can sell our name or our reputation to the devil, but you can also sell your time. Here's something, and here's a rule I know I learned about uh Satan. The devil never buys in full. Okay, who likes uh Who who has like an Android or an iPhone phone? Do they have like a smartphone in here? Uh you guys don't have to raise your hands, cool, yeah. Whatever. Wasn't gonna judge you. I have one too. But um there are games out there. And they're fun games. And Candy Crush is one of them. And although I've never played Candy Crush, uh that's untrue. I played it once on my dad's phone. But Candy Crush is one of them. And then now it they're called uh they're free. Games right they're free. You just download them and you can play them. But you can only play them like once a day. Unless You pay for more coins. Like a dollar for a hundred of them. Right? That sounds pretty good. Dollar for a hundred coins? But by the end of the month, you've paid a dollar once every couple days. You've paid thirty dollars for this stupid game on your phone. And you and you would and if it was on the app store and said, hey, you want this app for $30? You'd be like, no, this stupid game. And yet, at the end of the month, you've paid $30 for this game. Thirty dollars for a stupid little game. Not even an awesome Xbox game. A little game on your phone. Not worth it. But here's how they get you. Because you really want to play again. You're like, oh, or I okay, I played Deer Hunter. This is one of those games that does that, but I am not sucked into paying for it. I just wait. Like an hour and a half so I can replay it. Because I'm cheap and it's not a real beer. But you're getting there, and and this happened to me last night actually. I was gonna kill this black alpha wolf. It was awesome. I had to shoot it in the heart. And I've been literally trying for like okay I rather than try that hard, but I every once in a while I'll pick it up and I'll play it play it until I can't anymore and then I'll put it down. So I've been trying to get all this money so I can get a new scope. Because apparently they don't think I'm good enough with my old scope, even though I am. Okay? But they make me get this new scope. To shoot this thing in the heart. And then my little lightning thing, which is your power, which is how much you're allowed to play, goes to zero. And I just got the scope. And I was like, oh that's only a dollar. It's like no, I can't do it. And I was like, I have a dollar. Anyways, about that time I don't remember what happened, but I ended up putting it down the phone. And guess what? I ended up being able to beat it without spending a dollar. Woohoo. Now I'm in Africa hunting cheetahs. But that's how the devil works. Your time. The devil you you'll make deals for your time. Think about church time. One Sunday. You know I'm gonna s I I unfortunately uh my kids uh I don't know baseball game is on this Sunday. It's not supposed to be on Sundays. My coach the coach assured me that it was only this one Sunday. Okay, one Sunday I'm not gonna I'm not gonna hurt his reputation among the coach for one Sunday at church, right? That's what you think, right? But then but then that that Sunday takes a little bit of time. It's easier for the next Sunday. Maybe not right away. See, because the devil's not that stupid. The devil's way smarter than you and I. So he won't he won't do it right like that. He'll be like, it's one Sunday. And then maybe a month or two later, it's another Sunday. And then maybe a month or two later, he gets into a new league because he's getting better. Well that must be a blessing for God. So you're willing to sacrifice Probably every Saturday, which is cool, but now you're not going soul winning in Great Commission. By the way, speaking of Great Commission, I forgot to announce this this morning. Please sign up for the Great Commission thing. Time sheet's back there. If I don't make this announcement later, now you guys know. But now you can't go to Great Commission. Or the ladies' luncheon or the men's prayer breakfast. Which by the way you shouldn't be going to both of those. Alright? Just saying. But but now you're missing things. And and then now it's Saturdays and one Sunday every two or three Sundays. You're like, okay, I'm still beating the average here. I'm still going two out of three or three out of four Sundays. That's pretty good. The devil will suck up your time, and he won't do it all right away. He'll do it in increments. Like I said, those little games did you know that Angry Birds was the highest grossing game? Um I don't know if it was last year, but I know it was two years ago. And do you know how much it costs? It's free. That's kind of incredible. But they uh send ads and and you know on a on the iPhone it is a dollar. It's the little things that kill ya. You know, fast food's really not that expensive. Alright? It's really not. Yeah? Five bucks for a meal. Eh, five bucks isn't that much. But five bucks And and I know this because I worked in an oil field, uh or not an oil field, a uh I worked for an oil business and uh I was I lived out of a hotel so all I ate was a fast food for like three months. And I got to add up all my and by the way, company paid for it, so whatever, but I get to add up all my things and you know that and three meals a day Six bucks a meal, it's eighteen dollars a day, you're talking somewhere around a hundred and twenty-something dollars a week. You're talking about almost five hundred dollars a month. It's not that expensive. That's more expensive than two car payments right there. Increments is how the devil gets you when it comes to time. You won't suck up all your time at once, but you'll suck up a little bit here and a little bit there. And do you know and here's and by the way, that was our text verse, if you remember. It was a Laban talking to Joseph, or talking to Jacob. And Jacob had worked seven years, seven whole years for Rachel, and he got Leah instead. And then Jay's like, well, if you work another seven years, I'll give you Rachel. Let me uh get to that point as well. Because not only does he do it in increments, but the devil doesn't necessarily give what he promises either. And I want you can spend all of your time On one thing. Alright? I don't know. Maybe it's uh maybe it's extra time at work. And you know it's fine. I don't you know I I like people working. That's that's great. But maybe your boss your boss, and I'm not saying your boss is the devil, but he might be. We don't know. I doubt it, but that might be his nickname. I don't know. But maybe maybe he's working for the devil and doesn't know it and says, listen If you can come in on Sundays for a while, you'll probably get this promotion. And maybe you do, but maybe you don't. And what did you just sacrifice? Or maybe you have to come in earlier and uh now now your time that you were supposed to spend with God, uh you can do it in the morning, which is fine. You don't have to read your Bible in the morning. But it's pushed back till later at night. Well, because it's not right in the morning and because when you at night we get tired, you miss it more and more often, and you keep missing it because your time is being taken up. And it wasn't supposed to be. Your time is being taken up. And what are you sacrificing? Even if you get what you were after Really? Is a few more dollars worth your entire walk with God? And I'm not saying that happens to everyone, I'm not saying it's gonna happen to you, but it can Schedules are awful. If you if you have a switching schedule, I pray for you because I know exactly how it is. I worked um I was in college, I worked midnights and afternoons, and it switched All the time. Let me tell you something. It was good and I needed to do it. But that did kill a lot of my devotional life. Because all of my free time free time, and I'm just being honest with you, a lot of my free time was spent sleeping. Now now my friend who uh his name is Eric He was actually my roommate. And uh he worked two to ten every day at McDonald's. Ever I mean like five days a week. Not every day, but five days a week. He knew when he was going to be reading his Bible. I'm not saying you guys can't switch shifts and be close to God. I'm not saying that, but if you can't If something is taking up your time and maybe it's doing it incrementally, maybe it started out small and now it's taking more and more time. Or maybe it's just taking up the same amount of time, but it keeps on butting into your spiritual life. And you're making these deals, and you don't think it's with the devil, but maybe it's just with your phone flesh to try to get stuff. And sometimes the devil doesn't give on what he told you it would. Sometimes he does, but sometimes he really doesn't. And you get Leah instead of Rachel. And Leah's ugly. Alright, Leah has a great personality. Alright? So the Bible says. Actually it tells us that she was kind of mean to Rachel, although Rachel doesn't seem like had a great personality either, because she was really envious, but you know, whatever. Sometimes you won't get what you ask for. Sometimes it buys up all your time in increments. And lastly The real problem with the devil is, and not the real problem with the devil because he has a lot of problems, but when he takes your time, if he doesn't give you what he wants to give you, he'll give you another shot at it. Just like Laban. How long was uh Jacob supposed to work for Laban? Seven years. How long did he end working for uh just for Rachel? Fourteen years. Wait a second. It was only supposed to be seven, but you know what? He did get her, but it's fourteen years of his life gone for that. Maybe you're supposed to do something with your life that none of us know about, but you're putting off. Actually, uh I'll I'll be real personal with you guys again. Um before I moved before I was uh um called here and you guys and I before I visited and even knew I was going to uh be down here. I kinda hoped no one would call me for a while because I had some really good contacts in the oil business and I wanted to go make a lot of money. Now I'm gonna say something and I'm gonna be real honest with you guys. I'm glad God thinks I'm stupid. I am so glad God thinks I'm stupid. Or God thinks I'm weak. He he thinks one of those two things. He mig I think I'm stupid and weak And it's probably true. Because I'm glad he doesn't test me. I'm glad I didn't have to make the decision of of money over coming to work here. I'm really happy about that now. Because had I had to make that decision, I want to say, yeah, of course I'm spiritual and I'd be here, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But I'm stupid and I'm weak. You might get what you want if you waste your name and if you waste your time and if you sell those to Sell those to Satan or sell those to the world. Alright, maybe maybe saying deal with the devil is a little too harsh. But if you make a deal with the world to get what you want, you might get what you want eventually after putting more time in it than you were supposed to. And after ruining your name, but is it worth it? You know how long Jacob spent with Laban? Twenty years. He was only supposed to send spend seven. But he I mean he only got what he wanted. He actually got more than he wanted. And uh that brings me to the last point. You can sell your name to the devil. You can sell your time to the devil. And you can certainly sell your morals. Unfortunately, sometimes you'll find out that your morals, what you paid for your morals, has a have a little less luster than you thought it did. It's a little less shiny of an idea than you thought it was. It's a little less awesome than you thought it was after you've already paid for it. It's like buying clothes. You buy clothes, you're like, man, I this is awesome. Actually I don't really feel this way too much. I don't really go with clothes shopping. Other people buy my clothes for me. Chris said, Chris said, we need stuff. And she gets me stuff. Or socks. I got these awesome new socks. Sure you guys go. They have sunglasses all over them I don't even know what the point of that is. They're just awesome. But I do like guitars. I like to play guitar. I'm not a very good guitarist, so you'll probably not hear me up here. Because I'm not very good. But I love to play. And even more so, I like to spend money on guitars. I like to play expensive guitars. A lot. I think it's a lot of fun. And I don't know why well I mean okay and if you play guitar at all, which I don't think we have a ton of guitarists in here because I haven't talked to anyone about it. But if you play guitar, you know the difference between an expensive guitar and a not expensive guitar. It's not like they're the exact same thing Okay? They're not at all. And they're smoother, and I don't even know why they're smoother, but they're a lot cooler to play and like a really good guitar, like the w if I had if I was like a bazillionaire, that's right, there's that word again. If I was a bazillionaire. There's this like $3,500 guitar. Yeah, $3,500 for a chunk of wood and some strings. But $3,500 guitar, it's really pretty. I would really like it. And I'm never gonna buy it 'cause I don't play guitar that well. But it's really pretty, right? But I can see myself Getting a large chunk of change and be like, oh, I'm going to go buy this nice guitar. And I buy it. And I know what would happen. I'd be really excited when I buy it. And then I would come, I'd put it home and my wife would yell at me and I'd be like, be quiet and I'd play over her, I'd be like dun dun dun So play over her y yelling at me for buying thirty five hundred dollars a car And then I'd sit in the corner. And then look at it. And you know what I'd say? I'd say, did I just spend $3,000 on a guitar? The answer is yes. Sometimes after you pay for something with your morals, is your name, that's outright. That's for everyone to see. And you're in time, that's something that like you just can't get back. But your morals, maybe that's just inside of you. Maybe my wife doesn't know about this guitar. Maybe that's just something inside you. You did and you don't want anyone to know about. Well I said that I guitar in the corner. It's not that and it it's still it's still pretty, I guess. And it sounds good I guess. But that was a lot of money. By the way, buying a new car? Totally like that too. You're like, well that's awesome. That runs a lot better than my old car. That's cool. And then you're like Oh that's not much money. Oh buyer's regret. Now let me let me talk about buyer's regret with uh I mean you just paid the devil in your morals, and here's what you get. Let's talk about Rachel Rachel and Leah. We didn't talk about Jacob this whole time. Let's talk about Rachel and Leah. Rachel hasn't been able to have any kids. Leah is beating her by like five. I think it's five. I just read this and it's either four or five. So Jacob has four or two odds. Rachel, who's the one he loves, the one he spent the fourteen years for, and Leah, the one he got first after the seven years. Well, Leah is apparently way more fertile than Rachel is. And he has five kids with her before Rachel has any. And Rachel starts to feel like a loser. And she's starting to think that, you know what Jacob's not gonna love me anymore. So here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna give him my mate uh my uh handmaiden, Gohaw. And that will be his new wife, and because I gave it to him, that'll count as my kids. And you know what? Jacob has a child with Bill Haw. I can't remember her name or his name, and I apologize. But he has a child with Bill Haw. And you know what? Rachel really doesn't feel as good about it as she thought she would. She's sold out her morals and And she kind of feels Oh wait, that's that's not I guess that's not really my kit, is it? And now Jacob has three wives. Well, here's the thing. So you'll uh You'll you'll you'll find out that your uh your morals, the thing you bought your moral bought with your morals, double's luster, but also your life might get kind of complicated. You may be moving around uh losing your morals and using your morals for payment. Like complicates some things. You know what happened after uh Rachel gave Bilha to uh Jacob? Leah gave her handmaiden to Jacob. So now Jacob has four wives. So now instead of having to contend with the love of one woman, she's having to contend with the love of three women. Well that was not a good deal. And lastly, you can't really trade it back. It's not like you can be like, yep, alright, I don't that kid that you had with them, yeah, I don't want that kid anymore. And and you can't be his wife anymore. It's not how it works. Here's the thing about that guitar that I that I that I in this fantastical realm we were talking about bought. After I've played it and maybe scratched it, because you do scratch things that you own, especially guitars, I should scratch it. I can't take it and be like, yeah, I don't want this anymore, I want my three thousand five hundred dollars back, and they're like, yeah, no. You can't do it. You trade your time or you you you sell your You're selling your time and you see and you can sell your name and you can sell your morals, but what you get back, even if it's exactly what you wanted, won't satisfy you forever. Look at Jacob. Look at Rachel. Look at Leah. Nothing made them happy. Now, that's all like really depressing. And I'm not a depressing guy. So make you decide guys some good news. You know the good news? Then we'll get out of here. I'll give you guys the good news. You know who God is? I'll tell you who God is. Turn to, and I just want to actually do want you to turn to Genesis 35, 10. And this is cool. You can say this is not cool, but you'd be wrong. So this is cool. Because it's in the Bible, and the Bible's cool. But but say you sell your name, alright, and that's a bad deal. You don't want to sell your name, right guys? It's bad. You don't want to sell your reputation, right? You know who God is? Genesis thirty-five ten. And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob. A name shall not be called Jacob, shall not any more sorry, shall not be called anymore Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name. And he called his name Israel. You know the cool thing that God is you can sell your name, you can sell your reputation. You're not getting that name or that reputation back. The cool thing about God? God's the giver of names. God can give you a new name. Now I'm not saying like look at the um there's a reason I think that the apostle Paul changed his name from Saul to Paul. Because the name Saul was kind of ruined among Christians because, well, he kind of captured them and sold them, right? I mean that's like a bad thing. But man, he was Paul after that. Or or like um I mean it's cool. Your reputation might be dirt, but like so let's say your name is Bob, because we used Bob earlier today. Say it is Bob. Bob's name among everyone might be dirt. But have you guys heard about this guy? Have you heard about Bob? He's he's apparently like born again or whatever. Born again Bob. You can get a new reputation because you know what? God gives you that new reputation. It might not be as strong as the old one, might not be exactly everything you want. You know what? God is the giver of reputations. Here's the next thing. You know what you guys want to know another cool fact about God? You can sell your name, but God's the giver of names. And you can sell your time to the devil. But you want to know the cool thing about God? God's the owner of time. He can just give you more. And and you might be like, that's ridiculous, Grant. God can't give you more time. Let's talk about Hezekiah. Hezekiah He's about to die. He's like, God I don't want to die. And God's like, well alright. He gave him some more years of his life. That was his deal with God. You don't think God can extend your life? Listen, God, I messed up. I sold my time. I'd like more. I'm not saying he'll always do it, man. If you're if you're like 98 And uh maybe it'll be like, listen, I'll just take you home. We'll we'll hang out up here. But listen, we like to say that it's too late for some people, but God can give you back that time. Listen, it's his will, so you're gonna have to take it up for him. I don't want you to sell your time anyways, because like I said, he can't give you back that specific time you sold, but he can give you some more time. And that's what's so cool about God. And you can sell your morals. But do you want to know the cool thing about God? Is uh according. To first John one nine. Do you have another verse? Okay. Go in first John 1-9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You might have sold your morals at one point, and that might eat you up inside. But I can forgive that. Selling you is selling yourself. You can't sell your soul. But you can sell a lot of parts of your life. You can sell it away to the world. And like I said, you might get some stuff for it, but it'll never be worth it. It'll never be worth it in the end. But if you but here's the problem is man most of us already sold our morals for something, at least some of our morals. Or many of us have already sold our name and name at least to some people. Because maybe you guys don't like this, but there are people that I really don't think I can witness to because of who I was when I knew them. Right? That's a human thought. By the way, that's not true, because I can witness them. That's a human thought. Man, God's a giver of names. And you might think you wasted a lot of time, but man, God can give you more if you want to serve Him. You know what? He can forgive any sin you've ever committed. You just have to ask. We're gonna have a short invitation. Um I just uh like I said it wasn't it's I've I'm not a very long winded guy list I'm trying not to be n I just We've all we've all sold something. We've all given up something. He'd stand with me, um, I'd really like that. Um listen if you're um And I I'm not gonna ask you to come to the altar for this sermon necessarily. But uh please like I said, uh if this sermon's affecting you, I'd I'd ask you to come forward. But if you're not coming forward for that, just that come forward for the uh Coddingtons. We really need to keep them in our prayers. And uh go ahead. Play.