Those whom we disagree, maybe we a a situation or a decision made or something and we come to a disagreement And how to deal with that in a Christian fashion, a Christ-like uh matter. And uh we dealt with that. Last Wednesday night we began, and I really wanted to cover these in one session, really, the entire subject, but um We didn't get that far. We began on how to deal with a Christian, a brother or sister in Christ, maybe a church member, particularly, is our context of what we're talking about. How to deal with someone who has fallen, who is out of fellowship with the Lord. There's several terms we use for that. They're in the flesh, they're carnal, they're fallen, there's various things, and so that's the situation. Galatians 6, verse 1, is probably one of the most pointed passages in dealing with this. And the Bible says here, brethren, of course, speaking to Christians, we know by that phrase, brethren, if a man be overtaken in a thought Ye which are spiritual, now the key word, and I circled it in my Bible, ye which are spiritual, what? Restored. That is the key of all of this. Restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. And so dealing with the defeated is what I've called it. Let's pray and we'll finish this up tonight. Lord I thank you for the fellowship we have on Wednesday nights and folks that are faithful. Lord, we understand some have driven in good ways on roads that aren't the best. That it could be. And so uh we're grateful for that. We ask, Lord, that you would bless now our presence here in your house. We ask that uh your presence would be here and you'd help us to grow here in this matter. You've helped me tremendously, and Lord in this study of this, and um I pray you'd help us as individuals and as a church. I yield myself to you. Please fill me with your spirit tonight. Please be our teacher and preacher, Holy Spirit, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we said in every message so far, and I think it's so important to understand, in dealing with the family life, there's in one of two conditions that we find ourselves Either we're in the Spirit, and that means under control of the Holy Spirit, living in submission to the Spirit of God, and bearing the fruit of the Spirit, which is given in chapter 5 of Galatians, verse 22 and 23, or We are under the control of our flesh. And we're calling the shots, and the old nature of sinful flesh, old nature is is in control, and then we will have Characteristic of us is the works of the flesh, which are given in verse 19, 20, and 21 of chapter 5 of Now we looked at those a good bit, so I'm not going to rehash them. Other than to say this, uh the more, and we mentioned this last week, but I want to mention again, the higher uh the percentage a church has of people who are controlled by the Holy Spirit, the more that church as a body will exhibit the fruits of the Holy Spirit. It will be characterized by love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. And it will be characterized by that. The higher percentage you have of people in the church that are in the flesh, the more that church is going to display the works of the flesh, which are listed there, and they're all ugly And so ideally, we would like for every church to be, everyone to be under the control of what? Holy Spirit, obviously. That would be the ideal. Now we live in a realistic world. Very seldom is the ideal achieved. And so there's always going to be a certain percentage of folks who are living in the flesh, who are under control of the Holy Spirit. And that will fluctuate, that percentage, who it is making up that percentage will often change. You can have somebody that's in the flesh one week and the next week they're in the spirit. And that can go back and forth. It's a constant tension there, conflict. And we see that in verse 19. Verse uh 16, 17, and 18 there of the verse. So, how do we deal with someone who is yielded to the flesh? Maybe in a moment they've given in to some sinful temptation. They've not repented of it. They're indulging in it. They're covering it up, whatever. Or they just gotten out of the spirit and they're living in a state of carnality. How do you deal with that person? How do you interact with them as a church member, as a brother and sister in Christ? Well, we pointed out last week, the first thing I have to do is I must consider my own spiritual condition. That is number one. Very first thing I do, I come across someone that is obviously living in the flesh or whatever, something Very first thing I do is, all right, where am I at? We get that in Galatians 6, verse 1, where he says, considering thyself. And uh we pointed out there that, and he says earlier, he says, ye which are spiritual. So the whole idea here is, all right, I've got to evaluate myself, am I under the control of the Holy Spirit? Am I yielded to the Spirit? Is the fruit of the Spirit evident in my life? And we talked about that. We said that 1 Corinthians 11, the church at Corinth, was a tremendously carnal church. I mean, extremely so And uh he says, examine yourselves, judge yourselves. And then Matthew 7, you remember the story where Jesus told about a fellow had a uh somebody, he saw a guy had a moat, had a um uh a moat in another guy's eye, but he had a beam in his own eye. And the Lord instructed him, first take the beam out of your own eye, then You can help that guy. First make sure you're not living in the flesh. Make sure you're living under the control and power of the Holy Spirit yielded to God, then you can help that brother that is struggling with the flesh and help him get over and live in submission to the Holy Spirit also. Now there's another text, and we're going to get to it later, but I want to mention it here because I think it fits in with this. I didn't bring this out last week. Remember the story, uh the situation where uh the Pharisees brought to Jesus a woman taken in adultery? Remember that? She's taken in the very act, it says. And they said, um, the law says we should stone her. What do you say? And what did Jesus, what was his first words? He stalled there a little bit, but what was his first words to the Pharisees? Ye that are without sin, cast the first stone. What was he telling them? Where was he directing their attention? Yeah, he was directing their attention off of her to themselves. And what he was saying was, he wasn't saying you shouldn't deal with this sin. He wasn't saying that you just ignore someone someone that's committed adultery, living in sin. He's saying first, he says you guys are going about this the whole wrong way. He wasn't saying don't deal with it. He said, but you're going about it the whole wrong way. You've got to begin with yourselves. You've got to start with your own spiritual standing, your own condition So, thing that is loudly taught in Scripture, I think, is um first thing we've got to do is stop and look at ourselves I found a brother and sister in Christ. Comes to my attention that they're not living for the Lord. They're living in sin. Uh they've done something wrong. They've not repented. They're continuing that. Boy, what do I do? First thing I do to God and I say, God, I need you to search my heart. That I need to be right with you before I can do anything to be of help. Here's where most damage is done. Not that somebody falls. But that people who are not right with God try to deal with that fall. And they make it even worse. And so, number one, consider myself. Number two, and we already touched on this, but we said it must be clear in my mind that restoration is the goal. It's not, we're not out, we're not, our object in dealing with someone who has fallen is not to humiliate them. It is not to shame them or make them pay. A lot of times, Christians, and I guess, and it's the flesh, really. Someone has fallen into sin, someone's living in sin, they're living in disobedience to God, a brother or sister in Christ, someone we care about, maybe we've uh been soul-winning together with, or whatever, sang in a choir with, whatever Scenario you want to come up with, we find out about that, and our immediate reaction a lot of times is we get angry Why in the world would they do that? I know I hear uh sometimes I hear about a preacher falls, evangelists tell me something or whatever, and the first thing is, man And that's the flesh. I'm not to respond with anger. I'm to respond with, hey, we've got to recapture this one. We've got to get this one back in the fellowship. We need to restore them. Somebody said Christians are the only ones that shoot their wounded. And we've got to view it just like a battlefield where a comrade or a fellow soldier has been hit, they've been wounded, they've been shot by the enemy Maybe they did something stupid. They put themselves, they didn't follow protocol or whatever. And here they are. What an idiot. Boom! I'll finish them off. That's not the idea. Medic! You get someone in there and you get them out of there And that's the whole idea here. Number three, we said, compassion must be the dominating factor And over and over we find in Mark 6, 34, in Luke 15. 20, in Hebrews 5. 2, we find that the whole tenor of scripture, as I put it last week, on dealing with someone who has fallen, the whole the whole um The spirit of scripture is there must be caution, there must be patience in dealing with them, and there must be compassion. I was reading my devotions this week, I mentioned last week uh Nehemiah and Daniel and others who when they were confessing the sins of the nation of Israel. They included themselves in that. Remember we mentioned that? Even though they hadn't personally committed the sins they're confessing. And I was reading in my devotions this week, Ezra Ezra does the same thing. I was reading it yesterday morning, this morning. I was reading down there, and here he starts confessing, he's saying, We've done that, and we've done this and we've done that. And I got looking at it and I said, I can't find anywhere where Ezra personally did these sins. But his heart is for his people, and he loves God's people, his people. And so he includes himself out of compassion for them. He said, Lord, we we're sinners. And so compassion must be the dominating factor. Now let's get to some new ground. And I hope you might jot these down. If they don't come in handy now, I believe at some point in your life and experience in the church they will be Let me give you, number four, some cautions to follow. Some things we need to be very, very careful about. When somebody goes in for surgery, Uh and i there they uh they have a life-threatening condition. You don't just go charging in there First thing you do, you clean yourself up, and you get the right instruments, and you're going to do this very, very carefully because that person's future is very much at stake. And that's true when we're going to deal with a person who's in the flesh, who's fallen, who's sin. We want them to recover. And so we've got to go through about this the correct way, the Bible gives. Some cautions to follow first I put down. I actually have two. You might come up with others. But I put this one down here. The fall must be confirmed. And by that I mean this. Make sure that what you understand to be true is really true. Alright? You follow what I'm saying. If I don't have first hand knowledge of the situation, then I best thing for me to do is keep my nose out of it Huh? Somebody comes. Did you hear about so-and-so? Boy, that picks up the ears. I gotta ask myself several questions. I need to ask, who is it that is giving me this information? You say, well, what does it matter who it is that's giving you information? It matters a lot. You know, some people are known for giving unreliable information Can I get a witness? Some folks they tell you, oh, have you heard? And immediately red light red flags go up in my mind. And I'm thinking, you know, this person has told me a lot of things before, and few of them have actually panned out to be anything. So I'm not going to put a whole lot of stock in what this person has to say Now you all are looking at me so pious, like you don't know anybody like that. The fact is we all know people like that. And so we've got to stop and say, wait a minute, is this a reliable source? If it's not, then my suggestion is don't pay it any attention. Just don't even listen to it. Okay, fine. God bless you. And don't even deal with it. Now if it's somebody that's reliable, somebody of integrity and character, and they're coming with the right motive And they say, you know, I'm real concerned, we need to pray or whatever, and you ought to know this. It bogs you in some way or another. Well then I need to give it some serious consideration The other thing is, and kind of ties in with this, but how did I find out about this? Did I just overhear somebody talking between themselves? Oh good night. We've got to do something about this. Um you read it on Facebook? Huh? Oh my word! Oh I can't believe that! I gotta do something! Wait a minute If you just overheard it, I suggest to you don't pay it any attention. Alright? So a lot of times people will inject themselves into situations One, it's none of their business. Two, they're not in a position that they're going to be able to help them anyway. And so I must confirm it. The Bible speaks repeatedly Of having two or three witnesses whenever dealing with a situation. We talked about this in Sunday school a couple weeks ago. What about if the, it's probably been a month or so ago, if the pastor does wrong. And Timothy talks about that. He says, against an elder, speaking of the pastor, the context is pastor, against an elder, receive not an accusation except it be with two or three witnesses. In other words, it needs to be confirmed. If I'm going to step in, I'm going to confront somebody or get involved in somebody's spiritual condition that's not right with the Lord, they're living in sin, or however you want to determine it First thing I've got to do is stop and consider myself, all right, how's my walk with the Lord? Am I what I ought to be, and I'm under the control of the Holy Spirit, too. I need to say, all right, my whole purpose in getting involved in this is uh restoring them I gotta make sure I'm doing this out of compassion. And then I got to say, wait a minute, make sure this is even the case Two or three witnesses. Do not, and I know I don't have to tell you this, but do not put stopped in rumors or gossip. Can I get an amen there? Don't put any stock in that. The devil is a master at spreading rumors. It's a funny thing. Gossips generally gossip the most about people who gossip. My wife and I were talking about that some time ago Uh what? They were gossiping about that. We were gossiping about that some time ago So don't put any stock in that rumors that. So some cautions. Number one, make sure it's legit before you get worked up about it or you decide to get take any action. Second other caution is this, and this is kind of the other extreme, the other side of the coin, maybe. The fall must not be diminished. There's a real danger of saying, oh, well, you know, listen, I'd just rather not get involved. You know, hey, here's this this drives me nuts. Hey, and and it's true to some extent. But it goes like this. Hey, we all make mistakes. Yes, we do, but that doesn't justify somebody living in sin. Huh? Yes, we do all make mistakes, and we understand that. And that's part of point number one. I've got to consider myself in my walk with the Lord. But that doesn't mean I simply ignore the fact that this person is living outside the will of God. That doesn't mean I just ignore the fact this person is living in obvious disobedience to the Lord, a brother or sister in Christ. Let me ask you a question. Can God bless someone who's living in the flesh? Yes or no? The answer is obvious. No. In fact, Isaiah tells us he won't even hear their prayers. Now, if I have a brother or sister in Christ, and I love them, and they're my brother, my sister in Christ. I want God to be able to bless them. I want them to have be able to see God's will accomplished in their life, just like I want to see God's will accomplished in my life. And so if they are in a condition or they're taking a traveling a way of life or a pattern of behavior that is contrary to scripture, that's in disobedience to God's word, I'm not just going to ignore it. Now I'm not going to react to rumors and unreliable information, but on the other hand, I'm not going to just make excuses for it. Well, it's just a phase they're going through, or it's just this or just that Now let me make a statement. I would I never want to excuse sin for myself in my own life or anyone else's life. But the older I get and the longer I'm in the ministry, I do want to try and understand. Why somebody's in a situation? You follow what I'm saying? I don't want to ignore it, I'm going to justify, excuse it, but I do want to try and say, all right, how would this come about? Would this have happened to me? But I do not want to diminish the sin. I do not want to ignore it or excuse it in any way. Again, in John chapter 8. You have the woman taken in adultery. Obviously, she's not living in the control of the Holy Spirit. Right? Obviously, this is a sin of the flesh. Galatians 5, one of the works of the flesh is adultery. And so they bring her to Jesus. Jesus, as we pointed out, Directs their attention off of her and onto themselves. They've got to examine themselves first. They're not even right with God, so they're not in any kind of position to deal with this woman And of course they recognize that the Lord very cleverly exposes them and they go slinking off. The woman standing there. And Jesus says to her, Oh, don't worry about it, just go on and live your life. She says, No, he didn't say that. He says, Oh, listen, hey, nobody's perfect. He doesn't say that. He says, neither do I condemn thee. Now, would Jesus have been qualified to throw the first stone Absolutely, he's sinless. And he says, I'm not going to condemn you. But he does not diminish the sin He does not ignore this, and that's where most songs and quotes of that passage end. Neither do I condemn thee. But it doesn't end there. He says, go and sin no more. He's not ignoring it. He's dealing with her sin. The sin she committed was grievous It was devastating the Lord's not minimizing her faulture by any stretch of the imagination. So number one, some cautions here. Number one, make sure the information is reliable. Confirm the fact before you react to it. But number two, if it is legit, don't ignore it. Let me give you a point number five in the overall thing. One, consider myself. Two, uh understand that restoration is a is the goal. Three, uh approach it with compassion. Number four, we said some cautions to evolve involve here. Make sure it's legit and Make sure it's for real. You're right on this and don't ignore it. Now, number five, the course of action to follow. This is where the rubber meets the rope. Have a bro fallen brother or sister in Christ Somebody that's out of fellowship with the Lord, living in extended disobedience to God. Obvious. What do I do? Number one. This is, again, where the rubber meets the road. Number one, this must be dealt with prayerfully. Prayerfully. Turn with me, if you would, to James chapter 5. James chapter 5. Alright. Lord, you know, I'm as far as I can tell, as best I know, Lord, I'm trying to live in submission to you. I'm very humbled, Lord. I love my brother or sister in Christ. God, this is obviously the true the case, and um Lord, I just I'm their brother, sister, I've got to do something What's the first thing I do? James chapter 5, and look with me if you would at verse 16. Confess your faults one to another. That ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Now let me back up And let's look at the last part of verse 15. First part, the prayer of faith shall save the sick, the Lord shall raise them up. Now look at this last part. And if he have committed sins They shall be forgiven him. Now, we could take a long time trying to dissect all this, but would you agree with me? The context at the last on the last part of verse 15 is dealing with someone who has sinned. Do you agree with me on that? If they've committed sins, they'll be forgiven. So the context is somebody who's disobeyed God, who sinned. Now that picks up verse 16. Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another. Now I take from this that if someone and the whole context here is prayer, and he says the effectual Fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Dealing with faults, people who have dealt with faults, people who have sinned So this is what I suggest. The very first thing, when we find that someone is out of fellowship with the Lord, they're living in sin, they're violating the principles of Scripture, they must be dealt with prayerfully. The first thing and most effective thing I can do for a fallen brother is to pray. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Alright? Are you listening? So pray. Number two, it must be dealt with patiently, patiently Now, my tendency sometimes, it seems like it changes a little bit, but my tendency sometimes is, well, I gotta deal with this right now. For the night before the sun sets, we've got to make this right. Now that's not the Bible way. The Bible way is to be very, very patient. Let me put it this way. Give that person a chance to respond to the Holy Spirit's working in their heart. Give that person a chance to respond to God's chastisement in their life. If it's a genuine brother or sister in Christ, Hebrews 12 tells us very emphatically that they and if they're living in sin, they are being chastened by God. Right or wrong? Yes. And so give a little bit of time, give some chance Give them a chance to respond to the Lord dealing in their life. And you know, I'm going to say this with great caution because we have to be very, very careful about this. But sometimes you can just sit back and you can see God working in a person's life. Right or wrong? You can see, and you're thinking to yourself, man, God's working in their life, God's chastening them. Why can't you know what's going on in their heart And they can put a front up when you talk to them and put a front and show up, but in their hearts, God can be raking them over the coals and turning their world upside down. And so just give them a chance. You say, where do you find scripture for that? Anybody here ever heard of Achan? Achen. What did he do? He took the gold and the silver, the Babylonian s garments, and hid them in tank. God told them they weren't supposed to take anything, and God killed him immediately. Wrong. Do you ever read through uh Joshua chapter seven and there's this elaborate process? I mean he has it apparently several days, maybe a couple of weeks went by, and they go and invade they go and attack a little town called Ai And they get slaughtered. 36 soldiers get killed and they come back. And Joshua says, God, why are you promised? And he says, they're sinned again. And God goes through this elaborate process, questioned, did God know who had the sin hidden Could God have told Joshua straight up front who it was? But he didn't. He went through this elaborate process, the tribes, then the families, and the households, and the fathers, and It took I would imagine it took all day. This elaborate process. What was happening? God was given Aiken a chance. I am as convinced of that as I am the Bible's God's Word. God was giving him a chance. Can you imagine put yourself, and some of us maybe have been there not literally, but put yourself in Aiken's shoes Where he's wrong, he knows he's wrong, he has to know that God knows he's wrong, and this process has taken place It's a good thing I'm a very athletic person here. This process is taking place. That's the first some of you all paid attention all evening The process is taking place, and Aiken's here, and he is sweating bullets. He has to be. Lo and behold, it's his tribe is picked out. Well, that's scary. And I'm thinking, this is me, I'm thinking in his mind, there has to be a little voice saying, you better go turn yourself in. You better go tell him. And there's another voice in his head saying, no, you can get away with it. There's no way they know. There's no way anybody knows. There's you're going to make it. You're going to get away with this. You better turn yourself in. No, nobody knows. How could they? And then lo and behold, his household, and then his family, and then his father. And then Him. You know what God was doing? God was giving them a chance. And I'm suggesting you and I, if somebody's not right with the Lord, a brother or sister in Christ, let's give them a little chance. Hey, if somebody's backslidden or carnal, I want them in church. Get them under the preaching. Get them around people who are right with the Lord, love the Lord, want to do right, and bring some peer pressure. Bring let God work there. Um so uh give them a chance. Uh anybody remember the story of David and his and Bathsheba? You know it was a whole year later before Nathan stuck his finger in David's nose and said, you're the man? A whole year went by, at least a year. What was God doing? Giving them a chance. Giving them a chance to make it right without having to make it public. Prodigal son. Do you think the pr that father, he was very wealthy, obviously, do you think he could have went to that far country, found that boy, grabbed him by the scruff of the neck, and drugged him out of there and brought him back? Sure. Would he have won the boy's heart over? No. He gave God a chance. And in the pit, and in the in the hog pit, finally the Bible says, I love it, he came to himself. Finally, he starts thinking right. And he comes back. So let's give them a chance. Deal with it prayerfully. Deal with them patiently. I've seen folks come around that have been not ready with the Lord struggling, and I've seen them come around without ever having to say a word to them And I could give examples of that. Number three, one, prayerfully, number two, patiently. This is the course of action. Three, it must be dealt with privately. Now, I qualified that with a little statement at the end of my notes, at least initially. It must be dealt with privately. Now, if you would, is everybody doing okay? Everybody alright? You still along? Alright, come with me to Matthew 18. See, I was going to end there if you said no. So it's your fault we're going on longer. Matthew 18. Here's the classic. And I'll be very honest with you, for many years I interpreted this wrong, I believe. And I've heard it from, and even now as I study this, I look at it a little bit differently than I did. But let me show you what it says here. Matthew 18, verse 15. Moreover, if thy brother, alright, brother, sister in Christ, context of our message, church member, fellow church member, shall trespass against thee Go and tell him his fault between thee and him. What's the next word? Alone. I circled that. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. He's been restored. Galatians 6. 1. Against thee. Again, let me back up and touch on something we said earlier because it's brought out here again. Do not, I must not inject myself in a situation that I have no business with. Notice again, if uh if he as uh shall trespass against thee Something that tells me I must not inject myself in a situation that I have no business with. Now, that takes a little bit of wisdom. That takes some maturity. Is this a situation that requires me to be involved in? Is this a situation where I can actually help? I can be a part of the restoration. Or is this something that has nothing to do with me and I need to keep myself out of it? That takes a little maturity. That takes a little spiritual wisdom. But notice he says alone. I looked up that word alone. You know what it means? Without anyone else. And Adam Deep. No more people should be involved in this process than what is absolutely necessary. If a person is not right with the Lord, they're not living for God, they're living in sin, they're unrepentant, I am to keep that, do my part to keep that as private as I possibly can. It is to be involved as few people as are absolutely necessary are to be involved in that Now some folks, the first thing they find out something, they realize something true about somebody that's maybe not regular, the first thing they want to do is what? Tell everybody else about it. That is the that is that should never be done. It's to be as kept as private as possible. The word tell. Moreover, thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his false. The word tell, that's an interesting word. Actually, a little more to it. It means this. To admonish with the intent of correcting a wrong. How about that? Doesn't just come and say, you're not right with God. That's not what it's saying. It's coming with an admonish. That word itself seems to have a little maturity about it, doesn't it? To admonish. Uh, with the intent of correcting, of restoring them This is speaking about personal rebuke. Now there's several things this implies. I'm coming to them. The word inmonish, that idea has more than just saying, you're not right with God. It has the idea of involving myself in their life. You know, I hope y'all are still with me. I hope I'm not boring you. But you know, if we're going to help people, we have to be involved in their lives. Amen? It's going to take time. It's going to take some of my resources. It's going to take some effort on my part. I've got to get involved in their life. I can't just stand back and throw rebukes at them. Like hand grenades. I've got to get in there. This whole idea here, this whole implication here is that I'm sharing this burden with them It's like a soldier that's been wounded and the medic comes and puts his shoulder around it and he gets up and he's trying to get him back so they can take care of him and get him back and on his feet again and become become a productive uh soldier again. And that's the idea here. Listen, they've sinned against you, they're under the flesh, they've done wrong. You can be part of the process So you go there and you share that burden and you uh admonish them, you try and help them get involved in their situation and help them get out of it Look what he says. If he shall hear thee. Now the word hear there has this idea: to understand and agree with your concern. But I come there, I take a little time, I talk to them, I explain to them my concern. You know, listen, we're all sinners, I understand that, I could be vulnerable just like you are, Galatians 6. 1 But you know, I sincerely, you're a brother and sister in Christ. I care a lot about you. I want to try and help you get back with the Lord. I'm not trying to be judgmental. We we're We're all in the same boat together, but I want to help you live so you can have God's blessings and have the fruit of the Spirit in your life. And that's what I want for me, it's what I want for you. And they say, you know, I appreciate your concern. I agree with you, I'm not right. I'm not doing what God wants. I know that. And I'm really glad that you cared enough about me to say something. It's all I needed. I was struggling with this. I just needed somebody to help me. Hey, and you've gained your brother. That's what it says at the end. If he shall hear thee, if he agrees with your concern, understands your concern, agrees with it, hey, you've restored him. Praise the Lord for that. But sometimes they don't. Sometimes they say, I don't care what you think. This is my life. Now, I believe that this verse 15 takes place over a lengthy period of time. This is not just a one-time confrontation. In fact, it's not even, I don't see this even as a confrontation. This is not a one-time injection of myself into their experience. This is over a lengthy period of time. I'm working with them. I'm praying. I've been praying for a long time. Uh I feel like I can contribute to their restoration. So I get involved, I express my concern. It may take several weeks, it may take several months, it might take a year. And I work with them and I work with them and I work with them Until finally I come to the point where it becomes obvious to me that they're not listening to me. They're determined to do what they want to do, regardless of the consequences. So then what do I do? Number two, that's number four, in our our uh course of action, they may have to be dealt with publicly Look at Matthew 18, look at verse 16. But if he will not hear thee, will not understand your concern and agree with it. Then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Now I believe, and I'm telling you, this is what I believe. The way I understand this. If that takes place over a period of time. Rather than just me trying to help that one and trying to share their burden and help them, somebody else is now with me saying, you know, I'm concerned about you too. We love you. You're a brother or sister in Christ. And we can see that you're missing God's blessings and you're going in a direction that is not helpful. And we care about you. We're praying for you. We want to help you get back And the two or three do this over and over. And it says there, notice it says that in the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word may be established. And this is what I think that he's talking about Yes, I agree with so-and-so. You need to get back with the Lord. You're hurting yourself. And the third one says, yes, you know, I agree with these two. Our words agree with each other. It's not just one person's opinion. There's two or three of us here that are deeply concerned for you. And we've been praying. And you know, we're not better than you are. We're sinners just like all of us are. But God is good and God is uh helps us and we want to help you. Does that make sense? And it's a period of time It's not two or three people showing up in the door saying, you're not right, and if you don't get right, you're out of here That's not what it is. And that's how it's been presented in many churches Number three, so maybe have to be dealt with publicly. And again, notice the process. Verse 15, just one, verse 16, 2 or 3 One or two more, so there's uh two or three total. Then verse 17, it becomes to the whole church. Why is he doing this process? Why is he taking all this time? I believe it's because we are trying to keep this thing as private as possible. We are trying to keep this from getting out in public as much as we possibly can. One person can do it, then praise the Lord. If it can be accomplished, one person, good. That person comes, it does everything they possibly can as go on and it becomes obvious they're not making any progress, then two or three come in very graciously, very compassionately, very prayerfully, understand I need to be filled with the Spirit And they work it and help and help and pray and pry and help. The person is adamant no. He says, well, then we've got to go to the church. Now, this is where I've tweaked my understanding of this as I've studied this. Look at verse 17. If he shall neglect to hear them, Tell it to the church. But if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. If a person is living in the flesh, they've been defeated by sin, we've taken all these precautions, we've given God lots of time to work in their heart, let them respond to the Spirit of God. We've prayed, we've searched our own hearts, we've come very humbly. One person has worked with them, two or three has worked with them. And finally, they're absolutely determined to destroy their life. They're absolutely determined to live their life outside of the blessings of God. Do we just let him go? All right. No, he says tell the church. Now, again, the word tell there is communicate to the church the concern that these people have for this one. And the idea is the whole church will become concerned. And the whole church is now involved in the process of loving them and praying for them and admonishing them and trying to help them get back. And now every time they go to Walmart, there's a church member. Every time you go to Walmart, there's a church member. But uh every time they go to Walmart, there's a Church member and a churchman says hey Man, listen, we're praying for you. We sure miss you in church, you know? And God's so good. And we're just praying. Is there anything they do to help you? And every time they're at the gas station, and every now and then someone from the church comes by the house. And the whole church is involved in trying to what? Restore them. And if it goes on for a period of time and they absolutely will not hear the church, then look what it says. Let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Now, can anybody show me in the Bible where we're commanded to be unkind to heathen and publicans? Is there anywhere in the Bible we're commanded to shun heathen and publicans? What does the Bible say? If someone is a heathen and a publican, by implication, they're what? Spiritually, they're what? They're unsaved. They're lost. He's saying if they've been through all this period of time, and this may be several years. And they absolutely will not make things right. He says, all right, you treat them like they're unsaved. Now, how are we supposed to treat unsaved people? Try them without him to Christ. Owing therefore the terror of the Lord, we what? Persuade men. We are ambassadors for Christ, standing in Christ's stead. And so we try and win them back. They're outside, the implication here is they're outside the family of God now. Not part, they're out there, and we're trying to win them back, trying to win them back, and trying to win them back. So I think, I'll just be a little honest here. I think there have been times maybe we were a little hasty. Not maybe I know. We're so worried about doing right and so worried about, and we just want to run people off. And I think we have to be very careful. We must not ever tolerate sin. Amen. Never must be dealt with. Somebody is a brother or sister in Christ, a part of the family of God, and they're determined to disobey God, ignore the principles of Scripture. We cannot ignore that. But we must deal with it scripturally. And scripturally means very compassionate, making sure I'm right with God, very patient, letting the Lord work, and going through the process. Is this helpful? I tell you, it's challenged me. My whole look at this approach to this. And so When we came here in 1993, Dr. Don Williams was intern pastor. Some of you were here then, a couple. We hit it off right away. And we became good friends almost immediately. I felt like the church really appreciated the folks that were here. God used them. There's no doubt about it. to help the church stay together. So I thought it would be good. I'm new. I'll bring him back. We'll have a talk drawing. And that would kind of, you know, bridge the gap between the two of us and help me be established and wanted to so I brought him back. And he came in December. First week of deer hunting in December. Boy, there was some guys not very happy about that. But folks came out. And he got a drawing one evening. I don't remember what it was. I don't remember which night it was. I think it might have been Sunday night. And our youngest son was very young. I won't tell you who it was, other than it's our youngest son. I mean he was what, two and a half Three years old? He could walk. He could talk. Well everybody's out shaking hands and stone and the chalk drawings up here like it was. And uh the chalk's all there And our youngest son decided he was going to be a chalk artist. Dr. Williams had this drawing there that he did that night, and we're dumbfounded by the ability of this man. I mean, I'd never seen anything like it. And so we're all back there. And Daniel is up here, three years old. He gets a piece of chalk. Laddie, Laddie. He starts drawing on the chalk drawing. My wife comes in and she sees it. She starts crying. He hates us, oh no, and uh came running up and grabbed him. And uh he didn't know, you know, he's just happy as could be. And I felt sick. And my thought was this: this drawing is ruined. There's nothing we can do. The only thing we can do is just throw it away. Went back. I said, Doc, you're gonna hate me. He said, what happened? I told him. He came up. He goes, that's all right, I can fix that. And sure enough, he took some chalk. It was the next day. He looked at it. A little drawing, a little drawing. When I came in that next afternoon, there was a whole new tree there And the thing looked beautiful, and you would have never known that a terrible mistake had been made. Now, I believe that's what God wants us to do with brothers and sisters who fall. Don't crumble them up and throw them away. Now, if they're adamant and they're sin and they're not going to do right and they want to go destroy their life, there's nothing we can do about it. We can't force them. But we can love and cry and pray and invest ourselves in their lives and try and share that burden and try and bring them back and make them something beautiful for God again. Some that bring glory to God. And that's what God wants. So let's search ourselves. We're a church, we're made up of people, we're either in the flesh or we're in the spirit At this very moment, right now, the crowd that's here, we're either in the flesh or in the spirit. Now, I don't know. I'm not God. I'm not trying to figure it out. Some of us, right tonight, may be in the flesh. Not living in submission to the Lord. Hopefully the majority of us are in the Spirit, trying to live in submission to the Lord. But wherever we're at, we need to stop and say, Lord, search my heart. I want to be right. I want to be in a condition where when I come across someone that's struggled or fallen or the devil's gotten the victory, I'm in a condition where I can be a part Of their restoration. And I think that's just as glorious as winning a soul to Christ initially. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us search our hearts, help us to live humbly