Matthew chapter four, and I'd like to just to notice verse number three, and keep your place here if we have time. We're going to come back to this later in the message. But Matthew 4 and verse number 3. The Lord Jesus was just baptized, as we read a little bit ago. And as soon as he he uh he goes out in the wilderness, as soon as he comes back The Bible says, verse 3, And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but ever by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God We have this account here that we read where the devil comes and tempts the Lord Jesus Christ. Not once, not twice, but three times. He keeps coming back. He keeps coming back. And I want us, and again, as I said later on the message, we'll maybe hopefully be able to look at it a little closer, but um, the Lord responds with the word of God. Did you notice that Satan brings this temptation. Jesus' immediate response is, it is written. He comes to the Word of God in defense on these temptations. Now, if you would, come back to James chapter number one. James one. And notice with me if you would, verse number thirteen. Says, let no man say when he is tempted. Notice not if When he is tempted, I am tempted of God. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man, now pay close attention to verse 14, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of what? His own lust and enticed. Then he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. And James says, Do not err, my beloved brethren. He's saying, listen, don't mess up on this issue. You can't be wrong on this matter of what temptation is and how to deal with it. Now keep your place there. We're probably going to get a chance to look at that later, but come to 1 Corinthians 10, and this is where We're going to spend the most of our time. 1 Corinthians 10 and verse number 13. Pretty confident many of us are very familiar with this passage. 1 Corinthians 1013. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. I want to speak this morning on dealing with temptation. Dealing with temptation. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father, we come to you on the Sunday morning grateful for the Lord's day. Lord, we've set aside at your instructions and your teaching. We've set this aside a day for you. It's your day, Lord. And so we want to honor you and everything we say and do here as a church body. I thank you for the songs, the music, congregational, that choir helped me, that choir song. I thank you. And I pray now as we look into your word concerning this important subject of temptation. That you would, first of all, I ask, Lord, you would help us take this seriously. I pray it would not just be another message. But it would be something that you could use to help us grow in our faith and be what we ought to be and protect our hearts and minds, our lives I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit. It would not be me just saying what I think. God, I sincerely desire that it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me Your word and the truths and principles of your word. So I yield my will to you, my mind, I give it over to you You'll my body presented anew. You would take and speak through me, as I said. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think about everybody, most if not all, are aware of the fact that I was saved May 7, 1979. Make a big deal about that. I'm excited about it. And um uh it was the day after my nineteenth birthday, ten thirty at night, when I got saved, God, for whatever reason, I think It's a little unique, not because of anything me, I don't God's and his own purposes, but God did such a dramatic and instantaneous change in my life. I mean just changed me But I tell you, I learned something early, early on in my Christian life. Two things I learned early, early on, within that first week. Of my salvation. Number one, I learned that I still had an old sinful nature. Now, God had taken a lot of things away out of my life, and you know my story A lot of the big superficial sins that we call big sins, but I learned something early on, within days, that down inside my heart there was still a root of a sinful nature. Old self-will was still there, lurking in the depths of my being That old desire to have what I want and have it my way was still there. Can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's there. Now God saved me. My sins were forgiven. Thank God for it. My home was in heaven. My salvation's secure. God changed my life dramatically. And was in the process, and still is today, of changing me into the image of Christ, I trust. But that old sinful nature is still there. And we must understand that I haven't heard it for a long time, but every now and then I'd come across someone and they would try to convince me that they were no longer had a sinful nature. That they were no longer sin that they no longer sin. And usually the best way to deal with that is ask their spouse if they agree with that. And usually that is a crumbles. But I learned early on within days that I was still a sinner. I still had a sinful nature. And I learned something else. And this was very early on, within days. I learned that temptation was something I was going to need to learn to deal with. Temptation was very real. When a person gets saved, that does not remove temptation. It's still there. Our Lord Jesus Christ Himself had to deal and face temptation. We cannot ignore the reality of temptation in the Christian life. We cannot be ignorant of what temptation is and how it works. And how it's dealt with and how it's countered. I can't be ignorant of that. If I am going to be, if I'm going to be a mature Christian, if I'm going to be the Christian that God saved me to be I've got to understand what temptation is, how it works, and how to deal with it. I've got to take it seriously I don't know about you, but someday, whenever we stand before the judgment of Christ, the judgment seat of Christ, and I'm telling you, that is very real. That day is coming We stand before the judgment seat of Christ individually as believers. I don't know about you, but I want to hear the Lord say, Dennis, well done, thou good and faithful servant. I want to hear that. Anybody else? I'd like to hear the Lord say that. For his glory, of course. Now, if that's going to happen, If you're going to hear the Lord say to you in in in um uh evaluating in um What's the term? Evaluating your Christian life in assessing your Christian life. If you want to hear the Lord say, well done, Good and faithful servant. If you want to hear that, you've got to take, you've got to understand temptation, you've got to be able to deal with it. Are you with me? I want the Lord to say, well done. I want to be faithful to my Lord. And I've got to understand what temptation is. I've got to understand how it works. And I've got to understand how to counter it. Because if I don't, the devil will eat me alive. I'll destroy my testimony. I'll destroy my Christian life. I'll never grow up spiritually. Somebody may be a tremendous Bible scholar. You might memorize all the verses we do each month. You might could quote uh all through the Bible and tell me the Bible inside and out and do all that But if you cannot or you're not willing to deal with temptation, you're going to fail in life. I don't care how much the Bible you know. If you don't handle temptation right, you're going to fail. You can be a very gifted teacher. I thank God for our Sunday school teachers. I think we our Sunday school teachers are tremendously gifted teachers. I thank God for all of them. But you can be gifted in teaching or any other area, but if you can't handle temptation correctly, then you're going to fail in your Christian life. He may be successful in the business world, may be very popular, very educated. But we've got to be able to, we've got to understand temptation, we've got to be able to deal with it. I think one of the first things a new Christian needs to learn is the it needs to learn the ability to deal with temptation. I think it's one of the most important areas in the Christian life is being able to deal with temptation There's a couple things. I jotted down a few things here. This is my message this morning. A few things that we must understand if we're going to deal with temptation successfully. How many people here have ever been tempted? Say amen Some of y'all were tempted right now to not say amen. Temptation. Number one, here's my thoughts. I'm going to get right into it. Number one, we need to clarify exactly what temptation is. We're talking about temptation. What are we talking about? You read your Bible, and I trust you do, and spend time learning and reading and studying the scriptures, you're going to come across That word temptation many, many times in Scripture, Old and New Testament. And sometimes, as you're reading down through there, you'll see that word temptation or the word tempted And it doesn't make sense sometimes. And the reason that is, is because the word temptation or some variations of it Is used in three different ways in Scripture. It has three different ideas. And so you have to look at the context a little bit to understand what the Lord is saying here. For instance, sometimes in the Bible, and fairly often, the word temptation is used in reference to a trial or a difficulty. A hardship I face, uh a storm, so to speak, I go through in my Christian life. Uh in James chapter one and verse twelve James said this: Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him. So we know the word temptation there is talking about not to do wrong, but a trial, a difficulty, because he says in the very next statement, he says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation for when he is tried. He goes through that difficulty. I'm a little ahead of myself, but we're not told to endure sinful temptation. We're told to flee sinful temptation. And so there is a reference to the fact that he went through a difficulty and hardship. In Galatians chapter 4 and verse 14, Paul, in writing to the church at uh at Galatia He is telling them the t he's referencing the temptations that he went through. Now what he was talking about there are the difficulties, the hardships, the shipwrecks that he faced, the beatings. uh the the imprisonments that he faced. And so he refers to them as his temptations. And so in that context and other places throughout Scripture, it means a trial or a difficulty. I just want to say this: the Christian life is not a life of ease. It is not a life absent of trials and heartaches and difficulties. The Christian life is a very real life that does involve heartaches, trials, difficulties, afflictions. And the Bible addresses that, and we can endure them, we can use them. So one way the word temptation, and you've heard me say this many times over the years. One way the word temptation is used is trials, difficulties. Another second way the word is used, and various forms of the word, is to be tested To be proven whether my faith is strong or not. And God will give me a test. God will give me a temptation. To prove me, to test my faith. Classic example, and there's various ones in Scripture, but the classic example is Abraham in Genesis 22, when God approaches Abraham and asks him to offer his son as a sacrifice. How many people are familiar with that event in Scripture? Sure, most of us And it's interesting, and we won't take time to go there, but in the beginning of that chapter, when God approaches Abraham, it says that God did tempt Abraham. Now that word tempt there is used not as an enticement to do evil, but it was a test. In fact, he says later on that I may know if he'll lead his children arig. And so he's testing Abraham's faith. Will Abraham trust him and obey him even when it makes no sense? Of course, Abraham passed the test tremendously. His faith is awesome. And how he unflinchingly, unhesitantly Confidently obey God even when it made no sense. And so sometimes temptation means an affliction, a heartache, a trial, storm I have to go through. Sometimes it's used to refer to God testing me like Abraham. Then, and this is what we're addressing this morning. The word temptation is used, as I already referenced a moment ago, an enticement to do evil. Um alluring me, seducing me to do something that is contrary to God's word and to God's will An enticement to act outside the will of God. An enticement to disobey God. And that's what we want to address this morning. An enticement to evil. James 1. 13. Did you keep your place in James there? Keep these. We're going to jump back and forth. But look at verse 14. 13 he says, don't you blame God when you're tempted. God's not the source of your temptation. Then he says, every man is tempted. Now he's defining what temptation is. So I don't even know I don't know what temptation is. Right here's the definition. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away lured away, seduced away of his own loss, and enticed. That word enticed means baited lured. Brother Nathan and I and Derek, some of us, we enjoy fishing. Tom. And um we get out there and uh we are we are tempting those fish with our little lures Come and bite it. Bissy, pissy, pissy. That's what temptation is, right? And that's what I say when I'm out there. Bissy, pissy, pissy. Temptation is an enticement, is a bait. And I had this natural, he uses the term lust here, it's just desires may not be wrong in and of themselves. The desire itself may be innocent enough But it is an enticement, alluring, abating for me to fulfill that desire, to satisfy that desire, whatever it may be, but outside. The will of God. Outside the Word of God. In a way that God forbids. Is everybody with me? Everybody okay? Enticement, enticement to do evil. Temptation, I hope you get this. Temptation is not sin. Temptation itself is not sin. Temptation is the enticement to sin. Did you see what he said there? Look at verse 15. He said, Every man is tempted when he was drawn away of his own lust and in types. Then When that lust had conceived, when it has indulged that enticement, when it bit that bait, it went after it and and uh uh and and gave in to that enticement When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth what? Sin. That's where the sin takes place. These natural desires, whatever they may be. I want to be something in business. I want to be successful in this. And here is an enticement where I can succeed in this area, but outside of the principles of Scripture. And it's like, huh. I could fudge a little bit here or there. I could disobey the principles and teaching of Scripture and give into this, and man, maybe I could be more successful. The enticement is drawing over. The sin is biting on the bait. You follow what I'm saying? So it's temptation in and of itself. You're going along and I'm tempted. That's not sin and of itself, but if I do not deal with it correctly, it will lead to sin. It will lead to sin. Temptation is not sin in of itself. Temptation is the first step towards sin. It is taking a step toward that sin. Temptation is opening the door to sin. Temptation is the opportunity to sin. It's not sin and of itself. Just being tempted isn't sin. But giving in to that temptation, allowing what I'm being tempted to do Following through on that and giving into it, that's where sin comes in. Temptation is the opportunity to fulfill a legitimate desire in an illegitimate way. So er so we're tempted. The temptation is I want to do right, I want to live for how many folks here you say you know it, say amen. Amen. I there's a lot of things I may not know about you. There's some things I don't want to know about you. But um there's other things I may not know about you, but I do know this. Every one of us that are saved. Are tempted to give in to legitimate desires of our life in an illegitimate way All of us face that temptation. Don't tell me you don't, you're lying. Either you're ignorant or you're dishonest if you're going to tell me you're never tempted. And so it is an enticement to sin. It is a it's opening the door To sin. And if I don't understand what temptation is, I'm not going to be able to deal with it correctly. And so, number one, clarify what exactly temptation is. Number two Temptation is common to all. Temptation is common to all. Now come back to 1 Corinthians. I told you we're going to jump around here a little bit, 1 Corinthians. And by the way, verse 13 would be a good verse to underscore in your Bible and to memorize. I believe it would help you. 1 Corinthians 10, look at verse 13. Now, our point is this: temptation is common to all. Every believer has to deal with temptation. Verse 13, there hath no temptation taken you, but such, now look at his wording, but such as is common to man. Every Christian faces temptation. As I just said, don't tell me you don't. How many people understand that young or teenagers face temptation? Everybody understand that? Sure. Yeah, teens this day, they got tempt. They do. Young couples face temptation. Middle-aged couples face temptation. Old people face temptation. Everybody, all God's children Face temptation, deal with temptation. No one is exempt. James 1:14, he says, every man is tempted. Rich people are tempted. Poor people are tempted. Educated people are tempted. Uneducated people are tempted. Victorious Christians are tempted. Strong Christians are tempted. Defeated Christians are tempted. Weak Christians are tempted. That uh everybody's tempted. It's common to all. Now, I'm gonna you guys sit up front here, you're just asking me to pick on you, right? So Isaac and Evan, if you guys would come up here. All right, we gotta pick which one's the good, strong Christian and which one's the weak, backslidden Christian. All right, you want to be the weak one? He volunteers to be the weak defeated Christian. Go all the way over there. I don't want to be around you. But um Here's a good, strong, victorious Christian. Boy, he's uh he loves God, he's limbed for the Lord, he's not Listening to worldly music. He's not running with the wrong crowd. He's faithful to church. He prays. Reads his Bible. He witnesses. He's a good strong Christian doesn't he look good? How many people are proud of this good, strong Christian here? God bless you. Now here's a sorry Christian over here. His way his faith is so weak. And uh he gives in, he listens to wicked music and he goes to movie theaters and watches garbage and uh He uh what else do you do? Um he never reads his Bible, he hasn't prayed in months, he doesn't even know what a tract is. Stole someone's lunch money. Huh. Sounds like conviction to me. But uh he steals people's little kids' lunch money. They're both saved. One's what we call a carnal Christian. How many people are familiar with the church at Corinth? That was a carnal church. They were a mess. But they were brothers. Paul referred to them as Satan. And so here's this Christian. He's not a very good Christian. He's just eaten up with sin, disobedience, neglect. But he's saved. Here's this Christian. He's just as they're both just as saved as the other one. They're both going to end up in heaven. But man, this guy's in victory. He's got the joy of the Lord. He has an influence on others. He talks to others about the Lord, and because of how he lives his life, they respect what he has to say. Shares the gospel, he walks with God, he's humble, he loves the brethren. Now you say, here's what I'm getting at. Well this guy obviously does not deal with have to deal with temptation. This this guy's not tempted. Boy, look how strong he is. He doesn't have temptations. Now this guy, he's eat up with temptations. Good, night I say that's wrong reasoning. This guy faces temptation exactly the same as this guy does. It's not the presence or absence of temptation that determines the strength of your faith and the quality of your Christian life. It's not whether temptation is there or not. Temptation is there! The difference is how do I deal with that temptation? You with me? Now I'm getting ahead of myself again here, but here's this fellow. He loves the Lord. He's walking with God. He's respected. He has a respected testimony. He humbly loves God's people. He loves the Lord. He he he he tries to be real careful in his life. And temptations come to him, just like that guy, but he deals with it biblically. He doesn't give in. And we're going to give you some things here to help in a minute. But he doesn't give in. He deals with it scripturally and correctly. Did you notice when Jesus was tempted of the devil, he responded back? He had a defense He dealt with that temptation in a scriptural way. That's what this guy's doing. Now, unfortunately in life, we don't bat a thousand. Alright, you with me? We don't bat a thousand. Even the best of Christians on occasion will succumb to temptation. Somebody said, somebody says, uh, I can't wait till I'm not tempted no more. What you're saying is, I can't wait till I'm dead Because that's the it's not until we get to glory that we won't be tempted anymore. It's reality But this guy deals with it in a scriptural way, the way God instructs us. This guy, he's tempted, same thing. And those doors of opportunity are there. That enticement is there. But rather than dealing with it the way the Bible says, man, he just says, oh, I'll walk through that door. I mean over here, oh okay, yeah, I'll give in to that. And uh, you know, and he doesn't deal with it. And he just succumbs, he just gives in. And I want to say to you, the difference between a victorious Christian and a defeated Christian isn't one's tempted and the other one isn't. That's not biblical. That's not reality. The difference is one deals with it correctly, the other doesn't. Whether through ignorance or through neglect. They don't love the Lord like they should or whatever. I love myself, let old sinful nature take over. Paul said to the church at Corinth, I couldn't talk to you like a spiritual Christian, I'd have talked to you like a little baby Christian Why? Because they did not deal. In fact, there's 1 Corinthians 10, 13, he's addressing their problem. They did not deal with their temptation. Thank you, fellas You were a very good, good Christian, you were a very good, terrible Christian. No, they're both good guys. Every Christian faces temptations. God's greatest men and women of faith all face temptation. We're studying Joseph on Wednesday nights. Joseph, a young man, late teens, early twenties, perhaps. And Potiphar, beautiful woman, comes in, tries to seduce him How many people think that's was a legitimate temptation? Yeah. Natural desires An unscriptural opportunity, an opportunity to fulfill those desires in an unscriptural, ungodly way. That's temptation. Did Joseph sin in being tempted by Potiphar's wife? No, the temptation was not sin. Her attempts to seduce him was sin on her part. But just the fact that Joseph would have been tempted was not sin. But and if we had time we could evaluate that we did on Wednesday nights. By the way, you ought to come to church on Wednesday nights. You miss a lot if you don't But he dealt with it in a scriptural way. And I'll tell you, Joseph is one of the most respected men of integrity in all of Scripture. In fact, I would say one of the most respected men of integrity in all of history. Not because he was tempted, not because he wasn't tempted, he was tempted intensely, and it was ongoing. But he dealt with it in a scriptural way, and he had victory. And he's highly respected. So Joseph, God's greatest man. What about David? Did King David, a man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel, did he ever face temptation? Yeah. In fact, of the same category as Joseph was tempted, at least in that one instance, with Bathsheba. How many people are familiar with this story? Sure. How did David handle that temptation? The temptation was when David was on the roof and he looked out and he saw this beautiful woman bathing herself. That's where the enticement was. That was the bait. How did he respond to it? He walked through that door. He didn't deal with it scripturally. He didn't face it scripturally. God's what I'm trying and it was disaster and it cost him the rest of his life and devastated his family What I'm trying to say is this, the difference between a good, strong, victorious Christian living in the joy of the Lord, the blessings of God. and a defeated, struggling, sorry, frustrated Christian, miserable under chastisement. The difference between the two isn't the presence or absence of temptation. They both have temptation. It's how they deal with it It's how they face it. And that's why I come back to one of my opening statements. I believe learning and knowing how to deal with temptation is one of the most important areas of the Christian life. Because if we do not, it can very well destroy us and our families. God's greatest men. And women of faith all face temptation. And we could go down a long list in the Bible. By the way, though everyone temptation is common to all Not everyone is tempted in the same way. What may be a temptation for Brother Nathan Might not be a temptation for Darry. What may something that may be man be a strong enticement for uh uh uh am I picking on everybody looks away. What may be a very strong enticement for me might not be an enticement for Randy in the least bit. You follow what I'm saying? And what might be an enticement for Randy? I'd never give it a second thought. Well no That's why we ought to be careful we don't look down on others who are struggling in the way areas we're not struggling, because we're probably struggling in areas they're not struggling. You with me? So you have to be very, very careful about that. Oh, I would never do that. Well, they could probably turn around and say something about me. Well, I'd never do that. Hebrews chapter 12 references, he says, put away, run the race, he says, put off the weights and the sins which doth so easily beset us. And we refer to what we call besetting sins. Anybody ever heard that term before? And what we mean by that, and what the Bible teaches that, is each of us have these sins that we are particularly vulnerable to. Some areas that we tend to that's uh that's uh uh that's the um uh what's uh not the link in our armor, the chink in our armor The little that's that's our area of weakness. And it's different. We each have our own besetting sins. And some are enticed in certain areas where others aren't, and they're enticed in other areas where others aren't. And so it behooves us to study ourselves. And I ought to know where my weaknesses are. I ought to be aw if I'm ignorant of where my weaknesses are, I'm a sitting duck. But if I know where my weaknesses are, in Proverbs, uh Solomon says, if thou be a man given to appetite, Do this and put a knife to thy throat. Whoa. But I think what he's saying is you need to know where your weaknesses are. Your weakness is in the appetite. Now he's not saying cut your throat. He's saying deal with that. You need to know that's where you're vulnerable at. I'm not going to ask you to respond, but I venture to say most, if not all of us, right now are thinking of the areas we're vulnerable in. God knows what they are. And it's wise if you and I can figure out where my weakness is, where my vulnerabilities are. Because that is probably where the temptation is going to come. That is where the enticement is going to be, where I know where that weakness is. And so temptation is common to all. Everybody faces temptation, but not everybody faces the same temptation. And like I said, we're not going to be out of temptation until we're dead, or the rapture takes place. And oh, what a day that will be! Let me just throw this out. I've said this before, and I think many of you feel the same way as I do. One of the great things about heaven It's of course seeing the Lord, seeing loved ones. But I'm telling you, one of the great things about heaven is no longer having a sinful nature. No longer having that battle within and that struggle with temptation and resisting and fighting just to keep, just fighting, just to keep my heart and mind pure. My life right and my testimony pure and clean. And uh we'll get to heaven, we don't have that warfare anymore So it's common to all. Number one, the concept or to clarify what temptation is. It's an enticement to do evil. It's not sin in and of itself. But it's the allurement to sin, to fulfill a legitimate desire in an illegitimate way. It's common to all Number three, I put this one down. Our confidence in temptation. Are you still in Corinthians? Are you there? Look again at verse number 13. Our confidence in temptation. I love this verse. It's so encouraging. He says, There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. Everybody's dealing with this. We all, it's a reality of life. It's different for each of us, but it's that's there for all of us. Then he says this. But God is faithful. Well, thank God for that. So what's he so faithful about? Well he goes on. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. But will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. God's faithful in promising He gives us two promises when dealing with temptation. God says, I'm faithful in this. You can count on this. Two promises when you're dealing with temptation. Number one, God is faithful to limit the type and the intensity of that temptation. God will limit that. Did you see that? God will not suffer. That phrase will not means under no circumstances at all whatsoever. It's a very strong word, what it comes from. It's very strong. God will not. I will not let this happen. I am faithful. You can be confident in this. He says, I will not suffer. That word suffer means to allow or permit. God says, under no circumstances at all whatsoever. Will I permit you to be tempted? Then he says, above, that you are able. That word above means beyond a certain point. God knows you and I better than we know ourselves. And He knows that in any situation, any temptation He knows there is a point where we are no longer able to deal with it. We are no longer able to resist it. And he says, I will not allow that temptation to go beyond that point, above that you are able. He knows that different types, there may be some areas of temptation that I would not be able to deal with. I would not be able to resist. And he says, I'm not going to let you be tempted in that area. God's faithful. He will not allow us, he will not suffer us to be tempted above that we are able. Now, how many people have their thinking caps on right now? Two. Get it out of your pocket, your purse, put them on. I want you to think with me a little bit. I know it's Sunday morning snowy, but think with me a little. If God's not going to let me be tempted in any area or to any degree beyond what I'm able to deal with, that means. If I am tempted, that means what? I can have victory. I can say no. I can conquer that. I can resist it. Are you with me? The very fact that I'm being tempted is assurance to me I don't have to give in. Because if I could not have victory, God wouldn't let me be tempted in that area. So I can actually, when temptation comes, I can actually to an extent say, oh good, that means I can defeat this. Or I won't be tempted in this area. Now that's something we can be very confident, no matter what the temptations. And here's what we say. Well, I got some I just can't I just can't resist. I can't say no. Uh-uh. Don't say that. God says he's faithful. He will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. Now it may seem impossible. You say, I just said this. to Ken and Karen more than a few occasions, ice cream. I just don't even let it in the house. If there is ice cream in the freezer, it's like all day and night. Dominita With some chocolate fudge and caramel syrup on it. Okay So we say, oh, I can't resist it. I'm powerless. But the fact that I'm being tempted in an area, God assures me I can have victory. If I allow myself to believe the devil's lie that I can't beat this, I'll never beat it. If I allow myself to believe the lie that I cannot have victory, I'll never have victory. And God says, I'm faithful. You trust me, you can have victory. Now He gives us some ways to do that, but we've got to believe, we've got to be confident to know that yes, I can have victory. I don't have to give in. So that's one promise he gives us that we can have great confidence in, is that our uh God limits the type and intensity of our Temptation. A second promise he gives us here, notice what he says, and will not suffer you to be tempted above your able. But will with that temptation, when that temptation is there, there's something that comes along with it. Will with the temptation also make a way to what? Escape that ye may be able to bear it. In other words, every area that I, God allows me to be tempted in, I can have victory. I can be confident. You know, I don't have to give in to this. I can say, no, I can have victory. And number two, I start looking for a door that has a sign over it that says exit. That's what the word escape means. Exit. Get out of there. Shoo! Run. Go. Every time I'm tempted, there is a way to get out from that temptation. That's what God promises. God promises that. It might be just the way out, the exit door might be turning off the TV. It may come in the form of an off button It may come in the form of getting in your car and leaving. It could take any number of forms. It may be turning off that radio station. I don't know what it may be. The way to escape. Now God says, I'm faithful. Every temptation you face, I'm going to give you an exit door to that temptation. It may be looking someone in the eye and saying No. No. But God promises that we can escape it. We can get out. Every temptation comes with an exit door The escape, as I implied already, the escape is to run. Get away. Get out of there Did you notice, and those that are familiar with both of these events, did you notice when Joseph was tempted with Potiphar's wife, what did he do? He flew out of there. He flew out of there. He fled out of there. In fact, he did it so urgently that he left his coat behind But there was an exit door for Joseph's temptation. That exit involved fleeing, run, get away. Did you notice David? Same category of temptation. In fact, not even as intense as Joseph's was. But David did not flee, did he? He walked towards it. He walked towards it. David, in fact, I wish we had more time. David had numerous exit doors. In that whole process leading up to where uh uh lust was conceived and became sin. He could have just gotten down off the roof and went to bed. You know, you could just go to bed at a decent time and turn the staking computer off. Whatever. Um David, while he's taking steps toward this open door, this bait. Others are stepping up and saying, David, that's Uriah's wife. David, that's Uriah's wife. God was giving an escape, an escape, an escape, an escape. But he didn't escape. God promises, you and I, God, our faithful God, promises, number one, you're not going to be tempted more than what you're able, and number two, there's always going to be an escape door, escape hatch. Somewhere associated with that temptation. You gotta look, you gotta pay attention, you gotta decide. 1 Corinthians 6. 8, flee fornication. 1 Corinthians 10 14, flee idolatry. 1 Timothy 6. 11. Flee these things. He's talking about the love of money 2 Timothy 2. 22, flee, youthful lust. We are never told to endure sinful temptation. We're never told to endure Enticement to evil. We're never told to tolerate it. We're never told to negotiate with it. We're always told when temptation comes, get out of there Run, flee, without exception. That's what we're told to do. So it's up to us. My last thought is this: I am with this, conquering temptation. One thing is certain we need to take temptation seriously. Temptation is nothing to play with. That temptation rises its ugly head, that enticement is there, that allurement, that bait comes do-do-do swimming by We better not play with that. Well, I'll just I've seen fish do it. A bait's going and a fish comes up and just follows behind it. And eventually they keep following it, boom, they take it. I I I wonder if I'm not talking to some folks this morning, you're following it. You're playing with it. You're toying. I'm telling you, it'll sting you every time. There's a hook in every one of the devil's baits. We got to take it seriously. 1 Peter 5:8 says, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Satan wants to destroy your testimony. Satan wants to destroy your life. Somebody did you wrong. Somebody didn't treat you the way you think you should. Somebody did this or didn't do that. And you're all bitter and mad and you've given in to that temptation of bitterness. You've given in to that temptation of anger. Oh, because somebody wasn't perfect or whatever. I'm telling you, you better stop and say, you know, I've got to deal with temptation. I've seen it. Some of y'all have been around for a while. I've been around for a while. I've seen people give in to temptation and their testimonies and their lives destroyed. Their lives destroyed. Now let me say this: if and when we do give in, like the choir sang a little bit ago, God can wash us clean. We can combat and get back on our feet and go on. Amen? But let's let's let's take seriously and not give in. Let me give you three. I don't I don't have time. Let me just list them for you here. Number one, maintain a daily walk with God. And I'm tea I'm speaking from experience here. Every time, without exception, somebody messed up, I I ask them, every time, are you reading your Bible like you should? Are you spending time with God like you should? Every time, well preacher, I kind of let it slip. Tell you, the closer I put it this way, the more I comprehend the goodness of God and walk with God, the more I comprehend the badness of sin. Ephesians 6. 10 says, be strong in the Lord. You get those daily devotions established. You read, you let God speak to you from the scriptures. You pray. I'll tell you that'll go far in helping you and I to keep from giving in to temptation. Get that family altar gone. Gather the family together. Read and pray. Husband and wife. There's kids in the house. Get the kids in. Read and pray and sing. And get some, get a the presence of God in your home. Number two, memorize God's word. We try to help. In our services, we have a verse every month, something would be helpful. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. The defense against temptation, scripture. Did you notice Jesus? Satan came and tempted him? Jesus, it is written. Scripture, scripture, scripture. And then last of all, I need to manage my associations and my influences. We don't have time. Over in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, he says, what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And he goes down, he elaborates, and then he says this. He says, Come out from among them and be ye separate What he's saying is, don't put yourself in circumstances or situations or in among associates who are going to enable you to do wrong. Get out of that. Separate. Separation is a biblical doctrine, is the most neglected biblical doctrine in our churches today, I believe. Be separate from that. Cut it off. Break that relationship. Get away from that influence. Because all it does is reinforce that enticement. I that's why I love church so much. You know, I get around y'all, all y'all. And I want to do right. I sing these songs and we fellowship together. We have preaching. I walk out. No, I don't want to give in. And you get out there with some wrong influences, wrong things, watch the wrong shows, and stuff saying, boy, I kind of like that And before I know it, I'm in David's shoes. Ruin my testimony, hurt my family. There's a fella. Anybody recognize the name Orl Hirschhiser? Anyone recognize him? Baseball picture. Great baseball picture back years ago, a number of years ago, back in the 80s, 90s. They were interviewing him. George Will interviewed him for a book he was writing. He asked him about his philosophy of pitching. Listen to this. He said there's two theories in pitching He says, one is, as a pitcher, you try to convince the batter that a particular pitch is coming to you, and then you throw something different. So he's in he's anticipating a a high ball, a a high pitch, and he's anticipating that, and you throw a low one. He says, my philosophy is different. He says, my philosophy is, is if the batter expects a particular pitch You throw that pitch, but you throw it in a way it's just a little off. Throw it in a way that it It's different than what he expects. In other words, he says this if the pat if the batter Expects a particular pitch, you throw it, but you throw it in a place he can't hit it. It's what the batter wants, it's what he expects, and it's almost What he wants and expects. In other words, he said, if a batter likes, he says, I'll study the batters, if he likes high pitches, I'll throw him a high pitch, but I'll throw it a little higher. Than where he usually hits. And so he's going to go for it because that's what he wants, but it's off from what he wants. Are you with me? And I'm here to tell you the devil is an expert pitcher. And he knows what we want. He knows what our old sinful nature wants. He knows what our besetting sins are And brother, he'll put him out there and say, oh, this is legit. You know, I can do this. And it'll just be across, I hope you follow what I'm trying to say. It'll just be outside the perimeters of God's will. He doesn't walk into your life, say, I'm the devil, and here's this awful sin, I'm going to tempt you. No, he doesn't do that. He comes in and says, oh look, this is just what you want almost. You know, just be a little off, just a little outside the will of God. And we swing. Next thing we know, we messed up. You follow what I'm trying to say? Temptation, we all face it. It's different. Maybe different for all of us. I'm the same for some of us, different for some of us. It's real. We've got to take it seriously. We can't ignore it. We've got to deal with it There's something in your life that's between you and the Lord. If there's something in your life that's spiritually out of whack, I plead with you. Get that back in whack. Get it back where it needs to be. Because our devil our enemy, the devil, is a roaring lion. Amen. Father, bless the imitation. I pray you can use these thoughts this morning to help us Have victory in our Christian life. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some say, Preacher, I know what my vulnerabilities are. I've been saved long enough. I know what they are And you say, preacher, I need to zero in and shore them up. Is there any like that? My hand's raised. I know where my I know where they're at. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, you know, I never really think about it. Just kind of do what comes along, go with the flow. Maybe some of us this morning need to take a stand and be strong in the Lord and say, no, you know, I'm going to do right. I want to do right. Anything like that, preacher, pray for me. I want to do right. I want to do right. God bless you, young and old, all around. I just want to do right. It's not easy. Never said dealing with temptation is easy. But it's possible. If you're here, you've never trusted Christ. That's the most important thing in your life. Don't buy the devil's temptation and put it off later. Settle that today. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.