Very much. Um go ahead and turn your Bibles to uh Proverbs fourteen. Proverbs fourteen. Apologize my voice is already uh It's already leaving me, so you know, it's luckily be a short service most likely. Um but every time I tell my teens that, they all say I'm a liar. And that's not and that's not right. You shouldn't just call people liars. Um But uh you also shouldn't lie, but but sometimes you're just wrong. So So I'm gonna use the uh green mic. Um And uh So the uh tur the sermon of today's title, if you have a bulletin, I think it's in there, is uh Death by a Clean Crib. Death by a Clean Crib. Um I was a reading in uh I I used the passage of Moses slaying the Egyptian, um outright murdering a man, by the way, slaying the Egyptian because I wanted to uh prove because I wanted to uh To talk about mistakes. Mistakes and missteps, sins, failures, flaws. And these words describe one type of being, and that's humans. Humans are the only beings um that uh that have been created on earth that sin. You don't see a dog sinning. Dog. I mean it do it does what it's supposed to do. You don't you don't see a you don't see a cat well cats probably sin, but um that's just because cats are evil and uh and that's just And listen, I'm not saying that I hate all cats, that I want to kill all cats, because I've said that before, and I don't need to say it again. But I am saying that Cats are evil and you look at them and you just know. And they're like, you know what I could do to you in your sleep? And and you're like, Alright, wow, alright. I will feed you. But um I wouldn't because I don't have cats. And animalergic, so I I don't know, how many people are allergic to cats? Is anyone else allergic? See I think these these are these two people that are allergic to cats. are really the spiritual people is they're so spiritual their body's like we know what evil is and we're trying to stay away from it. Um I I think that's what the the cat allergy really is. Um A dog allergy, which I also have, is just unlucky. Um but uh but humans are really the only the only beings that sin. We I mean and again we can get into angels and fallen angels and such, but but as far as earth created um earth created uh earth creations, we're the only animal or we were the only creations that were like, yeah, you know what we were supposed to do? We're not gonna do that. Because God gives us free will. So in essence, we're characterized by breaking God's law. Because we're the only ones that do it. We're the only ones on earth that are like, oh yeah, well I know that's what I'm supposed to do. I know that's what I should do. I know that's what's good for me, but I'm not going to do it. Or or we're the only ones on earth who say, I know that's bad for me. I know I shouldn't do this, but I think I'm gonna do it. In fact, not only do we do that, but we say that. You've caught yourself, I promise, you've caught yourself saying, I know I shouldn't do this, but I'm going to. And you've actually said that. Who's dumb enough to say, and by the way, I'm one of the dumb people, but who's dumb enough to say I know I shouldn't do this, and then do it. If you know you shouldn't do it, then you probably shouldn't do it. But we do it anyways, don't we? And mistakes. We're kind of characterized by mistakes. And we're characterized by sin. Listen, mistakes uh and and mistakes happen and you know uh in but in the animal world, you know, they still make mistakes. They don't make They don't make sin, but they make mistakes, and you can tell by YouTube. You guys ever seen cat videos? Now they're maybe evil, but cat videos are hilarious. Now I don't know if that's like, you know, getting enjoyment out of uh uh others' sin or something 'cause they're cats. I don't know. But what I do know is that cat videos are hilarious. Have you ever seen 'with like water' and they're all freaked out? Have you ever seen a cat like fall off of something? It's hilarious. Dogs make mistakes all the time. I love dogs, but who's ever seen a dog run into a glass door? You know, and then what's the most uh and the most common phrase for an animal making a mistake would be something like a bull in a china closet. Right? Or China Cat, I don't know which one it is. China closet? Something like that. Bulls in China. Something. Something with bulls in China. But what we know is that bulls are giant animals. And when giant animals walk around they knock stuff over You see, the bigger the animal, the bigger the stronger the animal, the more you have to worry about it making a mess. Is that true? Um because uh who who is a small dog in here? Who who owns a small dog? All right, who owns a big dog Alright, who's ever ever been knocked over by your tiny little chihuahua? Like not a lot of people. Who's ever been knocked over by a German shepherd? My uh my grandpa, this is completely off topic kind of. My grandpa used to have a dog and we called him Bullet. That was his name. That's why we called him it. Um but uh we called him Bullet And he had a tail, and it was this uh he was a lab, and his tail was so strong, it knocked my little sister over. Now my little sister wasn't very big, but still it like she was four years old and it'd slap her and she'd fall over. It was it was the strongest tail I've ever seen in a dog. You don't have to worry about that in small animals. A nursing a chipmunk like I I don't really see a chipmunk do anything now that I think about it. Um but uh but I will say like but but bigger animals, the bigger the animals you get to uh big dogs And they'll they'll wreck your living room. And then you get to like bigger animals. You know, we can talk about like cows. Cows can stampede people to death. If you watch Lion King, Wilde Beast terrifying. Um But listen and people get stamped by animals. No one gets stamped by chihuahuas. Is that true? But people get stamped by bulls and and by and by wildebeests and by and elephants are outright terrifying even when they don't mean to be. Hippos are mean, by the way. They're also terrifying. But if you take the attitude of a hippo and put it in a smaller animal, it doesn't really matter. It's that bigness, it's that hugeness, it's that power that really makes a m well a small mistake, a big mistake, even a deadly mistake. You see, having power and making mistakes is what makes the mistake grow from small to large If I get stepped on by a child, I'm like, hey, they just stepped on my toe. Didn't even apologize, a little jerk. Um Listen, by the way, my son, little jerk, man, he steps on me all the time, but he's not smart enough yet and he doesn't bounce, so he just c falls over and cries. And I'm like, Well you shouldn't have stepped on the kid. Like I I you know I you wanna use my leg to stand up on again? Alright, but be prepared to fall over because I'm not moving my foot and you're gonna trip over it. And uh that's why I won Parent of the Year last year. So uh but uh But yeah, little kid steps on your foot, you're like that's cute. You can even dance with like little kids like uh you know teaching a little kid to dance. You can dance with them uh standing on your feet. You don't try that with a 300 pound person. Alright? Not if you want feet. Um I like she's like, listen, if if someone's 300 pounds they step on my toe, I'm like, ow. And they're just stand little kids standing on your toe, bouncing on it, you're like, oh that's adorable That person standing on a toe bouncing it, you're like, okay, that's enough. You're going to jail for assault, because that is awful. I will never walk again. Alright? But but that's what it's like, right? The bigger you are. Not just the harder you fall. But when you fall on people, the more they go squeeze. Um Animals make mistakes, but they don't sin. We sin. And we can call them mistakes, I suppose, in our nature, but they're sin. And when we sin, depending on who we are and what we're doing, and what we are, and what position we have, and how important we are. the bigger the mistake becomes. You see I was I was reading this uh chapter in the in um Moses and it says he says, Surely this thing is known and and Pharaoh gets maddened Pharaoh says, Hey I'm not you know we're gonna come kill you, Moses and even though that's his like Um either brother or son depending on what time this is in Moses' life. But it's probably his his like grandpa, his uh father or uh or maybe his uncle, depending on uh the situation. Which Pharaoh was. But say it's his grandpa, you know your grandpa's not usually like, Hey we're gonna come kill you But he was the king, he knew his grandson had committed murder. He knew his grandson, a prince of Egypt, had committed murder and he said, So we're gonna come after you. You know if Moses would have been just like some piddly little guy that no one cared about Yeah, he murdered someone, sure, maybe he'd get like on trial and put to death, but Pharaoh would have never heard about it. Surely it wouldn't be known throughout all the land. No, but Moses was a big animal. Moses was important. And so when he made a mistake, but it was murder. When he murdered someone. It wasn't just a murder. It was a murder by a prince. It was a murder by someone who had standing. Now, I said all that to say this. In Proverbs fourteen four, um it says this where the oxen are Or sorry, where no oxen are, the crib is clean. But much increase is by the strength of the ox. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but much increase is by the strength of the ox. Let's start out with that. Like I said, I'm not going to be too long. Um, pastors out of town, people deserve a break from long church services, alright? Like that's like He's not listening right now, he's in the Caribbean. Like uh but but no you g you guys are right. I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna try to be short and uh the teens draw down here. Yeah, you say that every time you're a stinking liar. I try every time. I don't succeed. Um but um where no oxen are, the crib is clean. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean. The crib is the uh is the um is a manger, it's a it's a feeding trough Crib. Um but I but I also uh take it as the stall is clean. You know if you don't have oxen, you don't have to clean up messes where you keep your oxen because you don't have any. You know what I've not had to do? For the past three years, probably longer than that, now I think about it, I have not had to pick up dog poop. That makes me incredibly happy. I was raised with dogs, I hate dogs. Um actually that's not true. I love dogs. I just don't want one. Um but I love other people having them. Um because they're uh they're cute and adorable, I get to pet them and I get to go home. And uh but you know dogs are fine. I have not had to pick up dog poop. I have not had to clean up uh a dog peeing in my living room. Except for when my sister's dog came over. Then we shot it. Um but uh But it was a Pomeranian so we could use like a pellet gun. Uh I said no worry. No, I d we're just joking. We didn't kill it, but I wanted to. I didn't want it like that dog. But the fact is I haven't had to take up dog food, I haven't had to t clean up dog vomit, dog pee, I haven't had to do any of that. And you wanna know what the reason for that is? I don't know a dog. It's easier to not have to clean up messes of animals when there are no animals. Isn't that true? If there's no animals. Easier not to take care of an animal. Teasier not have to watch an animal. You know what? Before I had Cohen well I didn't have Cohen. Chris had to go in. But uh before I got him, like in this little bundled bunch. I didn't have to watch a baby for nothing. No one ever asked me to babysit, it was wonderful. And now I do. Why? Because I have this stinking little kid. Listen, if you don't have a kid, you don't have to watch kids. If you don't have animals, you don't have to watch animals. The fact is, is where no oxen are, the crib is clean. When you don't have oxen, life is easy. And like, well what what are we oxen? What what does this what does this mean as far as the Christian life is concerned? You know what? I I compare oxen to a specific type of uh church member. Usually, and uh and we'll get to this maybe a little bit, or probably a little bit later, but usually like uh a new Christian who's excited, on fire for God, and And they uh and they're they're they're kind of bigger than like their their spirituality is bigger than their knowledge. So so they're excited, they're bringing they're trying to bring people to church, they're witnessing to people, even though they don't necessarily know the verses. Um and so and so they have to text people and ask them for the verses and uh and the youth pastors are like, um, okay. Right? And this is an ox. Now it's not an insult. Being an ox is a great thing. I love new Christians. And I love that fire, and I wish that people would stay with that fire. Those are hard workers. But sometimes, you know what? People who do the most work Make the biggest mistakes. Is that true? Now listen, I'll be fair, I make a lot of mistakes. It doesn't mean I work very hard, but I make a lot of mistakes. And God's favorite lesson to teach me is humility all the time. He's like, ah, here's another lesson Um but uh and that's it's just mistakes. God yeah, we people make a lot of mistakes. And the people who make the most mistakes are usually the people the most on fire for God. Now I'm not saying just sin mistakes, I'm saying any type of mistakes. And but because because people who are on fire for God require a lot of work for a church. People who are on fire for God require a lot of work for a church. But and you know what without them though, life's a little bit easier. Let me explain. When the crib is clean, when there's no oxen, when there's no one on fire for God in a church, it means you it's a blissful church. I mean no mistakes are made. No one uh does anything stupid, no one wrecks anything, no money has to be sent to fix problems, no training is required. Listen, without new Christians, we don't need to tea we don't need Sunday school teachers You know people are all perfect and everyone does it and every we don't need Sunday school teachers, we don't have any new Christians. We don't we don't uh you don't you get to sleep in, you don't have to prepare a lesson You just get to come, you know, maybe even spend ten minutes here listening to a sermon, and we can sing songs the rest of the time. If we're not if we're not out to uh have new on-fire Christians, listen, church will be easier for everybody If you're not out to uh if we're not out to see new people saved, if we're not out to fervor that spirit of uh of uh working hard and uh and getting things done and growing, that's fine. Then then church will be easier Yeah no one needs that you can just come here sing songs go home. There's no need for that. A little time is spent with food and upkeep. Without oxen there's no there's no need for expensive building programs. You know what I don't own? It's a barn. You wanna know why? Because I don't have any animals. Although I'd put stuff in a bar anyways, because it'd be cool. Um but you know without without you know without new Christians, we wouldn't need a bigger building. Without new Christians, we wouldn't need to redo the bathrooms and the foyer. Without new without new Christians or without without people working hard, we don't we just don't need that stuff. So it means that there's no mistakes made. A clean crib means that there's no mistakes made. It means there's no training required. It means there's little time spent on food and upkeep. If you have no oxen, these all sound like great things, but it also means death for the farm. Listen, it sounds great to not have to work hard and not have to upkeep. It sounds great not having to feed an ox. It sounds great not having to clean up after an ox is uh mess. It sounds great not having to uh Not having to work with and train a new oxy it sounds great until your farm dies. Until everything's over and there's no reason to be there anyways. Listen, I am not a farmer. I in fact I think I preached a message and my first words were I'm not a farmer. And that's true. But the fact is, I know a little bit that if you don't work hard, the farm doesn't just keep going on its own. Here's the thing, oxen, especially in the Bill Climes, were a necessity to farming. Yes, they made a mistake. They made mistakes. They broke stuff. They they broke things. They made a lot of messes. Yes, you had to feed them. Yes, you had to take care of them. Yes, you had to train them. Yes, you had to work with the several ones. Yes, you had to Work with all these oxen And it cost a lot of time and a lot of money and a lot of effort, and it was kind of a thing, yes. And without them, sure, your crib is clean. But what's the second half of that verse? But much increase is by the strength of the ox. Much increases by the strength of the ox Listen, we can sit here and we can say listen and listen I'm not and I'm not pointing out but people can sit there and say uh teenagers annoy me and you know who says that probably more than anyone in here? Me And even teenagers are like, teenagers annoy me. I've heard teenagers talk about teenagers. And they're like, Man, teenagers are so mature And then they go and be immature. The problem is and I would like to criticize them for that, but I say, Man, teenagers are so immature and then I go and be immature with them. Because it's fun. Um I I I'm not gonna single out any of my teens, but some of them are oxes or oxen. Some of them are oxen. I mean this like that. They're kind of a headache. And they require a lot of upkeep. And they're kind of a pain. And and and when I'm sitting there in my pajamas at nine o'clock at night and I got a text message, I'm like I'm in my pajamas. I don't want to text anyone. Who is it? Ah, teenagers. They annoy me. But those same teenagers and it's the same, those same teenagers and I can't speak for everyone, but those same teenagers Bring a ton of other teenagers to church. And those same teenagers I've noticed Witness to other teenagers more than I've seen most older Christians witness to people. And those same teenagers are on fire for God. You see where where no auction are, where where no no one that's on fire for God is, I don't have to answer a text message at nine o'clock at night. But when no oxen are, nothing gets done. You see, we look at people sometimes as a pain. And by the way, people can totally be pains. I'm not saying they're not. We look at people as a pain. And they might be a pain, but they're the reason that things are getting done. Listen, um there there's those new Christians, um and new Christians make mistakes, period. Like I like for instance you can have a new Christian who's on fire for God, pick up a message that or pick up a uh point of a sermon or a phrase of a sermon that kind of just sounded good to the preacher so he said it, and then take that as complete gospel And never budge on it and and just like go and start preaching that one point that the preacher really didn't expect for you to preach to everyone. And then like they'll ruin friendships. You're like, ah, or or or or is that new Christian who you know and and listen I'm we've and we've seen this, but the new Christian who you know they still dress Um uh just you know, like they always have. Or maybe they uh still have long hair. I I remember listening to uh um uh Bruce Fry a long uh a long while back. Um but you know they still they just haven't got their life completely turned around yet. We hear pastor talk about how he wore his uh bell bottoms at church because it was the best thing he wore, right? And we hear these Christian Christians doing the thing that they think is right and it might not be right, so they might mess up a little bit. Mess up something. Maybe they'll turn someone off from your church on accident. Maybe they'll maybe they'll uh break something. Maybe they'll just not understand something and and do something wrong and we say, Oh I can't believe they did that. Oh that they're such a pain. But We should be grateful for that. Because at least something's getting done. Where no auction are? Yes, the crib is clean. Yes, we don't have to do any work if we don't have anyone on fire for God. Yes, we don't have to do any work if we don't have any new Christians. And by the way, oxen aren't just new Christians. We'll get to this in a second. But they're any Christian who and there's an attribute to them. And by the way, if you're not an oxen That does not mean you're backslidden, but there are certain people the God is placed in a church for a certain length of time that He wants them to be the driving force. And we'll get to what an ox is in a second and and what makes them different. But problem thing is the people who are doing the most, the oxen usually make the most mistakes. And usually they require the most amount of uh work. And usually It's just like they they just you could say, Oh man, they're just a pain. And really, it's that it's that it's it's that mistake that that lets you know that there's something good going on there Oxen take a lot of work. They're useful. Let's talk about the attributes for an ox, shall we? Attributes of an ox They're strong. Um oxen uh were used oxen were used because they could pull uh heavier loads than horses. Um now they're slower than horses, but they can pull heavier loads than horses, and uh when uh yoke was first created Um it was created for an oxen so they could use their shoulders to pull and and they wouldn't work right with the anatomy of a horse. Um so it's because they could pull heavier loads. Now oxen are not pretty Um, like all the oxen, none of them are pretty and they look you know, and I think they're just cattle. Uh like half of the oxen are just like regular cattle that we'd see today. But um but they're strong. See the oxen of the church are those that can take on more than others. Not with proud hearts, not like look at what I'm doing. I'm doing this and this and this this. Not like that. But the oxen of the church are the people who take on more than others, take on more, and then just and just don't talk about it. They see a need that needs done, they see something that needs pulled, and they just do it. And they just and they just do it. And they can often take on more than others can. For they do it. First Peter three, four says, But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament, of a meek and quiet spirit. Which is a site of great peace. What is meekness? Meekness is quiet strength. Knowing it having strength, but not bragging about it. That's what an ox is. Just pushing forward. It's strong. It's getting a lot done. They follow orders. Intelligent or not, they respond to basic commands. The oxen of the church are those who listen for the Master's word rather than ignore him and do what they want. The ox of the church are those who listen to the master's orders rather than ignore him and do what they want. You see, because with that much strength, you kind of need someone to follow orders. Otherwise you break stuff. Other or otherwise you mess up stuff. You see ox and and listen, oxen are young and old, they're trained and untrained. They're they but but the fact is is that they need to follow Christ's command. Another attribute of ox is that they work best as a team. They work best as a team. Oh, it's called synergy. Synergy is uh, and this is how my math teacher always explained it. Synergy is one plus one equals ten. Well, you have one person and they can work as hard as they can and that equals one. And we have another person and they can work as hard as they can and it also equals one. But if they work together, they can equal what ten of them can, or what three of them can, or what five of them can. It's synergy Now here's the thing, the reason synergy is so great, if you want a principle, is uh assembly lines. An assembly line utilizes synergy. Because if I was to put together a car by itself by myself, it wouldn't run. But if I knew how to put together a car by myself, it would take a long time. It would be very expensive to sell that car. But if I have a whole line and I'm just doing one thing and working with someone else and they're doing the same thing? Or they're doing a different thing and someone else doing a different thing, then we put it together much quicker and it's a much cheaper car. Henry Ford developed this idea Synergy. Working together. Some people work great by themselves and that's awesome. But the fact that when you have an ox of the church They can work together as a team. Why? It's usually that humble and lowly spirit. It's them saying, you know what, I I and they're they're pushing forward hard, they're following orders from God, and then they're working together with other people. Why? Because it's not about them It's not about how strong the ox is. It's just about getting things done. It's about following God's orders. It's not it's it's about going forward. It's not about it's not about showing how strong you are. It's hey listen, if you have an ox that's pulling ahead of the other ox That means it's untrained. You and oxen just won't stay still and won't work with the others. That means it's untrained. That's a problem. But the fact is, the oxen, when they work together, get way more done. We need more oxen. Here's something this is kind of a negative, but attributes of Nox they don't last forever. The average work length, and uh I don't know, and again, we don't really use oxen for plowing so much anymore, but the average work length for an ox uh back in uh back in Old England was four years. Four years. Um at three years old, you would train them in and you'd kind of do a seed and so you bring uh So what you would happen is you'd have say a team of uh I don't know, say a team of four ox. You'd have one who was a first year, he was four years old. One who was the second year Uh next to him, he was uh he was two years old. In a third year and a fourth year, he w all the way up to uh seven years old. So sorry, four, five, six, seven. And they would train together. And you know what? After that fourth year, they would, in a sense, retire that other ox, that seven-year-old ox. And you'd only get about four years of work out of them. You know what this tells me? If we're comparing it to Christianity, is that some points in your life, if if you remain in a church and you remain uh and you remain In God's will, at some points in your life, there's a good chance that you will be pulling the load heavier than other people But here's the converse part, because everyone talks about that, that yes, sometimes you need to pick up more than other people, yes, blah, blah, blah. No, no, no. But at some point, God has made it to where you can't pull more than other people. God has made it to where, you know what, you did it for so long and and and you should do it for as long as hard as the master tells you to But at some point, God says, Alright, good. You were good. Now I'm going to take you off the line. Now you should be ready to get back on that line at any point. But the fact is that I think one of the main problems with Christians is they think, man, I'm working and and especially the hardest working, most on fire Christians are I'm working hard and and then you look around and you're like man I'm working harder than everybody else You're like I'm I'm either soul winning more, I'm re I'm even I'm either working harder or I'm I'm I'm doing this, I'm dedicating so much time and think, well this is gonna last forever, I quit now. That's not God's principle. God's not trying to burn you out. God's trying to help you. God's going to give you a team. You will not be the sole driving force, most likely, forever. So you will go through spurts where you where you work harder than everyone else, and then you go through spurts where maybe you don't You're still working hard, don't get me wrong. You're still doing what God wants you to. You're still submitted to his will. But God believes in rest, and we can tell that by the way that he gave us you know, day off. Like it's one of the first laws he gave us was, hey, take it every seven every seventh day off. And just focus on me. But oxen don't work forever. Now you know this tells us a couple things. This tells me a couple things. First of all, we need to train up new oxen. I don't want to put an oxen in there that has no idea what it's doing. I don't want to put I don't want to put a baby calf just in an oxen's place because we don't have any more oxen to switch out. God fan more oxen. Well secondly, those oxen that are pulling hard, I'm looking at this right. We gotta kinda give them a break every once in a while Listen, I thank God for our bus ministry. You have no idea how much I thank God for it. It's a wonderful thing. Um Because and and and I and again, I'm the youth pastor and I love the teenagers they bring. Most of them. Some of them. But no, I I love I love having these teenagers here. Um and if you guys and again, most of you are never downstairs in the teen room. I know that because I'm always downstairs in the team room and I don't see most of you there. That's not your fault, that's because you're not the youth pastor. But um our our youth group has grown in the last year from a at this time last year in February, we were running like six kids. We had twenty-three today. It's great. And if you're and you're saying, wow, Pastor Bent, you're doing a great job in black. No, that's not me. That's not me. Like I do what I can, but I'm gonna say that's mainly the bus ministry, and mainly it's in and I'll say I'll say it's about ten percent me, because I do what I can. I'll say it's about thirty percent the bus ministry. And then sixty percent of the actual kids that come. Right? Very proud of my uh of my bus kids. Very proud of them. Alright? And and uh and they should know that. And by the way, let's just let me give and if you guys are talking during this, I'll walk over there and I'll just talk to you, I'll just get down like this and talk to you. And then I'll embarrass you in front of everybody. But Very proud of my kids that come in on the bus. They're good kids. I don't know where I was going with that. Oh, yes. Bus worker the bus uh the bus workers work very hard. Alright? It takes a lot to not get paid and go out on a Saturday and visit kids that might or might not come I was a bus worker for years and it takes a lot of work and and and when there's a time of no success, when there's a time of low success, it's much harder. And then you get to the time of great success and you're like, wow, I'm too busy. This is way much more harder. And it always feels feels harder, no matter what point it is. Listen, our bus workers are doing a great job, but I don't know if any if anyone feels led to maybe try to give them a break once in a while and help them out. pull that load, work better as a team of oxen, and pull that load with them, maybe more can get done Because an ox that works by itself and plows for four years will get burnt up pretty quick. But an ox that maybe you can put on a team, you can you can probably use a lot longer, I'd think. But um but you're not gonna but the oxen don't last forever. And so we have to train up. But lastly, is oxen or self-sacrificing? Um in England, like I said, they were traditionally worked at three years old. When you're three-year-old ox, they're like, alright, it's ready for you to work. And then when you're seven-year-old, they're like, alright, it's ready for you to retire. Now we're going to kill you. And then they killed them and sold them for meat. And then everyone had steak and it was delicious. And uh and that's what happened. They said, Alright, you're gonna work for three years, or worked for four years, and then you're sold for beef. In Luke 9:23, he said unto them all unto he said to them all, If any man come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Listen, the Christian walk is about self-sacrificing. It's about knowing what's right, not wanting to do it. Not necessarily enjoying it, not really thinking that you're gonna like it and doing it anyways. It's about saying, alright, here's my checklist. God said it, but here's the con. So pro-con list. The pro would be God said it, but the con is I don't want to do it. And then you just take out everything that says I in sentence. And you're like, oh, God just said it. Okay. You see, being a self-sacrificing Christian, being a Christian willing to die to self is vitally important. Because I hate to break it to you because I have to break this to myself sometimes and it breaks my heart every time. Life's not about you. In fact, Paul kind of Paul made allusion to the fact that we're pretty much we're we're we should already be dead. We're already dead. Now yes we're on earth, but but we're dead. Christ is living through us now. That's how it should be. It shouldn't be our life anymore. It's Christ's life. He's just gonna live through our bodies He's saying, you know, live as if Christ was just you, if you were just going to be Christ. And do what he wants to do, and do what the Holy Spirit tells you to do every step of the way, and that's how your life should be, because it's not your life. Once you accepted Christ as your Savior, it's his life. He gave his life for you when he didn't have to. And you accepted it, hopefully. So now, you should give your life back to him. Listen, self-sacrifice is not popular nowadays We are a meme society and listen, you're talking to someone who was raised in a meme me society. A pretty young guy. I I I was raised watching TV. I that that's true. Um I was raised like i i was raised in this era of participation trophies that that everyone yells about. I but I was raised in it. And I'm not a huge fan of participation trophies either, but I got it, but I have enough of 'em. Alright And they all it's all about me. You know what? We gotta break that Because the person that always lives their life for themselves is never the happy person You don't see joy on people's lives who buy themselves things for Christmas. Who don't care about anybody else. They just care about themselves. You just don't see joy there. You might see some happiness. You might see some elation, but you'll never see joy. You'll never see contentment Let's move on to my uh the last part of this. Attributes of the ox. So the verse says Where no oxen are the crib is clean, but much increases it in but much increase is by the strength of the ox. We talked about a clean crib and how that means death for the farm. And then we talked about the strength of the ox. Let's talk about the increase. A church that doesn't increase dies. Okay? So a church that doesn't get bigger dies. And this is I'm going to give you guys the reason why. And I'm gonna break this to you, and I would I want to break it to you softly, but I'm not going to. I'm just gonna let it out there. You're all going to die. Sorry Like the Bible says it, you're just playing on a man wants to die. You're all gonna die. And it's something that no one thinks about and no one talks about and hopefully you kinda try to ignore until you're there and you're like, oh I'm dead. Oh. And that's it, right? And so we're all gonna die. And so if we don't grow our church, and by the way, the ones of us who don't die are going to move. If everyone's in God's will at this church and stays here or moves in God's will, everyone's either going to die or move. But if we don't get uh if we don't get new members, if we don't get members on fire trying to win other people If we don't if we don't have people pressing forward and we just come here like a social club? And it's not about winning and it's not about it's not about um pressing forward to the mark of Christ. If it's not about that, then the church is going to die. Case in point cathedrals? I've been in several cathedrals. I've been in uh the uh Here's Notre Dra Notre Dame, uh both of them, there's two, most people don't know that. Um I'm not Catholic, obviously, but I've been there. They're cool, they're really pretty, they're huge. There's like no one there. You wanna know why? Because there was no spirit. There was no fervency. In fact, when the Catholic Church was really, really, really strong, you wanna know why? Because they would kill people who weren't Catholic mostly. And once they got rid of the killing people who weren't Catholic things, their membership really died off. Um Check out that fervency. So a church that doesn't increase dies. And that's just natural. So oxen are a necessity. So moving forward is a necessity for church members. But it not only needs oxen, it needs a team of oxen. If you have one person doing all the work in the church, that person is going to die very quickly. And not not not die physically, but they're just going to die out. We need a team of oxen to help pull the load. Um in Ecclesiastes it says, two are better than one because we have a good re because they have a good reward for their labor. If they fall, one will lift up his fellow. Woe unto him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up. Have you ever fallen down? Actually, who fell down because of the snowstorm last week? Anyone slip real hard and fall? Alright. This is ridiculous, but on Friday I slept so hard. And someone watched me and didn't help me. And I didn't know about this until yesterday. But I was walking out to my car and it was like I had to walk like two hundred yards and it was super icy and I slipped and I did the whole And I had my computer in my hand and I had a book in my hand and I had my keys in my pocket. And my wife was picking me up in our other car. And my computer went flying. And my book went flying. And unbeknownst to me, my keys fell in my pocket. That was on Friday. I found out my keys fell in my pocket yesterday. Which means I didn't pick them up. They're in Grantsville right now if you're wondering. And and someone did pick them up, and I know they picked them up. Because they're like, Yeah, I saw you fall. I was like, what do you mean you saw me fall? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I was walking out of their house. Like you saw like yeah we saw you fall. I was like I I came off the a gr I was in the air. You didn't say hey, are you alright? No. I don't care, like it's not that big of a deal I guess, but It hurt really bad. And you know what? No one's there to help me up. And you know when you fall and you're just like, uh I'm staying here forever. But I couldn't because my wife was like waiting on the side of the road waiting to pick me up, so I was like, I have to get up. But I'm in such pain You know what? Bible talks about this moment. It says, whoa, dude. It doesn't say dude. But it says, I feel bad for you. If you if you fall and you're by yourself, this isn't the one to help you out Listen, we have oxen in this church, we have hard workers in this church, we really do. We have quite a few of them. But you know what? More oxen helping and pulling the load is a good thing. It's a good thing. Because when one of them stumbles or slips and falls, one of them can help them up. And you know what's even better than two? It says that two are better than one, three are better than one. I'll even go out on limb four are better than one. Especially when it's oxen. Now we can have all the leaders we want and all the politicians we want in this church who say, you know, who can just shout and tell people what to do and be the managers, but that's not how things get done. We're talking about oxen. We're talking about people who just work hard And not saying we have that in our church. I was just thinking of politics and listen by the way, uh tomorrow's a pretty important day, so pray for our country. I don't It's up to you what you pray. But pray for our country tomorrow. Alright? Um it's a very important day. Um it's not to us because we're in the East. But it's going to affect us here. So pray for our country. But I was just thinking about politics, man, all these people I don't care who you like, I'm pretty sure they're pretty arrogant. No one who whoever they are. It's just politicians or kinda just Arrogant people. We don't need politicians in this church. We need people who are lowly, who care more about God's work than their own. I like horses. Horses are cool animals. They're not like cats and dogs. Horses are cool animals. The only problem with a horse is their heads like all the way up here. They're looking around. An oxen, their head's kind of like literally like straight on. It's kind of what we should be. We should not be looking up. We shouldn't be like, alright, well I'm gonna tell you what to do, I'm gonna tell you what to do. We should be like, alright, I'm just gonna push forward. That's when oxen is, right? And we need a team of oxen. So if one stumbles, we can lift that person up. So if one stumbles, we can take their load while they get back on their feet. That's what we need, is a team of oxen. But not only that We don't necessarily need a team of oxen. We need new oxen. Listen, this in this is two ways. In James 4 14 says, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? Is even a vapor That appears for a little time then vanisheth away. Listen, pastors bend in this church for uh I think it's 22, 23, 23, this is 23rd year, right? Will be his twenty-third year. So he's been here for about twenty-three years Um he's seen a lot of uh if you've been here since he's uh if you've been here almost from the start, he's seen you grow twenty years older. That's kind of interesting. That's really interesting to me. Because here's the thing. What you could do 20 years ago, there's a good chance you can no longer do. No matter who you are. Because here's the thing. I'm already getting old. I am. And you're like, no you're not. Yes I am. I was like, oh my hip when I fell. Like I know I got I was preparing for this. I I already feel old man. And like the fact is, I f and I play these dumb sports with teenagers. And you're like, sports aren't dumb. No, no. You don't know the sports we play. They're very dumb. They're a lot of fun, but they're very dumb. And I get hurt all the time. And and I have doubt. You know how old I am, I have doubt. And I'm like, and I'm like, oh, I can walk. And like and the fact is is that Listen, I've only been doing this for three years. I was a teenager five years ago, okay? Like I know that scares a lot of you when you think of it like that. But I was a teenager five years ago. In ten years, I don't know if I'll be able to do what I'm doing now as with as much excitement. In twenty years, I won't be able to. I'll be able to stand on the sidelines and shout at kids. And in 30 years, like it listen, people die. And life's short. And it runs by us without us even knowing about it. Which is why We need not only to go out and witness and get people into this church who are on fire for God, but we also need to take our children and our teenagers and and and our just our young people in general and raise them to be oxen not to be chipmunks Listen, difference between a chipmunk and oxen, everyone in this oxen, you know, when they make a mistake, it affects people, but chipmunks don't do anything. We don't and and we don't need m we don't need to raise our children and raise our teenagers and our young people to think I'm just gonna sit on the sidelines. There is nothing wrong with sitting down resting and watching on the sidelines when you're a little bit older, but if you raise a kid in that, he will never do anything for anyone. Ever Listen, this is this is what I do. If you raise a kid thinking that he's entitled to everything, he will believe he's entitled to everything. And no matter what you say to him, if he's raised in that mindset, I'm not sure he'll ever come out of it. It'll and and if he does come out of it, man, that's a problem you're gonna have to deal with. I kinda I think if we're gonna raise kids in this church, we're gonna raise them think, you know what, you're responsible for your own actions. And you know what? The world isn't given to you. You know what? Speaking of that, that's why we're doing this fundraiser. I I had now listen, we had uh it was um we had that snowstorm last week, so we're putting together these baskets But I wasn't able to get a hold of a bunch of kids to tell them come help me with a fundraiser. We started on Wednesday. We had three kids, they took two hours at a time, came out, put together baskets. We're doing it again this Wednesday. We're gonna have two hours we're gonna put together baskets. We're doing it again probably next Sunday afternoon. We're gonna take some of the afternoon, just put together baskets and uh fellowship a little bit. The fact is I love fundraisers. Not because I like putting them on, because you don't understand I hate putting them on. I don't like asking anyone for money. I don't like that. That's not who I am. I'm apparently way too prideful. The fact is, I love it because It takes the kids that have never had to work for anything and makes them work for stuff. It makes me feel good because I'm the mean person out of my heart. And and but it makes me feel good to watch kids like actually work for something instead of getting something given to them. Right? I mean and that and then so so we need to raise our kids to be oxen, not to be pigs do anything? Pigs. Pigs just get killed. And there's bacon, so there's that. But um but instead of pigs, we should raise them the oxen to work hard. And we need to w and we need to and like oh enough oh there's just give me one second. I'm gonna be done real quick. Just just give me a second. Not only raism, but when we go out and win people to Christ, we need to look at them not as pot as someone we just got that just uh that we just won to Christ, but as potential people to work for Christ. The more potential you put on someone who you won the Lord, the better that person's going to turn out If you and even if you say if someone's like, man, I just got saved, I want to work for God, and you say, well, okay, but you have to just you're not you're not you don't know enough, you can't really do anything. That's a lie from the devil Telling someone they can't do anything is a lie. Now listen, we have we do have uh policies in our church that you're not allowed to uh be a Sunday school teacher for at least a year after you've been in our church, and that's a good policy, but that doesn't mean they can't do anything First of all, like I said, my favorite uh some of my favorite um moments and teens are when a new Christian is trying to win another cr uh person to Christ and doesn't quite know anything. Or or know that much. And they just they just know what they did and what and what they believed, but they don't know that that's one of my favorite things. Listen When you win someone to Christ, when you witness someone, you don't shouldn't look at them like someone who is gonna just be a flop. If you look at them like they're gonna be a flop, then you treat them like they're going to be a flop. And if you treat them like that, then they will be. We need to raise and train people to be oxen. We need new oxen because in 20 years this church land this church's landscape is going to be very different. It will either be bigging bigger and booming. It will either be smaller and declining. But I'll tell you this, all the faces will be different. Because even if you're all still here, y'all will look different. 'Cause he'd be old. In your teens, you guys in twenty years you guys will be like ten years older than I am right now and you'll be like, Wow, that's old. Um but uh that's that's what they're saying. I didn't say that You guys are all young in my ass, still. God might keep that until the day I die. That way I'm like I was way young when I died. Get up to heaven. I died young. How old are you? 146. Anyways, but uh but the fact is guys we we need it's gonna look different in twenty years. I'd rather it be bigger, I'd rather be on fire, I'd rather be this this whole team of oxygen, I'd rather be exciting Lastly, it not only needs oxen, and it not only needs new oxen, but it needs the other oxen, or but it needs oxen to train the new oxen. 2 Timothy 2. 2 says, In the things that thou hast heard of me are many witnesses, the same commit thou faithful to men, who shall be able to teach others also. Those of you in Sunday school classes, especially if you're younger, say say in your in your thirties or in your twenties or in your teens or in actually teens is the lowest we go. Um because everyone else is downstairs. Don't listen to your Sunday school teachers and think, all right, I have to get through Sunday school. Listen to your Sunday school teachers as if to say, I am probably going to become a Sunday school teacher one of these days. And Sunday school teachers don't, especially, and again, especially if you're a kid Sunday school teacher or a young adult or something, don't teach your kids Like they are kids, but teach your kids like they are kids who are going to become teachers. What's my favorite two subjects in school? I'll tell you. It's really easy. It's math and it's English. Absolutely. By by far Um, my favorite two subjects. Why? Because my math and my English teacher, and and I went to a smaller school when I was in middle school, and it was the same guy, but he's my favorite teacher of all time. His name is Aaron Mo. I was bald. He rode a motorcycle. He's a r uh he was a cool guy. He didn't he didn't have a teacher certificate when he first started teaching us and no one knew. Except for the principal. She hired him and said, Alright, you need to get your cer certification and he did like my second year under him. Until we threw a party. But um but he's my favorite teacher. He was so excited about teaching us. And now, because of that excitement and that fervor, and this is a public school, again, this is this is a subject, but again This is uh me talking about algebra. Let me just talk about this guy for a second. And and I'm I told you I was right here earlier, Pastor I have to be out early, I have five minutes. Actually I have like fifteen minutes, but I'll be out in five minutes. Deal? Deal. Okay. If I break that deal, I apologize. Um but uh here's the thing. This teacher started a math club Which I was a part of. I know I'm lame. Just shish. Um but started a mascot. He'd meet at seven A. M. sometimes six thirty A. m. To just take students. He didn't get paid for it. He didn't get a grant for it. He was underpaid because he was a uh he was a charter school teacher. So he was underpaid for even being a teacher. But he'd meet at 6. 30 or 7 a. m. once or twice a week To teach us about algebra. Now, just to show you guys how interesting that is. How many of us would really would be willing to take our Sunday school teachers? Now that was about numbers and geometry and algebra and we did bate and we actually started in my eighth grade year, we started in the calculus Because this g this guy was just so like he loved he loved his students so much he wanted to show us how much fun math was. And he was willing to give up that much time for Not his job, but just and he's already doing a good job. But just to like take us further That's stupid numbers. Like I said, I like math. But that's stupid numbers. How do you only do that for us to like numbers? Us to like equations How are we not willing to do that when our subject isn't mass, but it's God and his love for us? I told you. Every time I have to fill out one of those security questionnaires, I shouldn't tell you this because you guys are breaking my bank account or something. Whatever says your favorite teacher, it was Mr. Mo. By far. He was a great man and a great teacher. Great man. But he was just math. When we're training up new oxen, when we're training our kids, when we're teaching our kids, we're teaching them about Jesus Christ. Who is everything? Who is everything important in our life? We're teaching about his blood. We're teaching about sacrifice, about being a better person, a better soldier for Christ. Shouldn't we have that same person? Like I said, I know this man. I I to this day I haven't seen him in probably nine years. He came to my high school graduation 'cause I invited him I've written him a couple letters he's written me back. I know his daughter's name is Daphne. I know nothing about any of my other teachers. Someone will remember you. I hope someone remembers you. And I hope through you. You don't have to be a Sunday school teacher. You just need to take people under your wing You just need to be someone who who can take someone and lead them. And I hope someone one day remembers you and says, you know what, it was this guy, there's this lady. And they're the reason I am who I am today. They're the reason where I'm at in my church, where I am with God today. Because we don't just need oxen to do the work, we need oxen to train new oxen. My dear Lord just said, thank you, God so much, God, for uh just everything you've done, Lord. We just ask that you would just uh Lord bless us as we uh go through our day, Lord, that you would uh Lord that you would uh just help us to be stronger, God. Lord, I help that us to be uh more uh just to be a better church, Lord, to not be down on people, God. Lord just said, Thank you for everything you've done in your name. Amen.