So you want to be here again. It's our eighth year and uh we just love this place. You got a couple of you got a couple of knot heads, but it's not messing too bad. You got a lot of others make them within. I've got a friend of mine from over around uh Westminster. He's a farmer. He's originally twelve miles from here, so he's a West Virginian. West Virginians have one thing in common with Kentuckians. They're very hard-headed A few years ago I was preaching somewhere and some of the men were standing around and they were they I I hadn't me I always used make some slide comment about Kentuckians and and I I can do that because I'm half Kentuckian. My my dad was born reared in uh Corbin and so So I'm a half breed, I'm half Kentuckian and half human. And uh so uh it gives me a right to say whatever I want to about Kentuckians and so they were talking These fellows were discussing this this really happened. I'm telling you, I'll let you know what I'm not telling the truth. This really truth. And uh This one fellow said, well you know, he said, uh, I really don't see any difference between Kentuckians and West Virginians. I said, oh, oh, there's a big difference between West Virginians and Kentuckians. I said them people up here in West Virginia, they got education. They got people up there been through the second grade. And that's for buddy Bruce and me. Started started coming to church and I go to every year up at Westminster and I'm telling you that guy I thought was never gonna get him saved He'd he'd uh he'd listen to the preaching and get under conviction. I gave him Ford Porter's track and he read that thing over half a dozen or so finally That must have been the last night of the meeting, wasn't it, that year? Four years ago, the last night. I figured if I couldn't get him in, I was just gonna take him out behind the by behind the church and blow his head off, you know. But uh Anyway, he got saved. And uh I've been telling him about coming down here and he was raised just twelve miles west here. And he's uh he's uh w whatever you call West Virginians. I I don't know what you call it. Uh what mountaineers, yeah, he's he's really a mountaineer, but uh Anyway, I appreciate you coming over and dealing with it. And he just tell him a while ago, he said, I know more people here than I realized. So I suppose there's some other people here from West Virginia. Afraid to own up to it? Well, I don't believe it. I don't blame it all. I want you to look at several places in your Bible. First of all, the book of Genesis, chapter number 27 Genesis chapter number twenty-seven. And um I appreciate uh Louis's view that it mentioned evidently Uh the preacher must have said something about some of our physical situations. And uh some folks have already told me this morning that That you've been praying for us. And uh I I know you probably get tired of hearing this, but uh the truth of the matter is my wife and I. are are are uh uh deeply grateful for your prayers. Um The uh this this cancer specialist that I'm going to down in Plain, Old Texas. That's that's on the north side of Dallas. Don't ever go to Dallas. Unless you're wide awake and you don't mind running 75 miles an hour on the expressways through town. Only God knows how fast they run when they get outside of town. They don't drive crazy. They just drive fast. If you want crazy drivers, you go to Philadelphia But um anyway he he claims that he's that he's gonna have me he's gonna have me cancer free by the end of the year. So appreciate you praying for that. And then my wife and I uh celebrated our 50th wedding anniversary. on May the twenty-second. So we blocked out the first two weeks of May and uh we were going to take an anniversary trip go through Colorado down to the Grand Canyon and and then back and and so my wife uh had other plans. She went in the hospital last part of April and uh last part of March 701 Well how come we had to cancel the meetings in May? Yeah. See, honey, that did affect you. Well I'm glad we're finding that out now, because we we'll get to the doctor when we get back So the first of May, when we were supposed to be on our trip, she was in the hospital with pancreatitis, and during that time she had a heart attack a mild heart attack So you know how those hospital people are, those medical doctors and all that. They really fretz out on all this stuff. And uh they said uh well you gotta have a You gotta have a heart calf and all that. And so he showed us she had blockages. And um Uh so he said, you can't put this off. Said that mild heart attack was just a warning. The big one's on its way if you don't do something about it. Well, I've got a red-necked buddy uh up here in uh Perryville, Maryland. Uh his daughter uh does uh uh she has a uh it's a it's a business, but it's also a ministry called Herbs for Healing. And uh she's got herbs that can clean out those arteries without having to have surgery. I didn't find that out until after I had mine. So I wanted to take her there but her problem was she was she couldn't breathe. She's had real shortness of breath. So we were afraid that that she would die before we got her any place else. So she had triple bypass. Instead of going to the Grand Canyon, she spent twenty-three days in the hospital. So she's laying up there in the hospital after all that surgery and everything and she said, you know why I did this, don't you? And I said, no, well she said uh for 50 years you and me been doing everything together. And she said, uh, you've been a member of that zipper club for four years. Now if you've had open heart surgery, you know what the zipper club is. That's the nickname for that scar, because they have to cut you in half, you know. Once they cut you in half, then when they get done, they have sewed back up. So you got that scar right there in your chest for the rest of your life. So they call that the zipper. She said, you've been a member of the Zipper Club, and she said, I just want to be like you. So now we're both members of the Zipper Club. For what that whatever that's worth. But anyway, it's a joy to be here and continue praying for us. I had her back on the road three weeks after she had that surgery. Only because the doctors allowed it. I don't know whether it was the right thing or not. But anyway, we just we're road warriors for Jesus. And uh truth matter is we don't we don't know anything else We don't want to know anything else. We love the Lord. We love each other. We love our children. our grandchildren, our great grandchildren, than our ministry. Somebody mentioned the other day, he said I asked Dr. Hamblin said Doc, at your age, uh why don't you just uh why don't you just retire? Just get off the road. Go to all this running around and all this preaching Why don't you do that? And I said, and do what? Or anything else I want to do. I'm glad God called me to do what I'm doing. I don't have any kind of mandatory retirement from some hierarchy that controls me, you know. And so I can just preach until I drop. And uh The best way I can think of going out into the glory land is just I'd be about halfway through this message here, if God just take me on out. Amen. Amen. So appreciate it, but we've got to have the prayers of God's people. Now I want to read in Genesis chapter number 27. Verse 1, it came to pass that when Isaac was old, his eyes were dim, so that he could not see. He called Esau, his zealous son, and said unto him, My son, he said unto him, Behold, here am I. And he said, Behold, now I am old, I know not the day of my death. Now, if you would turn to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter number 15, over in the New Testament, 1 Corinthians, chapter number 15. Verse number twenty six The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death Then you drop down in that same chapter to verse number 54. Well, let me start reading verse 51. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be chained. In a moment, in the twinkle of an eye, the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed For this corruptible must put on incorruption, this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, And this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law And thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, there there are some very important truths that we need to keep uh uppermost in our mind and thinking Number one, we need to be reminded, I think. Don't have to dwell on it, but we need to be reminded of the brevity of life. No life short. Now now we fall we fall into certain patterns and all of that that we would say Uh they just they just saw the other day a preacher told me that they had found what they uh thought was maybe the oldest man living today. uh 104 years old. A few years ago there was a woman down the island that they thought was 126. And so you you and you you and me we we'd say, oh that's old Now Methuselah wouldn't think so. But truth of the matter is, neither does God. Because the Bible says, what is your life? It's a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. See, you can't take something that has a beginning and an end and compare it to something that's endless. And so it is with our existence. We're here. Whether we're 75, 100, or 125, that makes a difference. Compared to eternity, it's just. It's just a vapor. Well keep that in mind. It'll keep us from getting our our roots too deep in this world. Because this world is going to pass away. I think we need to keep in mind the reality of death. I'm going to talk about that this morning. You you hey hey hey hey hey hey you don't have to be a Bible believer to know you're gonna die. You don't have to believe in God to know that you're going to die. History tells us that. Human experience tells us everybody dies. And we need to keep that in mind And then I think we need to keep in mind concerning the certainty of eternity, because that's where everybody's going. When the lost die, they're going to go to hell. How long are they going to be in hell? They're going to be in hell forever. These shall go away into everlasting punishment. Well, how long is that? Well, what does the word everlasting mean? It means duration without end. And those of us who are saved, when we pass out of this life, when we die physically, we go into heaven. Forever. Called everlasting life is called eternal life. Isn't that wonderful See, we can't say, oh, we're going to be there throughout all the end of eternity. No such thing as the end of eternity. We can't even say we'll be there for all of eternity. Because eternity never ends. How about that? Isn't that wonderful? So here's what that does. That helps you and me understand that this little vapor of life we've got here is merely a preparation for Eternity. Because we're not here very long. This world's not my home. I'm just passing through. I have a home laid up somewhere beyond the blue. Angels beckon me from heaven's open door. And I don't feel at home in this world anymore. Why? Because just temporary. But where we're going to end up is permanent. Forever Now I want to discuss with you just for a little while. Don't pay too much attention to that word little. I think I've said before, you have to b you have to understand that preachers have a different dictionary than humans do. You know what little means in your dictionary. Well, it doesn't exactly mean the same in ours. Oh, we'd say, we'd say, well, I'd like to say a few words. Well, how many is a few? Well, your dictionary would say, well, well, not many. What is the dictionary of the preacher? Would you ever listen to one? Or or how about this one? This is good. This is what I like this one best. And in closing and you say, well In close, well old windbag, he's about out of gas. You have to understand in our dictionary, in the preacher's dictionary, closing is sevenfold. So if he's just said it for the first time Stay buckled up. Going to be a while. But I'm not going to take very long, but I do want to impress upon us the reminder of the reality of death. I want to make five statements concerning death. First of all, I'd like to say this that death is a definite fact Ecclesiastes says there's a time to live, there's a time to die. Hebrews 9. 27 says it is appointed of the man wants to die. After that, the judgment. The book of Job, chapter 30, says, I know that thou wilt bring me to death. Romans says, wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, so death passed upon all men for all have sinned. James chapter 1 says, sin, lust when it is finished, bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. Now I say to you, death is a definite fact Irregardless of what your religious beliefs may be or your Christian, there making a difference, death is a definite fact. And then I would say this secondly, I would say that death is a defeated foe. Turn, if you would please, to the book of 2 Timothy, chapter number 1. 2 Timothy chapter 1, down about verse number 10. The Bible says this. Speaking of Christ Jesus in verse number nine, he says in verse 10, but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ. who hath abolished death and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. That word abolished is an interesting word. I like it. It means to be rendered useless. Hey, hey, hey, for you and me Death has no fear. Or it shouldn't. We already read that we're man's greatest enemy has already been defeated, that being death, that's what Corinthians said. Amen. Huh? Death's a definite fact. Death is a defeated foe. Revelation 21, verse 4 says, and there shall be no more death. Look, if you would, please, in the book of Hebrews, chapter number 2. In Hebrews chapter number two, verses fourteen and fifteen Reads like this. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, that through death He might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver them who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Death is a definite fag. But death is a defeated foe. And then thirdly, I'd just like to say this. For the believer, death is a delightful friend. Turn in your Old Testament to the book of Psalm, chapter number 16. In Psalm chapter number sixteen, verse eleven Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Look at chapter 17, verse 15. As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness. I should be satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. Pretty good, isn't it? See, we don't have to fear death. Because death is the doorway. For you and me that are believers, death is the doorway that takes us into the glory land. Many, many years ago, many, many, in fact, many decades ago, I was the youth director. In Avon, Indiana, you know where that is, Faith Baptist. And then I was out at uh the church that Dr. Wallace built. In Elkton, Maryland. I was an associate pastor. One of my duties was It was over the over the youth that we had 120 high schoolers, about eighty junior high kids. And so I I learned this about teenagers. In fact I learned two things about Team I mean I I learned that I read a book one time and the title of the book was Teenager is not a disease. That was a great help to me And because sometimes you kind of scratch your head and you wonder. And the one thing that's interesting to me b back in those days, now I understand that was that was forty that's forty-four years ago Teenagers were very inquisitive. They're asking questions all the time. They'd ask me questions about heaven. I said, Well, Brother Bob, uh, what are we going to do in heaven? What's it going to be like? I would say, well, uh, I know we're going to praise the Lord. I know we're going to worship Him. I know we're going to serve him. I don't know exactly what capacity, I don't know. But I know this much. We're going to like it. Amen. We'll be satisfied. I got to thinking about this the other day. You know, you know uh do you know anything about women? Now you're never gonna learn much. And they keep it that way, and it's probably a good thing. But I I noticed that I I noticed the women, and my wife's included, my wife's a woman. Um Well you sort of you have to state some of those things, you know, every now and then once in a while, you know. And uh anyway, I noticed that the uh women like to rearrange furniture in the house. They rearrange pictures. Uh that you gotta repaint you gotta repaint a room for 'em every once in a while. And and it's really not so much that they're that they're dissatisfied, but They're just kind of dissatisfied, you know? And uh I mean if your wife's been home for two days and you come home late at night, be sure and turn the light on Because that path through the living room may not be the same as it was. Just because but you know, but I got to thinking about this. Uh in my father's house are many mansions If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I'll come again and receive you unto myself. So that mansion, and I'm a Bible-believing Christian, I believe it's a mansion. Amen. The Lord is built. So I'm assuming, since he's gone all that trouble to build it, he's probably complimented the thing. The right kind of pictures, the right kind of the right kind of furniture and all of that. And you know what's going to happen to every Christian woman that gets there? They're not going to want to change a thing. They're going to be satisfied. Because whatever the Lord does, you can't improve upon that. Amen. I'm telling you, death for the Christian is a delightful friend. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, the Bible said. Look at this, look at this verse here. Look in um Psalm 116, verse 15. This good one too. Psalm 1, what did I say? Whatever I said, turn it. Psalm 116, I think it is. Verse 15. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saint. I'll tell you, there's some fantastic truths that if we just meditate upon them, just really, just really blows my mind. The fact that it says in the book of Hebrews about Jesus, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despised in the shape. Didn't say he enjoyed all he was going to go through, but for the joy that was set before him. He knew what his passion was going to produce. And you and me are on our way to heaven. Why? Because of what He did for us on the cross. Amen. Every time somebody gets saved, the Bible says that there's joy and rejoicing in the presence of the angel. Over one sinner that repenteth. Doesn't say the angels are doing the rejoicing. Says there's joy rejoicing in the well who is that Who is that rejoicing up there? Who for the joy that was set before you? I can imagine every time somebody gets saved around the world, he'll raise those nail-scarred hands And he'll say, that's what I'm talking about. That's why I died on the cross. And then when one comes home, uh, precious. In the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. We mourn on this side. We weep on this side. And rightly so. But I'll tell you, it's a glad it's a grand homecoming on the other side. Precious my sister, my sister passed last year, fourth week of July. She's in a coma the last few days before she passed. So I asked her doctor, we was in the fact the day that she passed, we were in the hospital and I asked the doctor, I said, do you think there's any chance that she can hear us? Well she said the doctor said, she said, um Well, we we we we've had uh instances where people had been in a coma and they and they uh and they came around and they and they made uh made a statement about how although they couldn't respond They could hear. They could hear people talking. And that woman doctor said, you talk to your sister just as if you knew she could hear you. Here's the last thing I said to myself. I preached her funeral three or four days later. Here's the last thing I said to her. I kissed her on the forehead. I said, sis. You're almost home. When you get there, you tell mom and grandma and grandpa, I'll be alone directly. You said that's foolish. I don't think it was. See, I'm a Bible believer. And I believe when she woke up over on the other side, there was no more of that excruciating pain that she was having to live with. She is home. No more sorrow. No more sickness. No more, no more death. She got a royal reception. Because precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Corinthians says, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. You know, you you you read this, you read this. In Philippians chapter 1, you almost think Paul's suicidal. He said, I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ. Which is far better. Sound like he'd really want to go there, you know? Huh? Well, we got it we got it pretty nice down here. Huh? We have uh we have pretty good food. Bruce is going to a family reunion this afternoon. Asked me if I wanted to go. I'll tell ya. That's a hard that's a hard offer to turn down. I'm telling ya. I got high blood pressure, I'm a diabetic and all the rest of that kind of stuff, and I got one problem. I can't blame anybody else, it's my problem. I love food. I'm doing pretty good. I've got it narrowed down to just two types. Hot or cold. I like food. Man. And everything I really like, none of it is good for me. So I just have to go ahead and sin. You know, it's easier to it's easier to get forgiveness than it is permission about some things. And so Anyway, uh but we eat pretty good down here, especially here in the United States. I s I still I still contend that if a person is going to starve to death in America, he's gonna have to do it on purpose. Yeah. Huh? But I'm gonna tell you, what he's gonna feed us up in the Glory Land is far better. We wear pretty nice clothes, you know. But I'm gonna tell you, when he wraps us in that robe It's be far better. And uh we have pretty good transportation down here. Especially that guy back there that I'm very jealous of Hey, you can't beat you can't beat that ride of a town car. I've had Cadillacs, I've had all the rest of them. You can't beat that town car. Yeah. So but have you ever stopped thinking about the transportation we're going to have in the glory land? How how hey hey hey, how many millions or billions of miles is it to heaven? Nobody knows. Except God. But you know how long it's going to take us to get there? Brother. Now I suppose we're probably going to move around some while we're up there, you know. I mean the fishing down here, pretty good, but I'm going to tell you, up in the Glory Land, it's going to be far better. So I'm saying to you, death is a definite fact. It's a defeating foe. For you and me as believers, it's a delightful friend. Leaving all of our cares, all of our burdens, all of our problems. Amen. No cancer up there, no cancer doctors up there. No cemeteries up there. Hey, we we're gonna put the funeral director out of business, man. It's a delightful friend. But wait a minute. For the lost, death is a devastating fear Jesus said, fear not them which hath power to kill the body and have no more than they can do. But I say unto you, fear him which hath power to cast both body and soul. into hell, yea I say unto you, fear him. Delightful friend for you and me, but boy, not for the lost. No. It's a devastating fear. Mercy. He said in Psalm 55, the terrors of death have fallen upon me. Well you say, well, preacher, I I I'm saved. I'm going to heaven, but I still have a fear of dying. You know why you have that? If you if you do if you don't have unconfessed sin in your life, if you're right with God, do you know why if you're a believer and you have a fear of death today? Very simple, because it's not your time to die. Because when it's your time to die, he will give dying grace. Amen. We've been around long, we've seen enough people die. People that died in the will of God. Yeah. Oh, but that person that died for that God. Death and devastating fear. The fifth thing I'd like to say about death is this: it requires a delivering faith. There's only one way to escape The penalty of sin, which is death. And that's through Jesus Christ. He said, Verily, verily, I send you he that cometh unto me. And heareth my words, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. I'm glad I can report that to them. I'm glad I can say that to you today, that God Almighty. Jesus said, I'm the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me shall never die. Death requires a delivering faith. Amos four twelve says, prepare to meet thy God I picked this up a while back. Bret Fred Shinder got this for me, so he'll probably read it when you when he gets here. He'll probably read the same thing. You just remember where you got it from With all the wonder drugs and spas and all of that, the great health products and everything, it's easy to think you're gonna live forever here in this life. You can brush your teeth with crest, get lots of rest, you're still gonna die. You can do a daily workout and smile and never pout, you're still going to die. You can eat a ton of barley green, sanitize with Mr. Clean, you're still going to die. You can jog five miles a day, throw all your junk food away, you're still going to die. You can eat plenty of fruit, own ten jogging suits, you're still gonna die. You can belong to the best spa in town, muscle up and slam down, you're still going to die. You can take vitamins A, B, C, and E, drink nothing but herbal tea. You're still gonna die. Stay away from cholesterol and fat, never go out in winter without a hat, you're still gonna die Have your body uh frozen, suspended animation, when you fall, here's the situation, you're still gonna die Don't work too hard, take many vacations, stay away from stressful situations. You're still going to die. It's appointed in the man wants to die. After that, the judgment. Now that's what I'm interested in. What about you when you die? Huh? Because you're going to. You Christian? You know, the Bible says, now will the children abide in him that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Are you going to be ashamed when you stand before him with the judgment seat of Christ? Christian? I mentioned in the Sunday school hour, boy, it's easy to sin today. without anybody knowing. You don't have to expose yourself publicly to buy pornography or to watch films that you shouldn't watch or participate in in any kind of uh ungodly activity. You can do all that in the privacy of your home by just hitting a couple of buttons on your computer And don't you think that it's not going on in a lot of homes of people who profess Christ You're going to carry that with you? You're going to take that in confession. You're going to take that to meet the Lord. Huh? You see, most of the time when a person dies, he really doesn't know that it's coming right then. We always think it's going to be on down the road. If you had to meet the Lord today, in the condition that you're in right now Would you be able to hear him say, Well done? Or would he be ashamed? And then you'd be ashamed because of what you I'm asking, is there any unconfessed sin that you're refusing to deal with down in the innermost recess of your heart? We better keep short accounts with God. Then I'd say to you If you're here and you're not saved, you're not sure whether you're saved or not, you better not gamble with your soul. You better get it taken care of today. Don't put it on. I've said this, I've said over and over again. I believe everybody in hell has one one thing in common. They all wish they had one more opportunity to be saved. I've said this from this pulpit before I say it again. One of the terrors of the heart of a preacher is to know that every Sunday when he stands in front of a congregation, whether it's his own it's own church family or like me at Conference. in a different church every Sunday. Knowing that there are people who are sitting in the congregation who have prayed prayer. They've been baptized. They've been added to the membership of the church. But they're as lost as Judas Iscariot. And the longer the longer people are putting off, the more difficult it becomes to own up to the realization that they're lost. I may have told you this story before, but I'm going to repeat it. I pastored a church over in the uh western part of the state of Indiana. In fact I passed it two different times, twenty years apart. I was there back in the seventies. And we had a had a man and his wife in the church named Calvin and Charlotte Shile even. Calvin every Sunday night would go down to his father and mother's and pick up his mother His his daddy wasn't able to get out. He was in his nineties and and so but his mother, we called her grandma shyly would br had bring her up to the Sunday night service and oh she loved our church, she loved the singing with a lot of gracing and a lot of powerful testimonies and she loved it. And one day Calvin, the son, called me, said, preacher. were concerned about my dad. He said, would you go down to would you go down to their place, talk to my dad? I said, sure. So I went down there. They lived on a little place called God's Little Half Acre. It was And there was Sherman Chively, he was in his 90s. He and his wife have been married over 60 years. And he wasn't he wasn't saved. Pretty much an invalid. And I led him to Christ. And and so grandma's wi his wife of over sixty years sitting there and I had just given the gospel to her husband. I looked at her and she'd come to hear me preach for months and months on Saturday night and I said, My grandma, have you received Christ? And you say, Oh she said, Yeah. Brother Bob, I'm safe. I said, okay. Not too long after that, a few weeks after, I got a call Sunday night after church, that grandpa Scheidler had had a stroke and he'd put him in a hospital in Danville, Illinois. So I went over about midnight on Sunday night. Prayed, he never come out of that coma by the way. And anyway, we stand out in the hallway after I prayed with the family and get ready to leave it. And I went through the gospel for the second time, eye to eye, with grandma. I said, now grandma, be sure you've received Christ. This 90-some-year-old woman said, uh, yes, I have. Okay. Well he passed. He's a vet, so we had his funeral at the VA and buried him out at the VA cemetery. And uh standing standing there. St standing there. By the graveside. I'd just give them the gospel. But the third time I looked at 90-something-year-old woman right in the eye. I said, No, grandma, are you sure? She said, yes, we're the Bob Monitor. Not too long after that, I left that church and went into full-time revival work. I was gone for a year. A year later, I'm back in that general area for three weeks of meetings, a week or while in three different churches. The very first week was down not too far from where uh grandma lived, and so her son and daughter-in-law brought her to the church on Monday night. On the way out, Calvin the son said to me, he said, preacher, said Bum wants to talk to you. Okay? So I told the preacher that I was with, Tommy Gibson, I said, um We need to go buy grandma Shylus. She wants to talk to me. So we called her and told her we'll come by there on Tuesday afternoon. And she was very reserved. She was very She wasn't unkind or impolite, but she didn't open up. She didn't have anything to say, no questions. We stayed for a while, finally we prayed and left. And I told the preacher, I said, I don't have any ide I don't have any idea why she wanted. 'Cause she just didn't say anything. So the next week I'm over uh on the south side of Danville, Illinois, to the faith that west side of Danville, and here come here come Calvin and his wife The son. On the way out on Monday night, said to me, said, uh, uh preacher, mom wants to talk to you alone. Okay. Well, I was barely in my forties. She is over ninety. I've always made it a practice never to go into my home, uh well there's just a woman there by herself. For testimony's sake, but I got to thinking, good night, she's over 90 years old. What kind of story could be spread about that when she wanted to talk to me alone? I called her and told her that I was coming. I got there, here's this hot peach pie just brought Bruce hot peach pie just rolled out of the oven. She had coffee made. I'm sitting there eating that peach pie. That's the Married Supper of the Lamb, you know. Hey, hey, hey. Along with some okra and fried chicken. She had a little memento from her husband of over sixty years. She gave me. And she said, now I gotta talk to you. And she took me into what What we country people call the easy chair, which was her husband's chair, her favorite favorite chair So she set me down and she pulled a little footstool or a hassock up right at my feet. This 90-something-year-old, she sat down on that little footstool, that little hassock, like a 12-year-old kid. She looked me right in the eye. She said, She said, I've been wanting for over a year to talk to you. I said, how She said, you're the only preacher that I've ever lied to in my life. I said, how's that? She recounted each one of those three times when I'd point blank given her the gospel and she had and she had told me that she was saved. She went through them each one detailed, each one of those three counts. And then she looked at me and she said, Brother Bob, I'm not saved. She said, when I was twelve years old, my mother was taking us to a house church, and one winter. They took us down to what we country people would call the creek. English teachers called Creek. Said they broke the ice. And they baptized us girls and said that that running water washed away our sins. And she said, that's what I've been holding to. For all these years. Hey, do you get that? Over 78 years, that woman was trusting baptism Even though she's hearing the gospel, week after week after week, even though she's confronted privately and personally three occasions. She's still hanging on to that. And don't think it's not happening. Again and again. So I'm saying to you Amos says, prepare to meet thy God. Because there's no chance of preparing after you die. This power is. Well, the preacher, I've got to sit back and take the invitation. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Brother Hamlin just brought a powerful message on the reality of death. He made two statements, I think, apply at the invitation time. One, he said, keep short accounts with God. If you're here this morning, you've been saved. You know that. That's settled. But my life is not what God intends for it to be. I'm not living for the Lord like I should be. There's sin, there's disobedience. We need to deal with that. We need to deal with it right away. Confess it, forsake it, make it right Maybe there's some here this morning who say, preacher, I've been saved. I know that. It's settled. I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I'm sure of that. But I'd like for you to pray for me. There's areas in my life that need to be made right before I face God. There's areas in my life I don't know when death is. I want to be right. I want to be right with God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There's areas in my life that need attention, need to be taken care of. How about it? Uplifted hand all around. God bless you. Many, many hands. Maybe the Spirit of God right now is speaking very specifically about some area of your life that needs to be dealt with, needs to be made right. Some sin needs to be confessed, forsaken, not to stay saved. But just so I don't get to heaven, face the Lord, and be ashamed. The other statement he made was, don't gamble with your soul's destiny. Maybe there's some here this morning. You're lost. You're unsaved. You know it. Maybe you're a church member many years, maybe gone through the motions, as he illustrated, maybe you've never professed faith in Christ. But this morning you'd say, Preacher, I'm lost. I don't want to go to hell. I don't know when the day of my death is. I want to know for sure that my sins are forgiven. That when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. And you say, Preacher, pray for me also, that God would help me settle that in my heart and life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. That God will help me settle my soul's salvation. I can know in my heart that my sins are forgiven, going to heaven when I die, and not to hell. Any at all, by the uplifted hand, all around. Well pray that God will bless you. How about it? Any at all? Slip it up high. How about it? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts Lord, you've confronted us this morning with the reality of death in eternity. And I pray you'd help us to be prepared, prepared to meet you, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.