Turn with me to 2 Kings chapter 4. 2 Kings chapter 4. I found out a way to determine when you're reading your garden how to tell whether it's a good plant or a bad plant. If you gently pull them and it comes out very easily, that was a good plant. It's difficult to get out. It's a bad one. So appreciate your prayers for my tomato plant. I'm in great grief Over that. 2nd Kings chapter 4, verse number 38, the Bible says, And Elisha came again to Gilgal. And there was a dearth in the land, and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him, and he said unto his servant, Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the prophets. And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found of wild vine, and gathered thereof wild gourds in his lap, full and came and shred them into the pot of pottage, for they knew them not. So they poured out for the men to eat, and it came to pass that as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot, and they could not eat thereof. But he said, Then bring meal, and he cast it into the pot, and he said, Pour out for the people that they may eat And there was no harm in the pot. I'm taking that one little phrase from the last part of verse 39, or fur the last part of uh where is it 40. There's death in the pot. Let's pray and ask for it to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for this portion of Scripture. I ask you to bless our study of your word this evening Lord, I ask that you would help me to get to the point and share the truth of what I believe you have for us here. Lord, I yield again tonight my will, my mind To you, Lord. I do not want this to be me, God. I ask it would be you speaking to us. I present my body anew to you to be a channel for you to speak through Please fill me with your spirit, I ask. Give us open hearts and minds. Help us to trust you and obey you as you speak to our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Sometimes you may wonder why does God put stories like this in the Bible? You go particularly through the King, the books, 1 and 2 Kings. You find a lot of these stories, Joshua and Judges has a number of them. Just unusual things that take place And I wonder why does, some people may wonder why does God put these various instances in the scriptures? Well, I think there's several reasons. One, primary reason, is God is revealing Himself to us He's it he's showing us through these events what he is like. He's displaying his character, his power, his compassion. And one of the ways we learn what God is like Is by what he has done. You read what God did, and that tells us a bit about what our God is like. And what's true of God is true for us We can tell what people are like by the things they've done, by the things they do, their actions. A person can tell you all kinds of things about themselves, but their actions could betray their words And you look at what they do, and that gives you an indicator of what they're like, what their character is, what type of person they are. Well, that's true for God. The New Testament tells us also that these things were recorded for our our admonition, so that we can grow. We can learn by mistakes that people made. We can learn by the right things they do. We see how God brought people through things. And then we learn to trust God and have faith in him for our situation. So here we have Elisha. We've been following him from his call when Elijah uh called him as he was plowing with the twelve yoke of oxen. uh Elisha's uh Elijah's uh uh Sension and uh cheritophile and then Elisha's ministry We come down to verse 38, and we find Elisha is back in his element. He is back in his area, I believe, of expertise. And that is this. He's working with these sons of the prophets, these young preacher boys, and you kind of sense, as you read through here, you kind of sense that this is where he is most confident This is his element. Here he starts calling the shots. Now there's a few other instances we looked at where it seems almost Like Elisha was out of his element and he really wasn't certain how to respond to things. For instance You remember some time ago we looked at chapter two of Second Kings verse twenty-three through twenty-five. And that's when the kids came out of Bethel and they were mocking him. Go up, thou bald man. Remember that incident And how did Elisha respond to that? What's the Bible say? Anybody remember? He cursed them. Now, God's hand was on him. I understand he was no doubt operating under the direction of the Lord. But I don't know about you, but that seems kind of extreme to Curse some kids and the bear comes out and kills them because they mocked him. Now there's a lot more involved than that, but my mind is, you know, it seems like he's a little bit uh taken aback by this and reacts. Again, just the previous message, series of messages we noted as Elisha was dealing with this Shunammite woman And the child given miraculously to her dies, and she comes out, finds Elisha and Gehazi as assistant. And she asked for h tells him the situation and what does Elisha do? He doesn't want to go back there And so he gives his rod to Gehazi and says, you go back and take care of it. And I just kind of, and this could just be me and I may be wrong, I doubt it, but I may be wrong. Uh that uh he just seems a little bit out of his element in those situations, a little bit He's not responding perhaps uh as confidently as we see him now. Now he's back at the school. There's a number of these schools of prophets throughout the land He's back with these young preacher boys and he is in his element. Now I want to break this down real quickly and get right to it. I want us to notice first of all the dearth in the land. Look at verse 38. Elijah came again to Gilgal, and there was a dearth in the land. Now what in the world is a dearth? Anybody take a shot at that A famine. Uh there hasn't been rain. The crops aren't growing. And the interesting thing is here. Elisha is uh is a man of God. He's called that, he's called a man of God more than any other man in the Bible, 31 times if I remember correctly. He's called a man of God. The presence of Elisha did not prevent the famine from ravaging the land. Elijah was a man whose God, God's hand was on him in miraculous ways, in unusual ways He spoke a number of times under the inspiration of God. What he was saying was God speaking through him Yet the presence of somebody like that did not stop the famine from coming to the land. And I don't think we fully comprehend, in fact, I'm certain We cannot fully appreciate what they went through when the Bible says a famine came to the land. We live in a day and age when a certain area can be hit by drought, a famine can hit, and we are able to transport goods, we're able to preserve goods We're able to harvest from various places of the world and bring that together and make up for the famine that hits an area. I would venture to say some of us ate some food today that may very well have come from the other side of the state. Oranges or stuff like that. Um other side of the state, other side of the country. I don't think there's too many orange trees and groves in Maryland, but um uh we we can't appreciate what it means for a area or a country or a city to go through a famine when there is nothing, no tomato plants. No gardens, nothing. There's no grocery store to go to. There's no convenience store. I mean, there is nothing to eat. And maybe to help us appreciate what these young preacher boys were facing and what this community was facing in this dirt. is to recollect a few other instances in the Bible when famine hit. If you would, now it's not too far away. Turn with me over to 2 Kings chapter 6, just a few pages over. And here you have, we're going to look at this in the coming months. Here you have a famine hits in verse 25. Well let's look at verse 24. Came to pass after this that Ben Hadad, king of Syria, gathered all his hosts and went up and besieged Samaria. Now that means he s sir circled the city, surrounded the city, cut off all supply. And there was a great famine in Samaria. Alright? Dearth, same setting And behold, they besieged it until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver. That's eighty pieces of silver for the head of a donkey. That doesn't sound very appetizing to me, but it gets worse. And the fourth part of a cat of doves dung for five pieces of silver. Now, I'm not trying to be facetious here in any way. I have never been that hungry. I doubt seriously I'm speaking to anybody here. That would pay money. For a meal of doves done. Can you imagine the degree of starvation that is taking place? Where a person would do that. But it gets worse. Read on. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help me, my lord, O King. I mean this famine is incomprehensible in our society. But look what happens. And he said, If the Lord do not help thee, when shall I help thee? Out of the barnyard or out of the wine press? And the king said to her, What aileth thee Listen to this. She answered, This woman said unto me, Give me thy son that we may eat him today. And we will eat my son tomorrow. So we boiled my son and did eat him. And I said unto her this next day, give me thy son that we may eat him. And she hid her son. Now It is virtually impossible for us to comprehend the degree of desperation that these people had gotten to. In this famine. So we come back, and we'll look at this text here in coming months, but come back now to chapter 4 and these sons of the prophets. And they are in a dearth in the land. It's bad. Now it may not be as bad as what Samaria was, but it's bad. And I share that to try and help us get a picture, a word picture, a mental picture in our mind, what exactly these guys are facing. And the point of this is this: God's people do not escape the trials of life Now we in our prosperous nation at this point in time do not face something to that degree. But the fact of the matter is we do we do have our degree of famines and dearths in our land. We have our trials. We have our times of need. There are, hey, Christians sometimes have financial situations just like the unsaved do. Amen. We go to get laid off. Christians get laid off just like unsaved people do. Things get difficult sometimes. We have setbacks. We have hardships We're not we we just because we're saved, just because we're trying to live for God, just because we've committed our life to Christ, does not mean we're gonna not gonna have dearths in our life But we are sustained and helped by God through them. We see Elisha's character here. Now think about this. Did Elisha have access to the king? Yes or no? Sure he did. Remember, he told the Shunammite, can I speak to the king on your behalf? In a time of famine, who would probably be the last one to be hurting for food in the land? Be the king And I think it speaks to Elisha's character that when this dirt hit, he did not abandon the preacher boys. He did not abandon God's people in their poverty and run to the king and say, Boy, you know, if I go visit the king right now, I know he's got food. Elisha doesn't do that. I tell you, Brother James, you get in the ministry, you learn when to visit people at supper time and lunchtime. Good time to go by and visit them. Oh, we just put on roast feet. Why don't you come on in? And uh you learn that. Uh I don't do that. But um Elisha didn't do that. He said, These boys are hurting. These are God's men. God's called them in this famine. I'm not going to abandon them now. I'm gonna stick with it. I am gonna be a testimony. I'm gonna go through this with them and show them that God takes care of his people. We don't have to run to the world. We don't have to depend on this world's resources. We can trust God. And so I see the richness of Elisha's character in sharing this trial with them. And let me throw this out: trials are good for our faith. I I do is there anybody here that enjoys going through trials? Anybody here say, boy, I wish we had a famine. Nobody ever praised that. Not in a right mind. I don't enjoy trials. I don't enjoy uh physical sickness. I don't enjoy a little baby having to have all these tests up there, little Reagan with the tubes in her head and All that they went through scrubbing down and wearing all these things. We don't enjoy that. Brother Jerry doesn't enjoy the possibility of having an uh strep strep infection in his bone. Nobody enjoys that But they through those trials, it's good for our faith. That is where our faith grows. That is where our faith is tested and stretched. Trials are good for our faith. Now, some people do everything they can to avoid all trials. And I understand that. We don't go out looking for them But they'll try and avoid all sorrow, all trials, any anything that has to do with death. I just gotta try and do everything I can to stay away from it. Listen. Sometimes we need to go through those things. Hey, Ecclesiastes says it's better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of uh of feasting. For years I mentioned being with hospice did a lot of funerals, a bunch of funerals over the years. Every now and then I'll get a funeral, and it's generally with unsafe folks, and there'll be a member of the family or a close friend Just occasionally that will refuse to go into the room where the body is during the visitation I'm thinking of one in particular. He would not go in there. He stood outside and he made a big deal about the fact that he's not going to go in the same room where this dead body was We had the funeral service at the funeral home. He stood outside, made a big deal. I'm not going, I don't go in the same room where there's a dead body. Now, other than he was nuts. I think what he was trying, in his mind, his warped way of thinking, he thought, well, if I don't go near it, then maybe somehow I can escape it. If I don't face the reality of it, if I refuse to acknowledge and look at and go in the presence of the reality of heartache and sorrow and death. That somehow I can escape it. Hey, there is no escaping the trials of life. There's no escaping the dearths of the land. God's people go through it. Men of God, of the caliber of Elisha, go through them. They're good for us. We don't like them. We don't pursue them. But we cannot flee from them. And God uses them to strengthen our faith and make us stronger. Often trials will bring God's people together. It's interesting here, because of this trial, these sons of the prophets got together. And they worked on a solution and they worked together to try and deal with this dirt. And oftentimes when a trial comes to a church or a family or a situation, many times it will bring God's people together. It will bond them as they go through a difficulty together, trusting God. It seems like in times of persecution the church is its strongest. In times of trial, the church is often the most united. And it seems like in times of prosperity. The church is its weakest and often its most divided. When there are no trials, no nothing we're working at together, we just Becomes self-centered. So the first thing we notice here in this event that God has recorded, we notice the dearth in the land. The next thing I notice here is the direction from Elisha. Look at the last part of verse 38. And the sons of the prophets were sitting, there was a dearth in a lamb. Sons of the prophets were sitting before him, Elisha, and he said unto his servant, Who's his servant? Gehazi, remember him? He said unto his servant, set on a great pot, and sieve pottage for the sons of the prophets So he gives some directions. They look to him, what should we do? There's a dearth in the land, there's famine, there's nothing. He goes, Well, get a big pot, put it on, and we'll see some pottage. I think it's uh interesting he recognized a legitimate concern for their physical well-being. The Lord was going to take care of them, but they had a responsibility to do. And I'm glad for this. I'm glad God takes care of us spiritually. Right? Do you agree with me? How many people agree with that? Wave to me. There you go. God takes care of spiritually, but I'm glad that God's concerned for us physically also. Aren't you? It's not just spiritual. God takes care of us physically. He grants healing. God provides for us. So He lets us go through difficulties. He lets us go through sickness and trials. But He takes care of us. But God takes care of us. The fact that God takes care of us does not mean, that does not negate the fact that we have a responsibility to do our part. These guys didn't just sit here, Elijah says, well, God's gonna take care of you. Y'all just sit here and play Uno and uh God will take care of you. Well, at all. So God's going to take care of us, but Gehazi, get a pot, put it on, see that you guys go out and see what you can find. God will take care of us. We need to do our part. And that's true. And uh uh we need to understand that. Uh I only God can save souls. Amen. But nobody's gonna get saved if we don't do our part, go out and talk to him. Right? Nobody's gonna trust Christ if we don't confront him. We don't share the gospel. God can save people in Kazakhstan. God can establish churches all across that land, Kazakhstan, right? God can do it, no doubt about it. But it ain't gonna happen if we don't send somebody over there. It's not gonna happen if we don't put on a pot. It's not gonna happen if we don't go out and try and find some pottage. It's not going to happen. We have a responsibility and part of this. God is not going to do for us what we can do ourselves And so the directions are, says the Gehazi, get a pot, put it on, and uh we'll see some pottage. And I notice it's interesting, their contentment. I tell you, if this was your average Bible college today, the preacher boys would have said, Pottage, are you crazy? We want big nuts I ain't no potties. What do you think we are? No, they were content with that. They knew how to be a base I'll tell you, one of the great lessons I learned in Bible college was learning how to get by without Big Max. Learn to get by with pottage. And uh some of the stuff we cooked, it was pottage, no doubt about it. Elisha, like Paul, knew how to be both be abased and how to abound. And the key word in that, and I wish we had time to turn there, we don't, but the key word in that is how to be abased. Sometimes we're abase, we're put in poverty type situations, we have no choice in a matter, usually, but we don't know how to deal with it. We deal with it because we have no other choice. But God says, I'm gonna teach you how to deal with it. And the way to deal with uh with prosperity is to be grateful. When God blesses us, when God takes care of us, when the bills are paid, our bodies are healthy, our tummies are full. When we have a car in the garage, when God is taking care of us, the way to abound, how we abound, is by being grateful. But when God in His providence removes that, and the health is gone, and the bills are high, and the wallet's empty, and the tummy's empty. And the cars broke down up the street. The way we are abased is by humbling ourselves before the Lord. As Jo as Noah, as um Job did. As he said, the Lord giveth, and the Lord what? Taketh away. He humbled himself before the Lord. So Elisha gives them directions. We don't got any Big Macs. There's no outback steakhouses around. Fellows are gonna have to eat potties. Whatever you scrounge up, that's what we're gonna have to eat. And they're fine with that. And he tells Gehazi to set on a pot. Now think about Gehazi. Would you agree with me? He held an honorable position. He is the assistant, the servant of Elisha, the man who has access to kings and The hosts of the captains of armies and God's doing things. And I'm his assistant. Log he dog. He is somebody. And he is. But what does Elisha tell him to do? Put on a pot. What? I'm the assistant of the great Elisha. You want me to put a pot on? What are you talking about? I think the lesson here is not all of the ministry is spiritual. There's some parts of the ministry that are nothing more than finding a big pot, filling it up with water, and getting a fire started underneath it. Um few verses earlier he's got Elisha's rod and a stamp and he's gone and he's gonna do a miracle on this little dead baby. Wow! Now he scrounds around trying to find a pot. And serving God is not just the big, high-falutin, sensational stuff. Sometimes it's just the nasty, nasty stuff you gotta do to serve God. I graduated from Tennessee Temple, as you know, and graduated and and please understand the great humility and meekness that I'm saying this. I learned a I got a lot of awards when I graduated Uh I really did. I'm just you all don't look very impressed. But I did, and uh the school gave me the highest award the school gives, the Lee Robertson Award Thank you. You guys are slow, but you're catching on. And I graduated, boy, I had all these awards and this. I had like five or six. Pretty significant awards and fairly large financial uh gifts were because of these different awards and and La Vida And I became a youth pastor. I got married and we went up to Indianapolis and became a youth pastor. And this this is the truth. And again, if I point say the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth My very first job as assistant pastor of a large church in Indianapolis, the Lee Robertson Award winner, graduate, high honors. You know what my primary response one of my primary responsibilities at the church was there? I had to clean all the bathrooms. Right or wrong? I did. I would vacuum the auditorium, my job, I vacuum the whole place. Clean the commote. I mean. I learned something pretty quick. Serving God isn't just standing up here being a hot shot. Serving God sometimes behind the scenes sweating and nobody appreciating it and just doing what needs to be done for the glory of God Finding a pot, dragging it out. Oh the assistant to Elisha! I gotta get a pot out Yep, that's part of it. Thank God for those who take care of the physical needs of the church. Amen. I know I don't say enough about it, but I thank God for these precious ladies that work here at the church and keep this place decent. Thank God for those who get the pots out and see the pottage. Amen? Behind the scenes. Sometimes we say, ah, nobody sees it. That's not true. God sees it. And God will reward those who serve Him. So here's Elisha's assistant, Gehazi, getting the pot out. The guys are out running around. They're scrounging up whatever they can find. Brings us thirdly to, and I've got to bring this to an end, brings us thirdly to, notice the lack of discernment in their preparation. Look at verse 39. And one went out into the field to gather herbs and found a wild vine, and gathered off of this vine, gathered thereof, wild gourds in his lap full. So apparently he's wearing an oversized t-shirt. He pulls the bottom out and he gets these gourds off this wild vine and he puts them in his the lap of his shirt. Yeah, anybody ever do that? And he's carrying them back. And uh and came and shred them into the pot of pottage. So they gets talking like that Imagine he peels them and he starts slicing them up. And he puts them in the pot for the rock soup, what they're making, whatever. But look at that last phrase. For they knew them not. That's not good. They're putting something in the pot, they don't know what it is. It looks good, maybe smelled good, but it wasn't good. They thought, well, we can just put a pot on and gather herbs and gourds and throw them in, everything will be alright. Don't worry about it. Not so. Ignorance can be deadly. Throwing stuff in there, you don't know what it is, and we're fixing to eat it. That is not smart. Someone's physical providing for someone's physical well-being is very important. Would you agree? We have a number of nurses here. They can't just go and say, well, we'll try this injection. Doesn't matter. I don't know what it is. What is that? I don't know. But it looks good. Shh. What could happen? The person could what? Die. I wouldn't want to go to a nurse that does that. Hey. And the spiritual needs of people are just as important. Amen. He says, doesn't get up. I just teach anything, doesn't matter, just say whatever. That's nuts. I wouldn't go to a doctor that didn't know what he was giving me And I wouldn't go to a church that didn't know what they were saying from the scriptures. Amen? Listen, eternal life and eternal death are at stake If we're going to presume to speak on God's behalf, if we're going to presume to stand and teach someone God's word, we sure enough better know that what we're saying is correct according to the Word of God. Amen. Now I understand there's a place to grow, and God calls someone to preach. Man, I like to put them up and give them a shot at it, but I'm saying this. If we're going to serve God, if we're going to go out and tell people about the things of God, how to be saved from sin and hell for all eternity, we better know what we're talking about. I just think, ah, these gourds are fine. Yeah, I guess you get baptized, that'd be alright. They die and go to hell. There is no room for ignorance in the ministry. We must know what we're doing, not just anything goes. And I tell you, my wife gets mad at me. For watching these guys on preachers on TV and then I get mad at them. Actually I get mad at them, then she gets mad at me for getting mad at them. She goes, why do you even watch it? Because they make me mad And these guys get up and say stuff. And all a fifth grader could know. A fifth grader knows more of their Bible than some of these guys on TV. And if it wasn't so deadly, it'd be funny. But they're leading people astray by the millions and millions. Some of these are worldwide ministries, and you see there. They're campaigns and crusades they have, and there's tens of thousands of people, and you listen to what they're saying, and it is dead. It's unho it's unhealthy gores, spiritually speaking. We better know what we're talking about. One of the things God laid on my heart early on in his call in my life, if I ever pass the church, we're going to have a Bible institute, we're going to teach Bible doctrine so people know what is right. So they know what's true. We don't want death in this part. We don't want people teaching Sunday school classes. Standing behind the pulpit, going out into the community, going out into the world as missionaries, and not know what they're talking about. They gotta know the truth. They gotta know what's right and good. They must know the gospel. We need to know what we're doing, not just anything goes. It's interesting in Acts chapter 3 When they call in Acts chapter 6, I'm sorry, when they called deacons. They didn't just say, ah, just anybody, y'all come on, be fine, help us with this. You know, God put qualifications For deacons. And Acts chapter 3, one of them was they have to be men of wisdom. They have to be men filled with the Holy Ghost. Why? Because what the decisions they make that affect the church. You can't just throw anything into that mix. There needs to be some wisdom. There needs to be the assurance and based on scripture that what we are doing is right. Because if we get it wrong, people will come, they will believe us, and they will die and go to hell if we do not have the gospel right, if our methods are not right, if our message is not right It does matter. Ignorance is deadly. What we do for the Lord must be done in wisdom and in knowledge And by the way, our lives are not to be lived carelessly either. You don't just come and throw anything in your life. Well, that looks good. I'll make this a part of my life. Oh man, that's a pretty thing. I don't know what it is. I don't know how it affects people, but I'll make it part of my life. You know what happens? You get down the road 20, 30, 40, 50 years, and all of a sudden you realize you put all this stuff in your life that was disaster, that was deadly, it was death in the pot of your life, and now you can't do anything about it. And those years are gone. And the opportunities are gone. And because I did not exercise wisdom in the things I allowed in my life, because I did not exercise biblical knowledge. And apply it to the decisions I made. Now I'm at a point, and my life is a disaster, and I can't go back and redo it. A lack of discernment in their preparation. Then we notice in verse 40. The death in the pot. So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass that as they were eating of the pottage, they cried out and said, Oh, thou man of God, there is death in the pot. These wild gourds they prepared, I got doing a little research on that, trying to figure out what exactly they were And they are, most Bible people suggest, ours historians suggest, that they were what was called a squirting gourd. Sometimes they call it an exploding gourd. And what it was, it looked good and it smelled good, but it when it matured, all you do is put a little bit of pressure on it and the thing would and the seeds would squirt out and go, and that's how it would Spread the seeds. They say it was very bitter to the taste and would cause, if eaten, it would cause colic How many people know what colic is? How many people here your child had colic? Anybody here know? I'm not going to say which one, but our oldest kid had colic. Asked my wife about it. There's one time in my life I thought maybe child abuse would be okay. Cause colic. They said it is most likely not fatal unless you would eat huge amounts of it you could possibly become fatal. But I think it's interesting how suddenly things went from bad to worse. They didn't exercise any discernment. Ah, this looks good. Throw it in. And they went from having a dearth in the land to having death in the pond. Through their ignorance and carelessness, they endangered themselves. They took away their happiness, caused pain. In themselves and others. And like I said, as medical physicians, things of just like medical physicians, physicians, things of God must be dealt with wisely. Doctrinal error is deadly. Doesn't matter what you believe, we'll just lay aside doctrine and just all get together in the name of Jesus. That's deadly. There's a reason God has given us doctrine. Methods, if we're wrong, and our methods can be deadly. Let me throw this out. We emphasize soul winning, and correctly so. Amen? I hope my prayer and my goal as pastor is that winning souls would be the heartbeat of this ministry. That's what I want. It's what I believe is scriptural. But Winning souls is not all it is. It's not winning souls at any cost. We must first obey the Bible And we win souls, but we do it according to scriptural principles, not just anything goes. And so there was death in the pot. And last of all, I am with this. Notice their deliverance from death. Look at verse 41. But he, Elisha said, bring meal. And he cast it into the pot. Now meal is like cornmeal type thing, what we would have. And they cast it in the pot. Nothing exploded, no smoke came up. Looking at it, apparently there was nothing different, and he said, Pour out for the people that they may eat. And there was no harm in the pot. Now there are several interesting statements here. Notice when they said there is death in the pot. Who said that? Who said there's death in the pot? This is the guy eating it. Oh man, there's death in this thing. That was their conclusion. The Bible doesn't say there was death in the pot. The sons of the prophets, after they ate it, their conclusion was, there's death in the pot. But notice the last part of verse 41. There was what? No harm in the pot. Now this is what I think. And again, I think I'm right. I think there never was any death in the pot. I think the meal took away the bitter taste and took away the colic effects. Because God's statement at the end of verse 41 says there is no death in the pot. It was the prophets that concluded that. Now I may be wrong, but I doubt it. It tasted bitter, and it caused them pain, therefore they assumed they were dead. Now, not everything that is bitter to taste, and not everything that causes us pain means we're done. Say, oh, a young couple gets married and their honeymoon, oh everything's wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Then they have their first fuss. Six hours into it or whenever it is, six months into it, they have a plus. And what's their conclusion? Oh, this is bitter, oh this hurts, it's over, our marriage is a failure Huh? So they abandon each other. Just because it hurt and it wasn't pleasant doesn't mean it's dead. Amen? Preachers do that. They get out and they get a church. Boy, there's a period of honeymoon time. Man, they have a great time. Everything the preacher does is great. Everything the people do is great. But then finally there's something somebody doesn't agree and there's a fuss. You know what the preacher says? Oh, this hurts. This isn't pleasant. Oh, I'm not supposed to pastor here. And you know what they do? They go run and find another church. Huh? Just cause it doesn't taste good, just because it doesn't feel good, doesn't mean it's dead They were not in danger as long as they looked to the Lord and trusted him and obeyed him, everything would be all fine. And it's interesting how quickly and how easily God changed all the circumstances. It wasn't that difficult. And Elisha knew immediately what to do. He knew what the problem was. Get some meal. Alright, beats fine. There's no death in the pot. And God can take our circumstances that are so bitter and so unpleasant and so painful, and if we will trust him, if we will just do what he says, he can take that thing and turn it completely around. And everything's fine. In the midst of the dirt, they're eating good food. God turned it around. My daddy, and I hesitate to say this, but my daddy was in a church that taught error. Their doctrine was wrong in a number of very significant areas. But he began reading the Bible. He went to God's word rather than to his church's official position. And he went to God's word, and Daddy found the truth. And God saved his soul. And he went on to live for God. There was death in the pot. There was false doctrine there to some degree, and not totally, but there was some there. Daddy went to the meal of God's word and God saved his soul and changed his life. You follow what I'm saying? Lady came, lady and a man came to our door a number of years ago, not too long, but one or two years ago It's an older man, a lady a little older than me, so she was pretty young. And um They said, Oh, we're with uh the watchtower. Jehovah's Witness Watchtower, we'd like to talk to you about the guy. I said, sure. So I went out in the porch and we talked a little bit and They were saying different things and as it usually does it got a little heated. Not on my I tried not to, but it went on and Finally I asked the fellow, I said, fellow, did you convert to Jehovah's Witness or did you grow up and he goes, No, I've been in it for thirty, so he was in his eighties, I think he said, I've been in it for forty, fifty years, whatever. I've been I said to the lady, I said, Well how long have you been in? She said, I've been in six months. I said, Is that right? I said, Where did you come from? She c I came from and she said the name of a church. And that church preaches the Bible somewhat. They have some Bible in it. And I said, have you been baptized into the Jehovah's Witness? She goes, Oh yes, just a few weeks ago. I said, you've made a terrible, terrible mistake. And what she did was she left the meal. And she ate the pottage. Follow what I'm saying? She didn't go to God's answers. She didn't go to God's solution Apparently there was some lack in her life, apparently there was some need that she thought that Jehovah's Witness, the pottage, would solve. What she needed to do was go to the meal of God's Word and let God meet that need and trust Him and obey Him. Others leave scriptures. They leave the methods of the Bible. They leave the message of the Bible. Rather than trusting and obeying God. That's the meal. Doing what God says. And then everything's alright. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Please help us to trust you. Help us to not think it's all over just because it's not pleasant or it's not going our way. It's not the end. You can change things, you can stir things, make things right, you can solve our problems. If we'll trust you, if we'll just throw the meal in, that's your word. Just do what you say. Help us, I pray, Lord, with our heads bowed.