Exodus chapter two. I'm talking away here. I've got to find my text. Notice verse number eleven. Again, we started this last week I've entitled the message Decisions. Moses is making some decisions here that will affect him the rest of his life. And I think all of us can probably stop and think about some point in our life where we made a decision and that had a profound effect. It it it affected us the rest of our life. How many people tonight you're living now with decisions you made some previous time in your life. You're living with it. Yes, some are good, some not always great. But Moses made profound decision here that uh affected the rest of us. Notice verse eleven Speaking of Moses, say that it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens, and he spied an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew. One of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way. And when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. And when he went out the second day, now he's going from the palace where Pharaoh, he's in Pharaoh's household. Remember that He's been living there for 30 years, probably, or 40 years, 30 years at least, around 30 years I should say. And so he's out and he's coming out to where the the Hebrews are living. And so he comes out the second day, and it says, Behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said unto him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killst the Egyptian? Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. Now if you keep your place there, and again, we're going to likely we're going to jump back and forth here a bit, but come back Acts chapter number 7. In Acts 7, we have Stephen is preaching. He's about to be martyred. And he references this event that we just read in Exodus Stephen references it, but under the inspiration of God, the Holy Spirit moving in him, he gives us some information that we don't really pick up back in Exodus. And I think I made this statement last week, and this is very helpful to know this, to look at it this way. Many times the New Testament is a commentary on Old Testament passages Sometimes we don't understand a passage from the Old Testament. We come to the New Testament and it sheds some light on it. It helps us. Not always, but often that's the case. And that's the case here. Look here with me at verse number 20 of Acts chapter 7. Again, Stephen is preaching and he mentions Moses. He says, In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months And when he was cast out, and again, that means they put him in the ark, put him in the river there, as we read in Exodus 2. Pharaoh's daughter took him up and nourished him for her own son. She adopted him. She named him Moses. Now look at verse 22. Here we have some information on that 30-year period. We believe that Moses was probably about 10 years old when his parents gave him back to Pharaoh's daughter and she adopted him, we think around that age. So we have some information from ten till f forty years old, a little bit. And Moses was learned in the wisdom of the Egyptians. So if he's learned in the wisdom of the Egyptians, that means he was what? Taught. They educated him. He went through their education system. And was mighty in words and in deeds. And when he was a full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren. And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him and avenged him that was oppressed and smote the Egyptian. For he supposed. Now here we're given a little more information about Moses' thinking. For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God, by his hand, would deliver them But they understood not. And the next day he showed himself unto them as they strove, these two Hebrews fighting together. And he would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren, why do ye wrong one to another? But he that did his neighbor wrong thrust him away, saying, Who may be a ruler and a judge over us? Wilt thou kill me, as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Midian, where he begat two sons. So decisions that Moses makes here have a profound effect, uh impact on the rest of his life. So let's pray together. Ask God to help us pick up where we left off. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of Moses, particularly this profound period of time, this event. A couple events here that was such a turning point in the life of Moses. And I pray your Holy Spirit would take some lessons here, some observations we make And apply to our lives. Help us, Lord, to be wise. Help us to see your hand. Help us to trust you as you instruct us in your word. And fill me with your Spirit is always my prayer, Lord. I yield myself and pray that you would speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Moses, as we said last week, and we've repeated often, had tremendous parents. We don't know a lot about them. We don't know their education level, a little bit about their background, but we do know this. They were it was a family of great faith And the emphasis I tried to make last week, at least in the beginning of the message, and we've referenced this a few times, is I believe those maybe ten years we think that Moses lived in his household before he was turned over to Pharaoh's uh daughter, uh those those years had a profound effect on Moses, I have no doubt about it. The faith of his parents was ingrained deep in the heart of Moses. And then for thirty years he's in Pharaoh's household. He goes through their education system. He's uh he's immersed in Egyptian culture, Egyptian life, and as far as we can tell, he's pretty much uh isolated from the Hebrews, the people of God. Now we're not given a lot of information on that, but we would assume that was the case. And the reason we I think that is because the Egyptians hated the Hebrews. And the Hebrews want it out more than anything, so they're most likely not getting together and having dinner, Sunday afternoon dinner and stuff together. And so Moses has for all these years been immersed in the Egyptian culture. If you remember, and this is important because of a point I want to make here, a new point tonight. uh I want to make here so I want to repeat this. He went through their educational system. There in uh verse eleven it says when he was grown. Back in Exodus, it says, when he was grown. We understand from that word grown, it means not just physically, although it does mean that. He's 40 years old. But it also has the idea, I believe, that he grew educationally. And Stephen tells us, under the inspiration of God, that he was trained in these things. And so we believe he was highly trained in, and some historians tell us, in astrology, mathematics. in uh engineering, music, art. He had state-of-the-art Egyptian training. He was part of the culture He could talk the language, he could hobnob with the most powerful Egyptians in the land. He grew positionally. Again, we reference some Jewish historians, and these are some a lot of this is documented from various sources So I think it's more than just legend. I think there may be something to this. But they say that he became a very powerful military leader during those years. Some have suggested that he led some campaigns, military campaigns, and several Jewish historians suggest that he was highly loved by the military. They loved Moses. That's what they say. He was grown politically, and we spent a little bit of time on this. He was next in line. For uh to be Pharaoh of Egypt, it's we understand from history. But he turned all that down So now he comes down. If you remember last week we pointed out that he comes down the first point of this two-week message. is uh his attention on the Hebrews. And if you remember, we said that um he identified with his people. Did you notice there how many times it refers to the Hebrews as his brethren? His brethren, his brethren, his brethren. Moses was Egyptian. And uh again, I know I'm repeating a lot of what I said last week, but the fact is He looked like Egyptian. He talked like Egyptian. He was Egyptian outwardly, but inwardly, he was a Hebrew. And he knew that, and something inside his heart and soul drew him down to where these Hebrews were, the ghettos where they lived. And believe me, they were ghettos. And he goes down there and he gives attention to them, but he identifies with his brethren. He goes down to them. Verse Acts 7. 23, if you remember, it said there it was in his heart to go visit his brethren And then we pointed out that he made observation of God's people. He's not down there in his uh chariot, his big expensive um uh uh black SUV chariot pulling down there, uh big government official looking over the peasants. It's not that that's not the idea at all If you study it carefully, it has the idea he's down there rubbing shoulders with them. He's coming down into their market. He's walking down into the places they're working, making their bricks. I mean he's right with them. He wants to see how they're living. He's observing their treatment, their conditions, how they're dressed, how they treat each other. That comes out in all of this. And so he looked on their burdens, it says. That means to inspect carefully, to observe, consider. It touched his heart. These were his people living like this. And he's down there with them. Now tonight, that was a quick overview. How many people wish I'd preach a whole message that quick all the time? Yeah, that was last week's message. I want to pick up here, number two, first point was this, the attention he gives to the Hebrews, and I got that from verse 11, the first part. It says it came to pass, he went down unto his brethren and looked on their burdens. Number two, I want us to notice his intervention for the Hebrews. First is observation. He goes, checks them out. Then he sees this Egyptian harassing, treating, smiting this Hebrew, one of his brethren. The first thing I notice what he does here. Now he's intervening. He's not just observing anymore. He's not standing back and watching uh one of his people outwardly Egyptian beat and smite this uh Hebrew. He's not just observing now. Now he's getting involved. He's intervening. He's taking action. His heart is stirred And I tell you, when our heart gets stirred, we're going to act. We're going to act. Um sometimes uh when I'm preaching There'll be folks, I like to shake hands in the back as you know, when folks go out and shake hands. People will say something like this to me. They'll say, preacher, you stepped on my toes today. How many people know what they're talking about? You stepped on my toes today. And if I'm thinking quick enough, I'll say something along these lines. I'll say, rats, I was aiming for your heart. Actually, I'm not worried about me speaking to your heart. I want the Holy Spirit of God to speak to our hearts. And so his heart is stirred. Why? Because if God speaks to our hearts, it's going to affect what? It's going to affect how we live. It's going to affect how we talk, how we live, I act. Out of abundance of the heart, this mouth speaketh, and the life liveth And so his heart is stirred and he takes action. And I notice, first of all, he defends his brethren. He doesn't just observe, he gets involved Look at the first part of verse uh let's see uh verse number 11, uh the second part. He says, He went out to his brethren, looked on their burdens, and he spied He's noticing very carefully an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren. If you would, now jump back and forth, come over to Acts. Notice how Stephen words this. In Acts chapter 7, verse 24. And seeing one of them suffer wrong. So what does that tell us? About the Egyptians' treatment of this Hebrew. He's smiting them, but Stephen tells us, again, under the inspiration of God, that he's suffering wrong. That means what? It's unjust. It's not like this Egyptian did something. It's not like this Hebrew did something to the Egyptian and provoked it. It's not like this Hebrew is, you know, trying to kill the Egyptian somehow or rob him or do something. It was not self-defense on the part of the Egyptians smiting the Hebrew It was suffering wrong. He was doing them wrong. And Moses sees that. And he can't not do anything. He has to do something. He has to do something. Now, if we look at this on the surface, it may sound a little bit impulsive on the part of Moses. To step in. He sees it, and without thinking, he goes and he kills this Egyptian. He's smiting this Hebrew, and he doesn't think it's just impulsive. Anybody here ever do something impulsively You didn't even think. You just did it and then it was like, what was I painting? I don't think that's what it appears to me on the surface, but I get looking at this I'm not convinced this was completely comp impulsive on the part of Moses. I think he thought this through a little bit. He spied this. He's watching it happen Maybe we're not told, but it kind of implies here he saw this whole thing unfold Eh? Maybe he knew this Egyptian. I don't know. I'm speculating a lot here. So, you know, just throw out the bones But I'm wondering, maybe he knew this guy was a hothead. He knew this guy was mistreating the Egyptians. He knew this guy. He knew what he was. Maybe And he's spying, he's watching. Spying there me has implies to me he's been on this for a while. And I'm not convinced that Moses acted impulsively. Now, granted, we know later on we're going to find out, Moses has a tendency to act impulsively. Right? Moses had one besetting, well he may have had more, but one is very obvious, besetting sin. And what was that? Temper, anger He got angry, he got angry, he got angry, and we're going to see that throughout his life over the next seven, eight years as we study his life. We're going to see that But I don't know that that's the case here. I have a sneaking suspicion he thought this through I don't know. Again, I'm doing a lot of speculation tonight, so bear with me. And I readily acknowledge I'm speculating a lot here, but I'm wondering if this wasn't maybe part of the reason he went down in the first place. He may have heard that this was going on. He may have had known something about this guy, like I said. But I'm pretty certain Moses had thought this through. He had considered the situation. I think he had done a visual on all of this. He processed what was happening, and he made a decision to intervene. To intervene. Now, notice here, I like to do word studies, and sometimes it helps, sometimes you can get out in left field a little bit with it. But notice in verse 12 It says he looked this way and that way, and he saw that there was no man. So again, that tells me he's thinking this through, right? He's doing a visual. He's checking things out. This may have been a going on in his head for some time before he even got down there. Maybe why he went in the first place. And he checks things out. And notice it says, and when he saw verse 12 of Exodus 2, he saw that there was no man, he what? What's the word there? He slew him. I got looking up that word, slew. Now, just reading it through and not thinking it through and not really giving it much attention Could easy get the idea. He's down there. He sees this guy. He loses his cool. He loses his temple. He looks around. Boom, boom, boom. He beats this guy up and kills him. The word slough is an interesting word. The word it comes from has the idea of to strike very strategically It has the idea of thrusting, or again, a very carefully placed blow. If I'm accurate on my understanding of what that word means, that sounds to me like somebody that knows what they're doing. That doesn't sound to me like somebody's lost their cool and they're just going crazy. To me, it sounds like a very strategic, very knowledgeable. Approach, because he kills this guy like that. You know, they're not rolling around wrestling and they're not going up and down the street and busting through windows, you know, like you see on the old westerns and and all of that stuff It's not a brawl. He strikes him. Boom, he's dead. And he has enough awareness to know I've got to dispose of the body I'm telling you, the Bible's a dramatic book, isn't it? And he and he hides the body very quickly, assuming nobody sees it, which of course the Hebrew that he's protecting sees it. How many people here would probably not keep your mouth shut if some this number two in command of the whole nation kills a guy that's trying to beat you up? You wouldn't believe what happened today at the at the brick factory. The vice president killed the guy, my boss. And so word spreads like wildfire among the Hebrews. But now let's go back let's back up a little bit. Now we suppose from these Jewish historians, assuming they're correct, assuming they're accurate, Moses was trained in the military. According to some of them, he was high ranking in the military. And so, of course, my imagination starts gone. And I'm wondering if he wasn't using some techniques he was trained in. The Egyptian military was powerful. They were cutting edge. They were then what America is today In a lot of ways, in the world. And so this is a he steps in And he uses, perhaps he uses some of his training to take this guy out, one of his people And so my point is this: his intervention, he steps in and he defends his brethren, and he kills this Egyptian, and he hides the body. Now apparently he thought he got away with it. Apparently he thought everything's cool. Nobody knows. I can go on with my life And so rather than when he kills a guy, rather than leaving the country or rather than trying to go set up some sort of alibi, go and make sure a bunch of people see him somewhere far away You know, he's he doesn't do any of that. He doesn't act like he thinks he's going to be found out. Because he comes right back the next day. He's right back down there in the mix again, as if nothing happened And in Moses' mind, I think he assumed nobody knew. As far as everybody else knew, nothing happened. But this fellow didn't keep his mouth shut. And he talked. And the next day, notice first thing I said was he defends his brethren, and then he is distressed with his brethren. First he's defending them. Now he's distressed. He's upset with his brethren, his Hebrew brethren. Look at verse 13. It says, and when he went out when when he went out the second day, so assuming everything's good, it's cool, nobody knows. Behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said unto him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? Does it sound like to you he's upset with these guys? Yeah. What are you guys fighting with each other? He intervenes again on these guys. Again, come back to Acts. Notice how Stephen puts this in verse number 25. Says, and uh seeing verse twenty-four, seeing one of them, and then verse twenty-five, for he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them, but they understood not. Now we're going to come back to that. Verse 26, and the next day he showed himself to them as they strove and would have said, would have set them at one again. He doesn't want them fussing. You're God's people. You're brethren. Why are you fussing? In fact, look what he says there. Sirs, ye are brethren. Why do ye wrong one to another? Now I put a in a margin of my Bible there, I put this down. Good question. And my question is If a person knows the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we are what? We're brethren. We're sistern. Brothers and sisters in the Lord, amen or not. And the question Moses asked is a very appropriate question for churches throughout church history. Year brethren, why do ye wrong one to another? Moses expected God's people to get along. Moses expected God's people to love each other and forgive each other and be kind and compassionate and tolerant and patient with each other. Read the epistles of Paul. Over and over and over. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven you. First Corinthians thirteen. That was kind. Philippians chapter four, he says, mentions these two women for all eternity. It's going to be recorded. It's recorded in God's word. These two women weren't getting along. He says, tell those two women to be of one mind. What he's saying is what Moses was saying. Why are you doing wrong? And so he intervenes here and he tries to settle this case and tries to get God's people to get along with each other. And it's interesting to me, now he's coming down here because it was in his heart. He loved the people of God. And he sees one being abused by Egyptians, so he kills the Egyptian. He thinks, psh, got away with that. And then he sees two of God's people fuss, and he steps in. Why are you doing this? One thing becomes very, very evident to me early, early on in the life of Moses, before anything happens as far as coming out of Egypt and all of that Early on, I see a characteristic of Moses that I think is very, very important you and I need. He loved God's people. And I'll say this God uses people who love Him and love His people. You've heard me say this a thousand times. Is there anything that gets under your skin? Anybody here there's something just if you hear it it just greats like scratching fingernails Down a chalkboard. I don't think kids even know what chalkboards are anymore. How many people ever heard fingernails down a chalkboard? How many people it makes your hair stand on end? Doesn't me, but um I tell you, there's something when I hear it, I have that same reaction. Somebody in ministry, whether it's Sunday school bus or preacher, whatever, evangelist. They'll say this, oh, I love the ministry. You know what I'm going to say next, don't you? But it's people I can't stand. Just saying that breaks me. You know why? Because the ministry is people God uses people that love God's people. That care about them, are patient with them, that overlook faults and falls and And uh love them in spite of that and are kind, even if they're not kind back. Moses says, why do you do wrong to each other? Why are you doing this? He loved them. He cared about them Person that says, I love the ministry, but I don't love people, I can't stand people, what they're saying to me is, I like the position, but I don't like the people. I like the title. I like the accolades. I'm a Pharisee. I want to be in front of everybody. I want them to hear me. I want them to see me. And Moses wasn't that way. And I find it profound that early in the life of Moses, here is a man. That has no s no vested interest in this goodness. He's living high on the world. He's got everything the world has to offer. But he loves God's people. And that's the man God chooses To lead his people out. One of the greatest men in all of history. And early, early on in the account of his life we see a man that loves people. Isn't that something? Loves God's people. I think what I take away from this is God put in my heart a love for your people. Help me love my brothers and sisters in the church. I tell you, it's such a grief. I had someone years and years ago that they said about another person in the church, they said, we are not on speaking terms. And I thought of that when I read study here what Moses said. Why you do you wrong one to another? Your brethren, why would you be that way? Why would you act that way? Why would you talk that way? That's what Moses is saying to these Hebrews. He doesn't say it to the Egyptians. You expect it from the Egyptians. That's what the world does. But we're not of the world. We're not better than the world, but like we said last week, we say so often, we're not better than the world, but we're not the same as the world. Read the read the read the Sermon on the Mount. We live by different values than the world does. We have different standards. We have different uh standards of behavior than the world does. We're not better, we're just as much sinners, but we're different. And so Moses, he intervenes here. He's concerned for their well-being. He's concerned for their unity. And then look again here in verse number 14 in Exodus, back in Exodus. He intervenes, but then he's misidentified. He says, at the end of verse 13, he says, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? Why are you doing this? Why are you acting this way? And he said, the fellow that's smiting his brother, who may be a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? Huh. They misidentified him. I don't know that they knew he was one of their brethren. Perhaps, as far as these two Hebrews were concerned, all they knew, maybe all they knew was Moses was an Egyptian, a powerful Egyptian military hero, highly educated politician. They didn't recognize him as one of them. And then he's misunderstood. Look again. Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? Just that little statement there, what does that tell us, this Hebrew, his his understanding of Moses was. He was a what? Egyptian, but he was a killer This guy is a killer. You're gonna kill me? Apparently it's what you do. And so they misunderstood. They didn't see his heart. Now we're going to go somewhere with that with Moses' actions in killing that Egyptian. But the fact that the v the and and we can underst uh and I see why this Hebrew is responding to Moses trying to Help them get along. He doesn't threaten them. He doesn't make any threats. He doesn't there's no implication that he's going to be violent with these br his brothers. All he does is trying to get them to get along. Why are you doing this? Why you do your brother wrong? There's no threat to them from Moses. But the fact that this Hebrew responds to Moses' concern for their well-being, the fact that he responds to Moses' concern for their unity in this way of throwing accusations and making innuendos and suggesting awful things about Moses Tells me a lot about the spiritual mindset of this Hebrew. This guy, to use the New Testament term, is carnal. He's full of himself. It's not the body of God's people. It's not the nation of Israel that's his concern. His concern is him. How I'm treated, I get my way. He's not concerned about any kind of testimony to the Hebrews. He's not concerned about whether his actions are pleasing to God or not. All he's concerned is that I pay this guy back. I'm going to give this guy what he deserves. That, my friend, is carnality. Proverbs chapter number 13 and verse 10. It's a good verse for us to be familiar with. It says, only, now note that word only. What does the word only mean? Right. Only. There's no others. It's one, only. Only by pride. Cometh what? Contention. So that tells me. Let me ask this. How many people think that verse is true? Yeah, it's God's word So that tells me if there's contention, here you have two of God's people, Hebrews, contention That tells me the reason there's contention there is because of what? Pride It's not because of injustice. It's not because somebody did something wrong. It's not because somebody was unfair. It's because somebody's proud. Listen, if the only way we're going to get along is if nobody sins, we're never going to get along. Right? The New Testament says that to uh that I'm not quoting this correctly, but it says uh to the merciful shall find mercy. You know how a marriage stays together? Not because the two are sinless, but because they're merciful. They're forgiving. How many people here are married to a sinless spouse? Bon. He did something on vacation, I can tell you that right now. No, we're not. And by the way, your spouse is not married to a sinless person either That's a good place to say amen. So how do you say how can we stay together? This guy's such a sinner. She's such a sinner. I'll tell you how, same way anybody else does. Be merciful. Be gracious. So these guys are fussing. All Moses wants to do is get along. Listen, we're God's people. Why are you behaving this way? Why are you talking like that? Why are you acting like that? And the guy says, oh yeah. Who made you a judge? This guy's full of himself. This guy's full of pride. Only by pride comes contention He was he this Hebrew fellow, and I'm zeroing in on this guy now a little bit, but this Hebrew fellow had no discernment as to what Moses was trying to do. He completely missed it It was all about him getting his way, what he wants, the way he wants it. It wasn't about doing right, it wasn't about being kind, it wasn't about being Christ-like or godly in any way He turns on Moses. He turns on Moses. He was wrapped up in himself. Here's the interesting thing. He got angry at the messenger of God. There's no doubt in my mind, God was working through Moses to try and get these God's people to get along. And rather than recognize that, he got mad at the messenger. Notice now, if you would, come back to Acts. Everybody still with me out there? We're not even going to get through the second point tonight. Come back to seven. Look at verse 25. Now this is where it starts getting interesting. Verse 25 says, For he, Moses, now let's back up, read verse 24, so we have the context of the statement made in verse 25. It says, and seeing one of them, Moses, seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him and avenged him of him that was oppressed and smote the Egyptians. So we go back to the day before Moses has been watching this guy. He's beating up this Hebrew. This Egyptian's beating up this Hebrew. He steps in, uses his military special forces technique. And the guy drops, covers them up. Now, notice what verse 25 in Acts 7 says. What did Moses think was going to happen when he did that? Look at verse 25 in Acts 7. What what did he think what did he suppose they were going to do? Now come on think with me. Yeah. Moses anticipated them going basically this. Now I'm exaggerating here a little bit, but he anticipated them going, yes, our deliverer has arrived. God had promised Abraham that 400 years they would be slayed, and then God would send a deliverer, they'd come out. Those people could keep calendars. They knew 400 years were up. They're looking for a deliverer. Moses knew this. And he thinks this through. And this is again why I believe it wasn't impulsive. He thought this through. And here's my speculation again. I think Moses had all of this was in his thinking, and he was going to lead a coup d'etat An overthrow of the Egyptian government, and he would lead God's people out. Look look at verse 25. That's what it says. For he supposed that his brethren, verse 24, he kills this Egyptian, thinking and doing so That his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them, but they understood not. They misunderstood what Moses was doing. They thought he I think Moses was planning on leading a revolt. I again I I'm maybe speculating too much, but I'm wondering, and I'll get to heaven, I like to sit down with Moses and talk about about if if he has time. And um and just ask him, Moses, were did you have this planned out? Were you going to You know, you knew it you came down there for this purpose, see what's going on. You knew this guy was there, you're going to kill him, and then all the Hebrews would rise up with you and attack uh the palace and Pharaoh and overthrow Egypt and uh come marching out and go back to the promised land. Was that your plan? You know what I think he would say to me? I think he'd say, Brother Leatherman, you nailed it That's what I think. Don't hold me to that, okay? However, somehow he had in his head That he had a role in God delivering Egypt, uh, uh Israel out of Egypt. It tells us very clearly. Notice, look at it again. He supposed they would understood that how that God, by his hand, God would use me and my position and my power and my abilities and my training God would use me by my hand and deliver them. He thought they thought that, but they didn't think that. They turn on and say, Oh, well, you're going to kill us. They missed what Moses was trying to do. Now here is Moses' problem. Moses' problem was God was, God did plan, and God was going to use Moses to bring them out. But get this, God was going to do it God's way. Not Moses' way. And I learned early on in the ministry, it probably took me longer than it should have. But I learned in the ministry, if you're going to serve God, the first requirement to serve God is to be submissive to God. Right. Sometimes we want to serve the Lord, but we want to do it what? Our way. I've got it all figured out. I I le I I go by my understanding, my reasoning. Well, you know, I I think that's I think A fair percentage of this contemporary movement within Christianity, I think some of it, maybe a fair percentage of it, is sincere. But they're trying to reach the world and they're trying to worship God and they're trying to serve God and run the church not according to Scripture but according to their supposing, their hand And so, oh, well the world likes this music, so we'll bring this music in. We'll reach the world. Well the world likes doesn't like standards, so we'll drop our standards. Well the world doesn't like preaching on sin, so we'll drop all that so we can reach more people. The problem is The more you become like the world, the less influence you have in the world. Jesus said, If I be lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. So Christ is lifted up in our lives, not the world. And so Moses, he was right, God is going to use them, but God's going to do it his way. It is possible to try to do God's work and God's will according to my own understanding, according to my own ability. That word thought there. That word uh he supposed his brethren would have understood. That word suppose means to reason in his mind. He thought this through and he came to this conclusion. This is how we deliver the Egyptian or the Hebrews out of Egypt. This is how we do it. I go down there, I intervene Take this guy out, all of Israel's going to rise up with me, and we're going to go overthrow the government. And God says, Nope. It's not the way it works, Moses. You do it my way. I don't have the right, I don't have the authority, I don't have the mental ability To lead a church the way I think I should. My responsibility is to lead the church the way God says it should. Amen? Same thing in a Sunday school class, same thing on a bus route, a choir, any ministry of the church, anything we do for the Lord, it is not according to our supposition, our reasoning, our thinking our our rationale, it's according to what God says the way God wants it done. Amen or not? That's what it boils down to. And so he supposed that with my hand, I'm going to get him out of here. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 13, it says, It is God that worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. You know what he's saying? God wants to work through us according to his will. God wants to use you And he wants to use me to make a difference in this world, to impact this world with the gospel, but he wants us to do it his way. And Moses missed that. And Moses missed them. He goes from Exodus chapter 2, verse 13 and 14, he kills this guy thinking they're going to rose up. He goes from, and I'm putting this in my words, he goes from, I got this, I'm going to get them out of here. So 40 years later, at a burning bush, after he's been in the wilderness 40 years hiding from the Egyptians because the Israel didn't rise up with them, it didn't go the way he rationelled And so he spends 40 years in the wilderness, which we're going to study. Forty years later, he's at a burning bush that he he can't comprehend. It's not being consumed. What in the world? God appears to him and God says, Moses, you're going to lead my people out of Egypt. And what does he say at that point in time? I can't do it. I can't do it. Here in chapter 2, he's saying, by my hand, God's going to do this And God says, uh-uh. And he humbles them for 40 years in a wilderness. 40 years! And he sees a burning bush, and God says, all right, Moses, I'm going to use you to lead him out. Moses says, I can't do it. You know what I think, now it doesn't say this, but this is me. I think God says, gotcha right where I need you When you realize you can't do it, I can do it through you. I like what Paul says in Corinthians. He says, God has chosen the base things of this world, the weak things of this world. To confound the wise and the strong. Why? So that no flesh would glory, but that he would get the glory. That's exactly what's happening to Moses. My hand. God will deliver them by my hand. 40 years later, I can't do this. I can't even talk, God. God says, bingo. Get ready. Moses goes from saying, I can't I got this to I can't do this. He was right where God wanted him. He was too self-confident. It's interesting if you go through the Bible, and I'll end with this, you go through the Bible, you find God doing this over and over and over and over and over. Bringing us to the end of ourselves, bringing us to the end of our strength, our reasoning, our rationale, till we're nothing, and then God steps in and says, Let me use you, and I'll be everything. Remember Gideon? It's gonna go against the Midianites and he gets all this big army and what's God's first statement? He has this huge army. What do they have? 300,000, I think, something like that. Is that right, Wilbur? You're my Bible expert. He's got this huge army. What's God's first statement to Gideon? He has this huge army to go fight the Midianites, and God says what? You got too many. You guys will you get it? You'll get all the credit. No, no, no, it don't work that way. And over and over and over, you see it all through scripture. Remember Peter? Peter's always opening his mouth, I'll never deny you. I'll die before, oh yeah, I have faith in you. Aye, aye, aye, aye. And God lets him do what? Make a fool out of himself. He ends up doing the very thing he said he wouldn't do. And then God comes at the end of John and says, Peter, do you love me? Here says, Lord, you know I love you. He says, go feed my sheep. Now you're ready to be used. Now you're ready to serve me. No more I, I, I stuff. In Acts chapter 2, the Spirit of God comes on him and he preaches in the power of the Holy Ghost. 3,000 people saved and baptized. So this is a profound event in the life of Moses where he comes to the end of himself. I can't do this, I can't do this. Every time I ask someone, maybe would you take a route, would you work this fast, and they say something like this, preacher, I don't think I could do that Ha ha ha ha, I got the right one. You know, because then God can do it. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd help us to see How we need to just submit to you and let you lead us and use us. Come to the end of ourselves. Lord, when you break us and And you allow us to mess up sometimes. Help us to see that you're preparing to use us. I thank you for Moses. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some tonight say Preacher, God spoke to my heart. I have a tendency to lean on my own understanding. I have a tendency to rationale and think things out and plan and plot and manipulate. And I need to learn to just let God have his way and just let the Lord do it. Is there any like that tonight? Anybody at all? My hands raised. And maybe we need to just come tonight and say, Lord, help me not to have to go through 40 years in the wilderness. Help me to learn this. To let you have your way and follow your leadership and just trust you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads up