Acts chapter two, if you would notice verse number eleven. We're working down through the the early days in the life of Moses We noted that they had passed a law in Egypt that any male Hebrews, the moment they were born, the midwives were to cast them in the river, they were to kill them. It was infanicide. Moses' parents by faith spared him for three months. They kept him at home quiet and hidden till they couldn't hide him anymore. So they built the ark. We know the story. Put 'em in the uh Nile River. Pharaoh's daughter finds him and uh takes him in, has hires Moses' mother to nurse him and raise him till he's probably ten or twelve years old, then she takes him into the household, officially adopts him, brings him into Pharaoh's household there, no doubt the palace where they lived. And uh she officially adopts him and names him Moses, because she took him out of the river. That's what the name means. And um and so now he's gr he's grown up in Pharaoh's household And if you would notice in verse number eleven, it says, And it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown, so he's been in this household a period of time, he's now an adult And uh that he went out to his brethren and looked on their burdens. Who would his brethren be? The Hebrews, right? The slaves there, the Hebrew slaves. He looked, went out to his brethren, looked on their burdens, and he spied an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hid them in the sand. And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said unto him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he, this Hebrew fellow that was in this fight, he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, surely this thing is known. Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. I've entitled the message tonight, Decisions. Moses is making some decisions here that are going to affect him the rest of his life. So let's pray together and we'll look at this here tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Bible. Lord, we love this book and we believe it's your word with all our hearts. And I pray now tonight, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would take some truths, maybe some principles from this event recorded for us. I pray you apply it to our lives and help us to see and understand a little bit more what it means to have faith in you. I yield my will to you tonight. I pray you guide my thinking. Lord, I just pray you would guard my words and guide my words. I present my body. A new for this hour, I ask you, dear Lord, uh in your mercy, that you would please fill me with your spirit. Please speak through me. And just use me to help your church grow and and be what you'd have us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There's a lot, and I think we brought this out in the previous message. There's a lot about Moses' parents we really don't know. We're not given a whole lot of information about them, some tribe therein, a few little basic things. We're given their names a little bit later on. But one thing we do know about Moses' parents is they were tremendous people of faith. And we pick that up in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 23, we saw that. But they were great faith And their faith affected the decisions they made in life. And, you know, sometimes it's possible for a person to say they have faith To say they trust God, to say that they believe the Bible and they want God's will done in their life. It's one thing to say that. It's another thing for my faith in God To govern the decisions I make. Sometimes, if I really believe the Bible, if I'm really trusting God And I face a situation or come to a crisis in my life, and then I gotta make a decision. Am I just gonna trust God with this? Am I gonna Follow God's instructions, do what he says. Sometimes that's the harder of the two decisions. Are you with me To trust God and follow his decisions sometimes means I have to go against the grain. Sometimes it means I've got to go against my own understanding, my own rationale And just trust God in this situation. And that's what Moses' parents were at. It was a difficult thing. They lose their son or they threaten their li their entire lives And so their faith in God governed their decisions. It actually dictated to them how they're going to decide, their faith in God. For instance, they dedicated their family to the Lord. There's no doubt. Very clearly, this was a home, Moses' home, his parents, was a home that was dedicated to Jehovah, the Lord God. They were going to live for him. They loved him. They honored him. They worshiped him. They served him. It was a home dedicated to the Lord. And so their faith produced that. Their faith in God. They believed what God said. They believed God was who he said he was. And thus we're going to dedicate our home to Christ, or to the Lord. We're going to live for him. They defied the world. Uh the government said you turn your boy over. And they said, we'll not do it. We'll not do it. And sometimes our faith requires us to deny this old sinful world Um uh we don't have it too bad here in the States, but in some countries, and it could very easily happen here in some cases in our country even here it happens, but sometimes we have to decide, am I either I'm gonna obey God or I'm gonna obey the government. Whenever the government instructs us or requires of us something that contradicts or conflicts with God's clear instructions, we always obey God. That's faith. Peter put it this way, we ought to obey God rather than man. And that's where Moses' parents were. Tremendous man and a tremendous woman of faith. They dedicated their home to the Lord, their marriage, their children, all dedicated to the Lord. They defied the world. We're not going the way the world is instructing us Um, and by the way, that's been characteristic of God's people all through Scripture, that they would obey God rather than government. Can you think of anybody else Now I mentioned Peter. Can you think of anybody else in Scripture that defied the government in obedience to God? Who? Daniel. They said, no pray. He prayed just like he always did towards Jerusalem. He ended up where? An alliance then, yeah. How about anybody else that defied the government, said, no, we trust God, we'll obey God. Anybody else? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Is that what you were going to say, Georgia? Ruth? Yeah. Uh sort of. Yeah. Well, sometimes the first name that comes to your mind is the right one. Sometimes it isn't. But nevertheless, you go all through there. We have in the at the book of Acts the believers. They kept preaching the gospel. They said, Don't preach in this man's name. And so that's been characteristic throughout Scripture. You can find example after example of defying government, defying the world. Because of my faith in God, I'm going to trust God and do what He says. And throughout church history we have that. And so they dedicated their family to the Lord, they defied the world, and they depended upon God. Can you imagine, now I know we already discussed this at length, but can you imagine taking your three-month-old baby boy, putting them in a little container called an orc And pushing them out into the Nile River there at a very strategic place. Can you imagine doing that What they did was, in my mind, what they did was, and I don't know that they went through this exact procedure, but in my mind, I can see them having prayer before they place their child into this little container and just in so many words saying, God, we are putting our son in your hands. And we're depending on you to take care of our child. And by the way Even in our day and age, in a Christian home, sometimes we come to that point where we have to do that same thing to an i in in a sense Sometimes maybe we have a child, they move, when the children move out of the house, you almost have to say, All right, God, we're putting them in your hands. We're just trusting you to lead them and direct them and work in their life Now I'm getting way ahead of myself, but I just want to throw this out here. Now think about this. Moses, it was what he was 40 years old. When he finally came around and started living for God. For 40 years, he was out there in Egypt. We're going to look at it here in a little bit. 40 years he's immersed in the world But finally, God works there and God works things around. I'm saying that for this reasons. Maybe some have a child that's away from God. And every day goes by, you think, oh, it's another day they haven't come to Christ. Another day they're not living for God. Another day. And I'm here to tell you, God makes no mistakes. God knows what he's doing. And they may be 40 years old, they can still come around. So they had great faith in God. They dedicated their family, their home to the Lord. They defied this old sinful world They depended on God. They did what they could with Moses, and then they just trusted God with the rest of it And so, uh, Moses grew up uh uh for the first 10, 12 years of his life in that environment And then he's handed over, Pharaoh's daughter takes him, adopts him into his family, and he officially becomes a heir of Pharaoh. Now I'm convinced that first 10, 12 years, however long they had them, we're guessing 12 years, that what was ingrained in the heart and mind of uh of Moses that first 12 years. is bore fruit years later and influence the decisions he makes later on. Now I know we talked all about that a little bit before. Now before we get into the our text here in Exodus I want to give a little historical background. I found this interesting. I did some research. There's a historian, and I referenced him before. He's an ancient Jewish historian. His name is Josephus. He has a very famous four-volume history of the Jews. Um and he even into the life of Christ and all of that. But he gives some interesting information. Some of the stuff in Josephus, some of his historical accounts are a little questionable, some of them are a little fantastic. But a lot of what he said about Moses is verified by other historians. Now we're outside of Scripture. We're looking at what historians wrote about this time period and about Moses himself Now look what it says, verse number 11. It says, It came to pass in those days when Moses was grown. That word grown there has the idea of becoming adult, is matured. Moses is probably, and we're very, well, we're not probably, is he's 40 years old at this point So he's been in Pharaoh's household uh twenty-eight to thirty years in that range. He's been growing up here He's been uh uh growing in in Pharaoh's household. So he's grown physically. He is now an adult. He's a grown man. He has also grown educationally. Now this is pretty documented. Growing up in Pharaoh's household, Pharaoh's daughter being his mother, his adopted mother He received what was considered the best education the world had to offer at that time. Egypt was a powerhouse country in the world. They had the highest education that was available throughout the whole world, at least some of it. And so he was highly trained, these historians tell us, he was highly trained in astronomy. The stars, the constellation. He was highly trained in that. Do you think that might come in handy wandering around out in the wilderness for 40 years? Huh, that's interesting. He was highly trained in mathematics. The Egyptians were tremendous in mathematics and all that. He was highly trained in engineering In music and in art. So when it says he was grown here, he was an adult, but he was developed educationally also. We have reason to believe that Moses was a brilliant man. He knew some things about a lot of things. And so he was grown physically, he was grown educationally, he was, uh some described him as a brilliant scholar. And then he grew positionally. He was grown positionally. And I found this is what I found interesting, that apparently And again, this is outside of Scripture, so you know, we're depending on man's account. But it's said that he was a leader in the Egyptian government He had developed his way up as the stepson, so to speak, or adopted grandson of Pharaoh. He had opened doors. He was given positions, and he became a very, very powerful leader in the Egyptian government, apparently. He was involved, we are told, in the military In fact, there are some accounts, again, man's writing, so it's not inspired, but there are some accounts of Moses possibly leading some military campaigns against Ethiopia. And it is said, not just by Josephus, but a number of other historians said that Moses was within the Egyptian military very, very popular. They thought the world of him. He was in line to be a Pharaoh. He's in Pharaoh's household. He's adopted into the family officially, legally. And he is in line to be a possibly, in fact he was in line to be the successor to Pharaoh. Now we're told that some point after Moses is an adult and is getting his training that Pharaoh died. There was a series of successors to Pharaoh. None of them stayed very long. I think the one that followed Pharaoh when Moses was adopted uh the the the pharaoh when Moses was adopted eventually died. The one that followed him was a brief time and I think if I understood the what they were saying correctly, he died And then there was another successor, all kind of outlying relatives of Pharaoh. And he became a successor, and he saw Moses as a thread to the throne and uh a very violent man and considered Moses to be a threat He had, according to Josephus, and I'm just putting some background here, and I think this helps us understand some later events. It kind of sheds a little light on some later events recorded in Scripture. But Josephus said that Moses actually was offered the position of Pharaoh Several times during this 40 years he's growing up. And Josephus says he turned it down every single time. He turned it down. No, I'll not take it. I'll not take it By the time these events here that we just read about take place, the Pharaoh that is on the throne at that point is extremely concerned about Moses, we're told. He viewed, as I said, he viewed Moses as a threat So we approach this when it says that Moses was grown. According to these historians, here's what picture we get of Moses at this point in time. Outside of Scripture, of course, but here's the picture that we get. Moses was a brilliant scholar. He was a military hero, according to these historians, and he was a very popular statesman. He was wanted to be Pharaoh. He turned it down, turned it down, turned it down. Now he's 40 years old. Do you have Acts chapter number 7 there? Now keep your place here, because we're going to jump back and forth. In Acts chapter 7, we have a New Testament account Of these events in recorded in Exodus. Stephen is making his defense, he's going to be martyred here in a little bit, and he's recounting the history of Israel, and he gives us some information about Moses That ties right in with uh uh Exodus chapter number two. Look with me if you would at verse number twenty we'll start reading Now, this is Stephen. He's before this council. They're going to condemn him to die here in a little bit. But notice what he says, verse 20. He says, In which time Moses was born And was exceedingly fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months. And when he was cast out, now what is he talking about cast out there? What do you think? He's putting a river. It sounds cast out, sounds terrible, but it it's he's just putting this ark and they put him out in the river And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up and nourished him for her own son. Now look at this. Now this gives, this ties in with some of this Non-inspired accounts, these historical accounts. And Moses was what? Learned. That means highly trained And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, their knowledge, their understanding of things. He was highly trained Moses had some of the best education that was available in the world. And was mighty, look at this, in words and in deeds. And that could be a reference to his statesmanship involved in the government, his words, mighty in his deeds. And his military exploits possibly is what Stephen's referencing. And so we get this little picture of what Moses was like Leading up to this event here that we just read about in Exodus chapter 2, verse 23. And when he was full forty years old, It came into his heart to visit his brethren, the children of Israel. Do you notice how many times they're referred to as his brethren? Both in Exodus and here. And seeing, verse 24, seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him and avenged him that was oppressed and smote the Egyptian. For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them, but they understood not. And the next day he showed himself unto them as they strove and would have set them at one again. In other words, he wanted to stop the fight and get these two to get along. He would have set them at one at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren, why do ye wrong one to another? That's a good question, isn't it? But he that did his neighbor wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us? Wilt thou kill me, as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday? Then fled Moses at the saying was a stranger in the land of Madian where he begat two sons. So we'll look at the rest of that later. But here you have Stephen. What you have here in Acts is a New Testament commentary on this Old Testament event that's recorded for us, and we glean a little bit of information. And what I find interesting is that much of what Stephen says about Moses ties in to these historical accounts of Moses' experience during that first 40 years. And so now he's 40 years old, and uh we're going to jump back and forth here between the two in the time we have. You have these uh two accounts of Moses, he's 40 years old, he is at a crossroads of his life, he is at a craziest point in his life. He's killed this Egyptian that was abusing one of his brethren. It get word gets out. And now he has a decision to make. Is he going to go God's way? Or is he going to go the way of the world? When he encounters, and again I keep jumping way ahead of where I want to be, but when he encounters this Egyptian mistreating one of his Hebrew brethren, he makes a decision and he decides to kill him. And to try and cover it up, buries them in the sand. He made a decision. Would you agree? Killing somebody would be a life-changing decision in any situation. Particularly for Moses. And then word gets out. Now he has to make a decision. Decisions. Decisions. I am convinced That Moses training that first 10, 12 years in the home of mom and dad, that had tremendous faith in God, had convictions, had strong belief Firm in their belief, I'm convinced those years bore fruit 40 years later when he makes some of these decisions. Now let's come back to Acts. Keep your place in Acts back to Exodus. Keep your place in Acts Because we're going to jump back and forth a little bit here. And I don't know if I'll get through this all tonight, but uh we'll see how far we get. Number one, the first thing I notice in the first part of verse 11 of Exodus chapter 2 his his attention to the Hebrews. Look at look there back in Exodus verse 11. And it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown, he's 40 years old. That he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens. There was something in the heart of Moses. That drew him to the Hebrews. Now think about the two different worlds these people are living in. The Hebrews are slaves I mean, they're in poverty. They are abused violently. It's the everything you picture slavery as Is what these Hebrews are living in. Moses is on the complete opposite end of the spectrum. He's in luxury. He has freedom like the Egyptians themselves didn't have. He had resources at his disposal But there was something, get this, there was something in the heart of Moses that drew him to these Hebrew slaves. You know what it was? It was he was a Hebrew. In his heart and soul, he looked like an Egyptian, he talked like an Egyptian, he dressed like an Egyptian, he lived like the Egyptians, but he was not an Egyptian He was one of God's people. I say this over and over and over. It is so clear in Scripture, and if you pay attention, it's true, uh at least it should be in Christianity today We are not better than the world, but we are not like the world. God's people are fundamentally different. In our values, in our principles, in our priorities, we are different than the world. We are not sinless. We are not better than them. We deserve to God's judgment on us just as much as they do, but by faith we've received the forgiveness in a new life, and God makes us different. Moses was different than everybody else. in Pharaoh's household. And his heart was drawn to the people of God. What in the world, why in the world would he go out to see the Jews, the Hebrews, because they were his brethren. He was one of them. I wanted to turn there, but we won't take time. But in Acts chapter 2, the early days of the church, people are getting saved. Their lives are being changed. Their hearts are being changed. Their values, their affections, their loyalties. are fundamentally different now that they know Christ than what they were before. And in Acts chapter 2 and verse 42, it says that they uh they were drawn together. They were in one accord. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 44, and then again in verse 46, it says they were one accord. They were attracted to each other. There was something about God's people when they got saved. in their heart and soul drew them to assemble together. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? I got saved on a Monday night. Daddy was out on the road all week long. I'm just reading my Bible. My life is Fan fabulously changed, all right. I'm not even trying I'm trying to process what is happening in my life. I'm loving it And came to the weekend, Saturday, Sunday. Nobody called me up and said, Denny, you need to be in church tomorrow. Nobody did that. Daddy came home and he talked to me, he was all excited, and he's trying to figure out what in the world happened to his son, he was happy. But nobody twisted my arm, nobody came up and in the morning, shook me and said, you need to go to church There was something down inside my heart and soul that longed to go to church where God's people were. Now I didn't comprehend it myself. It was just happening. And I tell you, 46 years later, I'm telling you, there's something in my heart. I love God's people and to be with the church. If it was up to me, if I could convince the church, we would have church every day. I mean from six o'clock till ten o'clock. And then probably have morning services That is not nobody's making a motion on that. But um there was something in Moses' heart that drew him to be with God's people. Just drew him. Now I understand a new Christian there, you know, sometimes they need some help. The Bible says they're babes in Christ, newborn babes, and you need to help a little bit. But Can I just be honest with you? It bothers me when you have to hound someone and hound someone and hound someone to get them to come and be with God's people. And I understand different situations, so please bear with me. But I don't know. Moses' heart was drawn to be, they're slaves, they're living in ghetto. They don't have anything. Moses, you've got everything. The whole world is at your fingertips. And you come down to be with them. God's people are different. Notice his identification with God's people here. He paid attention. He came down. He wanted to see him. He wanted to be with him. And it says he was grown. When he was grown, that he went out to his brethren. Verse at the end of the verse, one of his brethren. Then in Acts, brethren, brethren, brethren, he identified with the people of God. He referred to them as his brethren. The word phrase there, as you know, I like looking up words and phrases, how to use and background on them. That little phrase that says he went out, it has this idea: he went mingled among them He didn't get in a chariot and go on a hill up over top of the Hebrew ghetto and just look and see what the little peasants are doing. It's not what it means. Means he went down, walked the alleys where they were, maybe among the brick factories, and he's in there talking to them and interacting with them It has the idea of walking among them. There was a kindred spirit he had with these slaves. Something that was not true about the Egyptians. The Egyptians did not have a kindred spirit. Do you still have Acts there? Do you got it marked? Jump back to Acts. And we're going to go back and forth like this, Acts 7. And so keep them handy. Look at verse 23. It says, and when he was a full forty years old, it came into what? His heart. This wasn't curiosity of the mind. It wasn't boredom. I don't find let's go see what the keepers are doing. This was from his heart. He was drawn to them, he was identified with them. These were his people And so he identified with God's people. Now, come back to Exodus. Notice his observation. Not only does he down there mixing it up, but he's paying attention. He's looking at their lives. He's looking at their homes, their possessions, how they're dressed. He's paying attention to how they're being treated. I'm telling you, this was a burden of his heart for these people. This wasn't just a curiosity visit. He wasn't a tourist. He's observing. Look, it says that his brethren, he looked on their burdens. Again, that word look means to inspect very carefully. He's paying close attention to how they're being treated and what they're eating and what their lives are like. That word look there has the idea of observing very carefully Giving consideration to. He's thinking it through. I think the whole idea when it says he looked on their burdens, I think the whole idea there is it touched his heart His heart was broken over what God's people were going through, what they were dealing with. And so he gives attention to the Hebrews, he observes them. In Lamentations chapter 3 and verse 51 it says, Mine eye affecteth my heart We can read about things, we can hear about things, people can tell us about things, but there's something about going and seeing it with your eyes that affects your heart. I remember when um uh when I went down to uh Tennessee Temple and I went to c off to college and I got on campus, I didn't know anybody, I didn't know a single person within 500 miles of where I was at or more. I didn't knew nobody. I showed up on campus. I'm excited. And so I'm just sorting stuff out about a week and I'm having eaten in the cafeteria. They serve family style then. And I'm sitting there, there's a guy beside me. His name's Randy. We introduced each other. We're talking. Randy's from Cornfield County, Illinois. I'm from Philadelphia. And we're talking a little bit. He says, well, what ministry are you involved in? I said, I don't know. I'm just here And he said, well, how about meet me Saturday morning at 8 o'clock? There's a bus meeting and you maybe come uh check out my bus route. Maybe you could work on our bus route with me. I said, sure, whatever. I don't care I never thought much of the bus ministry, didn't know anything about it, to be honest with you. And so that Saturday morning I was there at the bus meeting. There's about 300 people worked in the bus ministry. They had 42 buses And so we show up here is bigger than our church, this crowd of bus workers. They had a big meeting. I'm sitting with Randy. He goes, all right, I said, now what? He says, we're going to go out and visit the route. It was the ghettos of Chattanooga. I mean literally And we went there and um we're walking around. And I'll tell you, when I saw what God was doing, I rode the bus that next Sunday, when I saw with my own eyes, the spiritual needs of these dear people and what God was doing in their lives. Those kids come running out, climb on the bus. I tell you, my heart was affected And all these years later, our heart is still stirred about buses going out, picking up boys and girls and people bringing them to church. Your eye affects your heart And Moses went down and he observed, he saw what their needs were, he saw what their situation was. It stirred his heart. And he felt like he had to do something. His heart was stirred. Says, oh by the way, that's uh that's why I think mission trips are so good for our church to go on these trips. uh down to St. Lucia and Dominican Republic, always go to the Caribbean in the wintertime, and these trips are so good. Go out soul winning. If we just get folks come out with us and knock on doors and talk to people, it stirs your heart. See it. It says that uh he says um uh let me get back here and It says, uh it came to pass when he was grown, he went down, he looked on their burdens. The word burdens there means it means literally forced labor. That word is only used, that word it comes from is only used twice in the Bible. And both times it's referring to the Hebrews being mistreated by the Egyptians. It means literally forced labor. It was describing Israel's condition in Egypt. They were burdened. It was describing their treatment by the Egyptians, how they were burdening them. Moses saw what Egypt, the world, was doing to God's people, and it broke his heart. It broke his heart. I tell you, I say this, I've said this a number of times, I believe with all my heart, it is possible for a Christian to fall in love with the world, right or wrong. We're cautioned over and over and over. Jesus himself cautioned us, love not the world. John tells us multiple times, love not the world. Why do they have to keep telling us over and over and over, don't love the world? Because we have a tendency to fall in love with the world, with Egypt. But I'm here to tell you, this world will never love God's people. We can fall in love with the Egyptians. The Egyptians never loved the Hebrews. They mistreat him. He saw what the Egyptian, he saw what this world did to God's people, and it broke his heart. And if we look around and we see Christians that fall in love with the world and what it does to them, And how it hurts them, I tell you, it breaks our heart. Breaks our heart. Samson fell in love with Delilah, but I'm here to tell you, Delilah never loved Samson. Moses saw what the world was doing to God's people and it broke his heart. Broke his heart. Moses looked Egyptian. He talked Egyptian. He probably smelled Egyptian. But he was a Hebrew in his heart, and it eventually came out. So that's point one. I think we'll just stop right there. We'll look at point two and point three later. But um God's people are fundamentally different than the world. And we have to let the Lord help us. Have faith in God. Trust Him. This world will mistreat us, but trust God. Let's pray together. Father, pray you'd take these thoughts and help us. Be very, very careful not to let the lights and this music and the pleasures of this world to seduce us. God help us to remember who we are. We're God's people. Help us to remember what this world is, what the Egyptians are. They are opposed to the things of God. And so help us, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want to be out and out for the Lord. In my heart, there's a hunger and a longing for God's people and God's will. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll stay true to the Lord, that my faith will stay true to God and His Word. You say, pray with me, preacher. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I want to stay true. I want to stay faithful. In my heart, it's there. Sometimes it's a struggle. There's decisions have to be made. But that desire is there. Father, bless now our invitation I ask. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.