The first time I preached here on a Wednesday night, I had not yet attended a Wednesday night service and uh pastor was out of town and I would only been with the teens for the most part and uh seen a lot, so I had no idea how the service ran at all. And so I was very confused. I'm very blessed to not be that confused right now. So uh but uh I uh can Um Jameson, dude. I wasn't supposed to take this off, but I did. And um and now I messed everything up, but it's okay. If you'll turn to Acts chapter 3 and verse 1, verses 1 through 8 is where we're going to be. Acts chapter 3, verses 1 through 8. The funny thing about uh preparing a sermon sometimes is that there is a mini-sermon within your sermon that you really want to preach. And then you want to preach it so badly you're like, yeah, I'm just gonna throw it in. So I'm just gonna throw it in here for about oh about a minute once we get to reading this. But uh Acts uh chapter three in verses uh one through eight. Uh so pretty uh Appreciate uh Pastor giving me the opportunity to preach while he's gone. I uh I do enjoy it. I enjoy uh I enjoy adults. Um I enjoy adults m I don't know. It you see, teens are more like a spectator's enjoyment. Like from far away they're actually pretty funny. But uh but you know, that was kinda gross. They're sticky. I don't know if you guys have ever like you don't touch teenagers, they don't don't put your hand on their shoulder. They're sticky and gross. Teenagers, so I just They all are, especially the boys. Um this I just wanted to let you guys know that. So uh but uh but I uh but I enjoy preaching to adults. Unfortunately my wife and I don't I think I've said this before, my wife always says that because I've been preaching to teens now for uh I don't know, a year and some odd days, I preach to teens when I'm supposed to be preaching to adults. And so I forget how to switch it on and off. But I uh but because, you know Teens Live hasn't been here for uh you know three months. I should be right in adult mode, so this is going to be boring. Um and I'll have no gross stories for you, uh which is usually way more fun. So uh But uh anyway, so Acts chapter 3 and verses 1, uh we'll start there. Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour. And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple. Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked in alms, and Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none. But such as I have, give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up. Immediately, his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. Um we uh this is actually I mean I mean this I I suppose this is a common story just because but I but it's not really a special story. If if you take my uh meaning that it's the Bible, so obviously it's special and it's true, and someone got healed from a these disease from birth. But this story is often overshadowed by Jesus' miracles. And you know, I mean it's well it should be, Jesus is awesome And he's the preeminence. But the fact is this is still Bible and it's still a great miracle. And so it gets overshadowed, but when people hear it they're like, Yeah, I probably knew that. I don't know if you guys I I mean I don't know if you guys uh some of you might know the story be like, this is my favorite story, Grant, how dare you. But uh what I'm saying is this story Is uh I don't know, it's overshadowed a lot. And I'm gonna give you guys just some truths from it. Um but the first thing I want to give you, and the first thing I want to tell you is my little mini sermon inside the sermon is uh the guy asked for money and instead he got the ability to walk. What you want and what you ask for is not nearly as good as to what God can give you. I understand asking for money because money is fun to ask for. Actually, it's not that fun to ask for. It's really fun to get though. And and I understand that, but there's not a surgery in the world that could make someone who's been crippled from birth be able to walk. Money can't do that, but God can. So there's the mini sermon. I'm actually gonna be real short tonight. Um that that's obviously not it. And again, that was just That that I actually have you know like when you guys are I mean I d I mean most of you probably don't just prepare sermons all the time, but you have them in uh in numerical that's before nu uh numer new Numeral one. Numeral Uno. I keep on wanting saying numeral Uno because a lot of people say that, but it's actually numeral one. That's right before that. So the I is right here. That was all right here. There was no introduction either, so this is just kinda so now I'm actually into the sermon. They didn't have anything to give the guy. They didn't have any silver, they didn't have any gold, they didn't have any money. Um they were pastors. And um But uh Oh come that's funny. I think I could deserve it. I mean but anyways they didn't have any money, but they go into the temple and the guy and you know the guy's been crippled. uh from birth he's never walked before. Um and by the way, if you have ever been in a position where you can walk and you can't walk, dude, not being able to walk walk stinks. Alright? I mean say you rolled a four wheeler and yeah. Like hurt yourself. That's that's dunk And then and then like a few weeks later you out of doubt. Like that's it's all stupid. But not being able to walk God made us to be able to walk because he knew being able to walk is awesome. Not being able to walk is terrible. And I have never been in a position where I can't walk for more than two weeks. Ooh. This guy has been spending his whole life Depending on others. I hate depending on others. I hate it a lot. Yeah, that's pride and that's a sin my own personal sin that I have to deal with because I really hate depending on others. The fact is I I don't want to this guy's had to do it his whole life. Never been able to move around much. He's lame. He's having to beg for money because he can't walk. So, two guys are walking to the temple, he's sitting there, you know, people are feeling awfully generous I guess when they're going to the temple to pray. And maybe they're like, oh man, I really want a lot of money. Okay, so if I give this guy like a dollar, God you'll give me like, you know, a thousand dollars, right? And so like people just give him money all the time when they're going in to pray, right? That's that's how this works. So we look so Peter and so he's like, hey, do you have any money? He asked for alms. He asked and uh Peter and John looked, they said we ain't got no money. He says, Well give you what we got And he's like a handshake? Because you know they're like reaching down. And he goes and then immediately His feet and ankle bones form. And everything's healed. And he jumps up. And he that's I mean, you know, I mean I guess you know if you're immediately healed, apparently like it's cool because you can just jump up. And he just jumps up. It's the first time he's ever jumped. Might not be significant to you guys. That's significant to him. First time he's really ever been at high level with other humans, with other adults. How do you guys think about that? Um it's so funny, I I don't know if I was watching a documentary or if I was just channel surfing or whatever, but I heard either a news report or something about a midget. or a a dwarf as you know, I'm gonna be politically correct here, but a dwarf, uh which sounds so much meaner than midget. Um who who actually filmed an entire documentary from his point of view. The entire day with him. It was kinda cool 'cause like you d I mean, listen, who's short in here? Is anyone like just really short? Alright, I come from a no, no. Y'all aren't short. Uh I come from a family of short people. My sister is four nine and she is not growing anymore. And I like her a lot. But but this you know this guy, you know, he's if if they they obviously didn't have wheelchairs, but he had to be carried. He didn't ever look people in the eye before. And so and so here's the weird thing He wants money, but he says he wants money. But what he gets is what he needs. But this story isn't about him This this this sermon is not about this story might be about him, but this sermon's not about what about him. It's not about what you can get from God. Which is awesome. You can get healing. You can get things from God all the time. It's what you can give. Peter and John didn't have money, but they did have the power of God And they gave him the ability to walk. Through Jesus, I know, but they gave it to him. My my first point. Is that you have all you need to give all you're supposed to. Let me say that again, because the first time I wrote this and then I read it back like an hour later, I was like, what does that even mean? It confused me. I was like, what does that mean? That's a typo, but it's not a typo. I'll say it again. You have all is that's because I read last. You have all you need to give all you're supposed to. And I was like, what is that? What in the world? But I'll say it again slowly. You have all you need To give all that you're supposed to. If you'll go over to Mark 12. Mark 12, keep your place in Acts. I'll uh I'll need you to go back to there. And uh you ever had a preacher, um I like making fun of preachers because I don't know, preachers do weird things. It's like, alright, keep your place here and then like they'll turn someone else to like keep your place there too. And then if you get like three or four, you're like, okay, first of all I didn't even bring bookmarks. And second of all, I don't have six fingers on one hand. And I've how am I going to check my email if if I'm trying to But um no seriously, let's go to Mark 12 in verse 41. Let me read that for you And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury, and many that were rich caption uh cast in much. Jesus watching them throw in money And the rich people are throwing in a lot of money. That's all that verse means. And there came a certain poor w widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing. And he called unto them his disciples, and saith unto them, Barely I say in you that which is or that this poor widow hath cast in more hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury. For all they did cast their abundance, and she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all of her living. This is a great story, very popular, very very familiar story, so much that we uh that we have a term called the widow's might, even though if you look it's actually a widow's farthing. Because there were two mites. But um it's not that's just one of those like really jerky things you say when you're a pastor. Actually. God doesn't expect you to give more than He's given you. God doesn't expect you to give more than He's given you, more than you're able to give. God doesn't expect that from you. We all say, and I say this often, if I was worth a billion dollars, we actually were talking about this in teams, how I I have no desire to be worth three or four million dollars, nor do I have a desire to worth be worth thirty or forty million dollars if I'm going to go big. I want to be worth like seven hundred million dollars. That's because because you can lose three and four and you can lose thirty or forty million dollars. It's a lot harder to lose seven hundred million dollars. And because it's just a m you know seven hundred I mean I want seven hundred and seventy seven. I'd be like the God's number of millionaire. But the fact is I would want a lot of oh you know, you want this money, right? And then if you don't want this money, then hey, I salute you. But money It there's nothing wrong with wanting money, there's nothing wrong with having money, there's something wrong with loving money, but that's a completely different story, not what I'm getting at right now. What I will say is that what if you had a lot of money Yes, and we say this. If I had seven hundred and thirty-six million dollars, I should say that, if I had that, then I would give half to God and imagine what I could do. Right, that sound that sounds really cool. Because I would still have like three hundred million dollars. But God does not expect three hundred million dollars from me. At this moment. Maybe he does later. That'd be cool. But he doesn't right now. God expects what I can give. You have all you need to give all you're supposed to. What you have is enough to give what God wants from you. Now I like using the money because money is numbers, and numbers and sense make sense in my mind. Like you know, it's math, it's concrete. But that's not all you can give. As we saw in this story. You see, say you you know you might be saying, listen, I have got no extra money. I already tithe, I already give emissions, I already put in the offering. I can't give anymore. I must be doing everything I can. Unfortunately, that's not true. Maybe. I don't know. I might judge you a little bit. I I apologize. If I do everything I'm supposed to financially, I know personally that's not all God expects from me. That's not all I'm expected to give. Even these even Peter and John This man wanted money, they had no money, but he was able to give something else. He was able to give the power of God. Now what are you able to give Besides money. Listen, money's important. Money's cool. You need to give money to God because you know what? That's what God says. Tithe in the Bible. That's just kind of right there. It's kinda in the Bible. You're supposed to give 10% of what you earn. You're supposed to give offerings because where your money is, your heart is also. But let's go beyond money. Money's shh money is boring. Let's go to time. You see, I would love to give that much money to God, but I don't have it. However, I have time. You see, when I can't give money, I am supposed to give time, and God has given me enough time to give him what he wants from me. Some people are supposed to give more time than others, but everyone has time to give. And unfortunately, like tithe Tithe is so concrete because it's ten percent that's pretty simple, but time that's not I I I don't believe in tithing time, I think it's kind of a silly thing. Uh I and you know that's my personal opinion. I if you you believe that, go for it. Tie your time. I'm just saying the time's kinda hard 'cause we're like, well I do this and this and this and this, and I don't have time for this. But God demands that we give time. Let me keep going. Uh prayer. We're supposed to give prayer. God's given us the ability to give prayer. Isn't that cool? I don't know you guys. Prayer is so cool. I think I've tried to explain this in teens before and I just got tangents for I'm like just dude dude prayer is cool. I've done that with like Jesus dude Jesus is awesome And God awesome. And you can just go on for hours. They've written whole books about God being awesome. They've written whole books about prayer being awesome, but here's the fact: you're supposed to give prayer. You might not be able to give any more money or any more time, but prayer? You owe that to other people. You owe it, and I hate to say this because man. I I it convicts me, but you owe other people to pray for them. You owe them that. Just as much as Peter and John owed this man to give the power of God to him, to get to be able to heal him, they owed him that because they could give it, God wanted them to give it, and therefore they should give it. You owe people your prayers because you have this great ability to talk to God about others. And not in a gossipy way. God doesn't gossip. I don't know if you guys realize that. But not the gospel, but be God help them. God be with them. God um God they're going through something. I just pray that you give them blessings, give them what they need. God, you know their situation better than I do. We owe others our prayer and our time and our good deeds is the next one. You listen, I mean, I know we don't I I just don't Sometimes I feel that uh, and not necessarily in this church, but in in Baptist circles that I ran in, that good deeds are under-appreciated or under preached. You owe people to be good to them, to be kind to them, to do things for them. You owe it to them because God told you to. Because if you have the ability, God's not going to make you do anything. Listen, Krista, I'm going to pick on you because I'm married to you. Krista is not under any obligation to go and uh save someone in a uh you know like what are what are extreme paramedics called? You know the ones that like save people on the top of mountains? You know what I'm talking about? Because my my I have a friend who is one of those and that's weird. You don't know. But and it's weird. Krista has no obligation to do that because she has no ability to do that. And she's pregnant. I would get mad at her. But um she's no obligation to go and save someone's life. If someone die if someone is dying in Nevada, Krista has no obligation to go save them. Why? Because she can't. If you understand. Now that's an extreme example. The fact is, you're not supposed to do more good than you're able, but you're able to do a lot of good. You're able to do a lot of good things for people. And people need good things done to them. We are so selfish as a society, as a people, as a human race. We are so selfish. And I'm going to give you an example of why we're so selfish. Well how do I know that? Because and I've got and I uh I I think I've told you this before, but I'm gonna tell you again. I uh Um I was in college. Uh you know, this wasn't that long ago, this is two years ago. If he's listening, I didn't say I like I don't even know what to do now. I can't put this story away. But uh no, my uh the Dina students or no, he was vice president. They were going through a rough patch at the college. Um bunch of stuff was going down, it was just a tough time. And our our vice president who's been here before and he's a nice guy and I like him a lot. He's great if you like if you're just hanging out with him, he's great. The problem is he takes on this vice presidential role and so he like has to be strict. But then he tried to show that he had a heart for people and he's just not one of those people who enjoys being around people. So it's like I don't know if you guys know this. If you guys don't understand this, I don't like necessarily being on people that I don't know. It's weird. And not because I don't like them, but it's like, what do I talk about? Krista's really good at it. She's like bubbly and cheerful. And this is why like um like nursing home, I still don't understand how I'm in the nursing home ministry because I ha I have a terrible and people don't know this. I have a bad hearing problem. I can't I can't hear what people say most of the time. If they talk too fast and I talk too fast, so sometimes I read what I'm saying. But um But but like if someone's talking too fast and for some reason I just have a t like it my mind just like starts buzzing and I don't know there's bees inside my head and like um I can't hear them so it's like really awkward and so I'm like okay I wonder what they just said Huh. And then you just walk away. Like it's like you don't know what to do. It's like I've already asked them twice what they just said. I can't ask them again. They'll they'll hit me But so anyways, he's kinda like this. My vice president is kinda like this. So he doesn't he feels uncomfortable around people. I I he's a great guy. If you're his friend, he's one of the most fun people to be around with ever. And as a youth pastor, he was a great youth pastor. But when it's with equals like He just is kinda like I don't yeah, he's uncomfortable with it. But he started try to be like outgoing and more comfortable with people. And he didn't do like a great job, but he did a pretty good job. And I could see that he was crying, I could see he was awkward for him, and I was like, I know where you are. So I wrote him a letter. I was like, hey, I can see you're trying to do this, blah blah blah, all this jazz Sangrant, good job. Nice a nice little letter. Took me three minutes. Maybe three minutes Six months later, he comes in in uh I'm about to graduate, and he starts telling me how he always has that letter on his desk propped up. And however when he's feeling like really bummed out of school, he'll read it. I'm sitting there going, that took me three minutes. To do that little thank you note. I mean it it was a letter, but it was little. It took me three minutes. I didn't give it a second thought It helps him out for six months. You wanna know why we're so selfish? It's because me buying myself a candy bar would be like, thanks self and I'll eat it. Someone else is randomly giving the candy bar and be like Bam! You know, it's just like, well thank you. For no reason. And you're supposed to have this good deed attitude towards other people. For no reason. You're supposed to be nice to people and to be good to them. And to help them out Giving isn't only just your money, it's your time, it's your prayer, it's your good deeds, it's you witnessing to people. It's giving of yourself, it's giving a good attitude when you don't feel like it Listen, I've been there. I've been in bad moods, alright? I've been like I hate everyone. Okay, and by the way, if you like hate uh if you're in one of those bad moods where you're like man I hate everyone, then teenagers are terrible because it's like Wow, I really hate teenagers. Because they're all like You know, I mean listen, if it then is that right, Jacob? Do they not do that? They do it all the time. See, he just pointed. He knows one of them does it. But the fact is, I've been in those bad moods. And some people say, well, you're fake if you put on a smile. No. Because the bad mood drags other people down. And if you start faking a good attitude long enough, start laughing, funny thing happens, you usually get in a better mood. You're supposed to give a good attitude to people. You will never have to give more than you're able, but you have all that you need to give what you're supposed to. These guys didn't have money, but they had something and they gave it. Second point. If you give all that you're supposed to, God will reward you. This is a good point. I like this point. Let me read it again. If you give all that you're supposed to, God will reward you. Period. End of statement. Let's go to the parable of the talents, which is found in Matthew twenty-five and uh verse nineteen. Matthew twenty-five, verse nineteen. I like rewards. I think rewards, um you know, and uh if you uh do any work in psychology, does anyone have a degree in psychology? Good, because I'm about to butcher it. Um I might lie a little bit maybe. But no but I think in I don't know. They made me I don't know why. I they may take like three psychology classes for no apparent reason um in college. And um One of the things they taught was getting rewards was often better than getting punishments. Not just because it felt better, but because like if someone gets a reward for doing something, they're more likely to do it again than if you punish them for not doing it Now there is a time for punishment and there is a time for reward. Well the fact is rewards are great. Rewards are spectacular. And God knew about this. In fact, in verse 19, this is the parable of the talents. Let me give you some background if you don't know it A uh master is a parable. Master goes away. He leaves one guy five talents. A talent is a sum of money. He leaves one guy five talents, one guy two talents, and one guy one talent. And he says, hey, I'm gonna invest in you guys. I'm gonna come back. I want to see some return. Alright, this is the grant version. And uh comes back, first guy Took his five talents and made five other talents. One hundred percent return. Or two hundred percent return, you're including it all. But he doubled it. He doubled his money. Where can you find that today? Just give someone money and they double it. Now I don't know how long he was gone, but let me uh read uh verse 19 After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. And so he had received five talents, came, and brought the other five talents, saying, Lord. Thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. And his Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee a ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. This is all I'm going to preach about this, or this is all I'm going to say about this particular parable. God rewards his servants You do something for God, he'll reward you. Now some people now some people are real nerdy and math-minded and think, hmm, so if I give money unto God So it's like a 10 spot good for like a hundred bucks to God? Like, can I can I give God this much and He'll give me that much? That's not quite how it works. And good. And I'm glad it's not how it works. Not all reward is gain. Some of it is. Listen, I think that I'm a strong believer that you give unto God, he will give unto you, and some of that does include money But he is not an investment bank where you can just throw in money and then he'll give you money back. That's not how God works. But some of it, some of your reward, it'll be money. Some of it. But that's not the best stuff. You see, money is money. Money money can burn, money can be lost, money can be stolen, money can be wasted on candy bars. And don't get donuts. Money can be wasted, but you know what can't be wasted? Let me give you some other gains, some other rewards that doesn't include gain. Sometimes it's lack of loss. Now you're like, what kind of what kind of reward is lack of loss? I will tell you. You know that uh dishwasher that broke right after you decide to keep your tithe money? And then you lost all that tasmone you kept. You know what I'm talking about? You see, had you given it, I can't say this for a fact, but had you given it, I believe God blesses people, and sometimes you'd be like, oh yeah, it's not gonna break. I'll fix that. God's a great mechanic, by the way. He does things. I don't know. All right. God can fix stuff. God can keep stuff together. God can make sure that you don't lose things if you give. G make sure that you you don't I mean, listen, cars are super expensive by the way. And they're not t not to buy. Like they're expensive to buy, but they're m but for some reason Yeah, you can s you can spread a car payment over five years. You can't do that with like the stupid bills that come up. Like sued breakdowns. God can hinder those Or can stop those if he wants. Now you're like, well, he's never stopped any of them. First of all, you don't know that. You just don't. I don't know what God stopped, what God stopped me from losing in the years. And I also don't know what things He could have stopped had I been more faithful. But the fact is God gave unto you. You're supposed to give unto others and give back to God. And if you do that, you'll be rewarded. And sometimes that means not only gaining something, but not losing something instead. Sometimes it's health. Listen, health is awesome. I and I I'm not going to I I've been struggling with a bunch of stuff this summer. It's been kind of annoying. Um I c I mean uh my diet's pathetic right now. I mean my um by the way, let me let me talk about my my uh brother in law Chris. He he uh He has a he has this tiny little half backwards heart and uh he's had it since he was born and he just has heart had heart problems his whole life. And uh And he also has gallstones. But they can't perform surgery to take out the gallstones because they really don't want to mess with his heart. So now he eats like skinless chicken breast sandwiches. And I was always like, you poor soul. And then I got gallstones and I was like Yeah, like he was like my he was like, dude, I I understand. Um except for some reason he can drink milk, which No, it's weird. But the fact is, and you guys don't mean to do that. But the fact is, health is great. You see What is it, a sixth of our economy is spent on medical expenses? Or like uh uh medical insurance? A sixth of our economy? That's a lot of money, guys. Why these people want to stay healthy? In fact most people want to stay healthy more than they want to be rich. They don't know that until they get rich and get sick and they're like, man, I wish I could trade this for that. And then the person who is uh six like man I wish I was ri or healthy is like man I was rich. But the fact is people would rather be healthy than they would rich. And we forget that. And so when God keeps kept us healthy and you don't know the diseases, you don't know the The injuries that God has kept you from getting. You don't know. All because you gave. And it could be git and it could be giving of your time. It could have been giving your prayers. It could have been good deeds. It could have been money. But you might have given something, and God repays you and says, All right, I'll keep you alive. I'll keep you alive a little bit longer. He did it with Hezekiah. Hezekiah asked, but he did it with Hezekiah. The fact is God is going to give to you. Now here's the thing. If you I'm I'm kind of a I don't know maybe uh I guess it's called karma in other parts of uh the world. But I'm kind of a karma guy. If you give your money, I think God can reward you in money. If you give your health And by giving your health, I mean giving your time. God will give you more time. I think those are principles. Listen If you give, God will reward you. Another thing he rewards you in, and I'm trying to hurt it, I'm sorry. Another thing he rewards you in is not only health, but opportunities to be a witness. He sometimes gives you an opportunity to be a witness as a reward. Because you know what? You never feel better than when someone's just been saved and you were kind of there. You know, and you and you and God used you somehow. You were just a tool. You were just a shovel. You're just a tool. But man, God used you right there. You are a shovel that feels special. Right? You're not the craftsman, but you are you were used in something and you'll never feel better than that, and God will give you that feeling because He'll put people in front of you be as a reward to you And let me get keep going because I need to hurry up. Sometimes it's empowered prayers that he gives you rewards in. We all have prayers that we f and I and I, you know. Maybe I'm alone. I can't say we all. But a lot of people I know, including myself, have prayers that feel like they never hit the ceiling. They're just like, whoop-whew And you're like, what in the world? Have you ever felt that way when you're praying? And then have you prayed and been like, all right, that felt good about that. And then it came through like the next day. And you're like, that was mine. I prayed that one. And then like and then every time you walk by that person, like you're you know another reason you don't have cancer? But you would say it, but you just you know it's in your head. You think that God will give you empowered prayers. God will take your prayer life and put it on another level. But you gotta give it to him. You have to give him prayers first. You have to give to him. Listen, and I have two rules so far. You you have all you need to give all you're supposed to. And then if you give all you're supposed to, God will reward you. And the last one, and I'm done, almost, uh the reward is meant. So that you have all you need to give all you're supposed to. I'm going to read that again, because I purposely made that complicated. The reward is meant, so that you have all you need to give all you're supposed to. Now, this is this uh sermon's called the Circle of Deeds and Leads, and I don't know why I named it that, but it is a circle. Because if you remember, the first point was you have all you need to give all you're supposed to. Then if you give all you're supposed to, God will reward you. And then the reward is meant so that you have all you need To give all you're supposed to. God doesn't give you money so you can just keep it and spend it on cool stuff. God doesn't give you Uh, God doesn't give you health so you can live out your days comfortably and never do anything for Him. He doesn't give you opportunities to be a witness so you can make friends. He doesn't give you empowered prayers so you can get what you want. He gives you these things so you can give more. He gives you these things so you can actually do something with him. Now we'll go back to Acts. Chapter 3. See, I told you I'd come back to that. That's another pet peeve of mine. It's not really a pet peeve, but it's something you know. It's like, alright, we'll come back to it later. And then they don't come back. And your your fingers all indented because of the pages, you're like, why? No, um but in real life go back to acts, uh I'm sorry, if you think I'm weird, I am. And that's just You're gonna have to deal with that for a while until Pastor Fire Mitz fires me. So um chapter uh three and verse five. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. And Peter said, Silver and gold have I none. God obviously Peter wasn't supposed to give silver or gold there. Alright? But such as I have I give thee, or give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet And ankle bones received strength. And he leaping up stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking, leaping, and praising God. And let me keep going. And all people saw him walking and praising God. And they which knew it Or sorry, and they wit sorry, and they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at which had happened unto him. Now here's the thing. They walk into the temple after doing this thing, after giving of themselves. They walk into the temple with this guy. They are rewarded. Because people are like, that guy's walking and jumping. He is crippled. That's weird. And he's with two guys. And I don't know if they know who these guys are or not. I don't know how famous the disciples are at the temple right now. I d I just don't know. And they're like who well what but why why are That guy's walking. Let's go follow these guys. Let's see what's going on. And then the the layman points towards them and then points towards God. And now they have this big crowd because someone was just healed. Because someone's just healed from birth. They're being crippled. And what are Peter and John supposed to do about that? Just make friends? Be like, yeah, we healed him. Are they supposed to make because by the way that's impressive. Healing someone's kind of impressive. I don't know if you guys know this. So they would probably have influence over these people. They could probably be like, dude, go me a soda, and just go and get them a soda. I don't know, but they had influence. And what they chose to do with the influence next We'll show you exactly what you're supposed to do with your rewards. Their reward? Ton of people's influence. Now let's uh hop on over to chapter four. In verse 4 of Acts. Chapter 4, verse 4. So, Peter uses influence and he preaches to all these people about Christ. Okay? I think that's a pretty good way to use your reward. Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about five thousand. Five thousand is a lot of people. That is more than Oakland, I believe, is that correct? Or what three thousand people town? Like that's a lot. Five thousand. One sermon. Now it took them a while, if you if you'll read. Um, and they laid hands on them, put them in the hold until the next day for now even tide. They were there for a while doing this, but five thousand people. Because they gave what they could. God rewarded them, and then they gave again I know what it's like to be tired and I know what it's like to be like, alright, I feel like I can't just give I can't give anything anymore. Alright? And here's a- and here's a good example. Anyone who's ever worked uh worked in midnight shift? knows how that feels because for some reason midnight shifts are just hard. They're just really hard. And then they expect you to do stuff afterwards and you're just like, alright I can't do anymore. I get that. Unfortunately, when it comes to God, never ends. You guys, I listen, and this is preaching towards me, this is preaching towards you, this is preaching towards anyone. It's a circle of giving. You give, you get rewarded, and then out of that reward, you're able to give again. And then you keep giving, and you keep giving, and you keep giving, and the reason is because Jesus Christ gave himself for you and died for your sins and allowed you a place in it in heaven. That's a good reason. Listen, you're not ever going to be asked to give more than you have. You're never going to be asked to give more than you can. And every time God will reward you, but the reward you get is not meant for you. It's meant to be given again. If uh if Jen would come right now, I'd uh I'm just gonna give a short invitation and uh if y'all uh bow your head and close your eyes, I would uh Help me out. I don't I honestly don't know what uh what it is that you're supposed to give. I don't know what it is that you haven't been giving. Listen, there's listen, I know that like I said, money is easy because money is dollars and cents, but you can give all your tithe and still be greatly in the whole when it comes to God. Or you could or you can give all of your time but you just you don't have enough faith to give that money. I don't know. I don't know what it is. But as the piano plays, I want you if if you were spoke to it all, I'd like you to come.