Isaiah chapter 43 and verse number uh two. I'd like for us to read together. Isaiah forty-three And verse number two. Got it there? Everybody got it? Let's read this together in unison. Folks at home, I hope you're following along, reading along with us. Ready? Here we go. Verse two. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned. Neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. Isn't that an encouraging verse? What a promise of God, what assurance from God. I've entitled the message Through Deep Waters. Through Deep Waters. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. Lord, it sure is a blessing to be in your house today and fellowship together and sing these hymns and, Lord, read the scriptures. We just are so grateful for your goodness to us. And I pray now, Lord, as we'll be preaching primarily to your people, saved people, I ask that you would use this The statement that you gave to Israel so many years ago that you would apply it to our hearts and lives, our day and age, our situation, and help us to find great comfort and great encouragement and challenge and confidence. I yield my will to you, Lord, and present my body anew. Father, I have nothing in and of myself to offer of any value, so I pray that you would fill me with your spirit And that you would speak your word through me and apply to each in our hearts and lives, as we said. So please bless now this hour, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh old Israel, uh for nearly their entire history, um Israel suffered Persecution, trials, and difficulties. I mean, right from the get-go when they came out of Egypt, uh they have faced opposition and went through deep waters and fiery trials their entire history, even to this day. Israel still faces tremendous opposition. Now, oftentimes their hardships, these difficulties they faced were for no other reason than the fact that they were the people of God. Um mark it down. This whole world hates God's people. This world hates the nation of Israel They always have, and they do to this day. The devil hates Israel. Read Revelation. Talks about Satan's wrath and hatred towards the people of God, the nation of Israel, the Jews. And so a lot of their difficulties, a lot of their trials and difficulties were for no other reason than they were God's chosen people, as I said, even to this day. Whereas uh years ago um uh when uh our son spent a few months over in Ireland with one of our missionaries at the time and uh went over there to take him over, spent about a week there with 'em, and it was amazing to me. This was we're talking what, ten years ago probably or so? And uh the billboards over there, anti-Israel billboards, and just the bitter hatred towards Israel. And now, even in our own country, we see that This whole world hates the nation of Israel, hates the people of God. The devil hates God's people, God's God's Israel. And by the way, as Christians, we shouldn't be surprised when this world is not our friend. The Bible says all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. Timothy's very clear on that. Book of Timothy. And so this world's not a friend of grace. This world is not a friend of God's people. We shouldn't be surprised. When the world gives us a hard time. Of course we know the devil hates us. The devil hates God. And he gets at God through us And so sometimes some of Israel's trials, some of the deep waters they went through, some of the fiery trials they faced were for no other reason. than the fact that they were God's chosen people. And sometimes you and I are going to have difficulty and be treated unkindly and and uh and uh face trials simply because we name the name of Christ Simply because we're followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, that ought not to surprise us. Read the book of Acts. You can see it very clearly established the beginning of the church. Sometimes Israel faced uh uh trials and difficulties and persecutions simply because they exist in a fallen world, this old simple world. Do you know anybody notice man has a hard time getting along? Anybody notice that? Why in the world? I was thinking the other day, I said, we're one planet here in this universe, and as far as we can tell, the observable universe We're the only we're it. There's nobody else out there as far as the universe is concerned. We're on this little planet in this barren universe. It's just a group of us here on this ball. And what do we do? All we do is fight and fuss and steal and kill and get on. There's and I got I came to this conclusion. There's something wrong with mankind. Right? Something ain't right. This is obviously not the way this was designed to operate, fighting and killing and lying and stealing and carrying on. We live in a fallen world. Anybody notice that? We are sinners by our very nature. We are self-centered by our very nature. And until we come to Christ, until a person finds Jesus Christ as Savior, we're going to continue to be that way. But God makes us a new man. God makes us new creatures But sometimes Israel had a lot of trial, a lot of difficulties, heartaches, persecutions, setbacks, simply Because they live in a fallen world. I mean, when they came out of Egypt, uh, Egypt gave them fits, not because necessarily they were God's people, but just because e Egypt wanted them to stay there and be their slaves Um the f the Philistines were fighting the people of God constantly. Not necessarily their relationship with Jehovah, that may have been a factor, but simply because they wanted the land that they were on. They wanted their cities. They wanted their resources. And the fact of the matter is you and I living in a fallen world. Uh saved or not saved, we're gonna have difficulties. There's gonna be trials, there's gonna be deep waters, there's gonna be heartache simply because we live in a fallen world. By the way, this isn't part of my message, but it just went through my mind. And and when a thought goes through my mind, I better deal with it right then, because I'll completely forget about it later on. Uh now I forgot what the thought was that went through my mind. This is the thought. Hey, we live in a fallen world. We live in a mess. But I'm here to tell you there's a better day coming. Jesus Christ coming back. And one of these days he'll come back and go through the process of the tribulation period. Then we got the millennial, then new heaven, new earth. Don't despair. There's a better day coming There's a better day coming. So Israel uh had trials, had difficulties, had uh uh uh persecutions. One reason they were God's people, no other reason. They hate people hate God, the world hates God, the devil hates God, and gave God's people a hard time Sometimes just because they live in a fallen world, and this is that's the way mankind is. The way human nature is, humanity But sometimes Israel suffered deeply and suffered intensely because of their own actions. Because of their own decisions they made. Over and over, Israel would fall into apostasy. They would see the, for whatever reason, they saw the materialistic gods. Of the nations around them. And they became enamored with this religious system of the Ammonites and the pagans around them. And they become enamored with this this lack of holiness. They could be religious. There was no holiness involved and there was no standard necessarily of right and wrong. And they could worship according to the own dictates of their heart rather than the Word of God. And they would bring God's judgment, they would bring God's chastisement upon themselves because of their own decisions, their own actions. the materialism that would uh take over the thinking and the values of the Israelites where everything uh was uh the material was everything Sometimes they would bring judgment on themselves just because of their own sin, their apathy, they became indifferent. uh to the Lord and their relationship with God and their spiritual well-being. They just didn't care about that. It became secondary The temporal things of the earth became primary, became a top priority in their relationship with God, and they became apathetic about God's love for them and God's will for them and God's expectation from them And um you heard about the fella that somebody said to him, they says, um, what do you think about the indiff the apathy and the ignorance in the church? He said, I don't know and I don't care. Uh that was funnier than what you left, but um But Israel would become apathetic and they would allow their relationship with Jehovah, their worship of Jehovah, their Service and walk with Jehovah, they let that deteriorate. And that brought upon them the chastening of God, their sin, their apostasy, materialism, apathy. Israel would become very proud. And in their pride, God would resist them. The Bible is very clear. The New Testament, God says that he resists the proud. But he gives grace to the who? The humble. I tell you, if you get proud, you mark it down, you got some troubles coming. Got some, you're gonna have some heartaches, gonna have some difficulties. Doesn't matter who we are. And so Israel will become proud and That would God would resist that and that would bring troubles and trials on them. Sometimes they were flat-out rebellious They would simply, God would instruct them and give them instructions and what his will is and what he wanted them to do, and they would just flat out say, No! I think about King Saul, his rebellion against God and his dishonesty. Samuel, the great prophet of God, confronted Saul and said this: rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness as idolatry. And so Israel, from their very start Through to this day, have experienced tremendous difficulties, tremendous trials, tremendous opposition, intense persecution. But much of it was the chastening hand of God because of their own actions and their own decisions. And by the way, we find that to be true in our own lives as God's people in the New Testament. Amen? As part of the church. A lot of our troubles we bring on ourselves. A lot of our trials and difficulties because of our pride. I hate to say this, but even among Christians, our own rebellion against God. Say, God, it's going to be my way. I'm going to do it my way. That brings the chastening hand of God. By the way, I am glad God intervenes when we get out of whack. Anybody anybody with me on that? I'm glad God doesn't leave us to our own devices. I'm glad God doesn't let us just go on. We start to wander, we get out of there. Our mind gets out of sorts and our desires get out of sorts and we get out of the will of God. God doesn't just let us go on. God steps in and God intervenes and God chastens and corrects and brings us back. And he puts us through difficulties. And he and uh we face hardships and and trials when these things happen. So God can bring us back into his will. Isaiah chapter 42 Records God's warning to Israel. The context here of 43 and verse number 3, the context of that is God had been warning them That because of their sin, because of their a uh apathy, because of their apostasy and their pride, God was going to judge them, God was going to chase them, they were going to uh face some consequences for their actions. Look with me if you would at chapter 42 and look there at verse number 19 This is Isaiah speaking, God's prophet speaking to the nation of Israel. And look what he says. Verse 19. He says, Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger that I sent? Who is blind as he that is perfect and blind as the Lord's servant, seeing many things, but thou observest not Opening the ears, but he heareth not. Doesn't that sound like the Lord Jesus in the New Testament when he says they have eyes? uh see but they see not. They have ears to hear, but they hear not. He was rebuking the par Pharisees. He says, you hear the words coming out of my mouth, but you don't get what I'm saying. That's what he's telling Israel. I've been preaching to you, I'm preaching to you, and you're hearing the words, but you're not paying attention. Look at verse number 21. The Lord is well pleased for his righteous sake, he will magnify the law. And make it honorable. But this talking about Israel, this is a people robbed and spoiled. They are all of them snared in holes. They are hid in prison houses. They are for a prey, and none delivereth, for a spoil, and none saith, Restore. Who among you will give ear to this? Who will hearken and hear for the time to come? Who gave Jacob for a spoil in Israel to the robbers? Did not the Lord He against whom we have sinned Get the message? For they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his law. Therefore, he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger And the strength of battle. And it hath set him on fire round about, yet he knew not. And it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart. God is sending a very strong message to Israel. He is saying to them, Listen, you've horsed around with your relationship with me long enough. You've been indifferent, you've ignored me, you've disobeyed me, you've loved yourself and your things. And he says, I'm about to step in, I'm about to intervene, and it's not going to be pleasant. In fact, if you study history, you'll find out that at this point in time, the Assyrian nation is about to invade Israel. Their armies are at their doorstep, and Israel is afraid And Israel is getting a message from God that I am sending your enemies, and they are going to take over. People that hate your nation are going to take over your nation. And you're going to experience the consequences of your sin and pride and indifference. Israel's afraid. Now, the nation of Assyria were brutal. They were they were violent and merciless. In fact, one I was reading about Assyrians and one uh fellow, one author suggested that the Assyrians were very similar in their attitude and their actions to ISIS. That we've been reading about and how brutal and violent and merciless they were. Can you imagine if a nation of ISIS was on our borders And they were about to run overtake our country and and take over our country. So Israel is very, very afraid. They're about to experience the consequences Of their decisions they had made and the neglect of their walk with God and their pride and materialism. Yet, in spite of all of this, we come to chapter 43. And God gives this stern warning to Israel, and then right on its heels, he gives a tremendous promise. You see, God never chastens his people for the purpose of destroying his people. You with me? God never sends or allows you and I to go through trials and go through difficulties or face persecution so that we would be destroyed But so that we would be corrected. So that we would be drawn back into fellowship with God and our walk with God. And so Israel is afraid. God's given this warning. They see what's happening in their world as the Assyrian storm is building. And is about to crash upon their nation, and God gives them these tremendous, tremendous promises. In spite of all the deep waters and the fiery trials Israel has been through, I want to remind you, Israel is not destroyed. They are still here to this day. Israel has endured has endured and got and Israel has uh has maintained, remained. The Jews are God's people. All God's people said We must never forget that. And let me just say this. I believe we are facing some days where you're going to hear some awful things about God's people. We're about to see, I think we're on the verge of seeing some awful things said and done about and towards the nation of Israel. But we as Bible believers and as God's people must never forget the Jews. Are God's people. And that promise that He will bless them that bless God's people, and He'll curse them that curse God's people, that promise is still true. And Israel endures to this day. Now God chastens them, and God allowed them to face some unbelievable persecution and violence. But nevertheless, God took care of them. So on the heels of the stern warning, we come to chapter 43, and God immediately switches his message and he reassures them. Listen, you're going to go through this. You're going to go through some deep waters. And you are going to face some fiery trials. But I want to assure you, in spite of all that, you're going to be okay. I'm going to see you through it. In spite of their sin and coming chastisement, they will not be destroyed. God will not abandon his people. They will be okay. God allows things into your life and my life. God allows you and I to face difficulties and trials and deep waters and fiery trials. But I'm here to tell you, God will never forsake us. God will never abandon us. He will see us through every one of them. And in fact, when it's all said and done, Israel comes out stronger and better than they were before. It's interesting if you'll study your uh history of Israel a bit. When they went into captivity for seven years, after that period of captivity, when they came out, they never had a problem with idolatry again. That cured them of at least that one issue that they continually had. And so Israel is about to go into some difficult days, some dark, dark days And God gives them a promise. God gives them assurance that they're going to be okay. I see three observations from verse number two here that I want to share with you very quickly this morning. Three observations from verse number two. Look number one. The first observation I make is the certainty of deep waters The certainty of deep waters. Somebody talk to me now. What is the first word of verse number two? Talk to me. Say it. What is it? When thou passest through the waters. Now, this is what I encourage you to do. I recommend to you to circle that word when, and off in your margins somewhere, note this: not if. When not if. If you agree with me, there's a difference between when and if If it may or may not happen, when what it's going to happen, mark it down. He goes, listen, when you pass through the waters. Uh uh deep waters, trials, fiery, fiery trials, uh, they are going to happen. They're to be expected Fiery trials are to be expected. When thou passest through the water. Listen, uh don't be surprised concerning the trials that face you and the struggles that come home. We shouldn't be surprised of that God told us we were going to face that. God told us they were going to be a part of life. Nobody goes through life without trials and deep waters. Nobody gets through it. Young and old. Uh we heard uh just uh just in recent days about a young boy passed away and and uh the family and then uh early back at Christmas uh families uh going through. Listen, uh trials are a part of life. He says there's a when you pass through. Uh here's the problem. If we get in our head That somehow we can get through this thing without trials, without difficulties, without deep waters, then we feel ripped off whenever they come You follow what I'm trying to say? These preachers out there say, oh, if you have faith, then you're not going to have this. Oh, you know, if you have enough faith, you're not going to have these trials. That sets up a complete failure. That sets up frustration. Just mark it down. We're going to face trials. Anybody here like me? You see little babies born, you think, man, I feel bad for those babies the world they're coming into. Anyone think that way? I tell you, my son shared a tremendous little statement, and this is a little aside from the message, but it encouraged my heart. He says, just remember that God planned every one of those lives, and he gave those lives at this time, for such a time as this. And they can grow, and God will use those trials to make them strong and use those kids in a great way. Isn't that a great approach to that? And so trials are part of life when thou goest through them. Not if, when. Now, and there's another word here that caught my attention. Look what he says. When thou passest through the what Are you looking at it? When thou passest through the what? Waters. I got looking up that word waters. And I thought, well, how's that used in the Bible? In a lot of places it's used just like you would think. You know, you get water from a well or water the plants or whatever. But uh the word itself, in the context here, has this idea. It has the idea when you pass through great floods Great floods. What happens to a river when it floods? Now I want you to think a little bit. Put your thinking caps on this morning. What happens to a river when it floods? Okay, it spills over the banks, but what happens to the river itself, the water in the river? It becomes very what? Muddy and Dangerous and yucky. That's the word I was looking for. You know what happens? That water gets out and it gets in the water treatment plant. Floods the water treatment plant. And it gets in the graveyard. There was floods down south years ago and it washed up the caskets And the old decaying bodies. And that river and that flooded water has that sewage and those dead bodies and the garbage and the refuse and And buildings and dead animals floating down, and it became very yucky. That word water there Is used in context in various places, it refers to sewage type water. Water that is extremely unpleasant. Now, let's read that with that definition in mind When thou passest through the waters. He's talking about the fact that there are times in life And there are experiences in life, and there are circumstances that you and I are going to find ourselves in that are extremely unpleasant. That in fact are unhealthy and maybe even dangerous to our physical well-being. And God says, you're going to go through that. You're going to face that. How many folks are glad you came to church, heard this pleasant, wonderful message this morning? Oh, it's going to be terrible. He says, that's part of life. When thou passest through the waters. There's no bridge over troubled waters through, when thou passest through, there's no boat across the double uh troubled waters The word through means to go down into, not bypass, not avoid. Israel's looking on their borders and they see this Assyrian army, this violent, perverse. Merciless army is about to invade their country and take over their country. And they look at it and they're scared. They're worried. And God says, Listen, there's no bridge around this. There's no way you're going to have to face this. You're going to have to deal with what's about to come on you. When you pass through the through these waters, down into it, as much as we dislike. The Yucky waters, as much as we would like to avoid them, they're inevitable, and some are very, very difficult. Now, if I ended the message there, that would be a tough message to swallow, huh? Walk out of here and say, boy, it's discouraging. Isaac Watts put it this way: He said, Am I a soldier of the cross? Am I a follower of the Lamb? Or shall I fear to own his cause or blush to speak his name? And he asked this question. Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize, and sailed through what? Bloody seas. Are there no foes for me to fight? Fait are there no foes for me to fight face Must I not stem the flood? Is this vile world a friend to grace to help me on to God? No I must fight if I would reign. Increase my courage, Lord. I'll bear the toil, endure the pain, supported by thy word. Thy saints in all this glorious war shall conquer, though they die, they shall see the triumph from afar by faith's discerning eye. And when that illustrious day shall rise, and all thine armies shine in robes of victory through the skies, the glory shall be thine. Isaac Watts said, No, we're going to have to go through the fires. We're going to have to go through the floods. Others before us have. You and I are going to have to also. But we're going to go through them. And God will see us through. And that leads me to my second observation from verse number two. First of all, the certainty of deep waters when thou passest through the waters, not if Second thing I observe here is our companion in deep waters. Look again at verse number two. When thou passest through the waters, will you read that next statement with me? Ready? I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the water, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee Come down to verse number five. Read that first phrase, first statement with me. Ready? Fear not, for I am with thee. No, we can't avoid the trials. We can't avoid the storms. We can't avoid the deep waters. We can't avoid the fire. I'll tell you one thing. When we go through them as a child of God, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we've got someone with us. And all God's people said Amen to that. We don't go through alone. We got a companion right there with us. I will be with thee. I will be with thee. Fear not, for I will be with thee. I want to encourage you to underscore those two statements in your Bible. I will be with thee. Take your Bible. Now keep your place here because I got one other observation I want to make from this, but come with me to the New Testament, to Romans chapter 8. And verse number 35, Romans chapter 8, verse 35. Romans 8 Verse 35. Way back in your New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans chapter 8. And all the way at the end of chapter 8, notice what Paul says here under the inspiration of God. He's writing to believers in Rome, and believe me, they knew about deep waters and fiery trials. They had faced, they were facing intense persecution. In fact, it was just firing up. But look what he says in verse number 35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And the answer, of course, to that is what? No one. No one. Shall tribulation Or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword The answer is no. None of that's going to separate me from the love of Christ. Verse 36, he goes on, as it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. He's talking about the Christians. They are facing the world. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. Look at this, verse 38. For I am persuaded, I circled that word. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor death, nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. He says, There's not a devil in hell can separate me and my God. There's not a power on earth. That can keep God from loving me and keep me from the presence of God. Nothing. Come with me if you would. One other passage over to Hebrews chapter number 13. And I've referenced this verse many times over the years. We used to teach it to the little kids when I first got started off in the children's ministry back in 1980, 1979 and 80. Working with old um uh child uh uh C E F, um Child Evangelism Fellowship We used to teach this verse to the kids, and I've done it here many times over the years. Look at Hebrews chapter 13, and look at verse number 5. Now think about the context of what our message is: trials, facing opposition, persecution, difficulties. He says, verse 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. Well, I tell you, it's it's one thing to go through a storm. It's another thing to go through a storm and be covetous. That makes it even worse. You follow what I'm trying to say? It's always wishing something was different. Oh, I wouldn't. Don't be covetous. Let not your converse let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as you have. Why? For he has said, look at this, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Would you read that with me, that last phrase? Ready? I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Let's say it again. I will Never leave thee nor forsake thee. Regardless of what 2021 holds, regardless of what tomorrow holds, regardless What trials and setbacks and difficulties and heartaches and pain we may uh be facing, where's one thing we can be sure of? Jesus Christ will go with us through every one of them I will never leave thee. I will never forsake thee. I've always got a hand to hold. I've always got a presence to encourage me. I've always got a God I can talk to. I've got a God that is with me through the darkest valleys, the deepest waters, and the hottest fires. We have a companion through all of this. God, I like this statement. I came across this somewhere. I don't know where. God and his people are indivisible. Isn't that something? God and his people are indivisible. There's nothing, there's not a devil in hell, there's not a power on earth. That can separate God from His people. We have the special promise of God's presence when we go through deep waters and fiery trials. Then, a third observation I made, if you've come back here, one more real quick. I want us to notice again in verse number two, first of all the certainty of deep waters. It's for real. I wish, I'm telling you, I wish so bad as your pastor I could get up this Sunday morning and say, listen, I found a promise in the Bible. We're never going to face any more trials. And uh we're on our hearts are never going to be broken and all our bills are going to be paid and there's never going to get sick. At all in 2021. Boy, how many people would like to come to church hear that? It'd be a lie. It's not true. Reality is that there's certainty of deep waters, but we have a companion. Have the Lord with us. And last of all, I notice this: God's control of deep waters. God is still in control. I want to remind you this morning: God is not dead. Like uh Raymond Barber said, uh I think it was Raymond Barber, he says, uh They say God is dead. If he is, who pronounced him dead? Who signed the death certificate? When was the funeral? Who preached the funeral? God is not dead. God has not abdicated his power. He's still on the throne. God's still in control Notice with me here, Isaiah chapter 43. Look what it says. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers Look at this. They shall not overflow thee. How does God know they're not going to overflow me? Look what he goes on here. When thou walkest through the water, thou shalt not be burned. Neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. How can he say that? You know how he can say that? Because God's in control. Amen? God's in control. You say, oh no, there's terrible people in control of our country. Hey, I got news for you. I have a God that's in control of those terrible people That's not going to overflow you. They're not going to kindle on you. They're not going to burn you. Yeah, you're going to go through the river. Yeah, you're going to go into stinky, yucky uh f uh waters Uh yeah, you're gonna get in the fire. Yeah, you're gonna get wet. And it might be stinky. And it's gonna get hot. But God says, listen, I'm in control. And it's not going to drown you. It's not going to destroy you. It's not going to burn you up. Let's look at some of these words here. He says, the word overflow there, he says, When thou passest through the waters, I'll be with thee. Through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee. The word overflow means to sweep away and drown. Just to kill you and sweep you away. He says, that's not going to happen. Now he doesn't say when thou passest through the water, you're not going to get wet. He doesn't say when you pass through the water, it's not going to be stinky and unpleasant. He doesn't say that, but he says this. It's not going to destroy you. It's not going to wash you away and drown you. Look here also at the word about the fires. He says, When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned. The word burned there means scorched to ashes. To be completely destroyed. Says that's not going to happen. Oh, you is it going to get hot? Yeah. You're going to get some blisters? Yeah, maybe. Uh sunburn? Probably It's not going to destroy you. It's not going to burn you up. It's not going to destroy you. Thou shalt not be burned. Then he uses that other word, kindle Neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. Similar to be burned, it has this idea to catch on fire or to burn up. Catch on fire to burn up. Oh yeah, you're going to go through. It's going to get hot. It's going to be unpleasant. It's going to be uncomfortable. But it's not going to burn you up. You're not going to catch on fire. God is in control. If you don't take anything away, anything else away from this message this morning, I hope you take this. God is still in control. God is still in control. We can trust him. What he allows into our life, what he brings into our life. Maybe we've made some decisions, maybe we've taken some actions, got proud, we've sinned against God, there's consequences for that. But God's still in control. I like what Jeremiah said. Lord, correct me, but in measure. Lord, you do what you need to do to make me right, but God, I'm trusting you're going to be control that, and you're not going to destroy me through it. You're not going to destroy me through it. God is in control. The deep waters we go through, we face, they're sure, they're there, there's no doubt about it. But we have a companion And God is in control. God will protect us in the deep waters and the fiery trials. You know who I thought of? Can you think of three fellows in the Bible that went through some fiery trials? Just happen to think of any like that. Who? Old Shadrach, Meshach, and who? Abednego. Brother, they once started thrown deep waters, didn't they? They faced some persecution and opposition. Their government said, you can't worship God. You've got to worship this false idol. And you do what we say, or you're going through some fiery trials. They said, we're going to trust God. And you know what? They had a companion in that fire. In fact, Nebuchadnezzar looked in and said, how many do we throw in there? The guys that survived said, uh, three. He said, I see a third, I see a fourth one in there. And it looks like the Son of God. They had a companion in there. When they came out, ropes were burned off. They didn't even smell. That fire didn't kindle on them. God was in control. God saw them through that. I don't know about you, but I'd sure like to be like those three boys, wouldn't you? I don't know which one. I'll get to heaven know them, see which one I'm most like But they know they knew what this verse was about. They understood here. They could testify that what God said is true. I was reading about the Emperor Moth Anybody here familiar with the Emperor Moth? I was reading about a fella caught an Emperor Moth. It's a beautiful moth. I looked it up, and it's just a beautiful moth But that moth, like most butterflies and stuff, makes a uh cocoon. It goes into the cocoon and and develops from a caterpillar. What's the word? Tram morgify? Um transmorgify What is it? Metamorphosis. I knew it was something like that. And that little uh that little caterpillar's in there and gets in that cocoon and metamorphosizes And this fellow said he had one. He had in a jar and this little glass thing and he was watching that thing. And it had a little hole where it had come time for that caterpillar to come out as a butterfly. There was just a little hole there. And that thing was squeezing and putting away, and he said it looked so painful and so difficult what that little monarch, emper that little Emperor moth had to go through that little hole to get out of that. He said, finally I felt bad, and I went and got a little sharpie knife, and I took and very carefully cut down that cocoon so that thing could get out of there very easily. He said, it fell out, landed on the ground. He said it walked around. He said, but something was wrong. Something was wrong. It couldn't fly. And he said, that little moth spent the rest of its life just dragging useless wings around And he said, I learned something. Going through that pressure, squeezing through that difficulty and that heartache and that pain is necessary to force the juices from the body out into the wings So that those wings can function and fly. And he said, I unknowingly delivered that moth from pain, difficulty, and hardship only to handicap it. For the rest of its life. God says you're going to go through waters. You're going to go through deep waters. You're going to face some fiery trials. But I'm going to be with you through all of it. And I control it. If you'll study your Bible carefully when you come out of it, you're going to be stronger. You're going to be closer to the Lord. Your faith will be stronger than ever before. I received a letter in the mail yesterday morning, Friday or yesterday morning, from our faithful missionary, Brother Sean Lundy, down in Brazil. And here a fascinating story, and I thought of it as us preparing to preach this message. They have every summer they go up the Amazon, they bring medical doctors and missionaries And they take a trip up the Amazon to back uh villages back in the jungles and and uh back into these native areas that get very, very little interaction with civilization and They set up a clinic and people will come. He said they did that this past summer. And uh they had the teams and they helped a lot of people and they said they had packed everything down. And they were loading up their big long canoes, their wooden canoes that they used. They were loading it all up, just ready to get in the boats and leave. And a family came down the river just about that time in a canoe, a mother and a father and a little boy Came down that canoe, uh came down that river and came rushing in, and they were running in, missionary, missionary, missionary. They stopped and they said, uh, what is it? And they said, Our boy You need to help our boy. They brought to him, carried to him a little five-year-old boy, and they said there was a spot on his leg the size of a grapefruit. And they said, uh, we're afraid he's going to die. We're afraid he's going to die. And so they got their equipment out and they looked and examined it. And finally the one doctor administered um uh not Novicane. Um Pain pains. But anesthesia. And I ruined my own stories. Um The stuff of painkillers, so so it don't feel any pain. And they put it on there and they took a little scalpel and they cut open that big swelling, and here they found that a little worm had worked its way into his leg. And was growing and eating in there, became infected. And they said if if it hadn't gone much longer, that little boy would have died. They cut that out and pulled that worm and sewed it up. And got talking to the family. Mom and dad and that little boy, all three, bowed their head and trusted Jesus Christ their Savior. And he said, I've been discipling them. We've been corresponding back and forth. I don't know how they do that. He said they're growing. And he said they're so grateful. Listen, so grateful, their little boy got that worm in his leg. So that they could come, have him made well and they could hear about Jesus, that they could be saved. Isn't that something? Yeah, we'll go through waters. Yeah, there'll be fiery trials. We scared, hurt, get burned, get wet, and it'll be unpleasant. God says, I'm going to go with you through that. I'm going to control it, and I'm going to use it for my glory for your good. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, as we face the trials of life as we go through deep waters. Fiery trials that you would help us to know and believe and be confident of your continued presence with us as believers. I pray you'd help us to remember and rest assured that you are in control You have a plan and purpose, and there's something you are going to accomplish. I pray you'd help us have faith in you and stay true to you. And anticipate what you're going to do and how you'll use us in the deep waters, in the fiery trials. I wonder, with our heads bound and eyes closed, if there be some say, Preacher, I need to get my focus on the Lord. I'm afraid a lot of us have replaced God with the government. I'm afraid a lot of us find our peace and our confidence and our joy in our circumstances rather than in the promises of God. We need to get our eyes and our focus and our heart back on things above, not on things of the earth. Find our confidence. Is there any like this? Say, preacher, I need to get refocused. And get my heart and mind settled on the Lord and His presence and His and His power. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. God bless you. A lot of Christians, I'm talking to a lot of Christians lost their peace A lot of Christians inside out. God's not dead. Yeah, there's trials. Yeah. Let's come and just trust the Lord. Let's get back in our Bibles. Let's get back to praying. Back to the house of God. Let's get a heart for others and win souls. Point people to Jesus Trust God and obey Him. See what God won't do. Now let me say this: if there's any that never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you cannot claim not one of these promises. My Bible says, unless a person is saved, unless they trust in Christ, they are without God, without hope in this world, separated by your sins from the God that made you. You'll come to Christ, trust Him as your Savior. He died for you, was buried, rose again. He'll forgive you, born you into His family. Never ever leave you. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.