I'm gonna spend the day in uh Second Timothy chapter three. Second Timothy chapter three. And of course, uh you're familiar with these letters that Paul wrote to Timothy and He's writing to Timothy basically to just instruct him. He's really telling Timothy what he ought to tell the church Now he does say some things about what he ought Timothy ought to be as pastor, but he left uh Timothy there, pastor of the churches at Ephesus, and And uh now he writes this letter, if you'll turn back to chat uh to 1 Timothy chapter 3. He makes a statement in verse 15. He said to Timothy, but if I tarry long That thou mayest know how thou ought to behave thyself in the house of God. Which is the church of the living God and the pillar and ground of the truth. So here he's saying one basic reason for writing these letters to Timothy was just to tell him how everybody ought to act in church. And telling and he informs Timothy about some things that are going to go on and how what he ought to uh how he ought to instruct the people and inform the people Encourage the people. But uh that's one thought I want you to keep in mind all day today as we go through these chapter three of 2 Timothy. The fact that he's writing to tell him how they ought to act in church. The church, he says, is the pillar of the truth. Now, the church is not the place where the truth is established, but the church is the place that holds up the truth. And make sure the truth is lived and proclaimed. And so that's what he's uh telling Timothy, basically, and uh that's a that's an important thing to keep in mind In 2 Timothy chapter 3, he sort of wraps up all that he's gone through in the these two letters. And uh gives us a sort of an outline of why, why we ought to be what we are in church Uh it's important that the church is what God wants it to be. You think about the church as uh the bride of Christ And uh I don't uh I know one thing, if you fool with my bride, you're in trouble. Huh? And I think if we fool with God's bride, with the bride of Christ, that uh we're in trouble. And he talks about that throughout this force of scripture. Back in First Timothy again, chapter four. He makes this statement that I'd like to read to begin with. He said in chapter 4, verse 1, he said, Now the spirit, notice the spirit is capitalized He's talking about the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit. The Spirit speaketh expressly, clearly, distinctively. That in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seduc spirits and doctrines of devils Now he's talking about the church. If you'll remember when he met with the leaders of the church at Ephesus back in Acts chapter 20. And he told them, uh, you're gonna have people come in, they're gonna be as ravening wolves, devouring to demolish. And uh talk about the church. And so uh we need to we need to guard the church We need to be what we're supposed to be, so our testimony guards the church. But he goes on in verse 2 of chapter 4 of 1 Timothy, he says speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their conscience feared with a hot iron. Now look at look what they say, verse 3. Forbidding to marry and uh commanding To abstain from meats. That's dumb. This is what the people were saying. He said This is what they're they're gonna say, and this is what they're saying, this is what you need to deal with. Jesus uh Jesus has already put his approval on marriage He taught the importance of marriage and uh how it ought to be. And uh he's already told us that uh everything that he's made is is Fine, these people were picking at things that that they wanted to deal with, that they wanted to have people think that they were an egg uh an uh expert in. So they're just speaking lies, lies of devils. Well, let's just go on over to chapter 3 of 2 Timothy. And I wanna I want us to see something in these beginning verses. In this hour, that is very important for us to grasp if we're going to defend the house of God. If we're going to be what we need to be in the house of God, if we're going to be the member that God wants us to be, where He has placed us. In verse 1 of chapter 3, let's just have prayer before we go. Father, we ask that you would uh open up these scriptures to us today, cause us to See some things that would stir our thinking about what we are where we are. And what we need to be. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would reveal to us some things for our own lives. Maybe some things that we need to to deal with correct. But uh sir, us, in this matter of uh the appreciation we need to have for the place you put us, the church you put us in And what we ought to be in defending that and standing up and making sure that that our testimony Is uh something that causes others to know what a church member ought to be. Like you want us to be. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Notice with me in chapter 3, 2 Timothy, verse 1. Uh Paul says, the word of God says to uh I'm gonna have to get this a little closer. I uh my eyesight's not what it used to be. That's one place my age is revealing itself. I have uh macular degeneration. Anyone deal with that Well, it just takes your eyesight. And mine is slowly going and so I have to uh deal with that. I'm not asking for your sympathy or your I'm not asking for I'm I'm not asking you to pray that necessarily uh it stops, but uh pray that I know how to handle it That's the important thing. God uh when God gives us something, he wants us to handle it right. Amen. And this old body belongs to him, that's for sure. Uh I don't want to take credit for it at all, I want him to. But notice in uh verse one It says, Paul says, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. In the last days, perilous times shall come. He does not say they might come. He said they're going to come. Difficult days. Troubled days. It's not a matter of will they come in our life and our in our place. They are coming. Now what are the last days? You might write down Hebrews 1 and 2 is one place that reveals to us that the last days, that's through Christ's ministry until he comes again. Until we have the rapture again. So so from the time Christ came, was born, uh, those are the last days. We know or we think It seems like we're in the last days of the last days. We're in the difficult times. But he says they're going to come. Now, here's the thing I want you to keep in mind. He's not talking about out there only. We know what's going on out there I don't know about you, but I just don't even watch the news anymore. I don't care what it is, I don't care how conservative they say they are, I don't even watch it. People say, well, how do you know what's going on? I can know what's going on if I read here. He's telling me what's going on right here. And I hear enough stories to know what's going on. We um June used to watch Fox News Well it was I think all more conservative than it is now. But she watched co co uh Fox News and I wouldn't I wouldn't watch it. And man she'd watch Fox News and she'd want to fight I was the only other person in the house for her to fight with and she was ready to I had to I had to finally convince her don't watch that news. Uh uh you and I are gonna get along better if I if you don't Come up here and tell me what you've seen. And uh, but uh we see what's happening. Now here's the thing it's gonna come We don't need to be discouraged about what's coming. We need to learn how to handle it. We need just to be what we need to be as we go through it. We uh how many times do we say, I wish Jesus would come today? We want Jesus to come. We just don't want the trouble times that lead up to him's coming. Right? But we're going to have to go through that. And that's what we're going through. Now, then he described, now he says, perilous times are coming. You might as well realize it, you might as well accept it, you might as well learn how to handle it. Perilous times are coming. And then he describes what those times are. Now he just Paul just flat out gives a description. Now what I want you to do, I want you to listen. I don't want you to necessarily look at your Bible as I go through this I'm going to go through these word by word. I'm not trying to keep you from your Bible, but often as we read the Bible, we start thinking about something else. What we're looking at. I want you to listen to these words, and I want you to think about what these words mean. Because we're not going to be able to identify these perilous times unless we know what they are. Because when he talks about perilous times, he's not talking about a necessarily just a system or you know What they do out there. He's talking about people that caused those times. He's talking about attitudes That we face, that we go through. And the sad part of it is he's talking about the attack on the church Now we can battle the attack from out there. But it's very difficult when we have to battle the attack from within. But the devil is going to have his people infiltrate the church I don't care what we say, I don't care how nice we think people are, I don't care what we think about our church, we need to realize the devil is active. And he's going to have his crowd here, there for a purpose And that is to make sure that perilous times come with the purpose of causing people to be discouraged. And question what's happening. So uh let's just go through this. Now if you'll just listen, I'm gonna try to go through what I have written down here. And uh and if you'll just if you'll just listen to what I say, it starts with uh chapter, uh it starts with verse two. He says For men shall be lovers of their own selves. Lovers of their own selves. Now that's our nature. Our nature is to love ourselves. We're born that way. Two days ago June and I had our fifteenth great grandchild born. She came out screaming. Why? I want my way. That's the way we're born. Right? But it ought to change when we get older. But what he's saying here, those are going to be the times of the latter days. Men are going to be lovers of their own selves. By the way, that word man there doesn't necessarily mean an adult male person. The thought of that word is human beings. So he's just talking about people. When he says men should be lovers of the of their own selves. And then he starts naming. He says Covetous or just fond of wealth. We say, well, I don't want A million dollars, I just want what I just want a little bit more. What if we will be on what God wills, we're covetous. Huh? Boasters, a braggart bragging about. Jeremiah, if you look in Jeremiah chapter 9, one of the messages that he was to preach, verses 22 and 23 I'll paraphrase it, but he he basically says in those two verses, he says, uh when you glory, the word glory has the thought of to boast, to brag. He says, don't glory in what you are, what you have, what you know. If you're going to glory or if you're going to brag, he said, if you want to know God, And you want to understand God. You glory or you brag or you boast about his loving kindness, his judgment, his righteousness. Because God is right in everything He does. And if you're going to brag about anything, brag about God. And what he's done in your life. You and I have nothing to brag about. Right? Well, that's a message in itself, that's for sure. And then he says, proud Appearing, presenting ourselves above others. Blasphemous refers to all kinds of slandering And reveling and especially toward God and His Word. And says, disobedient The parents. And that's not just, if if we're disobedient to parents, it's not just not respecting parents, it's not respecting the Word of God. A lot of times uh people get upset because their kids listen to their peers. Hey listen, don't get upset at when at the peers. Because if our kids are listening to their peers instead of us as parents. It's because they r they respect their peers more than they do their parents. And that's why they get in trouble that way. Unthankful or ungrateful, unholy, wicked. Then it goes to verse 3 and it says, without natural affection. There's a natural affection toward kindred, family, that sort of thing. And uh today that's why the family's coming apart. That's why that's why people listen to folks that that give their opinion about the family instead of what the Bible says about the family. And then it says truce breakers are that uh just uh against treaties, I guess uh it's just uh disregarding uh Well, we need to be with others. False accusers, a slanderer, trying to build yourself up and someone else. Down, incontinent, without self-control, fierce, savage. Um Despisers, think about it, despisers of those that are good. Isn't that something? Despite well we see that today, don't we? Hostile toward people that want to be right. Do right And then you get to verse four traitors, a betrayer. That's uh that's a um The attitude of Judas Iscariot. It's what it's talking about. Hedy Just making decisions without thinking, without listening to God, high-minded, to infiltrate with self conceit. And then it gets down to verse, well, then he says, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. In other words, letting pleasure become more important than God. Now think about that. Well, I'll get back to that in a second. But then he gets to verse 5. And notice what he says in verse 5. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. Having a form of godliness. In other words, they had the appearance of God. Now that's the danger of this thing. They have the appearance of God, but they do not have the power of God. In other words, they have not experienced the power that comes with the new birth, with salvation. The power uh the gospel is the power of God into salvation. What changes a life? The power that comes with salvation. When a person gets saved. Then the Spirit of God enters into that person with the power to change the life. And that power causes us to recognize what's right and good and truth. Instead of just having a form or an appearance of it, there's a desire to live like it. That's what the power of God. You can remember if you're saved. You can remember when you got saved, and you can remember things in your life that ruled your life that you enjoyed doing. And it ruled your life. But once you got saved, then you realized How it ruled your life, what it did to your life, and you had the desire for that not to be a part of your life. And you experienced the power of God to remove that and change you. And today there are things that used to be in your life that you don't even think about that do not even bother you now because of the power of God. And what he's saying here is he's identifying this crowd. He's identifying those that you and I have to battle To be what God wants us to be where God has put us And he said, you've got to come to a place that you realize there are people that have the appearance that they're saved. They might know the language, they might have the appearance, but if you look at them long enough, then you'll start seeing these things that identify That they do not have the power of God in their life. The power that God, the power that's there to change their life Now, let me let me say this. He's not saying that everyone that does one of these things that he's mentioned Because a Christian can do this. But a Christian cannot enjoy doing that. A Christian cannot live in this sort of life. The Spirit of God will not permit it. The Spirit of God will deal with it, will bring conviction, will bring chastening There are things that will happen in a Christian's life that will not permit them to continue doing what he's mentioned here. So how do we handle it? We've got to become wise enough to identify this in a person. That makes sense. We've got to be wise enough to identify a person that is identifying themselves. With their actions that are mentioned here. And we've got to make a decision. What's the decision? Look at what he says. Verse 5. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. Now here it is: underline it, highlight it. Ponder it. Make it a part of your life. From such turn away. Avoid this person. When you and I, as a member of the place God has put us to serve, the church that God has put us in, when we When we see a person acting like one of these that are mentioned here The instruction to us is to avoid them. Avoid them. Now he's not saying have a rotten attitude toward them. He's not saying don't love them. He's not saying avoid them. What's it mean? One thing he means here is this don't let them influence you. Because that's the devil that's what the devil has them there for. The devil puts his crowd in there, his attitude in there, so he can find someone That is an influence in the church, someone that is strong in the church, someone that is living for God in the church, someone that has a testimony of righteousness in the church. He wants to put this attitude in their life to start taking what they are away from them. And making them what this person that he's put there is. We are to avoid that person. When we see The action of anyone, anyone acting like he has mentioned here, we are to say, God tells me I am not To be influenced by that. Which means I might be friendly, but I can't be friends. I can't be a part of their negative life, of their anti-Bible life, they're anti-God life. I don't care what they say about being saved. I don't care what they say about uh what they think about the bible, if they act like this, then I am to avoid them. Why? Think about this. God has given you a window of time. To be in this place. To do what? To glorify him. To hold up the truth, to guard this place, to protect this place with your life Your living, your influence, your testimony. He has put you here for a reason. Because there's a generation coming behind you, your children, your grandchildren. And God wants you to leave this place like you found it, standing on the Word of God. Living the truth, representing God the way He wants you to represent Him. And so he's saying, in order for you to be what I need you to be for the period of time that I put you here. Then I need you to recognize this crowd, and I need you to avoid this crowd. Don't let them change you and cause you to be a part of changing what you found when you came here. Amen. Make sure your life make sure your life causes this place to stay what you found it to be. Now another thing we need to do is we need to check our love life because this will determine how we act and how we react. Notice the brackets that he puts around as he identifies these attitudes. Go back with me. Look back up to verse 2. He says, For men shall be lovers of their own selves. Lovers of their own selves. Now, if we are lovers of our own selves, that's going to cause us to be What he has identified here. Uh one one fellow put it this way. Let me see if I can find where I Wrote this down. He said one fellow said this. He said, we should worship God, love people, and use things. But if we start worshiping ourselves, we will ignore God. Start loving things and using people We've got to realize how this changes our attitude. So he says, we don't be lovers of yourselves. Now go down to verse. Four. Look what he says at the end of of verse four He says, traitors, high-minded, traders, heady, high-minded, lovers, there it is again, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God. When we become lovers of ourselves, and when we become lovers of pleasures, In God's place, then that's that's when we're in trouble with these with these attitudes that he's given here. Now, what's the Bible tell us about loving? We're to love God. We're to love God with our whole mind and body and being and our neighbors and ourselves. We are to love God. What does that mean? That means that there's no pleasure that interferes with God. There's no person that interferes with God. So we've got to check. We've got to check our love life. Because we've got to keep check on our love life to make sure that nothing is coming before God. How do you do that? I've tried to find a way to illustrate how we ought to love God. There's no way to really humely illustrate it, loving God Uh but I I got thinking about when uh when I met June years ago. Now when I met June, things changed in my life. I started seeing stars. Other things that were in my life started being just sort of pushed aside. I thought of her all the time. I wanted to be with her. I mean, we were in high school. And when I got my eyes on June and man things changed. I would run to where she was between classes, five minutes between classes, run up there just to have maybe four minutes, three minutes to stand there with her. Before she entered into her class. Why? Because she changed things in my life. She used to live About a mile and a half from where I live. I would finish football practice at night, basketball practice And I would walk to her house. It was a country road, dark. There was a cemetery on the way. Just one or two houses. And I would walk in the dark to her house to spend some time and walk back late at night in the dark, scared to death. But man, I just wanted to spend some time. Amen. That's what he's talking about. Hey, the house of God ought to be a place that we desire to be every time we're supposed to be. There should be nothing that comes into our life that pushes God out. And so we've got to examine our life by this. We've got to examine these attitudes as they come into our life. We've got to look at them and realize that's what he's talking about. He's talking about God being first, and what he wants us to be being first in our lives And so we've got to examine that all the time. And then then uh we uh We must make a decision. We must make a decision. Now that's what he's talking about in verse five. Those are not just words on the page. He's talking about a decision. When he says in verse 5, from such turn away. He's saying you've got to decide to do that. Now why is it important for us to get a hold of that? There's some people it's easy for us to turn away from and not let influence us. But the problem is That much of the time the people that we are closest to are used to influence us the most. And when we have to make a decision to a family member or a close friend in church or something, when we have to make a decision to change things Because of how they're trying to influence us, it's difficult sometimes because we're accused I can remember years ago when God dealt with you Knight of about commitments that He wanted us to make and how family members. Man, what we were doing was was just uh totally wrong. I mean, we were just going to ruin the family and and it was difficult. We were accused of not caring for them. But we had to decide. Yes. I'm sorry, is that ten thirty-seven? Yes. Oh, what time do I have to finish? Ten? Oh goodness gracious, I'm sorry. I'm gonna pick this up when I uh in the morning service. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I had no idea I was that