Things in Second Timothy. And uh the thing that let me just let me just say a couple of things to remind you of uh the emphasis here. Paul we need to keep in mind Paul's writing to Timothy, a pastor, and he's writing about how he needs to teach the church how to act, deal with situations in the church, and make sure that the people know how to to handle what's going on in the church because they were having difficulties. He talked about the false teachers that were there and how they were just doing crazy things, teaching crazy things. And uh And this chapter, this chapter seems to just sort of uh summarize all that Paul was trying to say. to Timothy about his life and how he ought to uh inform and instruct the members of those churches how they ought to act and while they ought to react. And in those beginning verses, I think the word we would label that with is avoid. Avoid this crowd. And that's what he was trying to tell Timothy. Timothy, you need to the your people need to recognize This crowd, these folks, anytime there's someone in the congregation that that has this attitude, don't let them influence you. And then you come down to verse 10. We use the word remember. Paul said, you've been taught some things. You've heard me teach You've seen my life, and you need to remember the folks that shared with you truth. And right thinking and actions. Now we come, and he gets to the bottom line, he gets to the important part. Now we come to verse 14 And Paul says, but continue. And I would encourage you to circle that word continue. Avoid this group. Keep in mind how God brought me into your life and what you saw in my life. And then continue. So let's pray, and then we'll just take a look at what Paul says to him about this matter of continuing. Father, we thank you for The Bible. Thank you for putting people in our lives that have shown us how we ought to act. And then we thank you for your word that instructs us and leads us to right actions. And so I pray tonight that you would use this time to just open our understanding to what we need personally. And give us wisdom how to use your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now the word continue. And notice what notice what he says about this matter of continuing in verse 14. He says, but continue thou in the times which thou hast. I'm sorry. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned And hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. So when he used that word continue, it has the thought of completing, of course, and and uh finishing what you started, just saying the stuff But he says here, you need to remember what you have heard and those that he's put in your life, and you need to continue because of what you have seen What you've seen in Paul uh in Paul's life as far as his uh his life, his uh uh his doctrine The way he uh the purposed in his life to live for God, the difficulties he's gone through. Now I want you to think about that because uh He's talking about people, and it's important for us to make sure we're watching the right people and we're letting the right people influence us. I think one of the big dangers is uh watching people on television or or listening to people that you don't know And they say somet you let them say something in your life to influence you when you don't know their life Now I'm not saying don't watch any preacher on television because there are there are some people that preach the truth. But for the most part You have to watch it uh realizing that you don't know them. You don't see their life In church, you see people. You're with them constantly. You see your pastors constantly. And uh you know their life and you know their teaching. If you watch somebody on television, uh they may say something that sounds good, but you don't know how they live after they uh leave the program and the rest of the week or whatever. You don't know how they run things in their ministry And it's easy to be misled. It's easy to have someone say something that influences you to the wrong direction or the wrong thinking in your life. And so that's what Paul's saying here. Paul's saying, hey, you need to continue because of the informants in your life. The people that God has put in your life that you have seen their life and the way they live And then he leaves that thought and he gets into what really we need to get a hold of in this complete chapter. Notice what he says in verse 15. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. Which are able to make the wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Now Paul comes to this section and he seems to say this You've seen my life And you know how I've lived my life. You know what I've taught you And even he's reminding back in chapter 1, verse 5, he talked about his grandmother and his mother and how they taught him from the scriptures. But he seems to be saying it's good to have people in your lives that influence you in the right direction, but You must keep in mind that the most important part of your life is the Word of God, the scriptures. Knowing the scriptures in a personal way. And so he's saying, uh, you make sure You have a right relationship with the Scriptures. And make sure you listen to the Scriptures. Now, this is so important because I'm convinced. That many, if not most, Christians only have a surface relationship with the scriptures. It's just a hit and miss thing. And really the most the most that Minds are stirred and the thinking is stirred, is done in church where they hear the preaching. But Paul is coming to the place where he's saying, if you're going to avoid This crowd or these people that try to influence you contrary to the Word of God. And if you're going to be able to remember those that God has put in your life to influence you in a right way, Then you're going to have to have an in-depth personal relationship with the Scriptures. And that's the bottom line. I'm convinced if you uh take someone that is offended. And offended to the place that they're ready to leave church or leave God or leave the scriptures, if you have someone that gets upset because This problem doesn't uh is taking place or this decision does not please them. If you find someone that gets a rotten attitude like that If you get to the root of the matter, there's no personal relationship with the scriptures. The Bible does not make a difference in their lives. And Paul's coming to a place that he is Wrapping it up, trying to get Timothy to realize you need to make sure that your people, if they're going to know how to act in church, They're going to have to know the scriptures. They're going to have to have that close relationship. And notice how he puts it. Look at these verses now. As he talks about our relationship with the Word of God, in verse 16, he says. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction. For instruction in righteousness. He says, first of all, it's important that you Have a relationship with the Scriptures because of what the Scriptures are. What they are. They are God breathed. And he's saying to them, This is not the word of men. First Peter Told us this at first 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 22 and 23. He talks about it's not out of men, it's out of God. It's God breathed. Now what's he saying here? He's saying that the scriptures are words that God has spoken. When you and I Say something, we breathe it out. It is us breathing it out. When you come to the scripture It's not a man breathing out words that are his words It's this amazing thing. It is God breathing words out through a man. It is the word of God. So, if we're going to have a respect, the respect that we need to have with the Bible, we're going to have to realize when I open this book. I have to have that type of respect and awe and honor toward it. This is God. You say, well, we don't see God, we don't hear God verbally. Yes, we we hear God. When we read the Bible, we hear from God. It is God saying something to me. Now, how how does that take place? It takes place in our lives as a believer Because the God, now think about this, the God that breathes this word, the God that says this to me Is the same God that lives within me telling me what He's saying to me Giving me the understanding. Our understanding of the scriptures come because the Spirit of God gives us that understanding. And so we've got to grasp the realness of what the scripture is. To us. It is God coming alive in our lives. And so he's telling Timothy here You've got to get the people to realize what the scriptures are. Now he's talked to them about the him from being taught from a child, that meant now they didn't have the scriptures like we have 'em, but it meant that Timothy knew he knew about the sacrificial lamb from the Old Testament. He knew what the Old Testament said in preparation for the New Testament to come and Christ to come. And so he knew the word of God. Then he says something else to him. Look what he says. Verse 16 again. All scripture is given by the Spirit of God and is profitable. Profitable. What do you consider tonight profitable in your life? What is profitable for you to know how to live life? What do you have in your life every day that is profitable for you? To have a successful life, to have an enjoyable life. You see What he's saying here is that this is a practical book. The Word of God finds us where we are. And when we let the Word of God find us where we are, it tells us what we are, where we are. And if it will li if we will listen, then the same word will tell us how to make the right decision to get ourselves from where we are to where we need to be And that's why it's profitable. Hey, listen, uh you can have people tell you what they think all you want to, but nobody knows where you ought to be with God. Now they may have some basic truth about salvation and discipleship, those things and decisions you ought to make, but nobody knows what God's doing in your life. But the Bible is profitable for us. Every time we read the Bible, We need to realize what I read, the Holy Spirit will help me to apply it in a profitable way. Now here's the difficulty, and this is why I'm I'm saying this to you. Most Christians I'm convinced just have a scanning relationship with the Bible. I need to read a chapter today. I need to read this so much so I can get through the Bible this year. I need to read some of Psalms, I need to read some of Proverbs, so boom, boom, boom, zoom, zoom Now, there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with ever reading the Bible, no matter how you do it. But if you and I are going to profit From the Bible, the way He wants us to profit, then we've got to come to a place that we have an in-depth relationship with the Bible. We have a time that we study the Bible. Do you have a study time Or do you only have a reading time? Do you have a time that you set Some minutes aside, or however time you have, you set it aside to look at the Bible Asking the Holy Spirit to help you to gain an understanding, to show you where you are. And how to get from where you are to where God wants you for that day and that moment. There are a lot of different ways to study the Bible You can have word studies, you can have chapter studies, you can have book studies, you can have character studies, you can have all kinds of studies and topics of the Bible. So, what I would like to encourage you to do is find what fits you because we're all different We all enjoy different ways of doing things. And there's a way that God will benefit you In his word, if you will determine I'm going to learn to study A certain way and I'm going to give my time daily to study in a certain way. If you don't know, ask the pastor, ask somebody that has a time that they study and determine in your life, I'm going to find a way that I can get in the scriptures the way God wants me. in the scriptures. I'm not going to play with this thing. Why? Because of what he says. Look at what he says here. He says it is profitable, which simply means it's it is helpful, it's serviceable. The scriptures will serve us like nothing else will serve us. And it's advantageous to us. And he gives a description of how he does that. Look at what it says again, verse 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable In first of all, doctrine. Doctrine is teaching. Doctrine is truth. Doctrine is that which tells us where we are with what we believe. And there needs to be a study of the doctrine in order to have assurance of where I am in my belief. Do I really believe this? If and and that's what the doctors of the Bible will do. It will remove the doubt. It will cause you to come to a place that you make that decision of commitment to stand firm, the way Paul's talking about his life. He says it's it's first of all doctrine, profitable for doctrine, and for reproof. Reproof has the thought of conviction, evidence. Once we see the doctrine and the truth that we need to believe and apply to our lives Then the reproof part convicts us of where we are. Where am I in my relationship with this doctrine Do I really believe firmly on this? Do I really believe what God has given me here? And the scriptures are profitable for reproof, for conviction. The the scriptures won't fool around and uh with you. It tells you exactly what needs to be done. Uh it'll bring conviction. Uh Have you ever realized that there's something wrong in your life and you didn't want to get it right? I have. Not that I didn't want. I wanted it right. I just didn't want to make the decision to be right By the only one that's that's been there. I can I can tell you my I'm not gonna tell you my sin, but uh I I guess tell you something that I dealt with just a few months ago and and uh for a number of months I knew now I'm I'm this this shouldn't be going on. I mean it wasn't something it was something That I shouldn't, but it it was just something that I was doing in my life that I knew shouldn't be there Now, and I uh I would think about it, and think about it, and think about it, and it was a consuming thing. I'll tell you, I'll tell you what it was. You want me to tell you what it was? How many of you want to know what it was? Ed and Chester want to know what it was. I had I had old money. that I would fool around with I called it my play money that I uh bought stocks with And so I had it in a particular place and and I would just uh so I would be looking at the stock market and I would be investing and I'd lose this day and I'd make it this day When I made some money on it, I thought I was the smartest person in the world. When I lost, I knew I was the dumbest person in the world. And and I did this for a few years. I just I did best it That's the and I knew I shouldn't and the reason it was a problem now that may not be a problem with you But it was a problem with me, and here was the problem that I that I realized and I I thought it for a while It was a problem with me because it consumed my mind. I always wondered what the market was doing. And what my stock was doing. You understand what I'm saying? And I would be in certain places and I would have to check to see what it was doing. And I knew this this is crazy. I shouldn't be I shouldn't be consumed by something like this And finally uh I made the decision and I and I just uh got out of that thing and just totally eliminated that. And I'm gonna tell you, it was such a comfort. Huh? And you know it's such a comfort because I didn't have to think about it anymore. Now that may not be a problem to you. You may not have had the problem with me uh that I had. Because uh the Bible says that uh you we shouldn't want we shouldn't have a will to be rich. You say, well, I don't want to be rich, I just want to have what I want. If we want more and we're not satisfied with God, then we want to be rich. And that's the way I was. And so I had to deal with that. Now the Bible, the Bible deals with that. And that's why we have to have this relationship with the Bible. It will tell us where we are, and it will it will show us where we're wrong. And then notice what it says for reproof, for correction. Once the Bible tells you where you're wrong, it'll tell you how to get it right. Huh? That's why it's so practical. That's what he's talking about here. This is God's book. Because God's the only one that knows what's going on in us and what he wants to do in us. He's the only one that knows that uh where we're in the wrong place, and it may not be some deep sin It's just something that we shouldn't have going on. And he's trying to convince us, I can't get to you the way I want to get to you until you let me show you where you are. And you decide to use the scriptures for correction in your life. Now, how does he correct us? Notice what it says here. This is good. For instruction in righteousness. That's what the Bible is. The Bible tells us how to be right. That's why we have to study it. Don't settle for just scanning the Bible. Make up your mind you're going to, some way you're going to get you a study method. So you can spend some time not just getting through it, but some time you're going to spend some time thinking And listening to the Spirit of God so He can show you where you are, convince you that you shouldn't be there. And show you how to get it out get it out of it. Because everything in this book is right. It's profitable. It's beneficial for us to have a life of peace and enjoyment. Now why why is that so important? What's he saying to Timothy here? That's so important. And why is this so important to you and to me? Look at what he says in the next verse. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Now that's the bottom line. Look at what he's saying here. He says, first of all, he says that the man of God, now this word man, we mentioned this morning, it's mentioned back in the beginning of this chapter. It's not talking about a male. It's talking about a human being, a person. It's talking about every one of us here We we you we use that man of God loosely. We want to refer to the preacher, he's the man of God. The preacher may not be a man of God Because a title does not make a man of God. The scripture makes a man of God. He's an evangelist. He's got a doctor by his name, whether it's honorary or earned. No, those titles do not mean that a person is a man of God. A man of God is someone that has such a relationship with the Bible. He listens so much to the Bible that he constantly knows where he is, what needs to be changed. And how to do it. He has that relationship. You see, a man of God could be a father here. Who is a father of God? A father, because God has made him the right kind of father. A mother Could be a teenager that just decides, I want to be a teenager of God. I want the scripture to make me that person. That's what the Bible does. When we respond properly to it. Now how how does it do that? He shows us exactly how it does it. He shows us exactly how this comes together. Look at what he says. Look at the verse again. That the man of God may be perfect, complete. That doesn't mean perfect, sinless. It means complete where you are. Right now. See, we could sit here tonight, and there may be some people that can sit here and say, hey, I'm perfect. Means I'm everything God wants me to be right now. Now, tomorrow it may change. But that's what it's saying. I'm complete what I'm what I should be right now. That the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished. Unto all good works, truly furnished When you furnish something, you furnish it for the purpose for which it's to be used. If I came to you tonight and I said, uh, hey, June and I are remodeling our kitchen. We're gonna have to buy all new stuff to go in there and can you tell me good brands to buy? Can you tell me places I might get to bed steal? Can you can you give me some advice And you say, well, I can uh tell you a good mattress place, you can buy a good mattress and a bed, or I can uh tell you where to buy a good couch, good price, I can tell you exactly where you wouldn't say that Not if you knew I was remodeling a kitchen that's that wouldn't furnish the kitchen for its purpose. You would advise me about a stove or a refrigerator or a dishwasher or a microwave. Things that are put in a kitchen to thoroughly furnish it. What needs to be in your life tonight to furnish you For the purpose for which God has you. You have no idea I have no idea. That's why I've got to stay in the scriptures. Because the scriptures think about this now. The scriptures will furnish us if we listen. The scriptures will put in me Because I don't know what God has next week, next month. I don't know what God has for me. God does. You know how he wants to tell me? The scriptures. And if I will get in the scriptures and just study. And listen, he will furnish me with what's needed in my life to be what I need to be next week Next month. Next year. You see, a title does not make a man a God. The Bible makes a man a God. The Bible makes us. But our problem is, we all have the same problem. We think we can logically figure this thing out. If I do it this way, it has to work out that way. If I go here, if I listen to this, if I follow this road, it's got to work out. No. There's only one place to go To get what God wants to put in my life, and that's the scripture. And so I've got to have that relationship. And until we have that relationship We're not going to have in us what we need to reject, what he's told us to avoid. We're going to have problems Because we will take advice where we shouldn't take it, listen to people that we shouldn't listen to And until we come to a place that we know the scriptures, we're not going to be to we're not going to be able to fully identify. The godly people that God puts in our lives to influence us for the time. Like Paul was to Timothy. Amen. So let me challenge you tonight. Ask God to lead you to a study of the scriptures. That will fit you personally. And then I'm not saying take an hour a day. I'm not saying take a half half your day. Learn just to study. Take the minimum minutes you have, whatever time you have, and I guarantee you if you'll give him some minutes, he'll turn them into more time because Once he starts speaking to you personally, you'll want to talk to him more and get more from him. And you'll see the results. Amen. Let's pray.