2 Timothy Chapter 3. 2 Timothy Chapter 3. Now in the Sunday school hour. I covered the beginning of this and I don't want to continue uh all of what we did in the Sunday school hour, but But uh Paul's writing to young Timothy, young pastor at Ephesus, pastoring the churches in Ephesus, and There's uh there's a lot of stuff going on in the church at Ephesus and that Timothy's having to deal with. One of the big things Uh right in the beginning of 1 Timothy chapter 1, he starts talking about the false teachers, leadership that's teaching false doctrine in the church. And encouraging Timothy to deal with it. But uh hold your place there in 2 Timothy and go back to 1 Timothy chapter 3. And uh here in verse uh fifteen of First Timothy three, Paul made this statement. He says But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God. Which is the Church of the Living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. So here he makes a statement that sort of sets the reason, one of the reasons, main reasons, reasons that he's writing these letters to Timothy. And he's saying, Timothy, uh I need you need to teach the people how they ought to act in church. And he's writing to them telling Timothy how they ought to act and and uh And uh does that throughout both books here, both letters. Now in the Sunday school hour, we looked at 2 Timothy 3 First uh few verses and it talks about uh the perilous times that shall come in the latter days. And uh we're in those latter days and we know perilous times has has come and is continuing and he talks about how we ought to deal with it. Now I'm not going to go back and go through all of that But in verse 5, he says, talking about those people, he says, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. And then he says From such turn away. So he tells the Timothy and the folks there at Ephesus, this crowd should not influence you. You should turn away from this crowd. Don't let them be an influence in your life. So in the beginning verses of chapter 3 of 2 Timothy, He talks about those they should not be involved with, those that they should not permit to influence them. But then he comes down to verse 10 And in verse ten, he says, but thou hast fully known But thou hast fully known. Now I would encourage you to write the word in the margin of your Bible, or at least in your mind. The word remember. Because he's saying you need to turn your back on that crowd. You need to not let that crowd influence you and your Actions in the church, your participation in the church, what God wants you to be in the church. But then he comes to this and he says, but remember But remember, but thou hast fully known. And he says, You ought to remember what has been presented to you. And then I circled the word, the next word. Notice what he says My, but thou hast fully known my. And so Paul now says to Timothy, You need to remember the right influences in your life. Because God has put in your life people That have shown you truth, that have led you to right decisions and right commitments and right living and right doctrine and that's what you need to remember. Don't let this crowd That the devil sends in, that does not have the power of God in their lives, don't let that crowd influence you. You remember the influences that God has put there. And that's what I want us to think about for a few minutes this morning. The influences That God has put in your life that has caused you to become what you are. So let's pray and we'll begin. Father, we ask that you would just help us now to see some things that would encourage us. That would cause us to have our relationship with you strengthened and our influence Uh in the lives of others that you want us to help be strengthened. God use this. These folks are here because they want to hear from you today. They want something that would benefit them greatly spiritually. And so I pray that you would bless in the lives of these people and their faithfulness today. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Now, as he begins talking about this, he says, he personalizes it. He talks about his influence in Timothy's life. What God has used him to do in Timothy's life. And he starts by by just talking about his lifestyle Notice what he says, but thou hast fully known my doctrine Manner of life and purpose by doctrine. Doctrine is teaching, truth, instruction And then Paul says, you've seen the way I've lived my life. You've seen my manner of life. You have not just heard me teach doctrine. proclaim doctrine, proclaim truth, but you have seen the way I've lived it. And you've seen the purpose of my life. Now, purpose is determining direction. When you have a purpose for your life, that's the direction you've decided to go. Do you remember what Daniel said? He purposed not to partake of the dir uh king's uh wine and meet and he he had decided already how he was going to live his life. He had determined how he was going to live. And so Paul says, Timothy, you've seen my life. You've seen God put God put me in your life, and you have seen how I have lived my life. You remember that. Now think think of the importance of this. Think of what it means to listen to the crowd that opposes truth versus Someone that has lived a godly life and been a godly influence in your life And not not only did he talk about his his lifestyle, but he also talked about his virtues. Notice what he said here. He said Faith, long suffering, charity, and patience In other words, he says, You have seen where I place my confidence. My confidence in God. You've seen my faith in God You've seen how I have trusted God and lived for God. You have seen my patience, my long suffering, and my love and my affection And my patience and my continuance in life. Now, in all of this, here's what Paul's saying. As he says to Timothy, you've seen my life, you've seen my virtues, the way I've lived my life. He's talking about his patience with God. While God did what needed to be done in his life, Paul went through a lot. Right? We've seen it throughout Acts from His salvation in chapter 9, right on through And what he's saying here to Timothy, he's saying, listen, you've seen how I have let God have his way. And I have been patient to let God make me what He's wanted me to be Until he's brought me. And Paul, Paul's getting ready to finish his course. He talks about it in these verses right after this. And he knows he is he's about finished with his life. But he said, Timothy, you've seen my life, you remember that. You remember how God has used me in your life. But then he moves to a different thing. He said, notice what he says here in verse 11. Persecutions, he's still talking about his life, persecutions, afflictions which came unto me at Antioch, at Spesadia Antioch. And a com and a conim and Lystra, what persecutions I endured He said, not only, Timothy, not only have you seen my life, you've seen me suffer. You've seen me go through the difficulties. You've seen me let God do what he wanted when I went through those making times and those difficult times. You have seen me It's one thing to hear a person's words, it's another thing to look at a person's life. Right? And he's saying, Timothy, don't you listen to that crowd that has turned aback on God, that crowd that just has a form of godliness, but not the power. Don't you let that crowd influence you. You remember what you have seen. And now he said, not only have you seen my life, Not only have you seen my convictions, not only have you seen my suffering, but look at how he closes this thought. Look at the end of verse 11. But out of them all the Lord delivered me He see he said, You have seen me stand firm and let God have his way. Now, you and I need to keep our eyes on people that are living for God. Right? We do not need to listen to the jargon that that would question the Word of God. or the lifestyle that would be lived contrary to the Word of God, we need to notice the godly influence. And then notice what he says. He said, now the scriptures, he's talking about the scriptures and how how they talk about this suffering. He said in verse 12, yea And all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. He said, now this is this is the way it is. This is the way life is. You don't listen to the complainers. Don't listen to the negative crowd. Don't listen to those that are questioning right and truth and godliness. You realize That all scripture, Jesus said it, John 14 and 16, he told these disciples. In Philippians chapter 1, he talked about suffering for Christ. In verse Peter, he talked about suffering. Constantly, all through the scriptures, it talks about suffering. He said, you need to realize, you need to keep in mind that this is a part Of living for God. You don't complain about it. You let God do his bidding in your life. Don't let the negative crowd influence you. You keep your eyes on the scriptures and what they talk about, about what this life is. But then notice what he says. But evil men and seducers Look at this. Shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived Hey folks, it's not going to get any better. Huh? Times are not going to get any better Problems are not going to disappear. Suffering is an ongoing thing. If you want to live for God. Having people disagree with you because of your godly stand, that's going to be there. Always uh don't you don't you just hate to listen to negative things Huh? Don't you hate to listen to problems and difficulties? But that's a part of life. That's the way it's going to be. Now, I talked uh this morning about this this thing of of uh Of not listening to negative things and letting it infiltrate your life, that crowd that's negative and anti scripture. The the problem is this, and and here's that thing of of uh not uh not letting that crowd influence you. Once you listen to something negative, once you listen to something wrong, it's there. It's there. You cannot get it out of there It's going to be there. Now you can you can get scripture and you can deal with it and you can maybe uh uh lessen the influence of it, but The best thing to do is not let it get in your mind How many times have you had someone say something to you about some other person, just something negative? And it may not even be true, but once they say it, it's there. And when that person's name comes up, that thought comes up. And that's why we've got to come to a place that we do not let that crowd In verses two through five become the the crowd that plants their attitudes in our thinking. That's why you have to turn your back on them. That's why you have to ignore them. Now here's what I want to do this morning. I want to spend a few minutes with giving you some personal testimony Of what I saw as I looked at this portion of Scripture and how it affected my thinking about what Paul was saying to Timothy here. Now again, I know I'm repeating this, but again, what he's saying is, Timothy, these this crowd's going to be there. You're going to you're going to be faced with this. The devil has his crowd in the church. The devil has his crowd that are going to try to try to change you if you want to serve God and live for God, they're going to be there. You need to ignore that. But you need to remember the godly influences. And this is what I got. God puts His influences in our lives throughout our life During certain periods of time to help us become what he needs us to be at that time, what he needs us to learn at that time. For instance, you don't know what God has for you next week, next month. You don't know. Right? You don't know where he wants you to serve. You don't know the commitments he wants you to make. You don't know. Right now, you don't know what God is going to do in your life next week, next month, next year. To use you the way he wants to use you. You don't know. But today, I'm convinced he has put godly influences in your life. To make you what you need to be right now so you're ready for next week, next month, next year. But the devil has his crowd that wants to keep you from that influence And Paul saying, Timothy, you don't listen to that crowd, you remember You remember what you've seen, what God has put in your life. Let me just share you, just try to illustrate this to you. I can remember In uh September of nineteen sixty When a man by the name of Joe Cook lived in Elkton, Maryland, uh became an influence in my life Now he was an insurance salesman. Sold prudential insurance. He sold insurance back where the insurance agent came to your house to get the premium, collect the premium. How many of you remember that? That's old people. And he used to be that insurance agent in our town, and I was a rascal. I was one of those guys that you would look at and say Yeah, he won't listen to the gospel. Don't try to t don't try to tell him what God wants. But Joe Cook, uh became interested in me. And he began, and I'll not go through the whole story, but Joe Cook Brought me to a place that I realized what I needed in my life and helped me make the decision to receive Christ as my Savior. God put Joe Cook in my life at that time. There was a time in your life that God put someone there To help you understand your need for salvation. Amen. And you remember that person, you remember that tract, you remember that preacher, you remember You remember some influence in your life. And I was saved in September of nineteen sixty. And then we had a fellow that sort of discipled us, helped uh teach it ta taught us, and and uh we uh we ended up I was transferred for with the company I worked for at that time. They skipped through some years and I was transferred to we were transferred to New England and we spent two and a half years in some plants in New England. And uh we couldn't find a church in New England and and spent two and a half years really with no church. And that was a difficult time But we moved back to the Elkton area and ended up going to a church, Baptist Bible Church in Elkton, Maryland, and God put a man by the name of Tom Wallace in my life. And I was in that church where I learned some things about reaching people and being a witness for God. And again, I'll not go through all the details, but at at that place I learned what it meant to to knock on doors and what it meant to run buses and what it meant to reach reach people with the gospel. And in that place God brought June and I to the time that we made a commitment to listen to God as he led us to Bible school. And so that was a period of time in our lives. It wasn't a long period of time, but it was a period of time. And then in 1967, we went to Bible school and began training. And when I went to Bible school, I got there We moved down in the summer of nineteen sixty-seven. I wanted uh, you know, I was twenty-eight years old. We had four children, and uh I uh I had not been school for a while, so I wanted to get there and go to summer school, so we moved down in May. And uh so I could start school, summer school in June. We got there in May, got to moved down on a Friday, went to church on Sunday, and on Sunday afternoon a fellow knocked at our door And I went to the door, and uh uh this fellow said, uh, I'm M. J. Parker. I'm looking for Pat Creed. I said, I'm Pat Creed. He said, I am over the bus ministry here at Highland Park Baptist Church. And he said, uh next Sunday Saturday, we have a bus meeting at 9. 30, and I would like you to come. And I said, I'll pray about it. He said, no, no. That's not the way it works. He said, you don't pray about it. You come to the meeting. He said, what we're going to do, we're going to give you a bus route. Or we're going to train you. I'm going to give you a bus pastor. They call them bus pastors. And said he's going to train you for a number of months. And once you're ready, we're going to give you a bus route. You're going to build a bus route. And then after you build that bus route for a number of months, then you pray, God, if you don't want me in the bus ministry any longer, get me out. He said, that's the way it works. I said, I'll be there. And God used M. J. Parker for that period of time in my life. M. J. Parker was just a fourth grade education, but man, he knew how to build bus routes. And he taught me how to build a bus route. And in that bus route, it taught me how to reach people and build people and go after people and faithfully minister to people On that bus route, I had it organized. I had a group of people that went with me on my bus route. And uh On uh like on uh uh Thursday night, I would take my team and we go on the bus route and I would have one group that taught a Bible club at a home. And so I would take them and they would be there and and then we would gather the kids up and bring 'em in and they would teach. Then I had another group that would take a certain designated area, they would go door to door to find prospects for me to visit on Saturday And then I had another group that we went soul winning. So I have that thing, I had that thing organized to build that bus route. And Saturday we would go, we'd go after those people, those prospects that we had gotten, plus our regulars that came. I used to get up. There was a time when I would get up because the people on my bus route, a lot of the parents, they didn't care if their kids came or not So I would get up early in the morning and go on the bus route and knock on the doors and wake the kids up And I would tell them, I'll be back in an hour and a half. You get up right now and get dressed and be ready when I get back. Then I would go back and get my family and we'd run the bus. But M. J. Parker taught me that for that period of time. Then I had Dr. Lee Robertson. He was in my life at that period of time. That was uh uh an experience because of his just his lifestyle, like the Apostle Paul. I could say with him that it was his lifestyle, his doctrine, and the way he lived his life, and just the discipline of his life. He was a man of discipline. He taught that He uh he ate three meals a day, about the same thing. Breakfast, lunch, supper And he said, he he would say, uh, you don't eat between meals. If you eat between meals, that shows your lack of discipline. That's convicting, isn't it? He he was so disciplined and so concerned about his life. Things like if he made a hospital visit, he if he went into the hospital alone to make a visit. And he met his wife in the hospital, he would not let her walk out with him. He walked out alone because He did not want anybody to see him go in alone and come out with a woman, not knowing it was his wife. And he was so concerned about his lifestyle. And God put him in my life. And that makes a difference. That's what God does At that time, and I made M. J. Parker and Dr. Lee Robinson, I had no idea what was going on. I just did what they taught I had no idea that that's what they were preparing, that's what God was preparing me for, for years and years later. Learn missions at Highland Park Baptist Church. And I was so uh it was so impressed with the missions and and learning missions I started teaching missions on my bus route. We had three missionaries that we supported on our bus route. It was missionaries that the church had, but I taught them to give the missions every Sunday. And then we would put it in the bu in the in the church. But God was putting those things in by life. And then I left there and and uh then I I uh went ended up in a church at um Bethlehem Baptist Church in Fairfax, Virginia, as an assistant after Bible school. And a man by the name of John Bonds is a pastor. He taught me faith promise. Now, Highland Park was a great missions church, gave over fifty percent of their total income to missions, but it was not faith promise like we like you know it. you practice now. But John Bonds taught me what grace giving was all about. Faith promised giving. And I was just there a year, but but he he taught that in such a way that that uh I got a hold of that. But he it was that period of time That he made that influence in my life. And then there was a fella that influenced me in becoming the pastor at Independent Baptist Church. Now I want you to think about that. God put those people in my life. Right? God put those people there. I mean, I had I really had nothing to do with it except just sort of agree with what God was doing, ending up in Chattanooga, Tennessee, ending up back off to Maryland, ended up in Fairfax, Virginia, ending up at Independent Baptist Church in Clinton, Maryland. God made those moves. And God put people there To teach certain things and put certain things in my life. Now that's what Paul is saying to Timothy here. He's saying, Timothy, the devil has his crown. Perilous times coming. They're there. You're going to have to face it. It's going to be there. You're going to have a difficult time. But you need to be able to identify it and you need to make a decision You need to realize that God has you there for a wind of time to be what He wants you to be. Not just to be what He wants you to be here. But he has put someone in your life to make you what you need to be at this time in preparation for what he has for you around the corner. You and I must realize there are decisions to be made. Decisions to be made. Who has God put in your life? Who has come to your mind while I've shared my testimony? Who have you thought of? That makes you realize that person, that person was used in my life. Now, God has some people in your life right now God has some people in your life right now for a specific purpose. You don't have to figure out the purpose. You just need to let God do what he wants to do. Because he's trying to draw you to a doctrinal truth, to some teaching. He's trying to draw you to a to a lifestyle. He's trying to draw you to an understanding of his presence And uh while you're going through the trouble you're going through, while you're going through the difficulty you're going through, while you're going through the conflicts you go through, You uh you need to just Take a look at what God's put there put there, whose God has put there, why God has put them there, and just make the decision. That needs to be made to move you the way he wants to move you. Amen Now I'd like to get into what follows here, but I don't have time. But tonight I want to share the best part of it. The best part of it. And I hope you'll be here tonight because Paul gives Timothy something for his life and our lives. That's so easy to understand and see in the way he makes us Now you may be sitting here today, and you're not a hundred percent sure you would go to heaven if you died today God is putting some people in your life to help you realize that you need Christ. And if you will receive Jesus Christ, if you'll place your trust and faith in Him and receive Him as your Lord and Savior, He will give you eternal life Not only make heaven for you, but he'll make this life better for you. And then as you sit here as a part of this church, God has you here for a reason. Don't be influenced by the wrong attitude. Keep your eye on the godly influence that God has put for you. And let 'em let them make an inf uh and let them influence your my uh life and make an impression upon your life So you will be right where God needs you to be. The next go around. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed.