Chapter number two, get turned on here. And uh how many people brought your Bibles tonight? Amen. We are, just in case somebody's not clear on this, we are a Bible-believing church And we believe the Bible is God's word given to us by inspiration, preserved for us in the King James Bible, we believe, and um and without error, without mistake, and powerful enough to change a life. Save a soul and change a life. So if we have your Bibles tonight, we're going to use them a little bit, so keep them handy. I know what some of y'all do. You read the passage that I preach on and then you lay it aside and you just listen. But tonight we're going to uh look up a bunch of verses, Lord will it 2 Peter chapter 2, just verse number 9, and all I want is the first phrase out of verse number 9. So all we're going to look at. It says, But the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. I want to talk about this deliverance that the Lord knows how to give for the godly. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. our time in your word. Lord, you're so good to us. You blessed us today. And uh I ask now as we finish out the day in your word and then around the Lord's table I ask, Father, you'd just meet with us. I ask that again. Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. It's always my desire that I yield my will, present my body anew, and pray that you speak your word through me. And help us to be receptive and open-hearted to what your will is for each of our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter is writing under the inspiration of God. Of course, it's not just Peter's writing, it's God speaking through him. as he's recording this, but he is concerned for these believers that have been persecuted intensely, and I repeat myself a lot as we talk about Peter But he's concerned for them in two areas. In chapter number one, he was concerned for their spiritual stagnation And he urges them, and we spent a good deal of time on this, and I tried to really emphasize what I believe Peter was emphasizing. This matter of adding to our faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and to knowledge godliness and temperance and patience and brotherly kindness and charity And he emphasized that all through chapter one. Listen, don't stagnate. Don't plateau or level off in your spiritual growth. Keep growing, keep growing, keep growing, keep growing. The last day of my life here on earth ought to be a day that I'm closer to the Lord than I was the day before And so the danger to a church, a real danger to a church, a Bible-preaching, believing church like ours, is that we get stagnant. We just get comfortable where we're at spiritually and just kind of put it in neutral. How many people know what I'm talking about? You ever been there? Sure. We probably have to deal with that throughout life, all of us. And then chapter 2, he addresses another danger that the church is facing, and this is internal also. And that is false teachers and false doctrine coming in. Look at verse 1 there in chapter 2. And I know we preached through this, but he says, but there were but there were false prophets Also among the people, speaking the Old Testament, folks, even as there shall be false teachers among you. And they privily He says they shall uh uh privily shall bring in damnable heresies. Boy, that sounds bad, doesn't it? A damnable heresy, good night And uh even denying the Lord that bought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction. I put this down as I was kind of reviewing over this passage here again. These guys were weasels They came in privily, you know, weasels are sneaky little things. They'll get in the chicken house, right, Chester? Yeah, they'll sneak sometimes if you don't have the electric plugged in They'll get in there and they'll get those chickens, those chicks, and uh the weasel is a sneaky. That's what these guys are. They come in privily. They're weasels, they're widespread. Verse 2. Many shall follow their pernicious ways They're affecting a lot of people. And then verse 3, they're wicked, and through covetousness shall they with fain words make merchandise of you And so these guys are sneaking in the churches here where the uh where Peter is writing to these believers and their churches. These guys are sneaking in. And they're not killing chickens, they're corrupting their doctrine They're bringing in wicked lifestyle. They're introducing ungodly living into the church, the body of Christ. And so he's addressing that, and um he gives three examples from the Old Testament of Folks, of situations where God dealt with that. There in verse number four, the angels that sinned. And they were judged severely. Even an angel, if it sins, it will be have to face judgment. And then the old world, that was the world before the flood, and Genesis tells us the wickedness of the world, and they were judged. And then Sodom and Gomorrah with uh uh hellfire and brimstone falling down on uh on Sodom and Gomorrah and they were judged And so he's emphasizing this judgment on these apostates, these false teachers, these wicked people creeping in the church Weaseling in the church, corrupting the doctrine, corrupting the lifestyle, introducing wicked, wicked lifestyle, and God's judgment on them. Now we come to verse 9 And it seems to me that Peter is kind of stopping here and saying, hey, folks, listen, God's going to judge these people. We've been talking judgment, judgment, judgment, judgment, but I want to remind you That God remembers the godly also. And sometimes we can get caught up on God's judgment on the wicked, and we forget that God notices the godly also. And God sees what the godly are doing. I have three thoughts. I'm going to try and keep it brief tonight. Number one, I notice a contrast If you would, in verse number four, this statement in verse 9: God knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. That little phrase is actually in the midst of a very, very long sentence You have to come all the way back to verse number four to get the beginning of the sentence. And notice in verse 4 he says, For if God spared not, then he goes on, these angels and the old world and Sodom and Gomorrah And you come on down, all one sentence, all the way down verse 7, 8. Then he says, if for God spared not the angels that sin, then he says, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. I think he's making a bit of a contrast here. He begins in verse 4. God's not going to spare these ungodly, these folks we're addressing. He's not going to spare them. But the Lord knows how to spare. God knows how to deliver the godly. In other words, God's not going to deliver the ungodly from judgment. But the godly, he's going to deliver them from temptation. He's able to deliver them from temptation. From temptation. Just as sure as God will judge the wicked, God will deliver the righteous if we let him from temptation. For instance, he gave the illustration of Noah. God's God. Do you know? Did you know? Did you know That when God flooded the world Noah's flood, that world, that was a worldwide flood I wish we had time. I'd like to go back to Genesis and show you where it says multiple times that every mountain was covered with water. I mean, and he says multiple times, the whole earth. was covered with water. That was not a local flood like some of our liberal neighbors like to suggest. This was the entire world. I mean no dry land on the whole planet. Nowhere at all. Zipst And God delivered Noah from that judgment. Him, his wife, three boys, and their wives. That was it. God knew how to deliver Noah from that judgment. Why? Because Noah and his family were godly. Were godly. By faith, of course. He says lot. God knew how to deliver lot. Do you know? Did you know? That Sodom and Gomorrah and the little towns around them were completely turned to ashes. Nobody escaped out of those cities. Every single person in those cities was turned to ashes, except Lot, of course his wife, she didn't turn to ashes, she turned to salt. Tragedy. And then his daughters came out. God knows how. He's contrasting He's saying God judged the world with flood, but he knew how to keep Noah, the godly, from being destroyed. God judged Sodom and Gomorrah. He turned them to ashes. But he knew how to keep Lot out of there. He knew how to keep Lot and his family out of there. So there's a contrast here. Number two, I want us to notice. How many people are amazed? I'm already on point number two. Yeah. But I want us to notice the Lord's capability. Now here's where we're going to look at this statement a little closer. He says, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. First, the Lord's capability, what God is capable of doing, is what he's telling us. Lord knoweth how. God knows how to do this. First thing I put down, God first of all knows who the godly are. I hate to say this, but sometimes it's difficult to distinguish the godly from the ungodly. When we talked about lot, I mentioned this and I emphasized this. I would have never guessed in a thousand years That Lot was a righteous man until we got to 2 Peter chapter 2, and the Bible says he had a righteous soul. How many people know what I'm talking about? I mean you look at him, you look what he's doing, where he's living, what he's involved in, you say, what in the world? But uh but the Bible says he was righteous, he was godly. And sometimes, and now we you know this isn't ideal. We don't emphasize we don't say that about Lot because we set him up as an example to follow. We knew uh follow his lifestyle. Mention that about Lot when we notice uh when we want to see the grace of God that's saving a soul through faith, even somebody like Lot Sometimes it's hard to tell the difference between a saved and the unsaved. Sometimes an unrighteous person can look more like a Christian than some Christians look like a Christian. Huh? Come on now. It's true. Take your Bible, if you would. Keep your place here. We got our Bibles. Let's use them. We believe them. Keep your place here. Come to Matthew. Chapter number 13 with me, if you would. Matthew 13. And I think the Lord references this to an extent. In verse number 24, I'm going to read a little extended. Portion here, Matthew 13, and verse number 24, the Lord speaking's disciples, and he's giving these series of parables. Now parable is uh uh uh a story he gives. I don't think, let me just, this is completely off-subject, but uh some people say a store a parable is just something Jesus made up To illustrate a truth. I have a hard time seeing the God Almighty making stuff up. I think, this is my opinion, this is Leathermanism, take it or leave it. You can disagree me with me, I wouldn't be offended, I wouldn't fuss with you a bit. But I think these parables aren't just stories Jesus made up for I think they're actual events that the Lord in His omniscience knew had taken place at some place at some time, and without giving names or identifying, he uses them to illustrate something We had uh uh this is why my sermons get long. I keep thinking of stuff. We had a Bible time evangelist years ago, back when I was on staff, back in the early 90s, like 91, somewhere around there And we always critique them. We go over preaching tips and stuff with them, just try and refine them as much as we can. And this one guy was, I was, we had a couple guys preaching, I was critiquing them, and he told this fantastic story. About some guy out in California was on a mountain, lightning struck, and he was given the names and dates and locations, and he's telling, and I'm thinking, this is phenomenal. I can't believe this is amazing that this happened. So finally it was done. I said, I said, where in the world did you find this event that took place? I mean he had first and last names, dates, time, place, this mountain And uh he said, oh, I just made it up. I said, you can't just make stuff up, you know, names and places. So anyway, that the Lord, I don't think the Lord's making stuff up, is my point So he's given this parable. Let's see. We're talking about the difference between the righteous and unrighteous. Sometimes it's hard to tell. Look at verse 24. Another parable put he forth to them, saying The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which soweth good seed in his field. But while men slept, his enemy came. And sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. But when the blade was sprung forth and brought forth fruit, there appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, did not thou sow good seed in the field? From whence then hath these stairs? He saith unto him, An enemy hath done this. The servant said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said, Nay, lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let them both grow together until the harvest. And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. Come over. to verse number 36. He explains this a little bit. The disciples ask him what what are you talking about? And uh verse number 36. And then sent ge then Jesus sent the multitude away and went to his house. His disciples came to him, saying, Declare unto us this parable of the tares of the field. That's been bothering them. They've been thinking about this. Lord, what do you mean? What are you talking about? He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom. Can I say it this way? These are the godly. That Peter's referring to. The good seed are the children of the kingdom, but the tares are the children of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the world, the reapers are the angels, and therefore the tares are gathered and burned in fire, so shall it be at the end of this world. Son of man shall send forth his angels, they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire. And there shall be uh there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then shall the righteous, the wheat, shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father, who hath ears to hear, let them hear. What he's saying here is that I believe he's saying that within any assembly of believers, there could often be, sometimes is, not just believers, but unbelievers who appear very much to be believers. In fact, if you study wheat and tares, a tear is so similar to the wheat that it's hard to tell the difference between them until it's fruit time, until they bear the harvest time, and then you see this has no fruit. There's nothing to harvest off this tear. The wheat has a full head of grain. But the tear doesn't. And as they're growing, it's very difficult to tell the difference. And it's very possible for a person to look like a Christian, sound like a Christian, talk like a Christian, walk like a Christian, quack like a Christian, sing like a Christian, and yet still be lost This can be And so what I'm trying to say is this: God knows the difference between the godly and the ungodly. I tell you, when I first got saved, and I keep referring to myself, but when I walked in that church there in Southerton, Pennsylvania On that Sunday morning, the two weeks after I got saved, I got saved on Monday, and it was two Sundays later, I walked in that church. I guarantee you there was a heap of people saw me walk in there, and it was a little bit of formalistic church. Not bad, but a little bit. I guarantee you there was a heap of people walked in there and said, Wow, praise the Lord, maybe this sinner will get saved today I had gotten saved. I was wanting to grow. But I tell you, you're not going to believe this. You won't believe this. But I had hair down on my shoulders. I walked in there. The ladies were envious. I'm not I'm not joking, I'm telling you the absolute truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. I had a polyester black polyester shirt. Or silk, no, it was silk. I'm sorry. Black silk shirt. I had polyester bell bottoms. I mean the big ones. And I'm telling you, platform shoes probably three, four inches high. I was John Travolta walking down there. I'm telling you, that's the truth And I may have looked, and I guarantee you, I may have looked like a unsaved punk walking in there I'm telling you, God knew that that boy got saved and he was a child of God. And I guess maybe what I want to suggest is this: sometimes be careful about making judgment on people. Either way. And they may look awfully rough and they may be rough around the edges, but God knows whether they know Christ or not. And maybe, maybe they just need some time to grow. They just need some time to grow. And so what I'm saying is, God knows the difference between the righteous and the unrighteous, between the godly and the ungodly. And God knows who the godly are. Sometimes we forget, just as God knows and sees the wickedness of the unsaved, he also knows and sees the deeds of the righteous. If you would, come with me to Hebrews chapter 6, one of my favorite verses. I got a lot of favorite verses But Hebrews chapter 6, and notice verse 10, and I think we ought to be familiar with this. Sometimes we as independent Fundamental hell firing brimstone, devil hating, sin hatin', devil kicking, uh independent fundamental Baptist Man, we get awfully carried away on the judgment of the unrighteous, don't we, sometimes? Come on, we do. We come down hard on them. Now I'm not saying we shouldn't preach our art against wickedness. We should I think sometimes it does us a heap of good that God not only sees and judges the unrighteous, but God also sees and takes note of the righteous. Look at Hebrews 6, verse 10. I like this verse For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. Which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister Listen, while all the wickedness of the world is taking place in our cities and our streets and our parks and all the wickedness we see in our society, I want to remind you there are still some of God's people who are out. giving out gospel tracts also. There are still some of God's people who are still outwinning souls And all we see sometimes is how awful the wickedness is, and we forget there is still some salt being spread in our society. And not just our church. Like I said this morning, we're not the only ones. There are churches all across the land. Now not enough. We need more and we need revival. But I'm saying God still notices that little church and some back holler that still loves God and lives right and tries to be a witness and Tries to make a difference in this world. God sees that just as much as He sees the nonsense going on in our streets. You with me? God knows who the righteous are, He sees it He sees that, he sees that Christian that uh all we're we're all worked up in all the wickedness and we should. We're not we're not suggesting we shouldn't stand against it and be strong against it But I'm saying let's not forget there are still a heap of God's people who give sacrificially to missions so that the gospel can go out all around the world. And God sees maybe that dear person that doesn't get a lot of attention, nobody else notices, but every week, faithfully, they put that faith promise in that offering plate, sometimes sacrificially. They put that faith promise. It may not be the biggest offering. It may not be the most of anything, but they faithfully do what they believe God has led them to do. And they do it week after week after week after week, faithfully, sometimes having to sacrifice something, so I make sure I get there. And I'm here to tell you God takes notice of that. God sees it. God sees it. Um that that dear Christian that maybe can't work a bus route. Physically they can't. That dear godly man or woman that is a little bit limited on what they can and can't do, but every morning, every night, they get before God on their knees. And I pray, God give the preacher power when he preaches. God bless our Sunday school teachers. God use our church. God save souls. God send revival. I'm telling you, God sees that dear person that's faithfully praying. We see all the wickedness. We get all worked up about that. But I want to remind. And God sees it. And God's going to judge it. The very next statement in verse 9 there of 2 Peter 2, he says he's going to judge it. But he says, wait a minute, God knows who the righteous are. He sees them. Listen, if you're serving God, you're living for God, you're trying to do right, don't get worked up if the whole church doesn't know what you're doing. Now we try to be recognized, we try to express gratitude and honor that, but sometimes we miss. But I'm here to tell you, God never misses the one that's doing God that's doing right, doing good. God sees that. God notices that. So God is able to deliver the godly. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. That means He knows who the godly are. He knows in this church who's living for him sincerely. He knows every member of the church here that's faithful to the Lord. And maybe they don't get a lot of recognition. They're not on the platform. But God knows who the godly are. He knows. He knows. Second thing I put down under this capability, the Lord's capability. One, he knows who the godly are. Number two, he knows how to deliver them from temptation. God's going to flood the whole world. How's he going to deliver Ark? How is He going to deliver Noah? Man, he's faithful, he's godly, has faith in the Lord. His faith uh has brought his righteousness. And uh how's he going to do it? God says, I know how to deliver them. I'll have him build an ark. Oh, God's going to judge Sodom and Gomorrah. He's going to rain down fire and burn these cities to ashes But Lot is righteous so, and he's vexed in that. Say, how's God going to deliver Lot? He won't even get out of there. He says, I'll send an angel and drag him out, kicking and screaming. God knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation. David is being hounded by Saul for years. He's running for his life day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year. God, how are you going to deliver David from Saul's sword? From Saul's envy and his hatred and his bitterness, how are you going to deliver David? God says, I know how to deliver him. I'll send a bunch of Philistines there and kill Saul and chop his head off. God knows how to deliver the godly. Bunch of princes in Babylon are jealous of Daniel. They see his integrity, they see his character, and they're jealous. And they get the king to pass a law that if anybody prays to anybody but the king, they're to be thrown in a lion's den. Well David's going to pray, or Daniel's going to pray, it don't matter what law they pass, he's going to pray. And by the way, I hope I'm not being arrogant on this, but we're going to preach the gospel, it doesn't matter what law our nation passes. So you don't throw you in jail, preacher. Well preach God's word in jail. That's easy to say when there's no ja actual threat of that, but um I'd like to believe that's true. Derek will bring cookies from the cell. He'll be in the cell next to me, but um because if I'm going down, you're going down too, brother. How's he going to deliver Daniel from the lion's den? Those things are starving. They're going to tear him up. God knows how he says, I'll give those lions lock jaw. And he sleeps soundly that night. What the Bible is telling us is God knows how to deliver. You and I, if we live for God, trust him, do right. Humbly, live godly, humble lives before the Lord, trusting him. God knows how to deliver us. Shadrach, Mesha, and Ab everybody has to bow down to this statue. We ain't gonna bend, we ain't gonna bow. Well, how's it man, they're gonna get thrown in the fiery furnace. How in the world is God gonna deliver them from the fiery furnace? In fact, they get thrown in the fiery first. God says, I'll tell you how, I'm going to send my son Jesus, be right down there with them, and they're going to be fireproof. When they come out of there, don't even smell like smoke. You say, you believe those Old Testament stories? Absolutely. God knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation. Peter's in jail. They killed James. They're told Peter, You're going to be killed tomorrow. Peter in jail sleeping soundly, and he's going to be killed tomorrow. There's no way he can escape jail. There's nothing he can do. He's going to die tomorrow at the hand of Herod. God, how are you going to deliver them? I'll tell you how. I'm going to have a church pray all night long for their preacher. And they're going to pray and they're going to pray and they're going to pray And because of their prayers, I'm going to send an angel down there. And Peter's so sound asleep, the angel has to hit him, smite him, get up. He gets them out of there. Funny thing is he gets to the house there, P Mark's house, and um they're in there praying. It's like two in the morning probably, three in the morning. They're in there praying, little candles burning, oh God, oh God. He knocks on the door. Little girl, uh what was her name, R Rhonda? Rhoda. Rhonda. Um Word it comes. Who is it? It's me, it's Peter. I they I got out of jail, it's amazing. And the angel Who was it? It was Peter. Peter's at the door. The church says, oh, that's ridiculous. We're praying that God will let him out. It couldn't be Peter. How does God deliver Peter? He gets a church praying, sends an angel, and delivers him from prison I mean, we could just take all night and go all through the Bible how God delivers the godly out of temptation over and over and over and over. And what God did for these folks, God can do for you, and he can do for me. Now let me throw this in. Sometimes being delivered from temptation means going to heaven. Huh? Sometimes God says, all right, He's been faithful, he's been true, and He's got a tough, there's some ugly road ahead. It's been so faithful. I think I'll just take them on to heaven. I'm going to remind you, going to heaven's not a bad thing. I want to remind you, going to heaven is being delivered from temptation. We get to heaven, think with me, we get to heaven, no more sin nature to fight. Woo! Every thought, every feeling, every desire is perfectly holy, in line with the perfect holiness and will of God. What a day that will be. No more spiritual warfare. I think, I don't think, I know, God's going to deliver an entire generation. Of believers from the tribulation by rapturing them up out of here. God knows how to deliver the godly from temptation. God knows how. God knows how. My last point is this. We can notice our confidence. Our confidence. We can have absolute confidence that if we want to do right, God will deliver us from temptation. If you and I want to do right, God will help us. What's 1 Corinthians 10, 13 say? There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man And God will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation provide a way of escape. Every temptation be wrong that you and I face as a believer, God says, I will give you an out. There'll be some way you can escape it. If there's some temptation that there's no way I can resist it, there's no way I can get away from it, if that would exist, then God would not let me be tempted with that temptation So every temptation that I face, every temptation that I have to deal with, I know I can have victory over it because if I couldn't, God would not let me face it. And so the very fact that I'm being tempted should encourage me to say, hey, you know what? I don't have to give in to this because God is allowing it to take place. He knows I I can have victory over it. Are you with me if I know what I'm saying? Take your Bible and I'll end with these. Go to Hebrews chapter 2. I just want to try and encourage you. We can have confidence. God can give us victory. God can give us victory. I'm c I'm pretty certain I'm talking to some, I don't know for l specifically, but I've been doing this long enough. I'm pretty certain I'm talking to some folks, some Christians that are struggling with temptation and you're getting whooped. And it's got the best of you. Notice Hebrews chapter number 2 and verse 18. For in that he himself, Jesus, hath suffered being tempted, he is able to secure them. What's the word secure mean? Somebody help me. To help, encourage, strengthen, make them possible. He is able to secure them that are tempted. You know what? Jesus already went through temptation. He says, when you're facing it, if you'll let me, I'll come down there and help you. I'll help you. How many people think that if Jesus Christ was physically, literally physically right there with you, you probably wouldn't give in to that temptation? Huh? You got your phone Tempted, go somewhere you shouldn't, and Jesus is right beside you. Right or wrong? I'm here to tell you, he is right beside you. You can go someplace. Uh they got a party at work. Uh I could probably go after dark, nobody'd see me Hey listen, if you want to have victory over that, you can. You can. Go with me, if you would, to Hebrews chapter 4. And notice verse 15. What I'm trying to say is God knows how to give us victory. Verse 15: for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Look at this. But was in all points tempted like we as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore Come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. Jesus Christ has gone before us. He's paved the way. He's done everything we need to do to be accepted by God. He puts that to our account. And when I'm struggling, when I'm being discouraged, when I'm struggling with temptation, I can come directly to the throne of God and say, God, I need your help And we can be confident of God's help. God knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. Done it all through history, it's all through the Bible, and God will do it for you, and God will do it for me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to have confidence that if we'll let you and we'll trust you. You'll help us live in victory. And God, when those trials and troubles come, you're able to deliver us. When the time is right, you're able to deliver us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I really need to learn to lean on the Lord a little bit more. And just trust him in my Christian life to lead me and enable me and strengthen me. Look to him in prayer for help. Anything like that by the uplifted hand? I need that. I need it. My hand's raised. It's part of Christian living. And maybe tonight, before we go to Lord's Supper, you'd want to come kneel at an altar and say, God, I want to live by faith. I want to trust you. I want you to give me victory in my life. Be a testimony for your goodness in your glory. Father bless our imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's