First Corinthians, 1 Corinthians and chapter 2. 1 Corinthians and Chapter 2. And again, we're going to look at the Culture War today and how Christians play a role in the Culture War. But let me just say this before you even enter into the Culture War. You need to understand something that you won't even be a player. You're going to be a victim, not a victor, of the culture war if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior. Amen. The most important thing that a person can do is decide where they're going to spend eternity. Because where they're going to spend eternity and getting that destination solved while they live will give them the abundant life. And here's the problem Too many times people think that they are going to be happy by following happiness. That doesn't happen that way You know why? Because happiness is like a roller coaster. Now my wife and I, we used to be roller coaster junkies. I'm not kidding her. I mean uh we were you know, many times out with teenagers and and we'd be going to amusement parks and we would have it all mapped out where the roller coasters were and the teens would all follow us. Oh follow brother Mrs. Hardy 'cause you're gonna go to the biggest, fattest roller coasters and they're gonna they're gonna get it done, they're gonna get it done quick, and we can ride two or three times if we go with them. Well, I can remember one particular lady, this young teenage lady that was with my wife and I, and uh she had ridden a roller coaster that went backwards. That was rather interesting. Amen. And the girls when they were crying, the the tears weren't coming this way, they were shooting out that way. You know, and they were riding backwards, you know, through the old roller coaster. And uh and then we went frontwards and went up and down and round and And it was wonderful. But Katrina, when we got off, this young lady that we knew, this teenager, I looked at Katrina and her face was about as white as that wall right there. I said, uh Katrina, you need to sit down kind of breathe deeply because you're about to lose your cookies, okay? And so she did. She uh sat down and she started breathing, and then the color came back to her face and she started feeling better. Very hot day. And so we went to the next roller coaster. We were in line. I don't know if you know anything about the lions that amusement parks are very, very, you know, close quarters and And everyone's sweating, you know, and they've just been running from one ride to another, and so everyone's all together, and you know, there's some particular odors that begin to uh immerse. But in any case we won't we won't go there. But um uh I looked over and we were almost to the very front of the line. And I looked at Katrina and she was her face was white like that again. And she was going like this. I won't go any further than to say, I told her, Katrina, you need to go get out of line. And so sh she of course knew she was gonna get sick if she didn't to go sit down somewhere. But the i it was kind of interesting because When she tried to go back down through the line, no one was getting out of her way. And she was actually trying to get out of line. But then it happened. Uh she opened her mouth and it just I mean it it flew, okay? Projectiles, you know, coming everywhere. And it was like the parting of the Red Sea. It was an amazing thing. I mean, you saw everyone. They gave her plenty of room, you know, and she was able to get out quickly. But, you know, why why why did I say that I said that because if we follow happiness in life, you know what it's going to give us? The ups and the downs, the ups and the downs? It's going to make us sick. Because sometimes you're going to be up and sometimes you're going to be down. If you follow happiness that's based on happenings, it's like a roller coaster. What you need is Jesus Christ in your heart. Because when you have Jesus Christ in your heart and you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're not just counting upon happenings to make you happy You have the Lord that gives you joy that's constant. No matter what life brings, this and or that. You have Jesus living in your heart. And by the way, you say, well, what's the other advantage? You won't go to hell when you die Because, by the way, there is a literal hell. And here's a lot of things a lot of people say. And even young people, listen to me, young people, because you think that you're immortal. I have seen a lot of young people die unexpectedly You are never promised tomorrow. But every knee will bow sooner or later. Some will bow too late When the knee bows and confesses Jesus Christ as Savior at the Great White Throne judgment, then that soul is thrown into the lake of fire. Well the Lord should never do that. He's a loving God. Yeah, but uh the wages of our sin send us to hell, not God. He wants us to go to heaven. That's why he gave his son Jesus Christ and the gift of God through Jesus Christ, our Lord, is eternal life. And so if we want eternal life, it's easy. You just Ask Jesus for it. That's repentance. When you listen to someone like me that's talking about the fact there's one of two ways it's going to happen That's conviction where you stop and listen. Repentance is turning from your way to God's way. I did that when I was twenty-one. I shudder in the fact that I lived a wild life up to that point, and there were times where I knew If I woke up in hell, I would have been deserving of it. But God was gracious to me. But he won't be, you know, I'm saying again. We need to understand, say, why'd you say that, Brother Harding? I didn't even plan on saying that. The Lord just knows what needs to be said. Amen And so look, if you want to know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you can know him before you walk out those doors today. Amen. And may I say this, it's just not knowing that he is the Savior Because I knew Jesus Christ was the Savior world. The Bible was the Word of God. I believed there was a heaven and a hell. At the age of 21, until then, knowing all those things, I would have died and split hell wide open. But at the age of 21, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. I didn't just believe Him as the Savior. I accepted Him as my Savior. What's that? Moving it from your head to your heart and asking Jesus Christ to come in and be the master of your life. And the Savior of your soul. Amen. So it all goes back to Jesus here in the Corinthians, the book of the Corinthians, what's going on? Well, the people of Corinth They were a very metropolitan city. This was the crossroads of all the trade, and so the people had all the niceties of life So the type of things that we have, indoor toilets, hot and cold running water, it was an amazing civilization even back in those days. But the people of Corinth had a problem with their thought process. They needed a renewal of their minds. I want to show you something here in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 1 and let's read it. It says here, 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 1, and I, brethren, this is of course Paul, he's talking to them, when I came to you. Came not with excellency of speech or wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined Not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech And my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. That's your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you now for loving us. And dear God, as we begin this conference of the Christian and the culture war, Father, we ask that you would enter into this service. Dear God, we desire and we implore your presence, the presence of your blessed and holy spirit. Lord, the provision that only He can provide, that sweet and holy unction through and by His power, Lord, as I step back, we pray collectively that you would step forward. And I surrender to you my mind and these lips and this tongue, and I pray that you would enlarge and enlighten this mind, articulate These lips and this tongue, and dear God, through and by thy Holy Spirit, seize in every word that's said, and apply it, infuse it into our minds and our hearts, we thy people. And if there is one person here that knows you, That knows you as the Savior but has never accepted you as her personal savior, may they make the day today. knowing that if they walk out, they do not have the promise of tomorrow. So Father, undertake now, and we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory. Create and maintain a hedge protection around us and bind off the wicked and the evil one. Help the cares and burdens, aches and pains of this life just to dissipate for a while. And dear God, meet with us. Now we ask it In the precious name of your Son and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. By the power of the merit that's in his name, we ask it again. Amen. And so here we see something very interesting. I think we see Paul trying to show the people of Corinth that there are three things that he wants to give them that will help them to gain the abundant life. I like living. I don't, I'm not one of those Christians that's just enduring to the end. Okay? I enjoy my Christianity. Amen. I'm smiling, I'm walking around, a lot of times people say, What are you smiling for? Because I have the Lord Jesus Christ living in my heart. Amen? And I talk to people and and I talk to and get people's names. And boy, we get really good service. We got service good last night because Brother Leatherman And misses Leatherman knew the waitress, amen. But when I don't know the waiter or waitress, I get their name and I start talking to them immediately. Hey, when I'm going through airports, I'm talking to people that I don't know and laughing with people and enjoying people. Why? Because I have an abundant life. That's why, because I'm not just rolling through this life I'm just not enduring to the end. I'm not looking to the world for what they're going to offer me. I'm not looking to the drug culture or the things of the world to give me happiness. No, I'm looking to God. Because I'll guarantee you, he's much more than anything that the devil can offer, because the only thing the devil can offer us is counterfeits. Right. I don't like counterfeits. I like the genuine article, amen. I don't like knockoffs. I went over to China not too long ago. They had all these different, you know high dollar uh you know different brand names but they were all knockoffs they weren't the original I want the original I want the genuine article and what Paul was saying was, look, I I want to declare something unto you. I want you to understand something that we should not be conformed to this world, but we should be transformed by the renewing of our mind. What So that we can prove what is good and acceptable and the perfect will of God. I don't want to think my thoughts. My thoughts are boring. I want to think the thoughts of God. And we can all do that. It's not just for a few. We can think the thoughts of God because we have the thoughts We have the mind of Christ, which is the Bible. And the more we get into the Bible, the more God gives us thoughts from him by transforming our mind. Well, you young people, you remember, you probably played with the Transformers. How many of you guys had transformers? Okay, well there's one at least that's honest. The rest of you guys probably you're cool now, so you don't want to anyone to know that you play with transformers. I get it, I get it, I I know, I know. But you uh I know you had transformers and they were a card and they transformed into this monster. Transformed, right? Look, I don't want to be conformed to the world. I don't want to be a cookie-cutter type of person. I want to be transformed. into something new every day. Something unique. Some people say you're crazy. Yeah, but I'm a good crazy. I enjoy the Christian life. Amen. And I feel sorry for this people that are just enduring to the end. But what I'm saying is, Paul said, look, I want to declare something unto you. I want you to understand something. You're living in the Corinthian culture constantly surrounded by the winds of worldliness that are trying to extinguish the sacred fire in your hearts. Don't let it happen. Keep that fire burning. Don't think that you're going to live a life on the basis of unsanctified common sense with self-preservation as its ultimate goal, that you're just going to make a lot of money. You're gonna go ahead and make all the money that you can, and then sit on the can. And you realize by the end of the day, your money is not gonna buy you anything. Money doesn't buy you happiness. Yeah, no, it it buys you food and and and yes, we should um be able to live a a good life and I'm not trying to demean that whatsoever, but that shouldn't be the ultimate goal. Most folks don't understand that self-seeking And self-serving attitudes lead to self-destruction. You say, what are you talking about, Brother Harding? Matthew 10 and verse 39 says, He that findeth his life shall lose it. There's a lot of times, you know what the world says? Find yourself. No, that's not the abundant life. You're not going to live the abundant life by finding yourself. Well, how do I live the abundant life? God says this because it's a contradiction of what the world normally says. He says, you want to find your life, lose it. You want to get, give. Huh? How does that work? I don't know. Aside from the fact that I've tested it and it's true. And the more I give, the more God gives to me. The more of myself the more of my time, the more of my talents, the more of my money, the more than I give to God. You know why? Because God's not going to be a debtor to anyone. He is going to give you back more than you gave him. So he that loseth his life from my sake, God says, shall find it. Proverbs fourteen, verse fourteen says, The backslider in heart shall be filled in his own ways, and a good man shall be satisfied from himself What am I saying? I'm saying this. There's a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end or of the ways of death. I did it my way. Yeah, go ahead and try it your way. Because there isn't any your way. There's the devil's way and the Lord's way. Too many times people find that out too late when they wake up in hell and realize in hell there is no hope. There is no end, and the smoke of the torment rises up forever. Their conscience is never quenched. They could have had this, they could have had that. They could have lived eternally with God in an amazing thing that we don't even understand, can't comprehend of what heaven is going to be. But Paul says he came to them, not with excellency of speech or wisdom, but declaring unto them a testimony of God. That should be the declaration of our life. Amen? Who God is. Look, I want to declare something unto you that I've received Jesus Christ as my Savior. That's my declaration. Amen? Now when you declare something, that purpose in life, that driving force, look, like Paul, we should have one declaration in life, one purpose, one driving force, a fire lit from within, seeing the Holy Spirit of God. People being saved. It's the blueprint of our life. Hey, the Declaration of Independence is the blueprint of our country. Can you imagine These men, these 56 men, signed the Declaration of Independence. You know why they signed it? Because the king wasn't following his own rules. And they said to each other in the Declaration of Independence about nature's God, they said, we are going to sign something called the Declaration of Independence, 56 signers. And we're going to do this because the king's not letting us print Bibles. Not because of representation without taxation without representation. Not because of that. That was way down on the list. They were being infringed upon their personal rights to live a life as God would have them live, and because of that They risked everything to sign the Declaration of Independence. Amazing to me. It was a purpose that they had, born out of the fact that they knew who God was It was the blueprint of our country, and the reason why they said to each other we are going to risk our lives, our fortunes, and our secret honor is because this is Upon the blueprint of our souls. And we're going to make the sovereign of our souls, Jesus Christ, that has given us a promised home in heaven, we're going to make him the sovereign of a nation. That's amazing. That's the history of our country. That's wonderful. That's what Paul was echoing here. That we have a declaration of our life, our life's work. That which, as 1 John 1. 3 says, we have seen and heard, declare we unto you That he also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son Jesus Christ. These things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. I want people to have joy. So I want to take the attract and give them something and say, this will tell you how you can know for sure you're going to heaven. When you die. Look, I know it's true because God saved me. And so I want you to taste what I. Don't you remember when you were a kid? If you found something that tasted good, if you want a stingy gut Right? You wanted someone, hey, taste this. This is really good. And you'd share it with your friends. Alright? You weren't like that guy that came up to the cookies and said, mine, mine, mine, mine, mine, mine, mine. And his friend came up and said, That's right. Yours, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours. But you're someone that wants to share. Hey, Christ has given me a new life, a joy that is uncomparable, that's unspeakable. And it just continues as that old song says that we used to sing on the bus racks. It's bubbling in my soul. I'm singing and I'm shouting. You know why? Because Jesus made me whole. That's the declaration of my life. And the reason why those men were willing to put their wealth and their families and everything they had on the line was because that was the declaration. that God had given to them inwardly, and so they made an outward declaration that said, we are going to take what we know that Jesus Christ has given to us and actually formulate a country based upon that. The declaration. That's an amazing thing. That look if you want to be a part of the culture war, the culture war starts from within first. If you want to be a Christian that is fighting the cultural war in the right way, we're going to get into some some semantics and some things as well in the next few days. But first of all, the first battle that you must win is an inward battle Because the culture war is going to affect you. And for you to rise above it, you need to understand that this then is the message which we have heard of him And declare we this one thing declare unto you that God is light and in him there's no darkness at all God is truth, and in God there is no falsehood. God is strength, and in him there is no weakness. God is victory, and in him there is no failure. God is great. And in him there is no mediocracy. God is wonderful, and in him there is no disappointment at all. God is kind, and in him there is no cruelty. God is holy, and in him is no sin at all. The declaration. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth. And to those things which are before it. Declaring. This is the work. This equates to joy. First Corinthians 3. 13. Every man's work is shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it. Because It shall be revealed by fire, and fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. So we, you see. We'll one day have our works, whether they be woods hay and stubble. Look, I hope you don't have your works burned up. At the Benoit, I hope you get to the Venice. I hope you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. When the last time that you gave a tract, maybe a few weeks ago, you need to grab some tracts on the way out and give some tracks out. Look, you understand? Every time you give a tracked out, there's a spark of the eternal. Every time that they give a tracked out at the fairground, there's a spark. of the eternal, where God says, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth, it shall not return unto me void. Man, that's I mean every time I give a tract and they take it, it's a spark of that promise right there. God says, I won't let it return void. It shall Not return unto me for it, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and shall prosper in the thing whereunto I send it. Wow So Paul said, look, I want to declare this to you. Our founding fathers said, I want to write something and I want to sign my name to it. And they were thinking about even not even signing it They said that's a coward, that's the coward's way out. We want to declare to the world that we are going to turn away from the king. The King of England, and we're going to turn to our King, King Jesus, and that was the theme after the declaration was signed. No king, but King Jesus That's an amazing fact. And the reason they declared that outwardly is because they had already declared that inwardly. Because they had that declaration that Jesus Christ had saved their souls, 97% of them, by their own admission. Had a walk with God. Number two, look at this. It says Paul not only did he have a declaring where he says in verse one or wisdom declaring unto you the testimony of God. But number two, very quickly, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Determination not to know. Anything among you, save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. It says no matter what the purpose of life, it always goes back to the cross. No matter what's going on, always go back to the cross. I like C. H. Spurgeon. He said, read the text and then run to the cross. Our country was given to us for the gospel of Jesus Christ. That flag stands there because this flag stands there. Our heavenly flag has given us a nation where young people can live free and think free. Where they're not put into a mold and oh no, you're going to trade school or you're going to this kind of school. No, they can do whatever they want to do. And look, young people can grow up to be entrepreneurs I mean a lot of times when I was teaching in college and in secondary education, sometimes I'd bottom my students and say, why'd you value students? Because I don't know. One of them may be the next president of the United States Well these people right here, yeah, one of them right there, or a senator, or a congressman, or an entrepreneur, a head of a corporation. You don't know, you see, because young people can do anything that they can imagine here in America. You know why? Because we have liberty, we have great freedom that was given to us through and by men who had that declaration and then had a determination. Determination not to know certain things. The declaration of Jesus Christ and Him crucified, burning in their heart, was determined, you see. What are we determined not to know? Say, we talk about Brother Hardy, I'm determined not to know the things of the world. You know why? Because I want to know the things of the next world I'm determined not to know the music of this world or the gossip of man or to think on the wrong things. Why? Or those secret sins don't know to God Why? Because I want to see God clearly. I want to think about God. I want Him to have communion with me. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. So that His blessed face may be seen. When we Go out and we nibble around the edges of the world, it diminishes our desire for Christ. It diminishes our exchange with Him, you see. I want to see God clearly. Look, I need to see God clearly. These young people need to see God clearly. Us older people need to see God clearly because he's the one that's in front of us. Leading us. He's the one walking next to us. I have reliance upon the Holy Spirit of God because I have an alliance with the Holy Spirit of God. I want to talk with him. I want to have him talk to me. Amen? I want to hear that still small voice. You see, Brother Harding, you hear that still small voice. That still small voice of the Holy Spirit of God has kept me out of a lot of trouble. You know why? Because the devil is as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. That's why we need to Understand to determine not to know certain things. All things are delivered to me of my Father, and no man knoweth the Son, who the Son is, but the Father, and who the Father is, but the Son And he to whom the Son will reveal him. Don't you want God revealed to you more today than he was yesterday? I do. You know what we have to do if we want more of God today? We've got to do something different today than we did yesterday. Because if you've done what you've always done, you'll have what you've always had. Huh? So don't be satisfied. Do something different. So what can I do different? Well, if you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, accept Jesus Christ as Savior, that'd be something different. Amen. If you're not reading your Bible the way that you should, get into your Bible, start reading some of your Bible. You know what your Bible is? It's a love letter from God to you. Before I got married to my wife. I was in Wyoming. She was here in Maryland. I was up there during the oil boom and I was uh working in a coal mine. You were a coal mine below? Yes, I was. Strip miner. Okay? And I I mean I was working, I mean, I you know, I had black hands to prove it. And my hands were soiled by coal that I could scrub and never get out because they're working man's hands. But when I was away from my wife to be, she was my sweetheart, then she was my, you know, fiance And by the way, she said, I wasn't very romantic because I didn't even ask her. I told her she was going to marry me. Kind of a caveman, you know, type of thing And and she said, Okay, big boy and you know I don't know what she would if she had said no, I would have said, Look, I know where you live, you know. And uh But she said yes, she wanted to, and that was a good thing. But when she was separated from me, uh she would write me l love letters Oh yeah. What'd they say? None of your business. Okay. But I mean they'd have hearts drawn on the outside and she'd spill some perfume in there, you know, and I would go to get it And uh from the post office and and and I'd look at it and and there was, you know, I could do I could tell it was from her and I'd smell, oh man, you know, she nice perfume, you know. And I would read that thing and I'd read it before I even got back to my vehicle And I'd read it again and I'd read it again. And by the time I got the next one, that person was just about worn out. Okay? Well that's what the Bible is. It's God's love letter to us. See, he's been searching, seeking for us since the very beginning. When Adam and Eve went awry, he came searching for him. Where art thou? He knew what would have happened, right? Where art thou? Adam started, you know, trying to solve the problem himself by sewing grape leaves together. And that was man's first attempt at his man-made religion? God said, no, no. Took one of the animals, probably a very close animal, because they knew all the animals. Adam and named all the animals and took one of the animals and slew it. and covered them with the skin of the animal, blood sighed in. Possibly a lamb, who knows But he said, no, see, because of your sin, which is red, and he's recovered by the blood, which is red. That's an amazing thing to think about. I determined not to know certain things here. You know why? Because I want to be effective for God. Because every one of us is going to be involved in the culture war. And we need to respond. correctly from within to the world. In order to do that, we need to have the war won first of all within us before we step out. What we need to understand about the determination of God, this takes the pressure off because then all we need to do is declare who God is through determination, not caring what anyone else says. Well I don't know if I want to say that because they're going to know exactly where I stand. Good. Or our founding fathers declared it. Boy, they paid the price. But they paid it for us and we're beneficiaries of what they did. They declared it to the whole world. Can you imagine that? By man's standards, they had committed high treason, but they said, no, no, no, because we serve a God much higher than the God of I mean we serve a king, excuse me, much higher than the king of England We serve the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God of Father, he declares himself through us, through the determinate council and foreknowledge of and continually demonstrated in the only one by the power of the Holy Spirit of God. And that's what we need to do. We need to determine Dear God, we should pray this. Lord, allow us to declare who you are and determine not to know worldly things so that we can witness, number three, and look at it with me As we close here, this is the third and last in verse 4. If we have the declaration and the determination to make the declaration, Then this is what happens in verse 4. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. When you have the power of the Holy Spirit of God working within you, there's nothing like it. Nothing. There's nothing that can be compared to it. When you know that you're speaking for God, That you are a living epistle, and you're declaring unto the world the way that they can get through all the minutia and see the truth of God and go to heaven when they die There's nothing like the fact upon your determination that God gives you the demonstration of the Holy Spirit See, we don't, there's no way I can explain to you. Wake up, young lady. We're not we're not through yet. Wake up, turn around and listen, okay? It's not because of what I'm saying, it's because of what the Bible says. And you need to pay attention because this could influence your eternal destination where you're going to spend forever. But when we do this, it takes all the pressure off because I can't explain to you how to get to heaven. Have I ever tried to explain to someone? Yeah, I thought it was it's depending upon me. And when I first started witnessing for the Lord, I had all the scriptures and I had it all the presentation was flawless. And man, oh man, I'm telling you, it was just, you know, I thought this person's definitely definitely going to get saved because look at the presentation. Look at what I did. I'm getting all the scriptures just right. And and so I got to the end of the plan of salvation. I said, so um would you like to accept Jesus Christ as Savior? You wouldn't, wouldn't you? And they went, no. I went, huh? And I walked out of the house, baffled. I said the presentation of the gospel was flawless. I had all the scriptures, they were rolling off my tongue. And then I went to the next house and I prayed, Lord, please, speak to me and through me. But this time I fumbled and I forgot some scripture. I was trying to find verses and and I got through probably one of the worst presentations of the gospel that I have ever given anyone. And I even looked at it and said, You wouldn't want to accept the Lord, would you? And they said, Oh yeah. Well you would? They said, Oh yeah. Yeah, I want to get saved. And as I walked out that still small voice said I want you to learn something today. It's not you. It's me. You just declare it. You determine to declare it. And you count upon me, and I'll be the one that demonstrates it to them. I'll reveal it to them. It's not you. It's me. Boy, that takes the pressure off. It's not me. There's no way that I can explain the gospel to anybody, but I can present it to them. For the wage of sin is death. Eternal death. Separated from God for all of eternity with no hope. But the gift of God's eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord Wow, it's a gift. You can't earn it. You can't earn the gift. You earn the wage of sin, which is death, but you can't earn a gift. And the gift of God is eternal life. He paid the wage by his sin on the cross, by his death on the cross. Sinless That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's anyone. You do your part, he'll do his part. Turn from thy way to his way. That's easy. And as is written, God says that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may believe in the name of the Son of God. All I can do is just tell you If you realize you're a sinner, and because you've sinned, you're on your way to hell because you've earned it. Jesus Christ came and died on the cross and gave you the gift of eternal life. And all you need to do is ask for it. Whoever, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, promise, shall be saved. You turn from your way, that's repentance, to his way. And he will come into your heart and give you the gift of eternal life, the greatest gift ever offered in time and eternity. That's the declaration. That's the determination. To open their eyes And turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins. I did, and anyone will. An inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. The inheritance. I remember true story. And this man walked in. And there was an auction going on. And there was a huge amount of masterpieces. And this particular man had amassed an amazing amount of multi-million dollar masterpieces from all over the world, very wealthy man. And there was one painting That was of his son that had died in the war, and a friend of his son had painted his son's portrait and had given it to him. And it wasn't a master, but it was a good likeness of his son. And so he cherished that painting. This this wealthy man had now died and gone to heaven. And so they were auctioning or about to auction all of these priceless paintings and and other sculptures. And they brought out that first painting. And the auctioneer said, who would give twenty dollars for this painting? And the people said, get on with the masterpieces, we don't want that thing. Get on with the masterpieces The auctioneer would say, Is there anyone that would want to give a bit on on this painting? This was the man's son. It was this was and he gave the the background this this His son died in the war and and a friend of his that was with them painted this painting and it was treasured by this man. No, we don't want that painting. Get on with the auction. We want to get the masterpieces here The multi-million dollars that are sitting here, this is what we wanted. Finally the option said, wouldn't wouldn't anyone give anything for this painting And there was one person there that wasn't really wealthy at all. He spoke up and said, I'll give the twenty dollars The option here said, is there any more than twenty that anyone else like to offer for this painting? Anyone? No, no, just give it to this guy, let's go on with the option, was the cry of all the rest of the people. Finally the auctioneer said, going once, going twice, and the gabel fell, sold. They gave the painting to the man. The man walked up and he had known the rich man, had worked for him, and knew the son, walked away with this treasured painting of the representation of this man's son not worth much. And the auctioneer. Face the crowd and the crowd said, okay, okay, let's let's go. Auctions said, no, um, auction's over. I said, what do you mean the auction's over? You have all these pennies. We need to go on with the auction. He said, no, no. He said what you didn't understand was in the will of the man, the person that bought the painting of his son gets everything. Because he that has the Son has all. And he that has the Son of God has all The declaration of God the Father. Determination of who Jesus Christ is, the Son. And the demonstration of the Holy Spirit of God. That's the trying truth that God's given to us, that we must possess That we must continually remind ourselves that the war of the culture that we want to be victorious in Must be fought within, first of all. We must be victorious here before we can move out and be victorious there. That's his message this morning. Let me ask you a question today. Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness? Hath translated us into the kingdom of His Son? God. That gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The culture war is something that we're engaged in. And we're going to be going into much more depth. But this morning, may we all, with Paul, have the declaration, determination to do what we should do in declaring him. And then reliance upon that demonstration of the Holy Spirit of God by determining each and every one of us that we are living epistles. Because when we have the Son, we have it all. All eyes closed, all heads bowed. Let me ask this question. Please be honest. No one's looking around with the pastor and I. How many would say with a hearting something that you said, God spoke to my heart? And I don't know Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior. I know that he is the Savior, but I've never accepted him as my personal Savior. And I don't want to go to hell. I'm positive I don't want to go to hell. But I'm not for sure that I'm going to heaven either. And I want to make 100% sure today that I've done what God says to do so that I can, when I die, go to heaven. And I can have the abundant life here on earth. Brother Harding, would you remember me in this prayer? Raise your hand. Let me see anyone like that. Say, Brother Harding, yes, I see your hand. Thank you. Thank you. That took some courage. Brother Hardy, I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven, but I'm positive I don't want to go to hell. Remember me. One young young person raised their hand, someone else. Don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I'm positive I want to go to hell. Pray for me, Brother Harding. No one's going to come to you. We're not going to embarrass you. But if you don't know for sure that you're going to heaven, oh my, it'd be good to know With the pastor's permission. I'm just going to lead everyone in a word of salvation. I don't normally do this. Very seldom do I ever, but I just felt led to do it today. If you'd like to know for sure that you're going to heaven, you just say this prayer believing in this prayer and what this prayer says, and God will save you. You say it to yourself, unto God, with the heart, man believeth unto righteousness, confession is made unto salvation. Dear Lord, I know I'm a sinner. I know I cannot save myself. But I'm sorry for my sin. I want to turn my back on my way. And go your way. Jesus, I want you to come into my heart. Forgive me my sins and be the savior of my soul And take me to heaven when I die. Give me that gift of eternal life. I pray in Jesus' name I'm going to pray it once more. If you want to know for sure you're going to heaven, it's not just the words. It's your saying the words in your heart and meaning them and saying them to God. So if you want to get saved, you repeat this prayer, dear God, I know I'm a sinner. I know I cannot save myself But I'm sorry for my sin. And I want you, Jesus Christ, to come into my heart. Forgive me of my sins. Be the master of my life, Savior of my soul. Take me to heaven, and I die. In Jesus' name. As all eyes are closed, all heads are bowed. You say, Brother Harding, I prayed that and I meant that. Because I want to know for sure that I'm on my way to heaven. Here's my hand, which you pray for me, Brother Harding. No one's gonna come to you, we're not gonna embarrass you. But as all eyes are closed, said I prayed that prayer, Brother Harding. Here's my hand. Lift your hand up, let me see. Anyone like that at all? Yes, two hands. Three. Good. Heavenly Father, thank you now for loving us in this. We turn the invitation over to the pastor. Have your will and way in this invitation. If there's Christians here that you've touched their hearts and they need to do something at the altar this morning, Lord help us remind us, in the Old Testament the altar was built. So that people could come back to you and worship you and give sacrifices unto you. So Lord, there's anyone here today that You spoke to their heart through the message. They want to be more of a declarer of who you are and have greater determination in that declaration. And yearn to sense the Holy Spirit's demonstration of power and seeing people saved. I pray you'd help them to come forward today. And Lord, help us all to be victors within of the culture warfare, which really is spiritual warfare, so that we can be victors from without Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. So all eyes are closed, heads are bowed, if you would please stand to your feet, and I'm going to turn the invitation.