To uh Matthew chapter sixteen In verse 21 of Matthew chapter 16, the Word of God says, From that time forth Began Jesus to show unto his disciples how they must go into Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. And then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned and he said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan, for thou an offense unto me For thou saverest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. And then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. And follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. Whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. Our Father, as we get into your word once again, we ask for your help, your enlightenment, your wisdom. Lord, we just uh we need you as we always do. And uh tonight, Lord, I pray that uh the challenge that goes forth will be one that will find a resting place in the hearts of those who have listened. So help us, Lord, to attain to your word and allow it to work in our life. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. What is the disciple, anyhow? Well, Jesus was talking to his disciples here, and yet uh He said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. So what Jesus has done here in that one verse, he's laid out three things that qualify you to be a disciple of Christ. So let's look at these things. First of all, it says uh deny self, deny him self What does it mean to deny a self anyway? Well, it uh means that that uh forgetting oneself To lose sight of oneself and one's own interests. That makes sense? Yeah, let me read it again. Forget to for to deny is to forget oneself and to lose sight of oneself and one's own interest. In other words, it's just it's putting you on the bottom of the list. As far as your interests and your desires and the things that you want to do, it means that uh uh you're gonna uh put those things on the bottom and put other people first But a particular this means uh putting Christ first. Deny hyself, take up a cross, follow me, Jesus said In Matthew chapter ten, he said, He that taketh not up his cross is not worthy of me. There's a lot of verses you can go to to uh to uh kind of nail this whole uh concept down. But in these verses here, I think he wants to let these uh these men who are going to follow him, and they're going to take his uh his message And the message of the gospel, and uh it's going to be through these men that uh there's going to be uh that the the gospel's gonna be preached around the world. And so it's going to take a special man to do that. And it's the same thing with you and I today. It takes special people. special people to deny themselves uh of things that they could uh uh be using uh f I I think of I think of uh our missions program Well, I don't know about you, but you know we've w I don't know how much money you put in missions, I know how much we put in. And uh I know I could uh I could have a new van out here for what we could we've been putting uh in missions through the years. I'm just saying I'm I'm not saying that to brag in any way, shape, or form. I'm just saying that that you and you know, those of us who know Christ as our Savior, uh it means that we've made some commitment to him. It does not necessarily mean that we have denied ourselves though to do that. I figure that we o all probably have a college tele television in our home. We don't really need that, do we? We'd be better off without it, wouldn't we? Yeah, that's that's hard to come by. But the what I'm saying is that the Deny self? To deny self. That's a that's a pretty strong thing. I noticed back in the book of N of Romans, uh in chapter chapter twenty s uh chapter six rather. In Romans chapter 6, the Apostle Paul deals with this matter of self. And he says, knowing this that the old man I'm looking in, verse 6, of chapter six, the Book of Romans, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. Well, there's the answer, isn't it? We want to be free from from sin. The Bible says he that is dead is freed from sin. Does that mean that we go out and and uh put a knife to our throat? No, that's not what he's talking about But if we look on on down, it says likewise, I'm looking down in verse 11, where he goes into a little more detail. He says, likewise Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So This matter of dying to self has to do with this thing of wrecking yourself dead indeed to sin How do we do that anyhow? Well, reckoning is a I've heard a other preachers explain it so like a a a um Mathematical term to reckon. It's an old one, but they uh they some some still use it But to me it's uh it has to do with uh uh hey I I used that word uh years ago. I'm more s you know sanctified and and All that now I don't use reckon. Well sometimes I do. If I want to. I can do that. Word reckono, I I I uh uh well I reckon I'll go downtown and uh do such and such such. I I reckon I'll go here or do that or you know what. It's a it's kind of a mental thing, isn't it? To reckon, to to reckon something, to reckon you'll do something. Well, here the Apostle Paul says likewise, he says, I want you to Reckon you also yourselves to be dead, dead to sin. Let's just take a, for instance, let's say that there's a young full standing on a street corner, and uh he's never been saved. And so uh it's in the middle of summertime and uh there's uh he's he's sorta watching the the traffic going by and he's looking particularly for young ladies that uh you know that he can oogle, you know, that's that means That means it's like that. And uh and so he's uh standing on the s on the corner and he he's watching some girls go by and uh it just seems like boy he you know his his eyes pop out and uh uh that's the old flesh, you know, coming up. And uh starting to have a little bit of control in the life. But let's take the same guy as he Goes to church on Sunday and he gets saved and uh the Lord changes his mind, changes his heart about things and and shows him some things that's right, some things that's wrong. And uh sometime later, perhaps he's standing on that same street corner, and maybe the same girls are uh wob uh they're walking by. I started to say wobbling by, but I don't know if it's how I said walking by. Walking by. And uh so uh as uh as he watched him by uh all at once this this idea springs forth. You see, temptation is a is something that you you can't you can't help being tempted. Because that that can happen in a moment in the flash of an eye, you know, just just something uh you see might throw something in your mind that could you know get you thinking the wrong direction And so perhaps he was standing on the corner and he hadn't been saved that long. He's and so his his spirit is not sanctified to the point where he you know it doesn't isn't bothered at all. But I've and he's As soon as he sees those girls, then that temptation springs up. But immediately something happens. And that is that the Holy Spirit reminds him of who he is. Because, see, the Spirit of God now lives within this young man's heart. And so as the Spirit of God uh says uh Shh, you're dead. Now he may argue with it. He may say, Well, I'm not dead. I'm I so I still got eyes. Yes, but you're dead in trespass and sin. You're dead. Reckon you also yourself to be dead indeed to sin. And so what he does is he reaches in his hip pocket And he pulls out a lily and he sticks it on his chest and he says, I'm dead. Now if you don't have a lily, a rose will do. But the point of the matter is, is this is this is reckoning yourself dead indeed to sin It's seeing sin as something to uh you know stay away from. It's seeing sin as as something that is so awful it's some kind so terrible that put Jesus on the cross and caused him to suffer all kinds of agony and pain physically and still suffer the pains of hell for you and I. That's how bad it is. And so whenever whenever a Christian is confronted with temptation, uh, hey, I'm I'm dead I reckon myself dead indeed to sin. But I like the second part of that verse too, because there's the victory part of the verse. You're dead indeed to sin, but you're alive to Jesus Christ. Let's read it again there. Verse 11 Likewise, reckon you also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your immortal body that you should obey it in the lust thereof. And neither yield you your members as instruments of unrighteousness and to sin, but yield yourselves also unto, I'm sorry. But yield yourselves unto God as though that are alive from the dead and your your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Isn't that great? Now look at the verse 14. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under the law, but you're under grace. That's a wonderful verse right there. Read that first part again. For sin shall not have dominion over you. In other words, you don't have to succumb to sin. According to this verse of scripture, I can have victory over sin by wrecking myself dead indeed to sin. I know that the Bible teaches us there is no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful and will not allow you to be tempted above that you're able to resist, but will the temptation make a way to escape. That you might be able to bear it. These are the verses that that that the Christian ought to have memorized, ought to have it uh uh tucked away in his mind so that he can he can as soon as Satan's temptations are are confronting them that uh uh a verse of scripture slaps him in the face and he has to back down from it So the very first thing that Jesus tells his disciples, he says, fellas, there's a time when you you were concerned uh about yourself and what we're gonna eat and all these things that that uh we have to face on this life But you're going to have to come to the place, if you want to follow me, you're going to have to live like I lived. That is, you're going to have to have the mindset that I have. And that mindset is number one, there must be a denial of self. And that's listen, I know that's one of the hardest things that that a uh that any anyone will ever do is to deny themselves. Yeah, we we like to you know see pretty things and we like to hear you know music that does something for us and we we like to have stuff that tastes good. But you know an excess in any of those things leads to a destructive life. I mean I I love pumpkin pie and lemon pie and and coconut cream pie and I like oatmeal cookies and pizza Mexican food. I mean I like all this stuff. But I can't I I you know if I eat all that stuff, I'd Yeah. I just can't do it. Yeah. There has to be some some place where you draw the line and say, Lord God help me just to deny self. And all these areas that we that we are exposed to we we need to look at all the areas of our life. and say, Lord, I I I don't I want to learn to deny self in this area and this area and this area and this. It doesn't have to be just eating. That's one of the worst ones, but I mean that's one You see what I mean? If any man, Jesus said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself, deny himself, deny himself. It's not it's not an easy thing, but it's It's what we're asked to do as born-again Christians. But that wasn't all of it, though. If we go on to the next thought, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. Well, The cross here is not the little bangle that's on the bracelet or on the necklace. You want to wear those, those are fine. I you know, I have no problem with that. But that's not what the cross is here. Because you wear the little bangle around your neck or on your bracelet doesn't mean that you're a dedicated Christian. It doesn't even mean that if you you know sh show it to people that that's some kind of a a testimony Because there's religions out here that have bigger crosses than you two. And you're not going to be able to uh convince anybody about your belief uh with that little bangle. But he says, I want you to take up the cross. Now what's he talking about? You've got to remember where he's at here in Matthew 16. He said, uh just before this, we read it. It probably went over your head because uh we didn't stay there long enough for it to sink in. But he said uh I must go to Jerusalem. Look over and um and see I'm um um I'm looking at verse twenty two of uh uh chapter seventeen In verse 22 it says, And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men. And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again, and they were exceeding sorrow. Sorrow. Notice over in verse 21 of chapter 16 It's a verse, practically the same thing. It says, From that time forth began Jesus showing unto the disciples. See, he was showing his disciples what was going to take place. How they must go to Jerusalem. Suffer many things that the of the elders and the chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. So there the This is what the cross is. This is what the cross is. The cross that Jesus wants you to take up is this cross that he's talking about where it says that you'll be betrayed. into the hands of men. You'll be betrayed by people who love you. People maybe your your some of your your own kin maybe may betray you. Uh not only will they betray him, but uh they shall kill him. I mean, I know where he lived in the United States, I understand that. And uh uh what can I say? It's we don't have uh vigilante groups running around here in this town or in my town of Campbellsville or in most places in the United States. We don't have a bunch of people running around killing, putting Christians to death Well I can point to places on this globe, this uh uh globe of Earth, where people are at this very moment huddled in their corner of their their shack or the place where they live or the place where they worship or maybe back in the woods someplace in a uh behind a tree some For fear of their life being taken because of their witness for Jesus Christ So make no mistake about it that when Jesus was speaking here to the his disciples, he wasn't giving them a rosy picture It wasn't the all roses and and good things. It was he was laying it out with uh pretty strong pretty strong. He said, if you're going to follow me, this is what you've got to look forward to, and it's not going to be pleasant for you. And they found that out because all of them were martyred in one way or another. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. And then he says, follow me. You know one of the tragedies I see uh in the years that I've been in the ministry. Uh one of the tragedies I've seen has been uh where young men surrender to the mission field. And uh they get in a big hurry to get get over there and they're gonna start winning everybody to Christ and it's that's a noble cause and everything. But those kind of decisions are usually met with preparation, of preparation time I think every ministry, every ministry, there's a preparation time for that ministry to get involved. Now these disciples, they were with Jesus for what, three, three and a half years, whatever it was. And they had the master. teaching them and they learn from him. So in order to to for a person to to uh uh Be prepared for a ministry. There needs to be a preparation. Denying self and taking up the cross. And the next thing is to follow him. Sometimes when we we get on this road to try to follow Jesus. I'm just picking up a piece of paper. Uh They get sidetracked and uh like I say, they don't don't get their self prepared like they ought to. When I was a younger man, and we lived here in in Oakland, there was a a friend of mine that uh I did a lot of deer hunting with There's some here that know who I'm talking about. His name was Lestoyer. He's a friend of mine. And we we hunted together all the time. I mean uh when squirrel season came in we hunted squirrels and when uh groundhog season was then we hunted groundhogs and the deer season we hunted deer and and uh especially when deer season came around Like everyone else, uh at least we did, we were young uh fellows, you know, and uh well I mean the idea is to is wade in snow up to your knees, you know, and and all day long I mean just fight it and just get in there and gnaw at it and And just be mean to it and all you know, and then try to kill a deer and then drag him out. Well, Junior was uh he was uh a little over six feet tall. I was I was about five foot nine I guess or maybe ten uh probably closer to nine nine and a half All right. That was in there somewhere. But Junior Junior is tall. When I say tall, he's like maybe it's he might have been six two, I don't know But I know one thing he he it seemed like his legs started here. Because w we would get in this heavy snow and and as we uh would get in this uh this snow and start you uh he would let me go first. And if you got about an 18 inches of snow uh on the side of a mountain and you're going uphill, I'm gonna tell you you're it's not very long. You're just you're I mean you're blowing And uh and I'd say t I'd look around at him and he'd do Yeah, he's not I he doesn't have to break trail, see. And I'd say You devil, you get up in front and leave for a while, you know, and and we would go ahead with with him in the in the front and that that helped me out. Now what I'm saying, I I didn't just say that to you know uh brag on my friend uh but uh this thing of following Jesus is there's a reason that that he puts that in there He says, I w I want you to to learn to to deny yourself. In other words, I want you to look at other people first. I want you to look at at my my will and the needs of others before you look at yourself. and and uh take care of your own personal needs. I want you to take care of uh I want you to see other people's problems That's one of the hard things that we have today in our in our society is is caring for other people. Have you noticed that? And church people are are are the best at it, and we're not that good in most cases. But to deny self then to take up the cross and and to be willing to to take that burden, knowing that that uh your profession of faith could lead to your your demise or could cause you problems or hurt, you know, probably probably worse than than than being a Trump supporter in Baltimore. Whatever that is, yeah. But the th the final thing there is this following Jesus and how important it is. There needs to be the denying self and the preparation. You know, uh, if you're going to uh do anything for God, there needs to be that kind of preparation. And then the following. The following. Junior to get out in front and I just walk on behind him. He's just breaking trail and breaking trail, making the walking easy for me. And that's exactly what Jesus is doing. When he says follow me, that's why. He says I want to make this this trip as easy as possible. Not saying that it's going to be easy, I'm going to say easy as possible. And here's the other thing. You see we have a tendency for a second. We have a tendency when we start following Jesus. We have uh we have a You know, uh we're going along there, following along real good. Right with you, Lord, right along with you. And then uh something catches your eye over here. And you say, well uh I think I'll I think I'll go this way for a while. It's okay if you and And I I think I can find this better place for me. And so he you start walking out through there. Do you notice what happened? Now he's not breaking trail for you. The trail starts getting where there is no trail. You're breaking the trail yourself. And the snow's deeper and you just the first next thing you know you're on That's I'm telling and you know what happens then? You're over here. You're way over here. Way over here. And uh Finally it just gets so burdensome you can't go any farther. Conviction is set in and you see sin as giving you a heart. And you say uh the Bible is it gives you a verse. If we confess our sin, you know. Say hey Lord. Hey Lord. I uh kind of go off the trail there. Uh I'm I'm asking you to forgive me. The Lord says, Yeah, you're you're good Oh good. I'll just run right over there. Oh no, you don't. Doesn't work like that. You can't go from here over there. You have to go from here back to there and then go back to this. You know what I'm talking about? You gotta get back all regal. When I say that, I I mean We have a tendency to take sin so easy that that, oh okay, yeah, I'll just confess it and I'm right back in in the group again. That's not exactly the way it is And it's that cleansing process that God wants to work in your life. Say man'll come after me. Let it deny itself, take up the cross, and follow me. Used to uh when I start this message I would I would take a a hymnal and I'd throw it down on the floor there and everybody goes ah And uh I say, all right now. Amen come out of me, Lynn take up his cross. And and that was a we're talking about the will of man It takes a will to reach down and pick this book up, put it back on the shelf, and to take up the cross in Christ is a matter of your will. Give me your heart. Because in the heart is the will of man. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you'd help us to see the message. Help us to realize what it means to take up the cross. In Jesus' name they met