Matthew chapter number 15 is where we're at, and I'd like for us to notice, just to get us started, verse number 25. In fact, I'd like for us to read together, if you would, in unison. Short little verse there, verse number 25. Would you read it with me? Ready? Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me. Lord help me. I've entitled the message Desperate Worship. Desperate Worship. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us this morning. Father, we're so grateful for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I am so much What a blessing it's been already in the Sunday hour and studying your word, fellowshipping, Lord, the music just stirred my heart, the choir, the special, congregational, all of it And we're so grateful for your blessing on our church and your presence here with us this morning. And we know you're here. We can't see you, Lord. We can't feel you. We can't hear you audibly. But we know you're here, and I ask, Father, that you would make your presence known. That you would use your word and speak to our hearts and challenge us, strengthen our faith in you, Lord. Help us to see and understand this matter of prayer and worship. Lord, I yield my will and my heart and mind to you. I pray you guide my thinking as I speak. I present my body. I pray that your Holy Spirit that indwells me would fill me. And Lord, just guide in control in the message. And I pray you give all of us tender hearts and willing hearts to respond as your Spirit deals with us We want your will to be done. God, we want you to use us and bless us and make us a good witness in this old world. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Matthew, of course, is the first book of the New Testament. It's the first of four Gospels that are given to us, and it's named, the book is named after its penman, of course, Matthew. Matthew is sometimes referred to in Scripture with the name Levi. So we'll kind of use both names there. Matthew was a tax collector He had, uh, much to the chagrin of the Jews, Matthew had um contracted with the Roman government They would hire him, contract him to receive taxes from the Jews, from the Israelites, and paying to Rome. Now if you know anything about Jews in Rome, the Jews hated the Roman government over them. They viewed themselves as an independent nation. They viewed themselves as God's people, and it just graded them that Rome had authority and ruled over them. Would you and I can sympathize with that. I would have a problem if there was a foreign nation came and started ruling over America. Would you you'd feel the same way Now, Matthew contracted with this Gentile government to take taxes from the people of God and pass it on to the Roman government. He wasn't real popular with the Jews. But Jesus came by. And he heard Jesus speak, and his heart was stirred. The Lord said to Matthew, Come, follow me. And he left it all. And he came and followed the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, this isn't my message, but I just came across this recently, and it fascinates me. And so I just want to inject it here. Of the twelve disciples, Matthew was a tax collector for Rome, not a big thing, not very popular with the Jews for that reason. There was another disciple, his name was Simon Simon Zelotes. Simon Zelotes, if you remember that name among the disciples. And Zelotees, that term, it refers to a group, an organization. We might call it a militia. of zealous Jews that were opposed to Roman rule. And they were the zealots is what they were called. And they were for the nation of Israel. They were for God. They were for making Israel great again. That was probably would have been their motto. And uh they were against the Jews against the Romans, over them they fought it. Now here's something interesting. The twelve disciples, you got Matthew, who is cont was contracted with Rome to take money from the Jews, give it to the Rome. And then you have Simon Zelodes, who is adamantly opposed to Rome, zealously opposed to Roman rule over Israel, and they both become disciples. Anybody notice see the potential for tension? But here's the fascinating thing. They both put all that aside. Now it wasn't Rome, it wasn't Israel, it was Jesus. And they were one in Christ. And God brought them together. You know, God is tremendous. The gospel of Jesus Christ and a relationship with Jesus Christ is tremendous at breaking down barriers. And things that divide us and things that separate us. And they become one in Christ. And everything we read about the disciples, of course, Judas being an exception But everything we read about disciples, everything we know about them, they were 100% for Jesus Christ and 100% loyal one to another. And so Matthew is this tax collector that he gets saved. He hears the call of the Lord Jesus Christ to come and follow him, be a disciple. And God uses him to pen this book of Matthew that we know to this Gospel of Matthew He is writing to Jews primarily. His target audience are Jews, not the Romans, not Gentiles, not the Greeks. He's focused on the Jews, and his purpose for writing, of course this is all under the inspiration of God, but his purpose for writing was to present Jesus Christ to the Jews as the promised Messiah. All through the Old Testament, there have been prophecies that the Messiah is coming, the Savior is coming. And those Old Testament believers looked forward to a coming Messiah, and their faith and trust was in a coming Savior. Now, for you and I in our day and age, we are looking back At the Messiah who has already come, paid the price for our sin on the cross, buried, rose again. We look back. But Matthew is taking these Old Testament prophecies of the coming Messiah And he is presenting, here he is. The Messiah has come, Jesus Christ. And if you'll study the book of Matthew, you'll notice he references Old Testament prophecies. He'll quote them He'll say stuff like, as it is written, and just as it was written, in fulfillment of this prophecy, over and over and over. So he's a he's presenting to the Jews, again, under the inspiration of God, but he's presenting to the Jews Their Messiah in the person of Jesus Christ. He documents it with Old Testament references. Along with that, he explains to them what the kingdom of God, kingdom of heaven is In the book of Matthew, various places he'll address that. Now the Jews were anticipating a physical kingdom The Jews were anticipating, and they developed this thinking in their own minds, that God would send the Messiah and He would raise up in rebellion against Rome and He would deliver Israel from Gentile rule over them. And they would have their kingdom back like they had under David and Solomon. And they were looking for the Messiah to bring a literal physical kingdom back to Israel And Matthew is writing and saying, Listen, you will uh k again, I'm putting this in my own words, paraphrasing obviously But he's saying, listen, you will one day have that kingdom again. But the issue now is a heavenly kingdom, a spiritual kingdom, where Christ rules in our hearts And so he's presenting Jesus as the Messiah. He is explaining a bit the kingdom of heaven, not a physical, literal kingdom, not at this time, eventually. And then he establishes the Great Commission. Of course, at the end there, Matthew chapter 28, he presents Great Commission. Go ye therefore. and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, buried with uh uh and uh teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you unto the end of the earth This great commission. I think his idea, his thinking was, listen, if Jesus is the genuine Messiah, if he's the Savior of the world, the whole world needs to know. Everybody needs to know. And that is a major, major priority in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is carrying out that Great Commission. Getting the gospel of Jesus Christ to every man, woman, boy and girl in America, on our continent, around the world, getting the gospel to everybody That is high priority. And by the way, any Bible-believing church, that ought to be a high priority in that church. So the book of Matthew, it's a bridge. Between the Old Testament and the New Testament. We just began this morning a study in the Sunday school hour in our auditorium class on the book of Malachi. And Malachi is the last Old Testament book. It closes out the Old Testament message, 400 years of silence, and then Matthew writes his book, and now it's the bridge between these two covenants. The Old Covenant and the New, the Old Testament and the New Testament. Chapter 15, where we're at, is a unique chapter, first couple verses here. And again, I just want to lay some groundwork, give some background, what we're going to look at here. But the first nine verses, Jesus is in this debate With the scribes and Pharisees. Verse 1. Then came to Jesus, scribes and Pharisees which are of Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples? And they go on down through here. Now I called it a debate. It's more of a confrontation. They are butting heads. The more Jesus, the longer Jesus goes in his ministry, and the more he explains who he is and what he's about, the more he butt heads with the Pharisees. Jesus is presenting genuine biblical relationship with Jehovah God, and the Pharisees are simply a facade. They're just simply doing outward obligations, outward ceremonies. There's nothing real in their hearts. They have no relationship with God. Outwardly, they appear very beautiful and religious and great But inwardly Jesus said, You're full of dead man's bones, corrupt in your heart. Oh, you look good, you put on the good show, but in your heart you're as corrupt as can be. And man, they bristled at that And they they fought that and they butt hedge. So these first nine verses, you had these scribes and Pharisees just going at it with Jesus Christ. Verse 10 through 20, then he gets and he explains something of the defilement of the heart. If you would notice there, um uh look at verse uh let's see, uh verse number ten. He says, he called the multitude here, understand. Not that, verse eleven, not that which goeth into the mouth defile a man, but that which cometh out of the mouth defileth a man. Would you agree with me? It's what comes out of our mouth gets us in trouble. That's what messes us up. And then he comes down and tells us why that is. Come down, look at verse 18 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart. And they defile the man. He says, here's where your problem is Here's where the issue is. Look at verse 19. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts. Murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies, these are the things which defile a man. Now the Pharisees were all worked up. Disciples didn't wash their hands according to ceremonial law before they ate. And Jesus says, no problem isn't how you're washing your hands, the problem is the condition of your heart. And he lists these awful things, these awful things that he says comes from our heart, the heart of man. He says from uh out of the heart proceed evil thoughts. Uh you know why we think evil thoughts? So we got an evil heart. Out of the heart come murders. You know why people murder? Because they have a murderous heart Adulteries, you know why somebody commits adultery? Because they have an adulterous heart. That's where it comes from It's not the society, it's not our environment, it's our heart is the problem. And he comes down through here. Fornication, step. People steal because they have a thieving heart. They lie because they got a lying, dishonest heart How many people agree with me? That's striking close to home, isn't it? And he says, the heart, the heart, the heart And then he comes down, and verse number 21, he departs from Israel. Now this is where it kind of brings us into our subject And it gets a little interesting. Look at verse 21. Then Jesus went thence and departed into the coast of Tyre and Sidon. He has now left the borders of Israel. He has crossed the border. And he is in Gentile territory now. He only does this a few times in his ministry. When he was small, his father and mother took him to Egypt to escape the murdering of the the killing of the children by Herod. Here he uh uh crosses over in the border and there's one other time he goes over into Decapolis which is a Greek area So very seldom does he leave the borders of Israel. But this case he is Verse 22 through 28, we have what we're going to look at here in a moment, the desperate worship of this dear mother. Desperate And then the last 10, 11 verses, we have Jesus demonstrates his power to perform miracles. And so chapter 15 of Matthew is a fascinating chapter. I think uh our theme this year for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is worship the Lord. And we've been memorizing verses on worship. We've been trying to uh determine what is biblical worship as opposed to man's idea, religion's idea, what does the Bible say worship is? And so we've been looking at this periodically And I read through Matthew 15 and I noticed the term worship is used twice in this chapter Back in verse number nine, he mentions worship. Look what he says. He says, but in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Now I put down in the margin of my Bible that's deceptive worship. They've got people convinced as long as you just do outward stuff. Oh, you put some money in the offering plate and you show up at church and you carry your Bible and you do a few little things, give a little money to that. As long as you do these outward things, you're just fine And Jesus says, no, you're not just fine. That's deceptive worship. If I think that my worship is simply coming in, cross my heart, hope to die, put a couple bucks in there, repeat a couple little phrases That is deceptive worship, that is not worship. So in verse 9, he presents in that whole section this deceptive worship. And then I got and I was reading down through this, dear women of Cana, this woman of Canaan. And it says verse 25, She came and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me. And you can't read this passage. Pastor Matt read it here a few moments ago. You can't read down this passage And not see how desperate this woman is for her daughter, her child. She is desperate. She is desperate. Now I want us to notice a few things. about this woman's desperate worship. Number one, I notice her plea. Her plea. Look with me at verse 22. And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast Now, remember, where is he at? Is he in Israel or outside of Israel? He's outside. He's there entire in Sidon, which have a history of wickedness Study what the Bible says about Tyre and Sidon. They were bad places. And so he's outside, and this woman, she's of Canaan. What do we know about the Canaanites? They were the enemies of God's people for centuries. Israel fought wars with the Canaanites. Now Some of that animosity has died down over the centuries to this point. But nevertheless, she is not a Jew. She is not of God's people. She would be considered a Gentile and even worse things by these religious Jews. And she comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, we don't know a whole lot about her, what I just told you. We're not even told her name. In Mark, we have an account. In Mark chapter 7, we have the same account. Her name's not given there. We're told that she's, as I said, she's not Jewish Uh she's a woman of Canaan. Now again, the Canaanites, they're historically they were pagan worshipers. They had a uh perverse lifestyles. It is, I don't think the average person in our day and age understands the depth of depravity That these Canaanites and some of these civilizations that Israel dealt with and fought with, we have a hard time comprehending the depth of depravity. These are the people she comes from, her history, her lineage. Child murder. I mean not abortion, born kids, two, three years old, murdered if you don't want them Violence, fornication to levels that uh we I don't we hardly even see today, although we're getting there This was an ungodly society that she's coming out of. Violent. The Canaanites were known for their violence. And so this woman of Canaan comes to Jesus. And she has a great burden. Look what it says there in verse 22. A woman of Canaan came out of the same coast, higher and side and there, and cried unto him. She's crying. I looked up the word cry there. It means to cry out in grief and sorrow. She cries to him saying, have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David. Do you sense the desperation here? I mean my heart is just broken reading this. What is she so burdened about? What is her so tore up about? Look My daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. Her daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. There's not a parent here. There's not a parent in this service. Are you listening? There's not a parent in this service Whose heart would not be shattered if one of your children was possessed of a devil. Am I right or wrong? I just can't imagine. Our heart is broken, we have prodigal sons and prodigal daughters that get away from God and outliving in sin and And uh uh neglecting, at best, just neglecting the things of God, what they've been taught. And our heart is so broken for them. Here she has a daughter that is possessed, grievously vexed of a devil And she is desperate. She's brokenhearted, she's desperate, and she is intense. And she comes and she makes this plea to Jesus Christ. Listen, I think I put this down, feeble praying. Insincere praying, dried-eyed praying is not going to be very effective. I have a need, maybe I have a child away from God, maybe I have a spouse that's unsaved, maybe My mother, father, unsaved. And my prayer is simply, oh God, I've help them, God bring them back. I want to say this, and thank God that you say that, I guess But that type of praying is not going to be very effective. That type of praying isn't going to conquer strongholds of the devil. We fail to realize, I'm convinced, we fail to realize the reality of the spiritual warfare that takes place on this planet. In the hearts and lives of people, the intensity of it. And all we see is the physical, and all we are aware of is the material. We completely fail to see That this is a spirit, there is a spiritual reality. And this lady is experiencing it firsthand, and she is crushed. The devil has her daughter. The devil's possessed her daughter. And she's not just sitting back hoping and wishing and maybe She is desperate to Jesus Christ that He help her. Help me I had family members when I first got saved. I thank God ever every all my immediate family has professed faith in Christ. I thank God for that. When I first got saved, that wasn't necessarily the case I love my mother with all my heart. I prayed and prayed and I would beg and every time an invitation was given, I was at the altar down in Tennessee, and uh oh I would pray, God please save my mama, God please save my mother. I was not going to let the devil have his way without me putting up a spiritual fight. I thank God my mama got saved. She was coming down, just talked to her this week. She's coming down on Memorial Day weekend, spend the weekend with us. And we have tremendous fellowship in the Lord now. I thank God for my mother. What God's done in her life, and she would testify to it. But I'm telling you, that doesn't happen by insincere praying. That doesn't happen just by indifferent, dry eye. I'm telling you, we need to get to the point where we are desperate for our loved ones' spiritual well-being. Amen or not? And that's where this woman is. Her prayer was passionate. I'm convinced that I'm a saved man today because of the passionate, desperate prayers of my daddy. I mean he'd pray and I'd talk about I talk about my personal stuff too much I'm sure but I'm telling you I'd come home a Sunday morning, two, three o'clock in the morning just stone I'd come home and daddy's door would be open in his bedroom. I'd come by. He'd be in there on his knees praying, God save my boy, God save my boy I'm telling you, we're not going to see our families brought to Christ until we get desperate, until we get serious, and we need business. Till we get to the point where I'm willing to make, I'm willing to do whatever I need to do in my life spiritually so that I can see God's power and see God do a work. As long as my sin is more important to me than the salvation of my loved one, I'm not going to see it happen. Are you with me now? And that's where this woman is. She's desperate. Lord help me. Lord help me. Lord help me. Her prayer was passionate. The second thing I noticed about her plea or her prayer, it was in humility. Notice what she says in verse 22. Have mercy on me. That is humility. She doesn't come and say, Lord, look how righteous I am. She doesn't come and say, God, look how much I'm doing for you. God, look how religious I am, and I do this and I do that. God, you owe me. None of that. None of that. She says, have what? Mercy on me. That's humility. That's humility. She's saying, in effect, I don't deserve. I don't deserve you to do anything for me, God. But God have mercy. God have mercy. I think humility is one of the chief characteristics of effective prayer. When I learned to humble myself, humble myself. Humility gives power to faith and it gives power to prayer. Humility. No self-praise on her part, no self-righteousness. She's not looking down and pointing out all the faults of everybody else, and this person's not doing that, and they're not doing this, and they should be doing, and Lord, I deserve to be treated better than this. None of that. Lord have mercy on me. Have mercy on me. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn over to Luke chapter number 18. Matthew, Mark, Luke. And chapter number 18, we have a tremendous example of this. And here we find a fella that I believe has the exact same mentality as this woman, exact same attitude of humility. Luke chapter 18, and look with me if you would at verse number 9. Jesus has given this as a parable. Now look at this. He spake, verse 9, and he spake this parable unto certain men. Now look at who he's talking to. Men which trusted in themselves. These guys thought they were something. That they were righteous and despised others. Self-righteousness is displayed in putting down others Finding fault with others, criticizing others. What I'm saying is, I'm righteous, they're not. I'm good, they're not And so he's making a point here to these fellows that have this idea, have this frame of mind. Verse 10, two men went up into the temple to pray. Alright, our woman here from Canaan, she's praying. So these guys come up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, the other a publican. Now a publican was a term for a wicked sinner. The Pharisee, verse 11, stood and prayed thus with himself. God, I can hear him saying it this way. God I thank thee. I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even as this publican. Can you picture this? Here he is. They're in the temple. Two main come in, they're praying, side by side. The Pharisee. I God, I thank you. I thank you. I'm not like this sorry sinner over here. Look how awful he is. Look how terrible he is And then he goes on. Look what he says about himself. He says, I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. I, I, I, I And the publican, standing afar off, look at this, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be what? Merciful to me a sinner. Now, which of these two guys went down justified? Which of these two guys got God's attention? Look what he says. I tell you, this man This publican. This man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Look at this. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be what? And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. This woman prayed a humble prayer. She was passionate. She was desperate And she humbled herself before the Lord and said, God, be merciful to me. God puts a great price on humility On a humble heart. Revival begins with humility. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people, which are called by my name, shall Humble themselves and pray and seek my face, turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, then will I heal their land, forgive their sin. And so humility is highly regarded by the Lord. So her prayer was passionate. Her prayer was in humility. Her prayer was specific. Again, notice she says there. She says, let me get back here. She says verse number 22, have mercy on me. O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. She was very, very specific on what her situation was. I'm convinced our prayers need to be specific. Well, God saved the whole world. Bless all the Christians Lord, give food to everybody that needs it. That's a nice prayer, huh? But I'd say it's pretty ineffective. Lord, this is my need. God, this is my situation. Lord, I'm coming to you and I'm asking you specifically this situation. Now I know I'm not just speaking for myself. I have no doubt in my mind there's scores of people in here this morning that would are praying for something very, very specific, a very specific situation, a very specific need in your life. Am I right or wrong? I am. I got two or three things every morning. I got them on my list. Very soon. Lord, I'm asking you to do this for me. And I'm convinced if we could just get to the point where we pray specifically. For what we need God to do, what we want God to do. So her plea was passionate. She was willing to do whatever needed to be done. Whatever adjustments need to be made in my life so that God, you can hear my prayer. I'm willing to do it. If living in sin or holding an attitude, a bad attitude, or or uh being out of fellowship with a brother or sister in God If that's more important to me than getting this answer from God, I'm never going to get that answer from God. But when I come and say, Lord I'll do whatever I need to do. I'll make whatever right, whatever needs to be made right. I'll repent from whatever sin needs to be repentant. But God, I need you to do this. For my daughter's sake. Humility in specific. So first we have her plea of this dear woman, desperate woman. And then we have, and I put it this way, the perplexity of our Lord's response. Now I don't know if you've ever read through this passage before, you've ever read in your Bibles of this event, but I'm wondering how many people ever read this. If you did, you read through this and you thought, that's odd that the Lord would respond that way. Anybody here? Notice how the Lord responds. I mean this woman, she's passionate, she's humbling herself, she's telling the Lord exactly what she needs. And look how the Lord responds, verse 23. But he answered her not a word. I mean if you agree with me, that seems odd. I mean, how many times does the Lord say, Come unto me, I'll not cast you out. Whosoever will, let him come. And here he just ignores her He doesn't answer word. He responds with silence. In fact, uh disciples, as kind of was their characteristic they jumped all over that and when they saw that he didn't respond to her they said uh they besought him saying send her away she crieth after us she's getting on our nerves it's in the Greek that part She's driving us nuts. She's get her out of here. She's a Canaanite. She's one of those dog Gentiles. That was the Jews' attitude towards the Gentiles. They're dogs. So he responds with silence. And then look at verse 24. The disciples say, get her away, send her away. Then Jesus speaks up and he makes a statement. I'm not sent unto the lost, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. He's pointing out the fact that she's not Jewish. Now she's used Jewish terms, she called him Lord, she says, Thou son of David, so she knew about Christ somehow She knew who the Messiah was. She knew what who Jesus was. Somehow she had gotten that information, believed it. He says, I've not come but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And so he kind of is explaining his mission, and he's it sounds like he's saying, this is my purpose, and you're not part of it. This is my mission, and it doesn't include you. So she comes desperate, humbling, God, there's my daughter. Doesn't answer. Jews say, get her out of here. He says, You're not part of my purpose for coming as a messiah. You're not you're not part of the plan. How many people agree with me? You might get offended about this point, huh? Might be. What is what is this? He goes on. He doesn't stop there. Look at verse 26. Oh, in verse 25, she came and she worshipped him. I mean, she's bowing before him. Lord help me. You think it's offensive now? Look at this next statement. But he answered and said, It is not meat to take the children's bread, speaking, referencing the Jews. Israelites, and cast it to dogs. That was the Jews' attitude towards Canaanites, Gentiles And he appears like he's insulting her. He's using the terminology that the self-righteous hypocritical Jews used against the Gentiles. Jesus is using those terms. It's like, what in the world? I got looking through the Gospels. Nowhere else in Scripture does Jesus talk to a person the way he talks to that woman. Nowhere else do you see this approach. Nowhere else do you see this kind of response on the part of Jesus Christ to somebody that comes to him in desperate need of help. Never, not one other time. This is the only time he responds this way. Anyone who knows the Lord Knows he would not speak to her like this to hurt her. Right? We know enough of the Lord Jesus Christ that whatever he's doing Whatever he's up to here, the purpose is not to hurt this dear woman. We know that. From all we know of Jesus Christ, that's not its purpose. So apparently he has a purpose for treating her this way. I'm convinced he would never have treated her this way if he knew it would not help her. Ultimately, he's trying to help her. He's making a point He's drawing something out of this woman. Now, I'm jumping ahead here a little bit, but what he's trying to do is strengthen this woman's faith. I'm convinced, how many people here, let me let me let me ask this question, how many people here have ever prayed for something that was Good, it was right, there's no doubt it would be the will of God. You prayed and prayed and prayed, and it seemed like God just ignored you. Can I get a witness? Anybody? Just as an answer. Why is this not happening? Why is this not happening? Sometimes we pray, and it looks like it's gotten even worse. You say, God, what in the world? God, are you ignoring me? Are you excluding me from these promises? I'm convinced that our trials, the delays that the Lord allows us to experience, the the disappointments we have in God's handling of situations, I'm convinced all of that has a twofold purpose God responds that way deliberately. I think sometimes he'll hold off on answering a prayer. He'll be silent Because he wants to get our attention. Maybe there's something in my life that really needs to be addressed. Maybe there's some adjustments in my attitude, in my actions, and my behavior, my interactions with others, that really needs to be addressed before the God's going to respond and help me do. And so he tries to I think sometimes he he tries to get our attention. David put it this way. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Sometimes God's silence, God's indifference is a method he is using to try and get us to examine ourselves and say, all right, where am I at? What do I need to be do? What do I need to adjust and address in my life so that I can see God do this? And I think sometimes God seems indifferent or appears to ignore us or is silent Because he wants to strengthen our faith. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly. I only got a few minutes. Turn with me to the book of James. Back past Hebrews. And come with me, if you would, to James chapter number one. God has a plan and a purpose for all he does and all he doesn't do. James chapter 1. James introduced himself in verse 1, a servant of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, 12 tribes. Now look at verse 2. He makes a statement here I think that might help us understand. God's actions sometimes. He says, My brethren, he's talking to believers, count it all what? Joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Now the temptations there isn't enticement to do evil. The temptation there is trials, difficulties, misunderstandings, disappointments. Heartaches. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Why would I do that? Verse three, knowing this, that the trying, the testing, the trials, the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience But let patience have her perfect work that ye may be, now look at this, perfect and entire, one and nothing. You know what that term means? It means grown up, mature, strong in faith. And I think what the Lord is telling us here, and what we see with this woman, is sometimes God will act, respond in ways that we don't anticipate, we wouldn't expect, and we're disappointed in So that he can help us trust him even when it doesn't make sense and we don't understand, but I still trust him, and my faith grows, and my faith gets stronger. And I become more mature, and I learn to trust God even in the dark, even in the storm. This woman prays passionately, humbly, specifically. And the Lord responds with silence. And he appears to suggest that she's outside his mission. She's not part of the plan. And he goes on and makes a statement that for a lot of people would be incredibly offensive. This woman was not offended. My third point is this, real quickly. I notice the persistence of her prayers. Come back here to Matthew. He tells her in verse 24 that she's not part of the plan. She came and worshiped him desperate, saying, Lord, help me. And he makes this statement then that could be very, very offensive. But here's my point. Her humility would not allow her to be offended. Pride is the root of all offense. If I get offended, it's not because I'm humble, it's because I'm proud. Are you with me? It is my pride. That insists that I be treated with respect and dignity. Humility says I'm just an old sinner. If I was getting what I deserve, I'd be in hell. You can't treat me worse than what I deserve to be in hell. It is our pride that makes us offended. Everybody in the world is offended. Right? You do something, you say something, they're offended, they're offended, they're offended. You know why? Because our world is so proud. And it gets in our churches. And it gets in our homes. It gets in our hearts. And there's nothing Jesus could say or do here that was going to offend this woman. But she was desperate. Her humility kept her praying. If I'm going to be persistent in my prayers, if I'm just going to stay keep praying and keep praying and keep praying and keep praying. Doesn't matter what it seems like God is doing or not doing, I'm just going to keep on, keep on, keep on. That requires humility. To be persistent in prayer, I need humility in my heart. To be effective in my prayer, I need humility in my heart. She would not get offended. Look what she says there in verse number 27. She goes, Truth, Lord, I'm not a Jew. I'm outside the people of God, the nation of God. I'm outside of it. But Lord, the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master's table. Excuse the Jews, call me a dog. You're suggesting I'm a dog? Yes, that's what I am. But Lord, even the dogs get some crumbs. Do you hear the humility? Do you hear the desperation? I'm just God, I'm just a dog. Revival begins with humility. Prayers are empowered by humility. And that at that point the Lord breaks, I guess, if you want to say it. Look at verse 28. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, A complete 180. O woman, O woman. Great is thy faith. Be it unto thee even as thou wilt. Now look at this. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. I think verse number 28 is what the Lord was getting at the whole time. You'll never convince me, you'll never convince me that the Lord uh didn't that the Lord talked to her that way You'll never convince me that the Lord would have talked to her that way if He did not know if He knew that her faith could not handle it. I don't know if I said that right. Jesus knew what this woman's faith was. He knew what the caliber of her faith was. He knew what the strength of her faith was. He knew the quality of her faith long before she ever knew anything about him. When she came to him in desperation and humility, he makes these statements, not to hurt her, but I'm convinced he wanted his disciples and all the crowds of Tyre and Sidon to see. Here is what strong faith looks like. Even when it doesn't make sense, even when it seems like everything's against keep on trusting, keep on trusting, keep on trusting in humility. And God says, oh woman, I can just almost see the empathy in his heart. Oh woman. Great is thy faith. That's what he wanted to say the whole time, I'm convinced. Great is thy faith. God honors faith. God honors faith. God honors humility. I know there's no i I I have in my own life, I have some things I need God to do. Some loved ones and situations. I need you, God, to do it. And all across the auditorium, there are people here that have similar situations. Am I right or wrong? God, I need you. I tell you what we need to do. We need to get desperate. We need to humble ourselves before the Lord. And whatever adjustments we need to make, we need to come and worship the Lord. Oh God, help me. And trust them and trust them and trust them. Say, preacher, I've been praying a long time, and I'm just a little bit offended that God would put me off this long. Get rid of your stake and pride and keep trusting them and keep praying. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us now. To learn from this dear woman, what a testimony of faith in darkness. I pray you'd help each of us. You know our hearts, you know what we're struggles are. You know what our needs are. And I pray, dear Holy Spirit, you take the testimony of this dear woman and stir us. to make whatever adjustments, whatever needs to be done, that we can come and get a hold of you. And Lord, one day we hear you say, oh woman, oh man. Great is thy faith. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I have a situation that's on my mind right now? It's burning in my heart and mind that I need God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me have faith. God will help me humble myself. And see any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. I need the Lord to help me. What we need to do is put up put aside our pride. Let God break our hard hearts. Say yes, Lord, I'll trust you. I'll trust you. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes.