He's gonna catch her. Alright, very good. That was Sandy jumping, right? So very good. What a blessing. They're always a blessing when they say, aren't they? Appreciate that and I appreciate Brother Williams. There's I tell you what, it's hard to beat a track record, uh so many years preaching the gospel faithful, staying right at it. Uh I don't know that we would even be able to do this. We might, but if we could dig out one of the old cassette tapes from nineteen ninety-three, December of that year, when Dr. Williams preached uh the first revival meeting when we first came, uh when I my wife and I first came, I'd venture to say the sermons would be very, very similar. He hadn't changed a bit. And uh his drawings gotten a little better. I've been trying to coach him over the years, but um uh probably the same sermons, yeah, that could be. But uh been faithful to the Lord. So let's get our Bibles out and uh ask the Lord to speak our hearts and He brings us tonight's message. I only believe about half of what he says. Those are very kind words, I appreciate it. Well we have another chalk drawing. And uh I sort of like that. It's the first time I've done uh that particular one and uh it turned out pretty good. Am I too loud or too something or other? Is that good? All right. Take your Bible and turn me in the book of Second Thessalonians. Uh we haven't said anything about this week, but uh it may be that uh since Christmas is coming and you'd like to find some uh Christmas gifts back on that back table or some uh some of my artwork and you might uh uh think about a print. Take it in and have it uh matted and framed and give it to somebody for Christmas and and uh uh they they probably love you to death. You did that. So you ought to see Nan after the service and buy a whole bunch of those prints and that'll uh that'll sustain us. It'll get us to Denny's another time or two. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. We're going to read several verses beginning in verse 1. Where the Word of God says, Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our gathering together unto Him. That you be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is uh he is God. Remember you not that when I was yet with you I told you these things And now you know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time, for the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them a strong delusion that they should believe a lie, that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure. In unrighteousness, let's pray. Our Father in Heaven, we are grateful once again that uh you've given us the privilege to stand behind this desk and uh to preach your word. We thank you, Lord, for that calling and we trust that tonight once again as these folks have uh gathered together to hear the word of God and be challenged by the Spirit that That you'd uh do a work here. Uh we don't know who's lost and who's saved in in front of us tonight, but We just know that the Holy Spirit uh has a way of uh getting in and dealing with uh things that even the evangelists uh has nothing to say about. I pray that you bless the chalk drawing as we show it in a little bit and get honor to yourself and bless the Word of God as we preach in this evangelist. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Interesting verses and uh we're not going to get into a lot of that. I believe the pre aren't you preaching on Second Thessalonians, Pastor? Aren't you doing I'm sorry? Yes. Yes, okay, simple answer. From a good smart album guy. Anyway, uh in these verses here y you there's a number of things. We know from the the first few verses that we read there that that There's going to be a falling away that's going to take place, the result of sin, and a result of Satan's uh influence in this world. And that's going to precede uh the Lord's coming I don't know about you, but as I look around the uh the world today and particularly in the United States, which is what what we're more familiar with than anything, uh there's no doubt in my mind of what uh we're seeing this take place right before our eyes. the falling away. Falling away from uh faith, falling away from sound doctrine, falling away from attendance, fall just falling away from just being faithful to to God Uh I thank God for each one of you that are here tonight. And uh I I wish the place was packed because uh uh if it was why uh I know the message would be getting the ears that need to hear it But I really believe that all of us uh can stand to to hear the truth and and to be challenged by it, even though it doesn't directly uh concern us at a particular moment somewhere uh down the road, why it may be that God will remind us of something that was brought out in a message tonight. But as I look down through here and I see that, I think about Satan. And how that here in this one portion we see where God is sending a strong delusion to people. And the Bible, from what I can gather from the scriptures here, that that uh whenever the rapture takes place, when the when the the saints are called out, Those who are left behind, uh, of course, that that uh have have heard the gospel, they're not gonna have a chance, a second chance to get saved. Now there are there is uh you know books out that uh uh by you know uh I guess theologians, I I assume that's uh that's their calling that uh that has to do with uh this rapture and and it's like uh the Christians are taken out and then everybody's left behind. If they heard or knew something about the rapture, then they say, Oh, well wait a minute. You know, I see the rapture is taking place, now I'll go get saved. That's not what the scripture teaches at all, not in this chapter here that I can understand by. Lord I can gather that uh according to that uh verses uh ten and verse eleven, uh The last part of this is because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved, and for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie, that they m uh they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. So if you hold to Yeah, you think that uh well whenever I see all the Christians are gone, I'll know the rapture's taking place, and if you're holding on that as a way to uh at a time when you're going to trust Christ and be saved, I got news for you The Bible has always taught that you're saved by grace through faith. Faith. Well, I mean, if you can see Something literally take place, that's not a whole lot of faith in. It doesn't take a whole lot of faith to see a miracle take place. Say, Oh whoops, hey, I better take You know, I better it uh you know take this thing serious and get saved now. So I I uh that's one thing that I see in these scriptures that that The delusion that is going to be sent after the rapture is that God's going to send a strong delusion to those who had an opportunity at one time to be saved, rejected that, and now they're going to believe a lie. They're going to believe uh anything that's thrown out there. You know, I uh for a long time it's uh it it puzzled me how the Antichrist could have such influence in such a short amount of uh seemingly a short amount of time and influence so many different people with with lies Until this last election, then I can understand it a whole lot more. It just seemed like that uh uh people will believe whatever they want to believe in order to accept what they want to accept So that's one thing that I see in these in these verses. But it also leads me to the other thing, and that is that today Today is the day of salvation. Now's the appointment of time. And today, there is still the opportunity for a person who's lost to be saved. But at that same time, I want you to understand that Satan is doing his best today to delude people. To fool people, to deceive people. I mean let's face it, uh what's his name anyhow? Well Satan's got a lot of names. He's he's uh uh Beelsevab, he's uh uh Abaddon, he's uh the deceiver of the brethren, he is Satan, he's the devil, the deceiver of the brethren. All these th the different names. Why is that? Do they have all these different names Well, why does a criminal have a whole bunch of aliases? The same reason is to uh to deceive And so Satan today is sending strong his own strong delusions. He's he's doing something and he's doing it in such a a uh uh a deceptive way that even Christians are being fooled by what he has to say. I think of our educational system, and I'm not I'm not beating up on on teachers, all right. I I'm I mean I don't mean to do that. But I do know that that we have a society now that places such an emphasis on education And there's certain people who have taken have gotten into our schools, into the lower grades and into our colleges, that uh believe in a socialistic uh gospel, so to speak. And as a result, they're uh leading our nation down the wrong path. Our children are growing up believing that the government owes them something. How did I get into politics here? But the the point is that that uh Satan is just a deceiver. And we've got to understand that he uh he has permeated this whole world system Every facet of this world system. It's his world. He's the God of this world. We must understand that he is the one that's the driving force behind uh the politics. He's the driving force behind our entertainment. He's the driving force behind uh these communist nations and these uh uh nations of Islam He's the driving force. He's control of all this thing. Somebody about there. I can hear him. Well, I thought God was in control. God is in control. Listen, he's up here in control. Satan is down here in control. That's the only difference. God has his overall plan and Satan is part of that plan. So uh I'll leave it at that. But back in over in in uh 1 Timothy and uh let's go to 1 Timothy chapter chapter 4 In verse one through three, where it says, Now the spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils speaking lies and hypocrisy and having their conscience seared with the hot iron. We could keep on reading, but we're going to stop right there. But the the point I'm getting at is that there will be some in these latter days who are going to depart from the faith. That was once delivered to the saints. The faith, the faith, that that embodiment of truth that involves Jesus Christ. That's what we're talking about. Then I look over in in uh in second uh uh Timothy chapter four, where he says this. He says, uh Paul taught talked to this young preacher boy, and he says, Preach the word. Be instant in season and out of season. Re reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine, for the time will come when they shall not endure sound doctrine, but after their own own lust shall they heap themselves teachers having each itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. We haven't fallen away from the faith. We haven't fallen away from sound doctrine. The uh there's a uh There's churches now, of course, that are just uh dominantly uh homosexual or sodomite churches. Have one in Campbell or in in Kentucky down there. And uh These people were in other other churches, but they came out of those churches simply because they were uh uh they were not accepted. Because the Bible strictly preaches against and calls uh sodomy uh an abomination So what did they do? They would not adhere to uh sound doctrine, and so they went and started their own church where they could be allowed to do whatever they want to do, and and and that's that's what we're seeing. People get upset in the church. They get uh uh s some little thing the preacher preaches, they oh I don't like that. And so they go someplace else where they they can get away from the sound doctrine and and be uh you know be accepted in a church where that's not preached. I'm just saying we're we're living in that time when things are changing and they're changing rapidly And we're seeing it before our eyes. Uh uh I've been preaching since uh uh see nineteen seventy-four, I believe. Well I was actually started in seventy-two. And uh so this would be Yes. So forty years. And in those forty years, good night. I've seen so much and from the time I was saved, add another ten to that. And h here's fifty years that I've been saved and I've seen good night. It's it's unbelievable the things that that I that I s that I see today compared to what it was But maybe that's that's one of the sad things about being old is when you can remember how it used to be and and and what we saw back then and then see what it is today, there's a sadness there But it reinforces the that old song that says this world is not my home, I'm just passing through. And I I see that more and more and accept that more and more. And I'm ready to go. I mean, I'm excited about it. I wish the rapture would take place, don't you, right now? We'd be gone the moment the twinkling of an eye. It'd be great. But not only uh a a uh uh departing from uh sound doctrine, departing from the faith, but we're also seeing people who are uh not concerned about being faithful in the house of God. You know, when I first got saved, if the doors of the church were open, I was there. That's just the way it was. And I believe that there's a whole bunch of you out there who can remember those days. Not not that there was so long ago, but when you first got saved, that was the way it was. Isn't that right? Your heart was yearning for something that that God had placed in there and you wanted to be in the house of God. You wanted to hear the word of God. You wanted to To be taught the word of God, you wanted to read the word of God, you wanted to sing the hymns of God, you wanted to be with God's people, you just wanted to be where God was But in these latter days, the scripture says, you know, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as a manner of sum is. Well, apparently that was having a problem back there 2,000 years ago, and we've got the problem today. And it's and it's beginning to uh be like a snowball rolling down the hill. It's beginning to get bigger and bigger. Crowd gets smaller and smaller. We wonder why. Well, there's there's a number of reasons, and This message won't let me get into that, so we we'll just let that go. I'm sure the preacher can find a lot of reasons and he can preach in all of them. But we're seeing a we're seeing a rise in a lack of self-discipline. We're seeing a lack of respect for authority. We're seeing uh parents who are neglecting to teach and discipline their children I've never seen such bratty children as I see today. You say, well, Brother Williams, that's not very nice. Call it the way I see it. Whenever a kid has a fit because somebody don't give him something he's not supposed to have, that's a B R. I mean a delinquent, okay, or a brat. Take it the way it is. And then parents are neglecting to teach their children. And they're giving it to their grandchild uh grandparents. So the grandparents or the great grandparents are doing the raising. What is wrong with our society? Well Satan has got them convinced of some things, and here's here's where we start. Satan is convincing people today that they can have success without sacrifice. That's this welfare mentality that we're seeing today, where the government owes me something. That's what this is all about. That's Satan doing his work, convincing people, uh, through one way or another, through the government, or through their own, uh their own uh uh lack of desire to get out and work and make a living, but they've they've come to the conclusion that, hey, you owe me. It's my right. Well, we don't we don't really have rights. If you're going to be a success in this world, and I don't care what area of success you're talking about. Whether it's in business or whether it's a successful Christian or a successful artist or a successful musician or whatever it is, I can tell you the way to get there is through sacrifice. There's the only that's the only way there is This great nation we have was founded by men who were willing to sacrifice. I I love this part where it says in the Declaration of Independence for the support of the divine uh Of this I'm trying to read my own writing here. Uh this declaration, with a firm reliance of the protection of the divine providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives Our fortunes, and our sacred honor. Wow. That was really something. And most of these guys were rich people, and they lost their wealth as a result of signing the Declaration of Independence. Many of them were were uh killed as a result of their name being on the bottom of the Declaration of Indo. That's sacrifice. That's how this nation was founded. I look at Jesus Christ. He gave up his honor, came down, became a man Gave up his riches in heaven for the earthly dust that he walked around on. He gave up his holiness. Now don't Don't start crossing the T's and dotting the I's with me, but he he uh uh he gave up his holiness and became sin for us You see what I'm saying? Sacrifice. You know one of the things that's always surprised me about being a Christian is what the scripture says that if if somebody slaps you on one cheek while you turn to to them the other cheek, you know If they say, give me your coat, you know why you give me your cloak also, or vice versa, whatever. But those verses, they teach a principle. And that principle is one of sacrifice. I beseech you therefore, brethren, you know that verse. Present your body living, sacrifice. Sacrifices is how how you build character To do be involved in something and be doing something that you don't want to do, but you make yourself do it because it's the right thing to do. Sacrifice You know, I it's sometimes sometimes I feel guilty when I eat out. Because I think we can take that don't take me serious, honey. Okay? This is just for them Did you ever feel did you ever sit down at a meal and and uh uh and man you gotta and then all at once it something slaps you in the back of the head and it's uh it's the Lord saying, you know Those poor old people over there in Africa, they're starving, you know. I mean, did you ever get feel guilty about that? Sacrifice. I'm not saying don't go to the restaurant. Don't don't I'm don't put that on down because I'll be going there tomorrow But I'm just saying that that we have so much. And we as Americans, we don't know what sacrifice, real sacrifice is Some disaster hits like just just happened with the with the uh uh hurricane came and people I mean are still without uh without electricity, they're without uh place to sleep and and they're they're having to guard their house with a gun in their hand because of looters and all that kind of stuff. It just it it just tells me that that this nation has had it so good for so long that we don't really know how to handle uh adversity. We're not haven't learned this thing of sacrifice in this new society that we have Second thing, Satan will cause you to think that you can sin without suffering. I mentioned General Petraeus last night, and I don't mean to be him because there's so many other illustrations, just so happens that's the one that's in the news now. Somehow or another, the first time that he he blinked and winked at this gal and flirted with her, do you think for one second that he thought he was ever going to get caught? I can tell you he didn't. That's a delusion. You can't sin without suffering. If you don't believe it, call David down here. Hey David, have you had a moment? Can you slip down here and give us a little information? How about it, David? Can you sin without suffering? I'm afraid old David probably come down and hang his head and No. You can't sin without suffering. Be sure your sin will find you out. It's gonna happen. You can't get by with it because there's the all-seeing eye of God that sees everything. And he's he's not just an all-seeing God, but he's uh he's also a God of justice and righteousness and holiness So when these things take place, understand that whenever whenever you sense, there has to be a payday for that. You reap what you sow. I mean we d we know these verses, don't we? But I I don't think I think somehow or another Satan's It uh keeps our minds so focused on uh the junk and the garbage out here uh on the our everyday living and on TV and the ball games and everything, keeping our focus on everything else except the things that we need to really be focused on. And that's how we're really living for God, whether we are or not. Our hospitals, our jails, our testimonies to the fact that you can't sin without suffering. I wonder just how many different things you could point out and how many different people you could point out that would tell you the same thing. You cannot sin without suffering. You see, sin has a natural process. And the end of it is death. That's the end of it. The wage of sin is death. There's a third thing that Satan is sending us a strong delusion about. And that is that you can have salvation without surrender. I can remember uh that one church I was at where uh I preached and we gave the invitation I saw a teenage boy get out of his chair and he'd been sitting in the in the back row and he'd uh you could I could tell that they were He had a girl there and a another guy there and and they were back and forth yakity yakking. And when he stepped out into the aisle, I saw him glance back at the girl and wink at her, and then he came up, he's chewing his gum Like that. And he walked past me and got over to to the altar and and he knelt down there for a little bit and and got up and walked back. And uh You know, I somehow or another I don't think that God was in that. There's something about a humble spirit. God is looking for the humble and contrite heart. He's looking for a heart that is broken over sin He's looking for a heart of uh of that one who will come to him and say, God, I I'm not worthy to be saved. I know I deserve hell. And you don't do that when you're chomping gun and swinking at a girl in the back row. You just that just doesn't happen. You can't have salvation without surrender. Surrender of what? Surrender of your dignity? Some people have too much dignity to get saved. Their pride won't let them get down their knees. They have no no uh they have no humility in their heart. They don't they don't see themselves as really that bad. They're like the the Pharisee that stands over and says, Oh God, I'm so glad that I'm the way I am and And uh uh d God isn't even looking in that direction. He's looking over here at this poor old publican, crying out, Oh God, be merciful to me a sinner. That's what he's looking for. That's what God's looking for in the heart of an individual. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. That's what God's looking for, is that heart that's broken over sin, that wants a change in their life. And I'll tell you, if you if you want change, God will give you change. You talk about hope and change, He'll give you the right kind of change. There's another thought. Let's see how much time we got here to unthought things here. You can't serve you can't serve God without the Holy Spirit. Hmm Well I thought every Christian had the Spirit. Sure, they do. I mean, a person who's born again by the Spirit of God, Spirit lives within them. And I'm going to tell you this. Without the Spirit of God, if you're not saved, there's no way that you can serve God at all. And I'll tell you this. If you're saved and you want to serve God, you better be filled with the Spirit of God to serve God. Ooh. You know, if you're quiet, you're just looking at me like I made everybody mad here in the first 15 minutes of the message. There's God when you yield yourself to God, you're you become a sweet smelling savor to God. And that's what he's looking for. I think of I think of uh of Mary As she sat there at the feet of Jesus and Martha's running around trying to get everything done and rebukes Mary. Remember that whole scenario? And Mary and Jesus rebukes Martha and he says, Martha, Martha. Thou art uh uh it's something else and troubled about many things. Careful and troubled about many things. And Mary has chosen a better part and shall not and shall not be taken away from her. Well what was the difference between the two? Martha is working so hard to do for Jesus. He's fixing him up hamburgers or something. He's f fixing lunch for him And that was good. But she was doing it with the wrong attitude in her heart. Was she a Christian? Yeah, I suppose she's. I'm not going to get into the dispensational teaching there on that, but yeah, she was. How about m how about Mary? Yeah. But Mary was accepted, and just all she was doing was, she wasn't doing anything. You understand? She was sitting there, listening, absorbing, and loving the Savior. Martha just had a bad attitude. Well, you know, here I am out here doing all this here and she's sitting in there. Did she she allowed something within to to uh you know a jealousy to build up inside that destroyed her her ability to fellowship with Christ. And Jesus had to rebuke her about it The one thing that you you read in the Old Testament that you'll notice, and I I was I I would take it uh to uh Amos chapter 5. Where uh where God is dealing with the nation of Israel. And he's he tells the nation of Israel, he said You have brought me all of these sacrifices and and uh the burnt offerings and all of this and that. And he said, I hate them, I despise them. He's the one that ordered them back in the book of Leviticus, you know. Well why did he say that? Because they weren't they weren't right with God when they brought their offerings. And you do you think that the that The things that you do, taking up the offering or playing the piano or or preaching in the pulpit, if you think that is brings some kind of grace that is uh gonna uh make you a a level higher than someone else, you can forget it. God just wants you to come to him with that humble and contrite heart and say, God, I know I'm not worthy of of what you've given to me. But I love you and I'm trying to serve you best I know how, and I'm asking you just to cleanse my mind, cleanse my heart, help me Lord to be to be available when you want me and and to use me as in any way I can possibly be used. And God will use you. And he'll bless you because of it. But you must come to him with that humble. That humble humility that he's looking for. You can't serve him. It's not service without the Holy Spirit. And then final thought. I ch I tried to find an S, but I couldn't I have success without sacrifice and uh sin without suffering and salvation without surrender and service without the Spirit. Couldn't find an S, okay, so you just have to do the best you can. How about love without showing it? Huh? Lord, I love you. Peter, you really love me. Well, Lord, you you know I love you. He didn't say it, but in Peter's mind he's replaying the last few hours I don't know him. No, I'm not part of that band. Why, that's not my you know, he's not my master. I don't know anything to do with him. That whole crowd and curse, curse, curse He's playing that all over in his mind the word says, Peter, do you really love me? I'm not going to get into the Gopela and the Philia. I'm not going to get into that. But the words are there. Peter hadn't shown it, had he. A lot of there's a lot of things. If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. Wow. You know, I we we we take the Word of God so uh lightly today. We really do. I'm talking fundamental, independent, bible-believing Baptists. We take it so lightly. We don't really believe it says what it says sometimes. I mean that's the way that's the way we live our lives, isn't it? Well I think about Jacob. He worked seven years. For his wife, Rachel. Seven long years. That would be, listen, that would have been long years. I remember when I was in the army. And uh I was just stationed in Aberdeen Improvement Grounds. So I was only 230 miles from home. And during my first leave when I was in the g w in the army, right after basic training, I came home and that's when I met Nan. I was in the Army at that time. I'm going to tell you something. Noon Saturday, that's when they let us out. They wouldn't let us off for nothing on Saturday morning. 'Cause they knew we'd leave out Friday night. And so they waited 'til Saturday at noon to let us out of the camp. So you had Saturday noon, but you had to be back in formation at six o'clock in the morning on Monday morning. So you only had a day and a half is all you had. And I had to travel from Aberdeen Proving Grounds on my thumb. And that's how I traveled back in those days. Man. I got the fastest cars I could find. I I want you to know I I you know I came home just about I I I paid like twenty bucks to get out a KP. I that's kitchen police. There's nothing fancy about that But I loved her. When I met her, I knew she was gonna be my wife. I just I said, I'm gonna go with that gal and and man I was zipping back and forth and and finally before my two years is up I asked her to marry me and and she did. And I was glad. I'm just s I'm simply saying seven years for Jacob must have been an eternity. And then to and then to finally find out it wasn't it wasn't Rachel, it was Leah, the older one. She had a calf's eyes. I don't know what that meant. But anyway, I'm just I'm just simply saying that's love. Can I ask you what you're willing to do for the Lord that would be sacrificial to show his love? I can tell you things that we do that we ought to do that that ought to be just normal stuff, you know, like uh being faithful in the house of God and like reading the Bible and praying and stuff like that. But you know, that's just normal stuff What are you doing in the area of sacrifice? Because that's what he expects out of us. A living sacrifice means a living sacrifice. That's what I mean about do we really believe the Word of God? I did a line tonight. It's the first one I've done. It really turned out well. I like it. Just the fact I'm just sort of overwhelmed by it to the truth. It turned out so good. I didn't know it was that good. See I apparently am that good because it's good I can't help it. You want me to lie about something that had a terrible lion? It's not a terrible line, it's a good one. But the reason I did the line is is the attitude about he's the king of beasts. Huh? He's the king of the jungle. He's the head honcho. And then I think of the line of the tribe of Judah. He's the king of kings and the lord of lords. I'm telling you, he ought to be our Lord. Someone has said and he said uh I don't know who said it and maybe it's just something that's out there. But if he's not Lord of all, he's not Lord at all. You know there's truth to that. If you love me, you'll keep my commandments type thing. Is he the Lord of your life? I mean That mean that means he's Lord over your your entertainment. That means he's Lord over your work. You're not bitching and griping about this or that going on there, but you know, is he Lord over that? Is he is he the Lord over your family? Is he the Lord over your responsibilities to your family? Whoa. See what I'm talking about? Is he the Lord of your life Lord of Lord, King of Kings. One thing, he is Lord, no matter whether he's Lord over your life or not, he is Lord. But we wanted to be the Lord of our life. When he's the Lord of our life, all these other things just fall into place. We're at the right place at the right time doing the right thing at the you know Everything is working good when he's the Lord of our life. He's running our life when we're committed to him. Everything is working for him, but it's working for us. So I say to you, let him be the Lord of your life. Oh my. So many things we could talk about, but we'll get we'll just drop it at that. Looks like a good time to quit. Amen. We can have the lights out, I'll show this chalk dry.