Kings chapter three Second Kings chapter three. We're continuing our series on Elisha and as it usually happens we end up having a series within a series And so we have several messages on this event here where the three kings get together. I'll just set the stage for where we're going to begin reading Second Kings three verse ten is where we're going to begin. But if you remember the king of Moab withheld the sheep and uh the lambs and the goats from sending them over, selling them into the northern kingdom of Israel. Well that disrupts their economy, so Jehoram, the king of northern uh of the Israel, uh uh decides he's gonna go to war against the king of Moab because he He's uh killing their economy. He gets Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, to join up and al as an ally with him. He gets the king of Edom to join up as an ally, and uh they get their plan together, they're gonna fetch a compass. Don't you like the way the Bible words phrases? They fetch a compass down around the country of Edom, and they're going to come up behind. Good plan. They've got a lot of uh soldiers. They've got probably two to three times what the King of Edom has. They're coming up behind them. Hopefully it's going to be a surprise and uh on a weak part of his of his uh defenses there. And so everything's in place. Now begin reading. In 2 Kings chapter 3, notice verse 10. No, let's begin verse 9. So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of Edom, and they fetched the compass of seven days' journey. They're going down around Edom. Now notice this next phrase. And there was no water for the host, and for the cattle that followed them. Now they didn't plan on that. Now they're in a pickle. The king of Israel said, Alas, that the Lord hath called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord that we may inquire of the Lord by him? And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha, the son of Shaphat. Which poured water on the hand of Elijah. Jehoshaphat said, The word of the Lord is with him. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him. It's an interesting statement there. And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with thee? Get thee to the prophets of thy father and the prophets of thy mother. King of Israel, his father and mother were who? Ahab and Jezebel, and he says, listen, they rejected Jehovah, your parents. Why don't you go to their prophets if they're so great? The king of Israel said unto him, Nay, for the Lord has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab. And Elisha said, As the Lord of hosts liveth, listen to what Elisha says. before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee. But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass that when the minstrel played, that the hand of the Lord came upon him. And he, Elisha, said, Thus saith the Lord, make this valley full of ditches. For thus saith the Lord, ye shall not see wind, neither shall ye see rain, yet that valley shall be filled with water, that ye may drink, both ye and your cattle and your beasts And this is but a light thing in the sight of the Lord. He will deliver the Moabites into your hand, and ye shall smite every fenced city. and every choice city, and shall fowl every good tree, and stop all the wells of water, and mar every good piece of lamb with stones. And it came to pass in the morning When the meat offering was offered, that behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water. Digging ditches, let's pray, and uh we'll look at a few thoughts here from this passage as Evening. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would bless our study of your word. I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit and help us to grow. Help us to trust you. Help us, Lord, I pray you would apply to our lives the principles presented here in this portion of Scripture. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Last week, last Sunday night, we noted four observations from this event leading up to what we read here this evening. And that was this. You'll remember, we said how easily God can foil the plans of man. We can lay our plans out there, we can make our plans, but we ought to qualify everything we plan with this, if the Lord will. If the Lord will. God can step in and intervene. Then we pointed out how helpless we are without God's blessings. Jehoram, Jehoshaphat, the king of Edom, they had great armies. They had great plans, no doubt about it. They were doing things right. If they were going to do this, they were going to do things right. But Without God's blessing, n there excuse the English, there wasn't nothing gonna happen. There warn't nothing gonna happen And so uh without God's blessings, um uh great plans and great uh armies are zero. Then we said, number three, how quickly, it's interesting how quickly we tend to blame God for the consequences of our own actions. We make a stupid decision, we make excuse me, a bad decision, and uh then there's consequences as a result of that, then we're quick to blame God. And that's what they did here. Oh, the Lord brought these armies together To deliver us into the hand of Moab. No, the Lord didn't. That was their plans. There wasn't no seeking the Lord. Then we said, number four, to his credit, this problem Of no water, to his credit, it drove Jehoshaphat to the Lord. It prompted him to seek the Lord. Now, my opinion is He should have sought the Lord before they ever started this adventure. But praise God, when things began falling apart, he did seek the Lord. And any time an affliction or a difficulty drives us to the Lord, we can thank God for that trial. And that's a good response, regardless of where it is. Now, we get to verse 12. And we have three kings. I think this is interesting. You remember what happened. No water. Josebat says, Isn't there a prophet of the Lord, a little servant of uh Jehoram, says, Elisha's here. The word of the Lord's with him. Josh says, yes. Let's get it. Notice verse 12. We have three great kids. They had no time for God initially. God was not part of their plans. They had it all figured out. They were going to handle this themselves. Look at verse 12. Joseph had said, the word of the Lord is with him. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom, what did they do? What's the last several words there? They went down to him. It's interesting. They didn't say, hey, yeah, get him up here where we're at. These guys are humbled And now you find these three great kings, and they're humbly standing with their hats in their hands at the door of Elisha's tent, and they're asking for his help. Elisha wasn't any other plans. They didn't even think about him before. But God has intervened, and now these guys are humbly coming to Elisha asking for his help. Boy, how far we've come. If you would remember, come back to chapter 2 and look at verse 23. A few sermons ago, just a few verses earlier. Chapter 2 of 2 Kings verse 23 And he Elisha went up from thence unto Bethel. And as he was going up by the way, there came forth little children out of the city and what? Mocked him. Here you have Elisha is being mocked by a bunch of rebellious, smart-mouth young people. Mocking him because of his faith in God, mocking him because of his all he represented. And just a few verses later, you have kings. Coming to his door humbly asking for his help. I'm telling you, God can turn stuff around just like that And listen, I believe we as a church, as in as a congregation, and I in particular as pastor have a responsibility to stand for the Word of God. Whether it's popular or not, we're to stand for the Word of God. So we need to be careful. If everybody in the community turns against the Word of God, and begins mocking us for our faith in God's word, and begins mocking us for our burden for the loss, and begins mocking us because of our belief in separation and commitment to Christ If the whole community mocks us, don't get too discouraged because God can turn that thing around and the next thing you know, the leaders of the community may come seeking help Amen. I've seen it in my own life. I worked at the meat packing plant for four years. Mike and I were talking, we were at the hospital, and he says uh Uh uh w what'd you say? I w went from working in the meat packing plant to working in the surgery department of a hospital. I went from meat packing to meat hacking. And uh But when I worked at the meat packing plan, I got a little bit of it at the hospital, but particularly the meat packing plan, I got saved. God changed me. I mean just dramatically. Doesn't do it that way for everybody, but for me it was that was the case Those guys came down on me. I mean they made fun of me. One guy threatened to fight me after church just for no reason other than I was trying to be a testimony. And mocked me, called me names, unbelievable names, and all this stuff. But you know, when they started having problems When their world was caving in, guess who they came to and seeking for prayer and for spiritual help? Old Leatherman. They'd quietly come up and locker, hey man, would could you talk to the guy upstairs for me about something? You know that's the way they'd say it. You say it, pray for me. Uh boy in front of everyone, ah, make fun, God squad, leatherman, yeah, Jesus freak, he joined Hare Krishna, they make all this stuff. But when they start having problems, they come. Listen, don't get too down when everyone's against you, but don't get too high when everyone's praising you. Amen. So God turned things around here. Now you've got three powerful kings standing with their hats in their hands at the d door of Elisha's tent asking for help. It's interesting. These kings cared nothing for Elisha before this. He was not the chaplain of their United Nations Army here. He didn't have the chaplain hat. He wasn't carrying around a little army Bible. What was he doing there? He was they didn't have him part of the plan. They didn't ask him to join the team. They didn't pick him. But Elisha happens to be right there as they're fetching this compass around Edom. What was he doing? You know what Elisha was doing? He was tagging along. He was there when they needed him. He didn't say, fill it, you want to do it your way? Go on. I don't have nothing to do with it. No, nope, nope. He stuck right there. He was stuck right there And that leads me to make another application. Community may mock us, they may criticize our position on eternal security, they can criticize criticize our commitment to the King James or whatever they want Our soul winning, they can call us names mark us and get mad at us, but I tell you, we ought to always be available when they have a need. Amen. You would be surprised. I tell you, sometimes it's fun being pastor You would uh a lot of times it's fun to be a pastor. It's not always fun to be a pastor. But you would be surprised over the years how many preachers from other churches who had some point or another criticized me, some of them in letters writing to me When then they call me up, you would be surprised how many call me up and say, Pastor Leatherman, there's somebody here that's unsaved and they're dying. Would you mind going by and getting them saved? We know you guys are kind of good at that. Isn't that amazing? And I've had that uh a number of times over the fifteen years here in Oakland. I'm thinking of several different preachers who called me up. One preacher just trashed us And he called me up and said, we got someone dying. I know you guys are pretty good at getting people saved. Would you go by and visit them? Isn't that an amazing thing? You know what I could have said? I should have said, Philly, you trashed us. Why don't you go get them saved? You know what? That's not the spirit of Christ. And that wasn't the spirit of Elisha. There was lives at stake. And what they thought of him was not the important thing. The important thing is that God's word be declared and God's will be done. So I like Elisha. He's right there. He's he's tagging along as a volunteer. He's there ready when they need him. Now, somebody said this: a poor, unknown, wise man With the power and word of God is of greater benefit to a nation than great military leaders and wealthy kings. In other words, one person who at this point these guys never heard of, Elisha, or not much about him, they didn't care much about him, but yet he had the word and power of God. And he did more for the well-being of Israel, of Judah, and of Edom than those great armies all put together. And I'll tell you what Mount uh what Mountain Lake Park and Oakland and Garrett County surrounding areas need. They don't need some great statesmen. They don't need all this stuff. They've got all of that. I'll tell you what we need. They need some people who can get a hold of God. Our community needs some people that know God and have answers from the Word of God for the problems our community faces. And that's what Elisha was. Turn with your wood. Keep your place here. Just real quickly, turn with me to Proverbs 21. Proverbs 21 and verse 31. This is a great verse. Proverbs 21 and verse 31. Now we're thinking about battle. They're going to war. They've got armies. They've got weapons. They've got plans. I mean everything you need to win this war, but there's one thing they lacked. And that was direction and blessing of God. Look at Proverbs 21 and verse 31. The horse is prepared against the day of battle. Now you understand they didn't have tanks and umbies and warthog jets and all that stuff back then. Their weapon of their means of transportation in battle was what? Was the horse. Boy, they'd put armor on that thing. They'd have their chariots behind it, and they had that thing geared up, prepared it for battle You can have all the artillery, you can have all the great weapons, you can have all your jets and your tanks and your humvees and your battleships and all that. But what does the last part of this verse say? Safety is what? Of the Lord. I believe our country ought to have a strong military. I think we ought to stockpile nuclear bombs. I think we ought to have Star Wars satellites and blow-up missiles coming towards us. I'm for all of it. But if we ever get to the place we start depending on our military to take bless America, we're going to lose it all. Safety is of what? The Lord. And we better seek God. Now we better get God's hand back on this country or we will lose it all. And so here you have, they had all the weapons, they had all the armies, they had all that, boy, they've got the plan, but they didn't have any water. And you know what? You know who saved their hide? Some guy that knew how to get a hold of God. Elisha. Fascinating. Look at verse 13. Come back here to 2 Kings. And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with thee? Who's he talking to? The king of who? Israel. That's Jehoram. That's the son of Ahab and Jezebel. This is an ungodly man with no convictions about his ungodliness, remember? Get thee to the prophets of thy father and to the prophets of thy mother. And the king of Israel said unto him, Nay, for the Lord hath called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab. No, he didn't. And Elisha said, listen to Elisha, this is so uncharacteristic. As the Lord of hosts liveth. before whom I stand. Surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, a good guy, basically, I would not look toward thee nor see thee Can you sense the indignation in Elisha's voice and his answer to them? He has no time for Jehoram. He is indignant that Jehoram would dare come and ask him to pray to Jehovah for him. Who do you think you are? Well get you your gods. You're the one that's you're the family. Your parents are the one that had the prophets of Baal. You're the ones that said Baal is the true God and Jehovah is not. Why don't you go? And he is absolutely worked up. Now, if you study the life of Elisha, at least in my mind, that's out of that's out of character for Elisha. Elijah's more easygoing. Elisha's more of a, you know, a kind, gracious, merciful. That sounds to me more like Elijah. Elijah says, oh yeah, I'll chop all your heads off. In fact, Elijah did some of his best work when he was really mad. I told my wife, I said, I think sometimes I preach better when I'm really mad at something. Elisha was Elijah was that way. Man, you read his stuff, he's just indignant all the time. He's mad at everybody and everything, and he's just after it. But Elisha's a little different. Line's a little more laid back. Line's a little more merciful and gracious, but not now. He is absolutely worked up. about Jehoram coming to him. And notice in verse 15, he wants to calm down. Look at verse 15. But now bring me a what? What's a minstrel? Music. It's a musician. He said he and I I'm I'm reading into this maybe a little bit. This is supposition on my part. But I think Elisha is worked up. He is really, he is really aggravated at this whole situation. And he says, I can't I can't go in there and represent God like this. I've got to calm down. Is there a musician around? And so, sure enough, lo and behold, there is. I don't know what he played, a harp or um piano or organ, I don't know what it was. But he played some instrument, and we're not told what music the minstrel played. We would assume it may be some psalm of Israel. Some event like that, maybe one of David's Psalms. And we don't know what it is. But this minstrel comes in and he plays. And notice what the Bible says. Bring me a minstrel, and it came to pass when the minstrel played. I believe the music had a calming effect on Elijah. He's calming down, he's getting worse, he's Getting his emotions under control, and the hand of the Lord came upon him. What's taking place here? I believe Elijah was angry. I believe Elisha was afraid that he was going to operate in the flesh, and he did not want the word to Jehoram, Jehoshaphat, and the king of Edom to be his word. He wanted to make sure it was God's word. And so he settled down, got everything under control, and then God's hand could come upon him. Listen, the work of the Lord must never be done in the flesh. We have to make sure it is not us doing this, it's God doing it. And I'll be very honest with you, and I'm very concerned about this in my own heart and mind right now. I I want a very uh uh I I want God to build this church, not us. And I'm concerned about our growth, our spiritual growth and all that. And I'm asking God, Lord, you promised to build the church. And so I need to search my heart and life and say, is there I don't want to be in the flesh I don't want my attitude or anything about me to hinder the hand of the Lord coming upon me. I need to calm down. I need to make sure I'm in tune with the Lord. That's what Elisha was doing. And so the instruments play, the hand of the Lord comes him, comes upon him, and God gives direction. What this world needs, hey, what this world needs is not our opinions. This world does not need our ranting and raving. There's a group out of Kansas that goes to the cemetery uh the funerals of fallen soldiers and mocks them and say God is killing us because of sodomy and all that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think the guy's name is Phillips. I tell you what, that is nonsense This world does not need our ranting, and I understand you get aggravated with a bunch of garbage going on, but they don't need our opinion, they don't need our ranting, they need the hand of the Lord to be upon us in our ministry. So that's what Elisha does. Now, a couple thoughts here, I'm going to shut her down. Number one, notice our complete dependence upon God. Talked about this earlier. These kings could not produce what they needed. They needed water, and they could not come up with it. They needed God to do what they could not do. Our church, whether we recognize it or not, our church is totally dependent upon God. And it is best for us to recognize that. The fact of the matter is, every church is dependent upon God, but not every church realizes that. When a church takes into their hands and takes it upon themselves to change their doctrine and throw out biblical doctrine, they are taking the whole situation in themselves and they are abandoning their dependence upon God. We are to depend upon God. And it's best if we recognize that. We must never allow ourselves to think that we can somehow function without the desperate dependence upon God. I thank God for the men that come out Sunday evening at 6. 30, come down and pray with us. Our church needs the prayers of the men of this church. If we think for one minute we can function and please Almighty God without the prayers of God's men, we are fooling ourselves. I thank God for the Wednesday night prayer service. I thank God for the people that come out. Our church needs it this our church needs to be on our knees before a holy God seeking his blessing, seeking his power, seeking his protection against us, because without God's blessing, we are nothing I've said for years the most important service of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, the most important service we have is the Wednesday night prayer service. When we as a congregation get bow before God and seek his blessings and seek his power upon us. Genuine Christianity is a Holy Spirit-inspired lifestyle. It is a Holy Spirit exit style, a Holy Spirit-inspired existence. It is not our concoction. We don't just work this up. What did Jesus say in John 15:5? Without me, ye can do nothing. That phrase without me means separate from me or independent of me. I gotta look it up the word nothing. Without me, you can do nothing. The word nothing means absolutely, without a doubt, unequivocally, zero, nothing. And the Lord was saying, you can do absolutely nothing without him. You say, oh yeah I'm an independent guy. I pulled myself up by my bootstraps. I made myself what I am. You're just fooling yourself. The Lord says I am the one that gives you the ability to make wealth I'm the one that puts the breath in your lungs. I'm the one that keeps that heart beating. Without me, you're a pile of dust. And what we need to see is our complete dependence upon God. Until we become painfully conscious of our own powerlessness, we will never appreciate our dependence upon God. What was God doing when he dried up the water for these three kings? What was God showing that nation? You know what he was doing? He was showing them how desperately they need him. Somebody says, What is God doing in my life? Why do I have these trials? Why do I have this heartache? Why do I have this difficulty? Why is the job situation the way it is? Why is my health the way it is? You know what God's constantly showing us? How desperately we need him. How desperately we need him. Second thing I notice here, not only our complete dependence upon God, but I notice our duty before God. Look at verse 16. And he, Elisha said, this is after the hand of the Lord came upon him, he said, Thus saith the Lord, all right, here's what you're supposed to do. Alright, they're all there ready. What is it? What is it? Send an envoy to this lake or uh somehow what are we supposed to do? He says, start digging ditches in this valley. Make this valley full of ditches. Now, I like to use a sanctified imagination. I see the kings there. They're in all their rural They're powerful. They direct armies. They can just say do this and the whole army does it. And they're standing there, they're humbled themselves before Elisha. What should we do? We don't have water. We're powerless. Elisha says, Go out and dig a bunch of ditches Can you see it? They're like they look at each other. Huh? Um dig a bunch of ditches. Did you say dig ditches? Yes. Now go do it. Get That's in the Hebrew. Gid. That is not what they had planned. Um He was telling them there was something they needed to do. God wasn't just going to do this all for them They have a responsibility. I think it's interesting. God didn't tell them to produce water. You know why he didn't tell them to produce water? They couldn't do that. But one thing they could do, they could dig ditches. They could make preparation for what God could do. God didn't tell him to do what only God could do. God told him, you do what you can do, and then I'll do what only I can do. Their duty was to do what, our duty is to do what we can do. Then when we do it, God will do what we cannot do. You dig ditches, I'll provide water. You and I'm getting a little ahead of myself, well I'll I'll get to that when I get there. Here's the thing. God tells us to do what we can what we can do, and then God does God will do what we can't do. Let me ask you a question. How many folks here know somebody that's unsaved or burdened for? I do another. Question: Can you save them? No. You and I couldn't even save ourselves. So we can't do that, right? We can't save them. But there is something we can do. We can take the gospel to them. We can give them a gospel tract. We can take a Bible out and sit down with them in a loving, sincere, compassionate way And show them from the Bible how to be saved. We can do that. And I'm telling you, when we do what we can do, then God will do what only He can do. Will God save someone without them having the gospel? Yes or no? No. Jesus says, I'm the way, the truth, life. No man comes to the Father but by me. So the only way God's going to save someone, which only he can do, is when we do what we can do. Then God will do only what He can do. Does that make sense? He says, you dig the ditch, I'll put the water in it. You give the gospel, I'll do the saving. You send the missionary, you surrender your life to go in Kazakhstan and dig some ditches in Kazakhstan. I'll fill them with water. You take some missionaries on and you support them, and I'll make sure they get where they need to go and do what they need to do. Soul winning is digging ditches. People getting saved is God filling those ditches with water. Does that make sense? It's true in soul winning. It's true in our giving. Now I don't preach a whole lot about giving. I think for the most part we have a pretty good church, pretty good giving church. Um that doesn't mean if you're not giving that everything's fine. You should say Still be giving, but we're coming up to missions conference. And so my thinking is, and I believe the Lord's leadership is getting us to think about our giving. Question, can we save people in Kazakhstan? No, only God can do that. Actually, can we build churches in Kazakhstan or Mongolia or anywhere else? No, Christ builds the church. But that God is not going to do that until we do what we can do. Until we dig the ditches. You know what faith promise giving is? It's digging ditches so God can fill them with water. It's putting money in the hands of missionaries to get them on the field so God can use them to build churches and win souls. Does that make sense at all? Giving. We can give. But God's the one that gives the increase. Amen. Uh years ago there was a lady that attended our church. She was an older lady, and she attended real regularly for about a year or so, and then she moved away, and there's some problems with her family. I think she's passed away by now. But she used to sit over here where um Mr. and Mrs. Harsh are. I mean Helen and Jesse are. And um not yet. She sat over there. And one day I preached Sunday morning and I didn't even preach on tithing, but she came to me after she was sitting there and uh after everybody was leaving, she kept sitting there and she waved me over and sat down, she was crying. And she said, Pastor Leatherman, I want to tithe, but I can't. And I said, well, and I said her name, and we talked a little bit, and she goes, I know God wants me to, but I can't. And if I only said, Pauline, listen, if God tells you to do something, you can do it. It's a matter of faith. I said, now listen, I'm not telling you what to do. You y God tells you you know, I'm just saying, trust God. Do what God tells you to do. I said, W you know, whatever you do, we love you. I don't want you uh I don't want you to think, you know, anything like that. But I said I said God God keeps his word. Several months went by, she never said anything more about it. One day I got a phone call. She said, Pass them will you come on over? I said, okay. I went over there. She goes, I came to the door, she goes, I want you to see my new furniture. I said, your new furniture? Yeah. She goes several months ago when I talked to you, she said, that night I decided I'm going to give my tithe to the Lord. Let happen what happens. And she says, I have never been in a better financial situation than what I am now. She said, My bills are being paid, I was able to get new furniture. She said, I want you to see what God has done. for me. You know what happened? She dug a ditch and God filled it with water. She did what she could do. She could take that money and then put it in the offering plate. Then God did what only he could do and he blessed her and met her need needs. Now, I asked my wife for permission to use this illustration, so ladies don't get mad at me. She said, You better tell them you ask me or they'll be mad at you. I for years we've we've given, of course, the faith promise, and I sincerely believe that our giving, we give what God tells wants me to. I sincerely believe that. And for several years, my wife had a hard time with that. She gave me permission to say this. And she she had on her tongue, she said, I think we're giving too much, we're giving too much. And various things. And um and this Lord is so this church is so good to us. You guys are so generous to us. But there were some things here and there, and uh several half a year ago or whatever, Kathy came to me and she said, Dennis, I'm giving this thing to the Lord, whatever you feel we should give I want to do it and I support it wholeheartedly. She says, I'm glad we're giving what we give. And I said, Kathy, listen, I'm just thinking of doing what God wants us to do. I really do. And she goes, I understand that, and I praise the Lord for it. And she'll be the first to tell you, God has blessed us. And it is turned around and God has worked some things out in different situations, and I'm telling you, we are rejoicing in it. And at that point now, the two of us, we just praise God when it comes time to give that offering Sunday mornings. We are rejoicing in the Lord. You know what that is? That's digging a ditch and then God filling it with water. You follow what I'm saying? We got faith promise coming up. I'll be honest with you, as pastor with the economy and hearing what other pastors are struggling with, they get a little nervous. And I'm just asking our church, let's just dig the ditches that God tells us to dig and let's trust Him to fill them with water. Amen? When it comes to faith promise. God will tell you what to do. You say, oh man, the money, economy. There's people not in church tonight because they're worried about their financial situation. My word to them is hey, come out to church, dig a ditch. God will fill it. God will take care of that. And so we are to do our job, our duty before God. Seems strange to these soldiers. Now we're digging ditches Man, I trained to kill the enemy. I trained to work a bow. I trained to throw a javelin. I trained to drive a fighting horse. I didn't train to dig a ditch. This is the hot Middle Eastern sun. And they're out there digging away, digging away, digging away. They had no idea exactly at first what God was going to do. But they did what God told them to do. You know what was happening? They were putting things in place for God to do great things. You know what those ditches were, and I like this. This is what I was trying to jump ahead to a little bit ago. Those ditches were anticipation. And at the end of the day, they've got ditches all over the side of that mountain, all over that valley. They've got ditches everywhere. Alright, now what? You know? We got the ditches. Something's gonna happen. They're anticipating. And I tell you, we as Christians, we cannot allow ourselves to lose our anticipation. God's gonna do something. We've given out these tracts. Man, look at that. Man, all that gospel going out. God's word won't return void. Man, something's gotta happen. You got that many ditches out there. Good grief. There's got to be some water somewhere filling them up. These ditches were Israel and Judah and the King and Edom Putting themselves in a position where God could do great things for them. And it was an act of anticipation on their part. They were putting things in place for God to do great things. You know what? Too often we don't see miracles because we don't expect them. Too often we don't see miracles because we don't put ourselves in a position where God can do a miracle for us You've got to get like I was talking this morning about that truck. And if you're gonna make that corner, you've got to get yourself in a position where you can actually do that. And if we want God's blessings If we want to see miracles, if we want to see God do great things, we gotta get ourselves in some position where God can do that. I believe in faithfulness to church. Kathy and I go to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night, not because I'm the pastor, but because we believe we need it. We believe it's right. And here's the thing. And again, I'm not I'm preaching to the choir here tonight. But here's the thing, you know I believe with all my heart God wanted to do something in some people's lives tonight through this message and they did not dig the ditch, come to church. They don't have a ditch dug so that God can do in their life what God wanted to do. Does that make sense? I'm telling you, God has something in this message for people, not because I'm preaching it, because it's His Word. Well you know some folks ain't getting it because they're watching 60 minutes tonight. They didn't dig a ditch. There's no water there. God can't fill a ditch if there ain't a ditch. Man, there's people God wants to save. And he would use us if we get out there and give him the gospel, but we're not digging that ditch. You can't see that happen. Too often we don't see miracles because we're not in a position to receive them. We gotta open our heart to the will of God so God can direct us. We gotta go where their lost are with the gospel so God can save souls. We gotta give to missions so we can get the report back of great things God is doing around the world. We've got to be in church and dig a ditch, make our pew a ditch, and sit in the middle of it and say, I'm waiting for God to pour the water on me. Does this make sense? God wants to do a work. But we have to put ourselves in a position where he can do that. Maybe it's an attitude I don't know what it may be, but here's a caution I want to give. We must not anticipate things God has not promised. Again, I know I pick on these guys, but we got these yard birds on TV. And their whole idea is if you can imagine it, God will do it. You just they're claiming I like to put it this way, they're claiming promises God never made. When these soldiers went out and dug these ditches, they didn't presume Hey, I know what we'll do. We'll dig a bunch of ditches. Then God will fill it because we dug the ditches. No, that's not the way it happened. God told them to dig the ditches And because God told them to dig the ditches, then they anticipated God doing something. Their anticipation was based upon the word of God. Not upon their own imagination. Does that make sense? And so, anticipation They were to dig these ditches immediately. I found that the word today is an important word in God's Word If we want God's blessings tomorrow, we've got to put ourselves in position today. This digging ditches was hard work. A lazy person never sees great works of God. A lazy church is never used greatly of God. We are the successful Christian life requires hard work and service. I found this. When I work hard, then God works hard. When I get out there and serve God, boy, then the Holy Spirit starts doing great things. I'm telling you the churches that are sitting around, not winning souls, not active in missions, not up and about doing things for God They are not seeing the blessings of God upon them. They're not seeing God do great works. They may have big crowds. They may have a lot of noise. But that is not equivalent to the presence and power of God. Now our work in and of itself is not going to produce a whole lot. Without him, we can do nothing. But when we step out and start digging, boy, then God starts pouring down water. So it requires hard work. They dug ditches, not hoping for water, but confident of water. Several years ago I preached the ordination service for Sean up the graft. Remember Brother Sean? What a blessing brother showing up the graph was. He had called me, he'd been working up in Pennsylvania for a while. He called me up and asked if I'd come out and preach, be on his ordination council and and for his ordination. So I went up there. It was a great privilege. And Brother Sean said something that encouraged my heart so much. When he was introducing me, he said this. He said, I worked for Pastor Leatherman at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church for what was it, about nine, ten months, something like that. He said, I learned working up at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to expect God to do something. Man, I learned to expect God to do something. That's the way to live. That's the way to serve. Can I be very honest with you? We send we go out or we send people out Sunday afternoons or Thursdays whenever we are Saturday going out with the gospel. You know what I'm expecting? I'm expecting people come back and say, hey, I led someone to Christ. Hey, we had someone, trust the Lord. I I wasn't able to get over here to see and I came over the mic was there. I said, Mike, were there any professions of faith? Because no, not tonight. I said, oh man You know, when I preach, I don't base the success of my message on how many people are at the altar. I don't do that. But I do expect this. If I faithfully preach the word of God, I do expect God's people to respond to it. I do expect the Holy Spirit to deal with hearts and people to respond to it. Anticipating God working That's what these ditches were all about. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please help us to live a life of anticipation. Help us, Lord, put ourselves In the place where you can bless us and you can do great works. Help us to do our part. Dig the ditches. Do what you tell us to do. Be where you tell us to be And Lord, we'll see you do some great things with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed.