Hebrews chapter number eleven, if you would, look with me at verse number six. It says, But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now the title, the message I put in the bulletin was Diligently Seeking the Lord. Could come up with other titles. I'm not real good at coming up with titles, but I noticed in verse number four you have faith that produces worship. And there you have Abel offered to God a sacrifice. He was worshiping God. In verse number five, we have Enoch, his faith produced a walk. You have face worship, face walk. And I got looking at verse 6 here, and I think you could see here the wealth of faith. God is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. So I want to talk about this matter of faith, whatever title we want to use. I want to talk about this matter of having faith in God. Let's pray. And ask the Lord to bless us. Father, I ask now that we look into your word. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take these truths, these tremendous Life-changing truths here in this verse, and you would change our lives. I pray you'd strengthen our understanding a little bit of you And then Lord, what it means to have faith in you. And God, I cannot convey that in and of my own cell. And so, Lord, I need your Holy Spirit, and I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit dwelling within me right now would fill me. And God, that you would speak through me these truths, these principles, through my lips, my body, as I yield it to you. And I pray that you would take these and apply them to each and every one of our lives as you see fit, as you know that we need. Help us to have faith in you, Lord. Help us to trust you in every area of our life and all your leadership in our lives. So God again, I yield myself, take me, fill me, and bless now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Hebrews Hebrews chapter 11 is one of the greatest chapters in all of Scripture on the subject of faith. Now, if you want to learn to have faith in God, you say, well, I want to learn to trust God. I want to have stronger faith in God. I recommend to you that you study Hebrews chapter 11. It is a classic passage on what it means to have faith. In verses 1, 2, and 3, we have the explanation of faith. If you would, look at verse 5 Number one, I know Pastor Matt read these just a few moments ago, but look again at verse one. He says, Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen He says, For by it, faith, the elders obtained a good report. Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God So that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. So he's explaining a little bit about what faith is. Then in verse number 6, our text, we're told that faith is essential. He says, without faith it's impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God. Now get this He that cometh to God must believe that he is. And believe what he does. Understand how God operates. He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. What are you saying? If we come to God, trusting him and believing him, God will respond to that faith And reward us with His will and His blessings and His leadership in our life. So He's telling us here that faith is essential For us in our relationship with the Lord. Some people struggle with God. Some people get upset at God Some people struggle with the will of God, and they say, well, I just don't understand God. And I just, why would He do that? And why doesn't He do this? And I just have a hard time with the will of God The reason for that is, is we've not learned to trust him. We've not learned to have faith in him. If I want to have peace in my heart, I see what's happening in the world and I and uh things taking place, I don't understand a lot of stuff. If I want to have peace in my heart, I've got to get to the place where I learn to trust God. Just have faith in him. Say, Lord, what about uh just trust him. Just trust him. People ask me sometimes, in fact I just had this past week somebody came to me a situation. They said, Why and Pastor, why would God let this happen? And that is the most almost impossible question to answer so many times. Why? Now there's nothing in the world wrong with asking why. Job, all through Job, he says, Wherefore? Wherefore? He's saying God, why? Why? Why why why? It's nothing wrong with asking why. Jesus on the cross said, My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? So to say, I don't I uh I I why? I I want to understand, I want to know if there's a purpose, there's a reason behind this, that something that makes sense in my mind in this situation. Listen, that word why is uh that question why is hard to answer, but my answer is almost always this. God is too good to be unkind, he's too wise, to make a mistake. We just need to learn to trust him. He knows what he's doing. He's wise. He's good. He loves us. And by the way, God has more information than you and I have. He knows the end from the beginning. And so he says faith is essential. He that cometh to God must believe that there's your reward or that. Without faith it's impossible to please him. People struggle with the things of God, understanding God and his ways because they haven't learned to trust him yet. Then in verse 4 and 5, notice he says, by faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice. Verse 5 Verse 4, verse 5, he says by Enoch, by faith. Enoch was translated. Then pick up in verse 7. And all the way through the end of the chapter, he's giving illustrations Of what it means to have faith in God, what it looks like. Here's one of the great things. Every one of these illustrations goes back to the Old Testament. Anybody ever notice that? They all go back to Old Testament individuals. Because one of the purposes God gave us the Old Testament is to illustrate for us New Testament truths. Sometimes people say, Well, I don't like to read the Old Testament. I tell you, you're missing out on a lot of truth that is illustrated. And so all these people that are mentioned here in Hebrews chapter 11 God is using them to show us here is what faith looks like. This is how it's displayed. This is how it's exercised. Now if you look at all these individuals in Hebrews chapter 11, they're coming from all different walks of life. Some of these folks are great intellectual giants, some of them are very wealthy, very powerful A lot of them were just normal, everyday folk. And here's the point. I just want to kind of throw this out in our introduction here. Anybody can have faith in God. It's not dependent upon your level of education. It's not dependent on your financial status. It's not dependent on your social status in the world. Anybody can have faith in God. Here's one of the great things I love about the New Testament church. In Testament Church, of course, you can have on a same pew, you can have somebody that's living just uh paycheck to paycheck, barely getting by but they're trusting God. On that same pew you can have somebody that's a great, very, very wealthy, money bags like Ed and uh people like that. And um But yet they both can have faith in God. You follow what I'm trying to say? Some people might not be known at all in the community, others may be very well known in the community, but we can all have faith in God. And so we're given this examples all through this chapter, from verse 4 and 5, and again 7, all the way through, I think it's verse 40 ends, of these people of different walks of life. But they learned to trust God. They learn to have faith in God. And so all different backgrounds. He tells us who can have faith? Ordinary people. And here's another thing I noticed about every one of these folks Not one of them were sinless. You look at their lives. Every single one of them listed there, they messed up. They had flaws. They had failures. They had struggles. Not one of them perfect. But every single one of them learned to have faith in God. He said, Pastor, if you knew how bad I've blown it, listen, I don't need to know how bad you've blown it. All I need to know is how merciful and gracious and good God is, and you can trust him, he'll get you back up and get you going again Are you with me? And so all these different people, I don't know about you, that encourages me. I can trust God. I can have as much faith in God as Abraham did. I can exercise the same faith in God that Enoch did, walk with God. He was translated, God took him. And so, uh, who can have faith? Ordinary, everyday, imperfect people. You can have faith in God. And then I look at this, I see how faith is expressed, and I kind of touched on this, but it's all various ways faith displays itself. In some cases, it's offering up a sacrifice. In other situations, they're building a ship. Noah, by faith, built the ark. Some they're moving locations. God's moving them. Others it's uh receiving strength. Others it's being a blessing to people around me. And so faith expresses faith in God this is displayed, expresses itself in a variety of ways. God has a plan and purpose for each of our lives. And then what does faith produce? Again, verse 4 and 5, and then verse 7 on to the end, it it uh produces all various things. In some cases, it produced a good report. Verse 2, he says, by faith For by it, faith, the elders obtained a good report. They had a good testimony. I don't know about you, but if I could just establish this testimony Boy, Brother Leatherman, he sure has faith in God. Wouldn't that be a good report? Sister so-and-so. What do you know about her? There's a lot I don't know, but this I do know. She sure has faith in God. Man, he sure trusts the Lord. What do you know about that young person? I don't know a lot about them, but I know this. They've got a lot of faith in God. Faith in God. What a testimony. And so you go through here, and all different things it produced proper worship, courage, victory in life, blessings to others The most productive you say, preacher, what's the most productive thing I can do as a Christian? Have faith in God And it'll produce things in your life. It'll prompt you. God will stir you. God will use you. If we just learn to have faith in God. Uh kind of rush through that, but I want to get to this. Number one, my first thought is this this morning, the priority of faith. The priority of faith. Look again at verse number six But without faith, it is what? Impossible to please him. If something is impossible, what does that mean? It can't be done. It's not possible. I thought somebody was going to say uh impossible means it isn't possible. But That's kind of the level that we deal with here. But if something's impossible, you say it can't happen. It's not going to happen. You know what God says? You want to please God with your life? You need to learn to have faith in Him. You need to learn to trust Him. You need to learn to have confidence in His love, in His will, and His plan. His purposes for your life, his power. Trust him. Have faith in him because you're not going to please him. Now the question is, what is faith? What does he mean when I said without faith, it's impossible to please God? What does he mean by faith? The word faith, sometimes it's one of those words that sometimes we know what it means, but it's kind of hard to express a little bit. Faith has the idea of having a conviction, I am absolutely certain, that something is true. It means to have the conviction that maybe somebody, a person, is true. I have faith in that man. I have faith in that woman. What they say is true. You can trust it. You can have confidence in them. It has the idea of making a decision to rely upon someone or rely upon something unconvinced it's true. God says, you want to please me? You want your life to please your God, your creator? He says, well, if you don't have faith, that ain't going to happen. You cannot please me without having faith in God. I wonder how many Christians displease the Lord because we don't trust him. Take things in our own hands. We lean on our own understanding. We make our own decisions. Well, I know God says that this is what I should be. I know God says that this is the way things are. But I don't say it And I'm going to act upon my own understanding. I'm telling you right now, that displeases God. I had somebody come to me just this past summer. And they were in a little situation and on the surface, there was really nothing wrong with it, but they came and they said to me, they said, Pastor, I need you to pray with me and help me. Said, I got uh I'm in a situation and I know it's not the will of God. It wasn't necessarily sin other than if they pursued it, they'd be out of the will of God. That's sin. But I mean As far as blant and sin, it wasn't that. It was just that wasn't God's will for their life. Do you follow what I'm trying to say? Get that situation in your mind? And they came and they said, this is hard Because this is something I really desire. This is something that's not really wrong, but I can't sleep at night. I can't having a hard time functioning. I know it's not the will of God. He's convicted me about this And I said, you've got to make a decision. You've got to make a decision. Are you going to have faith in God? And let him lead you and direct you and alter your course in this situation and trusting God, having faith in God, or Are you going to pursue your own will and press on and do something that you know is not the will of God? Now, which of those two decisions would please the Lord? Talk to me Which which of those two decisions? Doing what I want or trusting God? Which one pleased the Lord? Trusting God. Praise the Lord. This person made that decision. They came a couple days later and said, well I trusted God. I let it go. It was hard. It's not what I wanted, but I trust God. I trust God. I tell you what, that way, that is what pleases God. Faith, the priority of faith, I have got to get to the point in my Christian life. I've got to get to the point in life Where I learned to trust the Lord, the priority of faith, and just letting God have his way, trusting him, trusting him. Faith is an absolute necessity if my life is going to please God. And by the way, the most important issue in my life is pleasing God. You get a job, you have an employer. Let's say Randy Ringer is going to hire you build houses over there in uh wherever he builds houses, West Virginia. He's going to hire you on to work with him. What's your number one responsibility as an employee of Randy Ringer? Is to what? Please, Randy Ringer. Because if the boss ain't happy, you don't got a job. Right or wrong? So, well what do I need to do? You just whatever you do, you do what makes your employer happy. And you'll have a job. You with me? It's pretty basic, but that's it. By the way, that that applies to God also Most important thing in my life is that I please God with my life. He's God, I'm not. He's the creator, I'm the created one. He created me to please him. By the way, I found out when my life is pleasing the Lord, I'm a whole lot happier than when my life is not pleasing to the Lord. Alright? Everybody with me? Alright. How many people are glad you're not in jail? How many people are glad you're not in Siberian slave camp? Amen. See it's not that bad. Here's a fact. Here is a fact. One day, every single one of us, every every person in here that I'm talking to, every person under the sound of my voice, I hope you're listening Every single one of us, there's a day coming we're going to stand before God and give an account of ourselves. If we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we're going to stand at what's called the judgment seat of Christ. It's not to determine whether I go to heaven or hell, but it is to determine whether my life pleased the Lord or not as a Christian. If I please him, if I diligently seek him, if I seek to please him and fulfill his will for my life, there is reward. If I neglect the will of God and I say, no, I do not trust Him, I don't care whether I please Him or not, I could care less whether God is pleased with my life or not. My Bible says we'll suffer loss. See the thing, and and by the way, if you're here and you're the sound of my voice, wherever you may be, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you will not be at the judgment seat of Christ. You will be at what Revelation refers to as the great white throne judgment. And that is a judgment of condemnation. And that's a whole nother message. It's a horrific situation to be in. So what I'm trying to say is this, if you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, most important issue in your life is coming and trusting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. If a person dies in their sin without Christ, if they die unforgiven, they're separated from God for all eternity in hell, eventually the lake of fire. Now that's a fact. Now for those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, I trust the one that's 19 years old up in Philadelphia. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we will stand before the Jesus Christ Himself. I mean, literally, physically, right there, I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ. Most important issue at that moment, at that encounter with Jesus Christ, the most important issue will be: did I please him? He is not going to judge me on how much money I made. Praise the Lord for that. Well, uh, let's see, how much money did Leatherman bank? in his sixty uh well I I hope it's eighty some year, ninety. Um how much money did he bank? Uh that's not what I'm going to be judged on. Now, it may be, did I please him with the money he trusted to me, but he's not going to judge me on my bank account. He's not gonna it's not gonna be all right get the books out, leatherbed! Uh let's see, how popular was he in Garrett County in all those years? Nope, it's not gonna be that way Listen, I'm not concerned with being popular in the eyes of the world. I want to be pleasing in the eyes of my Lord. You with me? That's what's going to matter. And God says, without faith, without trusting him, yielding to him, letting him lead me and direct me, doing his will, trusting him, I cannot please him. I cannot please him. The priority of faith. The priority of faith. To please God with my life, I must learn to trust him and put my confidence in him. My faith determines the destiny of my soul. John 3. 60, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him puts their trust in him, shall not perish, die and go to hell. But have everlasting life. Would you agree with me? Faith in Jesus Christ is pretty important. Determines whether I go to heaven or hell Determines my eternal destiny. The importance, the priority of faith. It is faith can make a difference in someone else's life We were looking, we had a deacon's meeting, deacon trustee meeting Friday night, and I shared a little devotional from Matthew 9. And it's interesting, four men Found a fella that was sick of the palsy, couldn't walk, couldn't function. Those guys heard of Jesus Christ. They believed that Jesus was who he said he was. They had confidence that Jesus could do what he said he would do. And those four guys grabbed that boy, that man in that sick of the palsy, put him on a bed They carried them to Jesus Christ. We're familiar with the story, right? They got to the house. The place was packed. And so we got to get this. He needs Jesus. Jesus can make them well. They believed that Jesus was who he said he was, could do what he said he could do. They press, press, couldn't get through the press, they're trying to get in. They can't get in. It's just jam-packed, thousands of people in this house all packed around. So they make their way around, they get in the roof. You know the story They tear up the roof. They drop that guy down through the roof. Jesus sees them. Three things happen to that guy. Number one, his sins are forgiven. What's that mean? He got saved. God forgave him, saved him, gave him eternal life, because four men had faith in God. Not only that, people started criticizing them. Oh, who can forgive sins but God only? Uh, hello, Jesus is God. But they says, all right, you don't believe that I'm God? You don't believe I can forgive sins? Hey, get up and walk. God healed him. The whole place is the fellow stands up. People are like, whoa That's in the Greek, that part there. But they marveled. What in the world? The guy gets up, and then it says the whole multitude glorified God. Everybody said, God is amazing, God is awesome, God is all powerful. God! All because four men had faith in God. Think what one church can do if we just have faith in God And go and get people and bring them to Jesus Christ, the impact that would have. Are you with me? The priority of faith, we have got to learn to trust Him Say, well, this is what I want, and this is what God says. Trust Him. Put aside your one. Let God have His way. Well, this is the way I see it, and this is what God says. Trust Him. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. Number two, I want us to consider the starting point of faith. Look what it says there, verse 6. He says, without faith, it's impossible to please him. Faith's a priority. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is. The starting point in faith is believing that God is. That word must there means absolutely necessary. The word believe is almost identical to the word faith at the beginning of the verse. And it says, must believe that he is. That word he is, that phrase means God exists. Now listen, this is this may be Silly for me to say this now, but I think it needs to be said. God does exist. God is We have a threefold undeniable proof that God exists. We have threefold. Let me give it to you, I put it down. We have a threefold confidence in God's existence. If you would, turn with me to Romans chapter number one. Very quickly, Romans chapter number one. And I want to begin reading in verse number 19. Threefold confidence in God's existence. I mean I just feel silly even having to say this. Well uh you're trying to prove uh yeah If we if he that cometh God must believe that he is. He must be confident that God is. Say, well, I don't know if there's really a God or not. Well, let me show you something Look at verse 19. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them. We're going to come back to that. For God has showed it unto them. Look at verse 20. For the invisible things of Him, who's the Him? God! But the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are, say it with me, clearly seen. It's not foggy, it's not questionable. From the creation of the world, are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse. He goes on, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, but neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, their foolish heart was darkened. Professing them to be professing themselves to be wise, they became what? Fools. I want to suggest to you there is We have a threefold confidence in God's existence. Number one, the overwhelming evidence in creation. You will never, ever, ever convince me That this world, in all its intricate design and function, in the smallest details to the vast universe. You will never convince me that that somehow just happens by chance. The eyeball How in the I don't care how much time you give, there is no way in the world an eyeball just somehow happens to develop. No purpose, no plan, no cause The organs that make up our butt. I mean we could just go on and on and on. What I'm trying to say is this. Evolution is the biggest lie that has ever come out of hell. Look around. We had our our good friend Dr. Don Williams, a chalk artist, went to be with the Lord here a couple months ago He had these phenomenal drawings today. Everybody's remembered. Doctor, we got one of his pictures back there. Would you agree? Everybody would think I was a total fool If I'd put one of those up there and say, oh yeah, there was a hurricane, and somehow this drawing just came out of that hurricane. Over years and years and years, and this beautiful uh uh uh masterpiece came out uh just by chance. Would you agree with me? That guy's nuts in his head that thinks that. Here's the argument I like to give, and I'm spending more time on this than I wanted to. But um down, I think it's in Peru. They found these these uh they're like drawings on the earth except they're massive. These outlines. Anybody see that in the news or anything? National Junior And they're like hummingbirds and I think there's a monkey and a scorpion and there's these different characters And it's just an outline, and it's massive. You couldn't you're walking on the ground, you don't see it. In fact, they didn't even know they were there until they were flying airplanes over top and satellites. They looked down and said, look, there's a outline of a uh a hummingbird. What? Not one person, not one, suggested, well, that just happened over millions of years. That outline just happened to develop there. Every single one of them says somebody designed that and drew that outline there. It must be aliens Not one scientist, not one geologist suggested all those outlines of the fish and the monkey, oh that just happened over a million. Not one. They all said that could not just happen, that was done But the real monkey that's ten billion times more complex, oh, that just happened over years. Come on, talk to me now. Who's the dummy? Out west, we lived in Colorado, we were talking. You go to the southwest corner of Colorado, they have it's called Four Corners, they have the Mesa Indians there. I don't know if anybody's been there. And they have these cliff cliff dwellings. Uh cliff dwellings. And you go in there and in those caves they will have uh what's it called? Not hieroglyphics, they're called um There's a term for it, but they have drawings of like buffalo and and uh Indians throwing spears, stick men throwing spears. Everybody know what I'm talking about? There's not one, not one archaeologist, not one scientist, not one brilliant person suggests even remotely that those drawings just happen to show up on that over years, right? But the actual people they say, oh yeah, that just happened. What I'm trying to say is this. Let's use our head a little bit. Thing. All around us is evidence. Everywhere we look, and the grass we walk on, the stars above us. The vegetation, the animals, everything around us, look in the mirror, our own bodies. I'm telling you, God is seeing in his creation. His handprints, his fingerprints, his mark is there. His uh workmanship is seen in all creation. So one, we have the what I'm calling the overwhelming evidence of God in creation. Then we have what I'm calling the irrefutable documentation in scripture. Now we don't have to do this, but this book from beginning to end teaches me there is a God. Tells me his name, tells me what he's like, tells me what his will is for my life, what his plan and purpose is, tell me what he's going to do in the future. In the beginning, God And then we have the universal awareness in our conscience. Did you notice there in Romans 1, verse 19? He said, Because that which may be made known of God is manifest In them. In other words, I am absolutely convinced in the heart and conscience of every human being there is awareness of God's existence. There's no doubt in my mind. In fact, if you'll go through history, every culture, every society, doesn't matter how isolated and how remote they were from the rest of civilization Every single culture worship a God of some kind. The deepest jungles of Africa, the most darkest jungles of South America, the Arctic Circle, everywhere. Every culture had something in their heart and soul that told them there's something bigger than what I am. That is God putting in the heart of mankind an awareness of existence. A person says they're an atheist, they have to deny something that they know is true down in their heart. I'm convinced of that. I'm convinced of that. You come to God, you need to know that He is. God is. And by the way, that book there, that old King James Bible tells me this. that God is right here in our midst right now. I can't see him, I can't feel him, I can't hear him, but he is here just as aware, just as conscious of what I'm saying. Paying attention, he is right here in our midst. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. From everlasting to everlasting. This God that is in our midst is here. Gotta believe. He that cometh to God must believe that he is. We deny God's existence to our own foolishness. Right. Our own foolishness. And so, uh the starting point of faith is God Is God. Believing in God is more than just believing in existence, but it also means believing in his excellences. God is all powerful, he's all-wise And so he that cometh to God must believe the He is. Now, let me throw this out here real quick. It is not the amount of my faith That makes a difference in my life. It is the object of my faith. It doesn't say he that cometh to God must really, really, really, really believe that he is. A little small weak faith in an all-powerful God can change your life. You with me? It is not the amount of my faith, it is the object of my faith. Someone put it this way. The object of my faith determines the strength of my faith. God is all powerful. My faith may be weak. But I put it in Almighty God, He can do great things. He can do great things. Mark 11, 22, Jesus said, have faith in God Have faith in God. It's the object. Put your faith in God. What are you trusting in? Weak faith in an all-powerful God to save your soul. Weak faith and an all-powerful God can bring answers to your prayers. Weak faith and an all-powerful God can change your life. You can have strong faith In your church and die and go to hell. You can have strong faith in your good works you're doing and die and go to hell. If you take weak faith, you put it in Jesus, he'll save your soul. It's not the amount of faith I have, it's not the strength of my faith. Now, should we have strong faith? Sure, our faith will grow, it'll get stronger as we learn to trust Him. But take the weak faith you have, put it in Jesus Christ He'll save your soul. He'll change your life. You can see answers to prayer. I'm convinced of that. Don't put your faith in your faith. Well, I just look at my faith and oh it's I don't know it just doesn't seem that strong. Get your eyes off your faith and get them on the Lord. And trust them. Trust them. I told this numerous times over the years, but years and years ago, I was chaplain with hospice. And I've told this often, so some of you are familiar with this story, but there was a lady not far from here They called me and they said there's a lady she's on hospice, she only has a couple months to live, she doesn't have a pastor, she's concerned about spiritual things. Could you go visit her just talked to her and we had an arrangement with them and and uh uh I was able to do that and so uh I went and visited her again not far from here. Talked to her and she obviously didn't have long to live. She knew that. The doctors made that clear. She was on hospice. Got talking a little bit and I shared the gospel with her. She was hungry. She wanted to know that her sins were again. She didn't want to go to hell. And she bowed her head and trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. She had little or no biblical background. She had little or no Christian religious background. Never, here's the thing, she never hardly thought about where her destiny was, her relationship with God, until she found out that she didn't have long to live. Then she took it seriously. Hey, you ought to take it seriously. She bat her head, trusted Christ as Savior. She came, she got baptized. She was very couple people in the Baptistry, some of you may remember, helped baptize her. She wanted to please God. She got saved. She was so excited. God forgave her. So happy. I'd go by and visit her three, four times a week. We'd pray and I'd share scripture with her. She was growing in her faith. Her health was deteriorating And it was obvious she only had maybe a couple days to live. She called me up one day just sobbing. She goes, Pastor Leatherman, I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared. I said, what are you afraid? She goes, I'm afraid my faith isn't strong enough. She says, I believe, but I don't know if it's strong enough. That I can get God will accept me into heaven that my sinner again. I went running over there and I showed her verse after verse after verse It's not the strength of my faith that determines that makes the difference. It's the object of my faith God gave her peace. She went out into the arms of the Lord with peace in her heart Her sins forgiven, not because she had great strong faith, but because the faith she had was in Jesus And what's true for her salvation is true for the answers prayer. It's true for having victory in my life. It's true for God's will being done in my life. If I just trust him. Zephella came to Jesus, wanted his boy to be made well, and the Lord said he would, and he says, I believe, but help thou. Mine unbelief. What do you say? He's saying, Lord, I don't I don't know if my faith is strong enough. I just these doubts sometimes. And the Lord said, just believe. Just believe. It's the object of my faith. That's the starting point. Put my faith in God. Strong faith in anything other than the Lord is no salvation, no answer prayer, nothing. Don't focus on the strength. And then I need to end with this. The product. What does having faith in God produce? Notice it says there in Hebrews, he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. You know what rewarder is? Here was the definition I found. One who pays his bills. Rewarder is the one who keeps his word. In other words, the Lord says, if you trust me, I will do this. And God keeps his word. He is a rewarder. God will do what. If I do what God instructs me to do God will do what he has promised to do. File trust him and do follow his instructions. And he'll reward. He'll do what he promised to do. Faith, the product of faith. He promised eternal life if we believe in him. He promised power to witness and win souls if we'll have faith in him. He promised that we can prevail over the world in sin if we'll have faith in him. He promised answered prayer. If we'll have faith in him and believe in him. Here's what I want to leave you with. This is what I want to leave you with. Are you with me? Trust God. Trust him. You say, preacher, I got this situ. Trust God. So preacher, I know the Bible says this, but I think this, I'm not sure. Trust him. Trust him. Trust him. In 1988, I think it was, I read a news article. There was a group of um uh what do you call people that jump out of airplanes with parachutes? Sky divers. Insane. Sky divers Why in the world would you jump out of a perfectly good airplane? There was a group of skydivers that were going to do this synchronized dive and do all this stuff while they're coming down. They hired a photographer, a film person to film this, jump with them, and film them as they went down and did their antics as they're falling So they got up and playing big plane as a big event, big production. They had the camera crew. One guy was going to jump with them with a camera. He's going to film them when they're coming down. They're going to make this great presentation. They all jumped, everything went perfect. They all jumped out. They're following the guys filming, filming, they're following, following, following He's filming away. They did all their um uh maneuvers that they were gonna do. The guy filmed it all perfectly. They all reached for their cord, pulled their cords, parachutes opened up The cameraman reached for his cord, and he had all his camera equipment he forgot to put the parachute on. And the news report that evening showed his film that he filmed of all these maneuvers they did, and they said all of a sudden the screen went crazy He's flailing around, trying to grab the pull cord for a parachute that wasn't there. He forgot to put it on. And he fell to his death. There's a lot of people in the world. They're grabbing for everything. They're so caught up in what they're doing now, they never think about God's plan And God's will and where they're going to spend it for eternity. And when time comes, they have no faith in God. And they lose it all. My Bible says that faith is a priority. Put your faith in God. Put your faith in God. If you're here, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven. Jesus Christ will save you if you just trust him. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, he'll answer our prayers. He'll lead us and guide us according to his will. He'll help us. He'll bless us. If we just learn to trust Him. Amen? Father, I ask you to help us, Lord, to have faith in God. Help us, Lord, to learn to trust you. And what you instruct us, we believe you and we trust you and we do it. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here today who say, preacher, sometimes I feel like my faith is so weak I just don't know if I'm strong enough as a Christian for God to be able to use me, or God be able to meet my needs, or God take care of me. I just don't think my faith is that strong. But this morning you'll make a decision, get your eyes off your faith, and get it on the Lord. How many like that this morning say, preacher, pray with me, that I'll keep my eyes on Christ, hit them off of myself, and get them on the Lord. God bless you, hands all around I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got prayer. I've been praying and praying and praying. And sometimes I just wonder if even I have enough faith to pray. And you and this morning say, I'm just going to keep on praying. I'm just going to keep on trusting. I'm just going to look keep on looking to him. To do what I need to do. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. God bless you. Maybe you've been saved, you've not been baptized. That's an act of faith, trusting God, following what he says. Is there someone this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure. When I die, I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. And I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. I have a home in heaven. You say, Preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled Is there anybody like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name.