Second Peter chapter one, I just have one little phrase I want to just give a few thoughts on uh this evening from verse number five Now Peter is writing, this is his second letter, he's writing to these believers who are scattered around. They've been persecuted. We make a big deal about that. This is some time has gone by. They've been out in this new region for a little bit of time. Churches are being re-established. They're reassembling together. And he writes this second letter back to them And I don't know. This is just me. So you can take it or leave it for whatever it's worth. But I just got a sneaking suspicion. I wonder if he isn't thinking Uh of course this is all under the inspiration of God. But I wonder if these believers, the persecution is dying down. All right, they've been run out, they're in new regions, and they're not facing the violent persecution they were dealing with before, perhaps. Uh and it's dying down. And Peter is concerned that they keep growing in their faith. How many people here understand the fact that you never plateau in your Christian life? You understand that? It's a constant growth. It's a constant going forward. It's a constant climbing that hill. We never get to the point, say, well, I've arrived. I can coast now. And I just wonder, because of some of the things he says here, I just wonder If maybe that's his concern, the motivation of writing this. And again, God's, you know, this is all under the inspiration of God, but but I wonder that. So look at verse 5 with me, if you would. And he makes this statement. I'm not even going to read the whole verse. I just want the first statement he makes. He says, besides this Now, that phrase besides this, you have to go back, excuse me, the previous verses. Verse 3 says, according as his divine power had given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness. God's given you the Holy Spirit. You have everything you need to live a victorious, successful, mature Christian life. You have everything you need. Then he goes on verse 4, he says, whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye may be partakers. He says, God's given you, and I'm simplifying here a little bit, but he says, God's given you the Holy Spirit. You trusted Christ, you got saved, you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you. You've got the power of the Holy Spirit available. Then he says you have all these precious promises available. And the Word of God, is not the Word of God precious or not? I'm telling you, and I think I've said this recently, I want to say it again. I'm telling you, my daily time just reading the Bible has become one of the most precious parts of my Christian life. One of the most enjoyable times of my Christian life when I can sit down and just read the Bible. And so Peter's writing to me. He says, you have the power of God available to you and the presence of the Holy Spirit in you. You have all these tremendous promises, and you have the Word of God That can help and direct you and warn you and encourage you, give you instruction what to do and how to do it. You have all this available to you. Now look what he says in verse 5. He says, and uh and beside this, you have all that, beside this, giving all diligence. Let me put it this way. It's kind of I see it this way. He says, God's given you the power of the Holy Spirit is available to you. The promises of God's word. You have God's word to help guide you and direct you, encourage you, warn you, teach you. Because now the ball's in your court. Now what are you going to do with it? And if you'll notice, and we'll we'll take time, we're going to go to each of these little uh attributes here, each of these little virtues he mentions, he says, add this to your faith, add this, add this, add this, add this. This is how you're going to grow. This is how you're going to go forward. But he uses that phrase, giving all diligence. You've got a responsibility. I guess I could put it this way, you and I have a responsibility in our spiritual growth. Giving all diligence. Let's pray. And just a few thoughts from this. Father, I ask that you would teach us what our role is in this matter of spiritual growth, what we need to do and not do. I pray you would guide us and instruct us. Father, as I stand before you tonight behind the pulpit here, I believe I speak for it, I would like to believe, at least the majority of us Lord, that we want to grow. And we want you to be pleased with our Christian life. We want you to be glorified. We want you to use us to be a witness and salt in this whole world. And so teach us our role. And God motivate us, stir us, convict us to do our part in our spiritual growth. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Spiritual growth does not just happen. Doesn't just happen. It's not uh it's not Christian maturity, being mature in a faith is not something that happens automatically I think we all we say talk about a mature Christian, perhaps all of us think of somebody, comes to mind, we think there's a mature Christian. She's a mature Christian. She's strong in the Lord. She's proven herself testimony-wise. She's been through trials. She's a strong, mature Christian. She doesn't react. She's Christ-like in her demeanor and her actions, her reactions. He's a strong Christian. He's a mature Christian You see that in somebody, you think of somebody like that, and you notice that, you observe that in someone's life, I'm telling you, that did not just automatically happen It didn't just somehow magically become a mature Christian. There's a role to play. It's not easy. Let me put it this way. And I believe there's older Christians here who would testify the same thing. It is not easy. Living a successful, victorious Christian life is not easy. The concept is very, very simple. Just do what God says, trust him. But I tell you, incorporating that into my daily life is not easy. Can I get a witness, anybody? It's not easy. We have spiritual enemies. This whole world is not a friend to grace. This whole world is not a an ally in your spiritual growth or my spiritual growth. This world is not out to help us grow spiritually. Jesus said it's an enemy of ours. We have the devil fighting us. You say, oh, you don't believe that old legend of the devil? Yeah, I do. Two reasons. One, I read about them in the Bible. Jesus believed them. The Bible teaches I believe that. And two, I think I've dealt with them. He called me up this week one day And we have the devil fighting our spiritual growth. And never underestimate, listen to me, never underestimate the subtlety and the power of the devil. We have the world fighting us, we have the devil fighting our spiritual growth, and we have the devil's greatest ally, our own sinful nature. And it's probably the chief characteristic of our sinful nature is pride. Just stinking self-love. Proud, my way, what I want, way I want it, how I want it. And I'll tell you, that's an enemy of pride is an enemy of grace. God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace to who? The humble. So what I'm trying to say is this: growing as a Christian, these young people down here, I thank God for these young people in church. I thank God for it. And many of these, if not all of them, many of these have professed to trust Christ as Savior. I thank God for it. I thank God for Tyler, trust in Christ, Father Lord, and Baptism. And others all around. But I'm here to tell you, they're not just going to automatically grow up and be good, strong Christians. And neither are you or I It doesn't just happen. What I'm trying to say is this: we can't just toast and just sit back. I put this thought came to mind as I was preparing this. Stagnation What do we mean by stagnation? Somebody help me out talk to me here tonight. No motion. Just setting still Stagnation in the Christian life leads to deterioration of the Christian life. You say, well, preacher, I don't like the spiritual warfare. I don't like the I don't have to fight every day to try and do right and all that I'm just going to step aside. I want to remove myself from the spiritual combat going on. I tell you, all you're doing is surrendering yourself over to the enemy. So we can't stagnate. We can't coast in our Christian life. If we do, we're sitting ducks. Some people do not grow in their Christian life. I'm just going to be blunt here. Some people don't grow in their Christian life because they're lazy. Huh? Just lazy. You might uh they might be a hard worker at work, they might be a great athlete or whatever, but when it comes to spiritual things, they're lazy. They don't apply themselves. Put in little or no effort in their spiritual well-being. They do not apply themselves to the th what's necessary to grow as a Christian. That's why Pastor Matt, and by the way, it's Pastor Matt, uh, but uh Pastor Matt works hard, and the other workers with them to instill in our young people Christian habits, Christian what we call Christian disciplines, so that they can grow. Be strong in the Lord and be victorious and not become victims of the world and become prey to the devil in the world. It doesn't just happen. There has to be application. There has to be effort put in. If you would, keep your place here, because I come back to this. But if you would go to Proverbs Again, we end up in Proverbs so often. But if you would come to Proverbs, and I want you to notice chapter 13. Proverbs chapter thirteen, and when you get there, come down to verse number four. Proverbs 13 and verse 4. There's so much practical truth in Proverbs, and it helps us in our Christian life to just in practical ways. Notice verse 4. 13, Proverbs 13, verse 4. The soul of the sluggard desire it. I like that word, sluggard That's an interesting word. What is a, somebody help me. This is class participation time. Somebody help me. What is a sluggard? What no account. Lazy. Well, any other input? One who acts like a slug. A slugard. Drags his feet. Anybody have a slug in your garden? You know how to keep slugs out of your garden? Put salt around it. It melt. They melt when they hit the salt. It's true. The Bible says that Look what he says. He says the He says a soul. Now when he uses that term soul, he's talking spiritual here. The soul, the spiritual health of the sluggard, the soul of the sluggard desireth and hath what? Nothing. Why? Because he doesn't put anything into it Spiritually, he has nothing. There's no application, there's no effort, there's no discipline. The soul of the slugger desireth and hath nothing. His life is empty. But the soul of the what? Diligent. Oh, there's that word. The soul of the diligent shall be what? Made fat. Now, in our Context, in our day and age, if you say some what you you talk about some, you talk about yourself being fat, you talk about being fat, generally that implies unhealthy Right? But in the context, in that day and age, they would use that term. That talks about somebody that's really healthy The soul of the sluggard shall have nothing, desires have nothing, but the diligence shall be made fat. What he's saying here is those that work hard at it, those that apply themselves, those that discipline themselves Those that give themselves over to what is necessary to be spiritually healthy, hey, their soul's fat. They're healthy spiritually, they're strong spiritually, they're where they ought to be spiritually. But you can't be a sluggard in your soul and be strong spiritually. I can't. Come over to Proverbs 20 and verse 4. Now Peter's writing to the believers back there in Peter, he's saying, giving all diligence. So that's what we're looking at. Proverbs chapter 20, and look with me if you would at verse 4. Proverbs 20, verse 4. The sluggard, there it is again, will not plow by reason of the colt. What's it? Why won't he plow? What put it in other words? Hmm? He's finding excuses, why not to prowl? It's cold out. Oh, that won't be very comfortable Man, I gotta get out there, I gotta bundle up, I gotta put some effort in. It's cold out, I'll just stay home and stay in bed. I'm not gonna plow. The sluggard Look what happens. Therefore shall he what? They can harvest and have what? Spiritual application. He doesn't apply himself. He doesn't do what needs to be done to grow spiritually, to be strong spiritually, and he hath nothing. He has nothing to offer Christ. He has no influence on the world. He has no spiritual well-being. Laziness, sluggardness in our spiritual life. It's cold out. That's inconvenient. It's uncomfortable. Now I want to remind you, the new birth, being born again, getting saved, that is the beginning of a new life. How many people understand that? And I get saved. It's not a goal accomplished. It's a new life begun. It's an eternal life that begun. We don't get eternal life when someday we go to heaven. You and I got eternal life the minute we got saved. And so this new life, this eternal life that I'm living, this new quality of life, this new character of life that Christ has given me, that's the beginning. And then I need to work on it. I need to develop that. I need to apply myself so I can grow in this new life. How many people are with me? I've I've been, I don't know how many funerals I've been to and I've heard preachers where other preachers did, I just sat there, and I've heard this over and over in the last 30 years. Here in Garrett County, I've heard it over and over. You gotta live it or you're gonna lose it That is not what Peter's talking about. I'm here to tell you, you and I cannot lose our salvation. There's nothing I can do to get myself out of the hands of God. There's nothing I can do to be unborn. To lose my salvation, Christ would have to come off of the right hand of God, where he intercedes for me, so that I can be saved to the uttermost. Somebody would have to drag him down away from that throne for me to lose my salvation. So we're not talking about keeping our salvation. We're talking about building on our salvation, growing on our salvation, and it requires diligence, it requires effort. Now come back here to Peter if you would. He says And besides this, giving all diligence. And again, I kind of pointed this out in the introduction, but he's referring back to verse 3. Where we have the presence of the Holy Spirit. Verse 4, He's giving us everything we need spiritually. God's given us the Holy Spirit. He's given us promises. He's given us power. He's given us faith. He's given us all these spiritual resources that we can take and use them to grow. What we do with what God has promised provided for us determines our success or failure. Somebody, one person doesn't exceed and succeed and be mature in their Christian life because they have something that this person over here that is failing in their Christian life and is a babe in Christ Like Paul uh accused the uh uh what Paul uh pointed out to the um Corinthians, you were babes, I couldn't talk to you spiritual, I had to talk to you like little spiritual babies One isn't mature and strong, and the other a babe and weak because this one has resources this one doesn't have. That's never the case. It's always because what this one does with the resources God makes available and this one neglects it. In fact, the whole book of Corinthians is Paul coming back and correcting them, saying, listen, you need to get in the game. You need to get after this. Giving all diligence. I think Peter's writing to these believers and saying, listen, you've been through it You've been persecuted. You've lost family members have been killed because of their faith in Christ. You've been beaten, you have scars, you've lost jobs, you've lost family members have turned against you because of your faith in Christ Now, don't you start coasting. Don't you kick back and just take it easy. Don't you get lethargic and indifferent About your spiritual well-being. And I'm here to tell you that is a danger every Christian and every church faces. To get lazy, to get indifferent, to lose the wonder of what Christ has done for us, and then just try and coast along. And Peter's warning them, he says, don't you do that. You give all diligence. And then he tells them what they need to give the diligence to. Proverbs chapter 10, verse 4, it says, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. The hand of the diligent maketh rich. Just a little aside, I enjoy reading Dave Ramsey, Financial. I enjoy reading him. He's got some good advice in my opinion. I listen to him sometimes And he always points this out, and he documents this statistically, that the overwhelming majority of millionaires did not inherit that money The overwhelming majority of wealthy people did not have that money given to them. Some have. He says the overwhelming majority of wealthy people worked hard. And were wise in their decisions, and thus they were become wealthy. Now, my message is not advocating wealth. Nothing wrong with it, but that's not what this is about. I'm talking about spiritual health. What I'm trying to say, and what Peter is saying here is, not the overwhelming majority, 100% of spiritually strong, mature believers worked for it. They gave diligence. They disciplined themselves. They didn't just coast along. Sit and watch TV 95 hours a day. I mean a week. They're applying themselves, they're disciplining themselves, they're separating themselves. Listen Listen, I have got to want to grow spiritually for it to happen. If there's no desire there If the world is more important to me than my relationship with my Savior and my God It's being cool and being loved by the world and being part of the world It's more important to me than my walk with my Savior and my condition when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ. If that's more important to me, I'm here to tell you, you're not going to grow spiritually Now do you want me to preach the truth or not? It's true for young people, it's true for adults. And I'll tell you one thing, the Christian, let me just bring home, the the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church member that's not Giving all diligence to their spiritual life, I tell you this, like Proverbs says, their soul is getting awfully empty. And I tell you, you can see it in the eyes. You can see it in the life, the things of God start to fade away, and things of the world become more appealing. I want to look like the world, I want to talk like the world, I want to walk like the world. I don't even know what that means, but What does it mean to be diligent? Well, I looked it up like I always do everything. To be diligence, to give all diligent means to do something with eagerness. I tell you, a growing Christian is the Christian that's fired up about their Christian life. They're eager about serving the Lord. They're eager about living for God. They're eager about pleasing God. They're stirred up about it. Giving all diligence, all eagerness, uh has the idea of intensity. I think of intensity, I think of Brother Bowman You talk about intensity, whatever he's doing, he's riding bike, it's right, am I right, Brother James? Yeah. He play he's now his thing now is I I guess it still is, um, what's that game, paddle ball? What is it? Pickleball. I mean he's like an evangelist for pickleball. He says, Brother Levin, you got a new building. You guys need to start playing pickleball. I said, I don't even like pickles. And um But intensity, giving all diligence, being intense about this. Somebody says to me, Oh, you're just extreme. Hey, I think I think a perfectly sinless man going on a cross to pay for my sins for me is a little extreme. If Jesus Christ can be extreme for me, I have no problem being extreme for him. Amen or not. With all diligence. Now, I say extreme, let me qualify that. Extreme within the bounds of Scripture It has the idea of doing it, and this is interesting. The word is translated other in the Gospels to do something with haste. Straightway did this. They did this hastily, it's quickly, not putting it off. I tell you, as pastor for 30 years, I wish I had a dollar for every time somebody told me, one of these days, I'm going to fill in the blank. One of these days, you know, preacher, I need to be reading my Bible. One of these days I'm going to get by reading Bible. One of these days I'm going soul. One of these. The word diligent means you get to it right away. Can I be practical, young people? Can I be practical? Listen up. That means if you haven't been reading your Bible on a daily basis, before you go to bed tonight, you say, I'm going to read my Bible Diligent. I'm gonna put it off. I'm gonna get this thing started, get this ball rolling. Quickly. It means persistently. Doing something with diligence means you don't just stop, you just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. There was a fella up on the mountain there where my wife was uh grew up, down in West Virginia, and I don't know what it was about, but he dug holes. He just had holes dug everywhere. He's looking for something, treasure, I don't know what. I don't think there was any pirates in in New West Virginia But I mean he just had thousands of holes dug everywhere. He's just digging looking for something. We had no idea what it was. And that guy, most of his life was spent digging holes Just dig and hole. They're everywhere. He was diligent. He was persistent. He stayed at it, stayed at it. How about we as Christians just get persistent in our Christian life? I'm just going to stay at living for God. I'm just going to stay at being a witness. I'm going to stay at giving out tracts. I'm going to stay out going to church. I'm just going to stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at And it's there, that's diligence Peter said, give all diligence. You don't quit. You keep living for God. And it's seriousness. If somebody's diligent about something, they're very serious about it. Diligence is a decision I must make. I have to choose between being a diligent Christian or a negligent Christian. I've got to choose. I have to choose between applying myself to the disciplines of the Christian life or just floating through. I've got to make that decision I want to give a very personal confession. I have everybody's attention right now. He says, oh, this is juicy. I am lazy. I am naturally a lazy man. Probably people that know me very well see it. And every day I've got to decide: am I going to be lazy today or am I going to be diligent? I've got to make that decision. Every morning I get up. Am I going to be lazy? I don't know about you. I get up in the morning. That alarm clock's going off and I want to just Change it. But I gotta decide, no, no, no, no, no. I gotta be diligent. I want to be what God wants me to be. I want to please the Lord with my life, and I gotta decide, nope, I'm gonna get out, get and spend some time with the Lord. Are you you follow what I'm saying? I tend to be lazy. And I know that. I know that's a besetting sin of mine, and so I have to decide constantly Whether I'm going to do what I need to do as a Christian or not. And now for 44 years I've been deciding every day I want to live for God today. I want to please God today. Some days I do better than others But God's been good. And that's what Peter's saying. Giving all diligence. You just decide you're going to work at this. Decide you're going to do what needs to be done to be right. I have to commit myself to spiritual growth. There is no substitute for diligence in the Christian life I think that's a that's one of the flaws of this contemporary Christian thing. And some of them are very diligent in their contemporary Christian thing. But it's something but it's a uh a bit of a mentality, it's a whole different philosophy of Christianity. I don't have to take a stand and I I can be like the world and still be right with God. And I don't see that in Scripture. And I've got to decide. There's no substitute for diligence in the Christian life. Christian growth is a daily endeavor. Christian growth is a lifelong endeavor, and Christian growth is a determined endeavor. I've got to decide. I've got to apply myself, giving all diligence. How many people recognize the name Herschel Walker? Anybody recognize that name? Football player I think he ended up with the Cowboys, if I remember. He played a few teams. I think he won the what was the college award? Heisman trophy. A tremendous football player. He got into politics a little bit, I think. I was reading about him this week. Herschel Walker, I understand I don't know a lot about him other than what I read in this this article But um apparently when he was in high school, he played football in high school, and apparently, if I am correct, he's a short guy. He's not a big Pastor Matt type guy. He's a No, we won't pick somebody little up. But uh uh but he was big. And uh the coach one day, according to him, coach pulled him aside one day and said, Listen, Herschel, if you're gonna make it in football You're gonna have to bulk up. You're gonna have to work harder than others. You're gonna have to apply yourself to this because just going the way you are, you're not gonna you're never make it. And he took that to heart And he decided that he was going to be a football player, a good football player. And according to him, and I this sounds fantastic to me, but according to article I read that year after the coach pulled him aside, so you've got to decide what you want to be as a football player. According to the article I read, he did that next year, he did one million push-ups. He did one million sit-ups. And he ran a million yards in sports that next 12 months for the next year. And he built himself up, and he became a phenomenal football player. Now I have respect for that. Somebody discipline themselves, apply themselves to succeed in what they want to succeed in. I don't know about you, but I'm not too concerned about being a great football player. I'd probably be pretty good. But um Probably The one thing I do want to be, I want to be a good Christian. I don't know if it's just getting older or what, but the more uh the older I get, the more I want to please my Savior. Talked to somebody this week, I said, I just want to be right. You know what that requires? Diligence Getting up every day and doing what I need to do to be right with God. Every day I've got to say no to some stuff. Huh? Somebody's going on about the world, what the world thinks. Christian was talking to me and they said, Oh, the world thinks, world thinks. I'll be honest with you, I'm at the point I could care less what the world thinks. Some of y'all falling in love with the world. Some of y'all want the world. Listen, you're nuts. Amen. You're nuts. Every day we've got to get up and decide. I've got to spend time with God. I've got to get alone. I've got to say no to some things. I've got to decide. I'm going to do right regardless of what the consequences are. I'm gonna be kind and compassionate, even when I don't want to be. You're laughing because you know exactly what I'm talking about. We want a snap, but we say no, I want to please the Lord, and we catch the snap. Right? We want to lie. We say, no. I'm going to tell the truth. Diligence, giving all diligence, giving all diligence. Let's pray. Father. I ask you to take this challenge from Peter and help us to give all diligence in our Christian life. Lord, I've seen it over the years. People get lazy spiritually. They fall in love with the world. They go the way of the world. They pay such a heavy price. God, I want you to be pleased with Mountain Lake. With this body of believers, I want you to be pleased. I want you to help us, your Holy Spirit. To decide to give all diligence. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I really need to apply myself more My Christian life and my walk with God, I really got to apply myself more. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I know there's things there that I know I've let slide There's things there I've I've been a s to be Bible term I've been a sluggard about. I've been lazy. I know they're right and I need to do them. I know that's wrong and I need to quit. Any others uplift the hand, preacher, I need that. I need that bed. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in a moment. How about we find a place to hold altar? Just ask that Holy Spirit to stir us and fill us and give us victory. Motivate us to give all diligence. Father bless our imitation I ask. In Jesus' name, amen