I've been working on on um family life, church family life, working with folks and uh getting along with one another and dealing through uh issues and conflicts and whatnot that are inevitable working with people. I told my wife, uh I picked her up at work and we were driving back and we all s always talk about deep things of life and stuff like that driving together. And um I told her, I said, I come to the conclusion that everybody is weird in their own special way. I mean you know, you just get to know people and you say, well that's kinda weird. I didn't think they'd be that way and so I mean that's the way uh of course present company accepted uh uh uh excluded certainly but um So, you know, you get in church and uh you first visited or whatever and boy that place is sharp, that place is something else And um uh you know I uh uh you understand what I'm saying, but sometimes Mountain Lake is known a little bit. Dr. Smith has, you know, talked us up and whatnot and different things. So people uh hear f see and hear us from a distance And they think, boy, it's really something and they picture in their mind something other than what we really are. We're just sinners saved by grace. And uh then they get here and show up and visit and say, Well, this they're all kind of weird a little bit, you know. So uh that's the way it is in life. And uh we gotta learn to be able to deal with weird people sometimes. And uh I'm thinking of all kinds of things to say with that. But uh so that's what this has been about. You know, sometimes uh folks get out of fellowship with God and then you've got to be able to interact with them. How do we deal with them? The Bible tells us that. Sometimes for whatever reason there's some people become antagonistic, become enemies of others. And uh for whatever reason, you've got to be able to deal with that. And it is impossible, and I made this statement before, I'll make it again, probably will make it many times, it's impossible to be right with God and not right with my brother or sister in the Lord. 1 John 1 tells us that And if we say we're in fellowship with God and we're not in fellowship with my brother, uh I'm lying. I'm deceiving myself. And so um that's the uh that's what we're dealing with. Now tonight For lack of better title, I came up with a dysfunctional church family. What happens When we fail to function and interact by the principles God has given us in His Word, what's the consequence of that? How does that affect us? We become dysfunctional And so let's read this passage. I'm going to begin reading in verse 17 of Ephesians chapter 5. And we're going to go through this. I think you'll pick up as the message goes how this fits in with what we're our subject is. Verse 17. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And so in other words, it's wise to what? To know what God's will is. If I'm unwise, I don't understand the will of God, but if I'm wise, then I'm going to find out what God's will is. Now look at this. And be not drunk with wine where it is in excess But be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Giving thanks always for all things unto God and to the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 21. Submitting yourselves. What's those next three words? One to another in the fear of God. In other words, getting along, doing what we're supposed to do in our relationship with one another Dysfunctional church family. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, thank you for helping us by giving us uh instructions and insight in your word and how to do this. and interact with people who are different and at different stages in their spiritual maturity and different stages, uh different conditions in their walk with you. And God, we go through these uh cycles, I guess, Lord, our own selves. And so then people have to be able to get along with us. So I pray you'd help us to be a functional church Biblically functional. And as I think for the most part, you've blessed us in a great way in this area. But we want to continue on. Fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord. And speak for me. Teach us tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I believe verse 18 is the key verse, at least in this chapter, if not the entire second half of the book of Ephesians. Be not drunk with wine, where is excess, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. Very important, be filled with the Spirit. Now I'm jumping a little ahead of myself here with this, but um Uh let me ask you a question. How many folks here believe the pastor ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit when he's preaching and teaching and leaning? How many folks believe the pastor ought to be filled? Amen. Everybody agrees with that and I agree with that But you notice here, let me ask this, how many folks believe when the evangelist comes in, he ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit? I believe that. I expect that How about the missionaries that we support out on the field? We want them to be filled with the Holy Spirit. But if you look at this passage here, it's not addressing pastors, evangelists, or missionaries. Who's being addressed here Christians in general were to be filled with the Spirit. Now I think you come down to verse 21, which I touched on as I was reading. I think that's setting the stage. For the following passages. Look what it says: submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. That's all God's people submitting one to another. And then he goes on to the following passages, and we touched on this in a previous message. Wives, verse 22, husbands, verse 25, children, verse 1 of chapter 6, fathers. Verse 4, uh servants, verse 5, masters or employers, you could say, verse 9. He's talking about interpersonal relationships In the home, in the marriage, in the home, in the workplace, in society. And so he's verse 18, this is what I'm trying to do, is tie this in. I believe verse 18. Is a key factor in these interpersonal relationships being what God intends for them to be. He follows up, submit yourselves one another. He talks wise. This is what you need to do. Husbands, you need to, but you need to all be filled with the Holy Spirit. It's interesting, and notice in verse 32 of Ephesians 5. He's given instructions to the husband, particularly here in this immediate context. And he says, this is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. And so when he's talking about the relationship between the husband and wife, he said this is more than just a physical human uh relationship. This is a picture. This is a very real illustration, object lesson, if you will, of Christ's relationship with the church. So, what I'm trying to say is this: this whole passage is dealing with relationships. And he says in verse 18, as I mentioned, I believe is the key verse. Be not drunk with wine, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. I'm afraid, and I'm including myself in this as much as anybody, and the Lord convicts me about it, but I'm afraid that we fail to realize how desperately we need the filling and the power of the Holy Spirit just to live the Christian life If we're not careful, we get it in our minds that being filled with the Spirit is something that when you're going to do something great for God, boy, you need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Boy, you're going to do this is something big If I understand my scripture right, I need to be filled with the Holy Spirit in order to get along with God's people the way I'm supposed to. I need to be filled with the Holy Spirit to be the husband I'm supposed to be And I'm afraid we're satisfied, we're content with just what we are able to do in our own selves. Rather than seeking the power and the filling of the Holy Spirit and to be able to see God do things through us in our relationships. I would like to have the marriage that God would enable me to have, not the marriage that I'm able to work up. Right? I was hoping somebody would agree with me on that. I would like to have a home that God can produce, not just what I can work up. I'm afraid so often We're simply content to get by and and just be what God wants to be. Same thing for the church family. It all comes back to the thing I've been hitting on every time. And the more I study the Bible, the more I think through experience. The more I'm convinced, this is the, I had a tooth pulled Monday, so this is the root canal of the whole issue. And that is from Galatians chapter 5. Flesh versus the what? Spirit. Remember Galatians 5? The works of the flesh Remember, I went over this and went over this and went over this. We are at any given time either operating under the influence of our flesh, our fallen human nature or we are operating under the influence of the power and the filling of the Holy Spirit. I don't believe there's any neutral gount. You're not 75-25. I'm not 50-50. Well, I'm partly filled with the Holy I'm I'm I got a half a tank of the Holy Spirit, the rest is flesh. I don't see that anywhere in Scripture Either my flesh is calling the shots or the spirit is. And when he says in verse 18, be filled with the Spirit of God, he's simply saying. Listen, you've got to operate completely under the Holy Spirit's power, the Holy Spirit's influence, the Holy Spirit's control. And we all understand this. That is not talking about tongues Amen. Or it's some ecstatic thing. It's talking about the Christian life. It's talking about living and being and functioning as the person God intends for me to be, and the Holy Spirit enabling me to do that. We all expect, as I said, the pastor to be filled with the Holy Spirit. We all expect the evangelist and the missionary to be filled with the Holy Spirit. But verse 18, that was given to wives. You read down there a little bit farther. The wives are filled with the Holy Spirit. The husbands were expected to be filled with the Holy Spirit's parents. God expects the parent to be filled with the Holy Spirit in my interaction with the kids. Hey, God expects the kids to be filled with the Holy Spirit, the young people. I see in the Bible, I see no reason in the world why a 12-year-old boy can't be filled with the Holy Spirit. If he's saved, knows the Lord is Savior, he ought to be filled with spirit just like the 25-year-old man or whatever age you want to come up with. And so it's for all of us. To be filled with the Holy Spirit. And that is the ingredient that is necessary if we're going to not be a dysfunctional church. I mean this is the church crowd, you've been around, I'm not saying anything new here tonight, I'm sure, but um I think we all understand that every one of let me ask this way, let me put this way first. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Trust in Christ born again. That means, if that's true, that being the case, that means that you have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within you. Every saved person already has the Holy Spirit. A Christian never has to pray and ask God to give them the Holy Spirit Because the moment you and I trust in Christ, the moment a person trusts Christ, the Holy Spirit of God moves within us. We may or may not feel it, may or may not be obvious at first, but nevertheless it takes place. And the Bible is very clear on that. Now, if you notice, it did not say that necessarily every church member has the Holy Spirit. Huh? I'm a church member now. You can be a church member and not be saved. You can be saved, not be a church member. But every saved person has the Holy Spirit living within us. Now, what I want to do tonight is. . . Notice in Scripture the five relationships that I as a believer can have with the Holy Spirit who dwells within me. Five conditions I can be in in relation to the Holy Spirit. And those these conditions will directly affect my my behavior in the church body and how I'm contributing to the church body. I'm saying to you, without Without the Holy Spirit's filling, control, and power, we cannot be the church family God intends for us to be. If we try to do this on our own flesh, what are the works of the flesh? Can anybody just off the top of your head give me some what are what are some of the works of the flesh listed there in Galatians 5? Can anybody give me some off the top of your head? The works of the flesh are, all right, pride is the root of it all, but what there's some actions given there. Okay, lasciviousness. I hear pages turning, people are turning there very quickly. It's wrath. Uh what are they? Uh hatred. Boy, my wife has these memorized. That's incredible. Uh Yeah. How many would agree? A lot of bad stuff. And so if we're operating in the flesh, then what's going to happen in the church? All these things are going to be evident in the church. You want to know what a church is like that operates in the flesh? You want to know what a dysfunctional church is like? Read Corinthians. That church was a classic dysfunctional church. There was divisions, people were promoting themselves, there was fornication, it was rampant. They didn't get along. Even at Lord's Supper, some people bring their own food and they miss completely miss what Lord's Supper was They have their own food and they wouldn't share it with people that didn't have any food. You'll bring your own. That's the Lord's Supper. You talk about dysfunctional. There was a church down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, the first Corinthians Baptist Church. So, wow, somebody was either ignorant or honest, you know. Uh so my relationship with the Holy Spirit uh is going to determine in many ways or uh uh uh what the church is going to be like. The more people in the church you have that are have a right relationship with the Holy Spirit, they're filled with the Holy Spirit The better that church is going to be, right? It's going to be more peace, there's going to be cooperation, effectiveness. The more people in the church that are operating under the flesh, man, you're going to have a mess on your hands It's going to be tough. Now, ideally, we want 100% filled with the Spirit. The last thing in the world we want is 100% in the flesh. Now we're in between there somewhere is where we're at. And we work towards having that higher percentage filled with the Spirit. Now here are the five relationships. that I can have with the Holy Spirit. Turn with, or we're right here in Ephesians 5, verse 18. One relationship I have with the Holy Spirit is being filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, I don't know what in your mind, how you picture or you understand what it means to be filled with the Holy Spirit. It's really not complicated. It's really not spooky or weird as a lot of people present it to be. It simply means this. To be completely yielded to God's will and God's word for my life. That's all being filled with the Holy Spirit is. If Jesus prayed this prayer, that's a classic For you and I, in being filled with the Holy Spirit, it's not just words, but this is my condition. Not my will, but what? Thy will be done. That's being filled with the Spirit. God, I'm not doing what I want. I'm not my will. I'm surrendering my will, yielding my desires, my plans, my emotions, my dreams Everything is yielded to what your will is revealed in your word. It's completely yielded to God's word and God's will for my life. Now that is part. Of what it means to be filled with the Holy Spirit. It is possible, I believe, for me to be desire to do God's, uh fulfill God's will, obey His word, but do it in my flesh. It's possible to do that. Boy, I'm gonna do that. I've had people sit in my office. I'm thinking of one couple in particular. Oh, we're not gonna sin anymore. And it was all, I'm gonna do it, we're gonna do it, we're not we're I, we, us, my and I have no doubt that they sincerely wanted to do God's will, but they missed the key ingredient They're wanting to do it all themselves. Here's the second aspect of being filled with the Holy Spirit. It's to be completely yielded to God's word and God's will for my life and completely dependent Upon the Holy Spirit to enable me to fulfill God's will and be the person God intends me to be I yield myself to God's word and his will. I surrender my will to his, regardless of what it is. I die to self, I yield to the Lord. Then I depend on the Holy Spirit to enable me to live that out as I should. Not trusting myself, what did Jesus say? Without me, ye can do nothing. I can't even do right without the Lord enable me through the filling of the Holy Spirit. So One relationship we have with the Holy Spirit is to be yielded to Him. That He's filling us and controlling us. Read the book of Acts. How many folks, I'm just curious, and I'm This isn't judgmental in any way. I'm just curious how many folks are reading their Bibles through this year? You decide this year I'm gonna read from Genesis to Revelation. Okay. Uh some of you are following the various uh uh schedules that we make available How many folks have gotten to the book of Acts yet? Is there anybody there at the Book of Acts? I'm just starting it, just getting into it. A couple folks are. When you read through the book of Acts. I want to challenge you to pay close attention about what it says about the Holy Spirit filling people. In fact, I went through and I don't have it in this Bible that I'm using right now in previous ones I highlighted the word Holy Spirit all through the book of Acts. In fact, I changed the title of the book of Acts. In the Leatherman Study Bible. I changed it. And by the way, before you cry heresy, the titles are not inspired. They're man-given. Alright, so relax. I changed it to the Acts of the Holy Spirit. You go through them, pay attention to the Holy Spirit. And you'll find in the book of Acts, when people were filled with the Holy Spirit, three things were true. One, the gospel was declared powerfully. I mean, they went everywhere preaching the gospel. They were filled with the Holy Scott and they preached the gospel. They declared the gospel. Second thing when people were filled with the Holy Spirit, souls were saved abundantly. Man, the church was multiplied. And the third thing that was true when people were filled with the Holy Spirit, first of all, the gospel was declared powerfully, souls were saved abundantly, and the church fellowshipped together beautifully. In other words, they got along. They were united. The same Holy Spirit that indwells me also indwells Brother Jerry. Now, regardless of what our personalities or backgrounds may be, our differences may be on things. If I'm yielded to the Holy Spirit and Brother Jerry's yielded to the Holy Spirit, what kind of fellowship are we going to have? Beautiful fellowship. Christ-centered, divine, God-enabled fellowship. And so when uh God's people are filled with the Holy Spirit, There is unity. There is beautiful fellowship, God-given fellowship, and uh not dysfunction, not dysfunctionality Alright? So being filled with the Holy Spirit. To avoid having a dysfunctional church, we must all seek to be filled with the Holy Spirit. I believe one of the prayers I pray, as much if not more, than any other prayer I ask God is this. Fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, take away my will. God, help me yield my will to yours. I want the power and the filling of the Holy Spirit. That is probably one of the biggest desires in my heart. is to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Hey, that ought to be, and I'm not saying it because I do it, I believe it's scriptural, is that ought to be the desire and prayer of every one of us, regardless of what role we play. Hey, I thank God for Shirley and Doreen. Clean around here. How many people are glad you don't have to do the stuff stuff they do? I am, praise the Lord. Two people uh two groups of people I praise the Lord for, the folks that clean and the folks that work in a nursery. Thank God for those people Hey, uh I I I believe, and I believe they are, no doubt, but uh you ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit when you're mopping the floor. Just as much as when you're preaching the Bible. Ladies back in the nursery, change the diaper. You've got to be filled with the change of the Holy Spirit, change the diaper and not get in the flesh. So we ought to all seek to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Imagine with me in your mind. What would it be like to be in a church where everyone is filled, empowered, controlled by the Holy Spirit of God? What would the characteristics of that church be like? I can tell you, Galatians chapter 5, verse 19, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long story. You know what? People love each other People be patient with each other. People be good to each other. And so a functional church, the people have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Dysfunctional? They're in the flesh. Now, we've got quickly a couple other relationships I can have with the Holy Spirit that's going to affect the family life of the church. I can do despite To the Spirit of God. Turn with me quickly to Hebrews chapter 10. Now I spent most of the time on being filled because I think that's the key. But the Bible references several other relationships I can have with the Holy Spirit. Hebrews chapter 10 Turn real quick and uh look with me at verse 29. Hebrews 10, verse 29 The Holy Spirit dwells within us. He's our divine uh inhabitant, our divine tenant in our bodies And uh we can yield to him, let him run the show and empower us, or we can do despite to the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 29. Of how much sore punishment suppose ye Shall he be thought worthy who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the spirit of grace. Two interesting things at the end of this verse. He says that it is possible for a person to do despite To the Holy Spirit. And notice the term he uses to describe the Holy Spirit. Look at the last of the verse there. What is he what's the name or the title or the description he gives of the Holy Spirit? The spirit of what? Grace. Now that's significant. If you go back to verse 25, just a few verses before, he's talking about the church assembling together Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as a matter of sum is. So he's talking about the church assembling together. That's the uh context here introduced Verse 30, he's talking about God taking vengeance and not us taking vengeance. Vengeance is the Lord. So we can very easily suggest that part of the context here is the church getting along. And if something happens, don't take vengeance. Let God take vengeance. And he uses the term the spirit of grace. For a church to be functional, we need the spirit of grace Be gracious to one another. And so I think it's significant he uses that term here. But back up a few words, he says they have done despite. To the spirit of grace. The word despite, we get our word insult from the same word that the word despite comes from To insult the Holy Spirit. This word despite, I looked it up and got a list of definitions. It has this idea to treat with contempt. How do you treat someone if you're treating them with contempt? What is that or how how would you describe that? Alright, you're being mean. Unruly? Okay, I thought you said another word that comes real close. If I'm treating someone with contempt, it's kind of like, do you see it this way? Hmm. Right? I'm treating with the contempt. I'm just uh Well, I I thought that way. That's where every I thought there'd be a great chorus of amens It means to treat someone with indignity. Let me put it in modern terminology, to disrespect someone. Anybody hear the kids say, don't diss me, man. Anybody ever say that? Anybody? Nobody ever heard that. Yeah, okay. See, I'm on the cutting edge That's what the idea here is. Don't disre He says they've done disrespect to the spirit of grace. The idea here is this. God has been so merciful and so gracious. And then this person that does despite the Spirit of God's blood has been so gracious, so merciful, they turn around And they completely disrespect that mercy and grace that God has shown us, particularly through the Holy Spirit. How many people here would agree with me? The Holy Spirit's very merciful. Think about who he's got to live with. Think about who he's got to live in. Uh you know, sometimes you ever get around folks who just can't stand the way they talk? Anybody get around it's just rude or crude or it uh can you imagine living with someone, not only do you have to deal with the way they talk, you gotta deal with the way they think. That's rough. And so the Holy Spirit is very merciful. He lives within us. And he's holy and he can tolerate no sin. Yet, he lives within us. He's very patient with us. He's very gracious to us. And then for me to turn around with that Holy Spirit in me and be unmerciful and ungracious to one of God's people. is to do despite, is to disrespect that Spirit's grace and mercy in me. One of the things One of the relationships I can have with the Holy Spirit is to act disrespectfully to the Holy Spirit as if he's nobody As if he deserves no respect, when in reality he's been very gracious, very good. He dwells within me, enables me, protects me, seals me, keeps me from losing my salvation. And then I turn around and treat others differently than what he's treating me. That's doing disrespect to the Holy Spirit. So, um, if we don't want to be dysfunctional, we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. We need to be very careful That we don't be disrespectful of the Holy Spirit, the grace and mercy he's shown me. I need to emulate that in my relationship with others. Let me give you a third one. Acts 7. 51 Uh we won't bother turning there. He says Stephen's about to be s he's preaching at the Pharisees, and just before they stone him, and it's an interesting, I would like to read the whole chapter. He just starts off kind of given Israel's history, and you can kind of sense He's building, and by the time he gets to verse 51, old Stephen is worked up, and he finally says, Ye do always resist the Holy Spirit of God. That tells me it's possible to resist the Holy Spirit. The word resist simply means to strive against It means to say no to. Is this idea to know the will of God? But to fight against the Holy Spirit's application of God's word to my life. It's this idea. Now, I think most of us here have been saved long enough, you're going to be able to relate to what I'm talking about. Did you ever were you ever sitting in a service? The preacher, whether it's me, evangelists or somebody, preacher, maybe Sunday school teacher is teaching and preaching, and the Word of God all of a sudden deals with some area of your life that you know is not the way it should be And it's like, good night. He read my diary this week. He's talking right to me. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? If you've been saying or you're reading your Bible and all of a sudden that verse jumps out. Can I get a witness? You know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit taking the Word of God and applying it to my situation as I need it. The interesting thing is, this is one of the neat things about pastoring and preaching, uh, you preach and preach and preach and people leave and people say, boy, you know Uh you said this part, man, it just got me. You you stepped all over my toes. And I'm thinking, I don't even remember saying that. And then somebody else, same message. Oh boy, you really got this, and something completely different. And sometimes it's something I didn't even preach on. You know what that is? I love it to hear that. That's the Holy Spirit taking the Word of God and applying it to hearts You read a verse, you've read it 50 times, and you read it, and all of a sudden, oh man. Or maybe uh now what does it mean to resist the Holy Spirit? That is this. When the Holy Spirit takes that verse, applies it to my heart, and I say no No, I'm not doing that. I am not listening. I am not going to do what the Holy Spirit is showing me from God's Word that I should do. And that is resisting it. Resisting it. For centuries, God had shown the Jewish people they needed the Messiah. They needed the Messiah. They needed the Messiah. They heard it God was sending them prophets, but Stephen said, you've always resisted that. You've always said no. You know when it becomes visible, resisting the Holy Spirit. You know what sometimes when it's visible It's white knuckles at the invitation time holding on the pew. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Spirit of God's dealing. I know I need to make I need to surrender this. I know I need to obey God. Spirit of God is saying, that's you. That's you. That verse is talking to you. No, no, no, no, no. That's the idea. To resist the Spirit of God. Listen, can you imagine a church? Where every member, every person that attends, does not resist the Holy Spirit, but yields to the Holy Spirit every time he deals with their heart. What would that church be like? Everybody yielded to the Spirit of God. Now when you've got people resisting the Spirit of God, then you're going to have dysfunction Then you're going to have issues, and um we're gonna notice next time I preach Sunday night uh on on how what sin leads to and what that all leads to So you got uh resisting Holy Spirit. 1 Thessalonians 5. 19, very short verse says, quench not the Spirit of God. So a fourth thing I can do, I can quench the Holy Spirit. The word quench means just what it sounds like it means. It means to extinguish something, like you extinguish a fire, you quench the fire. It means to suppress or stifle. You're very, very thirsty, and you get my wife's new favorite drink, Gatorade. She just fell in love with Gatorade, didn't you? Power aid. Uh on our mission on our mission trip to Texas. Uh Hey, I should have thought of that before. We could have had that financed. But anyway. It quenches your thirst. It suppresses it. I'm not thirsty anymore. And um so uh that's the idea here and the Bible says don't quench the Holy Spirit. That is re the difference between that and resisting the Holy Spirit, at least this is the way I see it in my mind. Resisting the Holy Spirit is hearing what the Holy Spirit says. I mean, he's applied it to my heart and life, and I'm doing this. I'm hearing it, but I'm just saying, no, no, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do it. To quench the Holy Spirit is my attempt to get the Holy Spirit to stop applying it to my heart. See what I'm saying? There's a difference. The one I'm simply saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The other one I'm saying, shut up. Stop, Holy Spirit, stop saying that. Stop it. Don't convict me. Stop convicting me. That's the idea. Quenching the Holy Spirit, suppressing him. It's a refusal to heed his application. So how do let me have you give a little input. How would you try and stop the Holy Spirit from convicting you? What would you do to get where He doesn't, where you suppress that conviction? Uh-huh. Cut turn the water off. Don't expose yourself to the Word of God. Again, I'm not being judgmental. I would have no idea who the people are would do this. So don't misunderstand or read anything more into this than what I'm saying. But I'm simply saying this. I believe sometimes people don't go to church because they are quenching the spirit. I told you about the guy that said, I ain't going back to your church all over here. You've got to get saved. You've got to get saved. Got to get saved. You know what? I think the Holy Spirit was convicting him about getting saved. And he was trying to quench it. Do you ever have someone you tried to witness to and they just get belligerent and almost violent about it? You know what I think they're trying to do? Trying to quench the Holy Spirit, trying to intimidate you and I so we don't share the gospel with them, so they're not convicted. Remember, what did Jesus say to Paul on the Damascus Road when he was going by that? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. You know what he was saying? You're fighting conviction. It's hard for you to quench that Spirit's conviction. Now, what he's saying here is, listen, let's leave ourselves open to the Holy Spirit's conviction. Don't quench it. Feed it. We want the Holy Spirit to convict us. That's what we want. We want to be right. We want to be what God wants us to be. We want God's blessed on our life. You get a Christian that doesn't want the Holy Spirit to convict them That's a quick Christian that's quenching the spirit and wanting to live in the flesh. That's a Christian that's going to lose and miss the blessings of God on their life. Quench the Holy Spirit. It's like little LeBron rode our Sunday school bus down in Chattanooga, little uh kid. Uh naughty as you can be. Naughty is actually complimenting them Um uh the kid was very naughty and fun time I just I was young, I just kinda loved it. Lebron! And um I stood over him, he was on the bus seat, I was on the seat behind him, he said The bus drivers up there and I'm just I mean I'm preaching at him. God's gonna judge him, he's the devil's gonna destroy his life. You know, I was just pouring it all on him And uh he went like this, and I can't say I honestly blame him, but he started doing this. LeBron Little brat. But um you know what he was doing? He was clenching the conviction of Pastor Dennis. Let's not do that. Can you imagine if you had a church full of folks that said, yeah, I want to be convicted by the Spirit of God? I want God to show me what I need to do, what changes I need to make. Christians, I've often said this, Christians are weird. We go to a funeral of a believer and we rejoice. Praise the Lord, they're saved, praise the Lord, they're in heaven. The world says, what? They're dead. We go to revival service, the preacher rips us up one side down the other, tells us what sorry pieces of humanity we are, and we go out and say, man, that was great. You know why? Because we want to be convicted. We don't want to quench the Spirit. The last thing the Bible says we can do, and it's back in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, and I'd like you to turn there, and then I'm going to quit. The relationship I have with the Holy Spirit is grieving the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse 30 is where the verse is, but I want to read before that if I can find it here. Notice look at verse Verse 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. That's pretty clear, right? What he means there Boy, there's a lot of corrupt communication coming out of people's mouths today, isn't there? But that which is good to the use of edifying, what's it mean to edify? Build up. So he's saying here, don't say stuff that tears people down. Say stuff that edifies people, builds them up, helps them, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. That to me sounds like a functional church family. And nobody's tearing each other down, saying corrupt, hurtful things. They're saying things that edify. They're saying things that administer grace to the hearers, those that hear me. Look what he says, verse 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Then look at verse 31. This continues right on, all the same context. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor, that means getting worked up about stuff, clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, and be ye kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. We live with sinful people. And if you're going to get along with sinful people, you've got to learn to forgive. Right? If you can't forgive people, you're not going to get along. I've often said this. The Bible says Jesus said the Beatitudes. I forget what he said. Uh be merciful. And um what's the one? Uh show mercy and he will be merciful Yeah, something like that. But the idea is this. I I'm convinced it's not sin that destroys a marriage. It's unforgiveness. If sin destroyed a marriage, there won't be any marriages that survive. Because the only option you have to marry someone is sinners. Anybody here marry someone that's not a sinner? Men, if you are smart, you're there we go. Smart. You're sinning, but It's being merciful. And so what he's saying here is, and I'm summarizing for sake of time, but what he's saying here is, what grieves the Holy Spirit? It's not getting along with people the way God tells me to. Not saying things, not not not uh look at verse 29, not saying that which is good to the use of edifying. Not saying words that minister grace, uh letting bitterness and wrath and anger, not being kind one to another, when we operate in dysfunctional manner Not only does it hurt the church, not only does it indicate I'm out of fellowship with God, but it hurts the Holy Spirit. It greath God's Holy Spirit. This is the only place in the Bible that, and I may be missing something, so correct me later, but um That I find that says specifically, this makes God very sad. In fact, the word grief there is a very strong word. It means to inflict emotional pain. to make sad and sorrowful. And when a church operates in a dysfunctional way, it makes God very, very sad. It grieves the Holy Spirit. I read just this afternoon, I was reading, about a cuckoo, about cuckoo birds Of all things. They're extinct, I think. Are are tucko birds extinct? They have cuckoo dodo bird is extinct. I always get those two mixed up, the cuckoo birds and dodo birds. The cuckoo bird As I was reading about it, and I maybe I knew this before and forgot, but the cuckoo bird doesn't make its own nest, the way I understood it. The cuckoo bird goes to another bird's nest, And lays its eggs in the other bird's nest. And then the mother comes in of the other bird and she'll sit on the eggs and raise the eggs for the cuckoo bird. You have to be cuckoo to do that. But what happens is the mother sits on there. Apparently other bird mothers are very dumb because the cuckoo bird's egg is much larger than her own eggs. And so it looks to me like she'd figure out, there ain't no way I laid that thing. But um uh she doesn't figure that out. And so she sits on that and hatches it But here's the thing, when the cuckoo bird egg hatches, the little cuckoos Little cuckoo ticks are much bigger than the other birds, and they push the other baby birds out of the nest. And of course they die. And so the cuckoo bird gets all the food from the mother bird, and the mother bird never figures it out. Now I would like to think we're smarter than a bird But there's a something there that kind of touched my heart. If that mother is so gracious and so tender that she'll take care and raise the very bird that killed her children To me, there's a lesson there. Other people are going to say and do things that hurt us. But nevertheless, we ought to be gracious and kind. And uh and uh show mercy. You say, yeah, but you don't know what that Christian did to me. No, I don't. But let's stop and think what we did to Christ. Let's think about how merciful and gracious he's been. I don't want to make the Holy Spirit sad. I don't want to grieve God. And the way I can do that is I've got to be gracious and kind and get along with God's people and follow biblical principles. I tell you, we can preach on this for years. There's so many aspects, but I'm going to finish it up with this message. And let's ask God to fill all of us with His Holy Spirit. Let's ask God to help all of us. Not grieve or quench or disrespect the Spirit of God. Not make them sad. But fill us and power us and let the fruit of the Spirit be evident, not just in my life, but out of our church. Wouldn't it be wonderful if people come visit the church? And we're not in competition with anyone else, so don't misunderstand But wouldn't it be wonderful if we come to visit our church and say, you know, that is a good church. Those are good people. Boy, they're they're uh fruit of the spirit is they're loving. There's joy And they would see and sense the fruit of the Spirit from this body of believers. Wouldn't that be great? I mean that's a good goal to work towards Father in heaven, help us, Lord. And we do ask you'd fill all of us on a daily basis with your Holy Spirit. Lord, we're not perfect, but Lord, you've been good to us and you've helped us. Help us to go forward and build on what's been accomplished and where we're at. Help us to grow. And we can be a good testimony to this old sinful world of how good you are and what you can do in the lives of believers. Help us, Lord, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.