Ecclesiastes chapter 6, working our way through the book of Ecclesiastes. Alright, uh If you have a pen, while you're finding that there, I want to encourage you also, if you would, find a pen. I want to give you a mathematical formula for having a happy home. A happy life, happy marriage, happy ministry. And um this not a joke or anything, I just uh something I come across I thought was pretty good. uh mathematic formula, mathematical formula for having a happy life. And so when you find Ecclesiastes, if you would get a pen out. I want to encourage you to jot this mathematical formula down Maybe even want to put it in the margin of your Bible. I know this will work. Mathematical formula. for having a a uh happy, successful Christian life, having a happy, successful home, happy, successful ministry. Everybody got your pen out? Everybody got it there? Ready to write this down? Alright, here we go. Here's the formula. Subtract self. Subtract self. Write that. Subtract self. And add Jesus. Subtract self and add Jesus. And if you'll follow that formula, everything's going to work out okay. Everybody got it? Subtract self and add Jesus. John the Baptist put it this way. E must increase. But I must decrease. You know what the biggest problem in my home is? Biggest problem in my home? My wife is here. My biggest problem in my home is me. It's the biggest I I've said this over the years. The person I'm most disappointed in in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the person I'm most disappointed in in this church is Dennis Leatherman My my my own failure, failure to live up to what God has. So what I knew to do is get myself out of the picture and do what? Get Jesus in, add Jesus. Does that make sense? That's actually a pretty good sermon right there Subtract self and add Jesus. So I came across that today. I thought uh that might be helpful. Ecclesiastes chapter number six. And I want to begin reading in verse number 7. I'm going to read verse 8 and 9. Verse 7, 8, and 9, Ecclesiastes chapter 6. Alright? Are you there? Let's uh follow along as I read. Yea, though he l I'm sorry, I want to start in verse 7. Ecclesiastes 6, verse 7. All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. For what hath the wise man more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth to walk before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit I want to speak on the dissatisfaction of an empty life. The dissatisfaction of an empty life. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I ask now as we look into your word for a few moments here before the day finishes up. I ask that you would once again speak to our hearts. It's been a good day, you've blessed. Good spirit. We just rejoice in that And I ask now that as this passage is preached, that you would take your word, apply it to our heart and lives as you know we have need. I yield my will to you, and Lord, again, this hour, I present my body and ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you would speak through me and challenge us and help us. And prepare us as we prayed earlier. Prepare us for the week, spiritually and mentally. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Solomon's life had such a sad ending. And that's this whole book of Ecclesiastes. You know, it just uh it's Solomon's life just had a sad ending. He in alienated himself from the God that had blessed him so much. God had given to him wisdom and riches and honor and success. And through a series of events and a process of time and things that he allowed and decisions he made. He ended up pushing God completely out of his life, and he lived his life. What's the phrase we see all through the book? He ended up living his life what? Under the sun. Nothing beyond that pushed it all out, just what he could see in the material world. His life at one point was filled with wisdom. His life was filled with joy. You read some of the Proverbs, you read about them early in the record in the historical books of the Bible, and there was joy. The people that served under him were happy. And uh rejoicing. And all of that is gone. And we get to the book of Ecclesiastes, and now rather than joy and wisdom and And fulfillment. Now we find emptiness and darkness. Anybody pick up as we're going through this is a dark book. Some of the statements he made and the and the and the conclusions he comes to are dark. He went from living with an eternal perspective. He could see things early in his life, earlier I should say in his life, he could see. Things from God's perspective. And he had tremendous insight. The book of Proverbs. I read a chapter of Proverbs every day, first thing in the morning. I read one of the a chapter of Proverbs. And I'll tell you, Solomon could see things from God's perspective, and he could see things, uh uh spiritual truths in many everyday events and ex and situations. And yet now that's gone. And now all he can see is temporal things. All he can see is the here and now. All he's living for is what's under the sun, just what he can see and end up now. And so Solomon started out with such a tremendous life and so blessed of God and such joy and wisdom in his life and now It's all gone. It's all gone. I read about Sigmund Freud. Anyone recognize the name Sigmund Freud? Sigmund Freud was, by all accounts, a brilliant man. He had a tremendous IQ. He was brilliant in many ways. But he pushed God out of his life He rejected God. He rejected the uh uh God working in his life, he just rejected all of that, he didn't want anything to do with God And the record of his life tells us that when he came towards the end of his life, he was absolutely terrified of death. The account I was reading said that he had become in the last years of life a totally broken man. In absolute despair at the end of his life. Now, here's a man who's very intelligent. Here's a man who is a brilliant man But he pushes God out of his life and he comes to conclusions that are so unscriptural or so false. And he ends up in despair. And I thought of Solomon and how Solomon had pushed God out of his life and ended up so tragic. One of the major messages in the book of Ecclesiastes, of course this is Solomon under the inspiration of God recording this, is that The world's uh one of the major messages is the world's misconception of the role that possessions play in our life and the role that wealth plays in our life As a believer and as someone that understands the Bible and understands God has a plan and purpose for life, that there's more to life than what's under the sun. We understand that wealth and possessions, they play a role, but it is a temporal role. It's not what we live for, it's not what we pursue in our lives. We're pursuing the Lord, we're pursuing things of eternity. But the world misunderstands that. And in the unsaved world, and tragically many Christians adopt this view, everything becomes about uh everything about life revolves around stuff. And getting money and hoarding money and spending money and having things and having more of this and better of that. And Solomon addresses that through the book here. I noticed in verses 1 through 6, as we looked at this last week. He has uh he records the rich man's misconception of wealth. And he talks about the emptiness of that. And now verse 7, 8, and 9 that we just read, I believe he's addressing the poor man's conception of wealth. You know a poor person can have a wrong view of wealth just as much as a rich person can. Poor people can love money just as much as rich people love money. The one has it, the other don't, but they both love it, both pursue it, want it, look to it to provide for them what only God can do. And so he's addressing this poor man's misconception of wealth. I got a couple of thoughts here, a little outline from these verses, and I want to share them with you. Let's get right into it. Number one, I put this down. Employment and work Cannot satisfy the soul. Employment and work cannot satisfy the soul. Look again at verse number seven with me. All the labor of man is for his mouth. And yet the appetite is not filled. The word labor there has this idea to work very, very hard. To be very diligent in it. I got this conception looking at the word and definition and how it's used. It's like this idea This is somebody that's up early in the morning till late at night. They're working, working, working, working. Their whole life revolves around work. Their whole life revolves around their employment And he says, all the labor of man is for his mouth, it's temporal, and yet the appetite is not filled. Now that appetite has the idea of what you would think. How many people worked this past week and you ate? each day and you work throughout the week. Anybody here worked last week, your work job, and you ate every day. How many people uh the next day you were hungry again? So wait a minute, I ate yesterday. That was the thing growing up with the kids kind of got my nerves. They kept wanting to eat every day. You know. And uh then they come home, you know, and visit home and the refrigerator is instantly empty You know? And so the idea there, the work of a laboring man, uh uh the laborer and uh yet the appetite is not filled. You work all day, work hard, get money, you buy grocery How many people bought groceries last week and lo and behold you're gonna have to buy groceries again this week? That stinks. I thought we just bought them. My wife says, uh we need groceries. I said we just bought some last month. Why are we having to get some more But the word appetite there has a greater meaning than that. He's not just talking about, hey, you've got to keep eating, you know, you work, and you've got to eat, and then you work some more so you can eat, and then you eat so that you can go to work, then you work so you can get fo The E It's deeper than that. I got looking up that word appetite. I found this out. It is translated in our Bible, King James Bible. It's translated 470 times That word that's translated appetite here is translated soul, the soul of man. And I think Solomon is referencing something a little bit more than putting tomato sandwiches in your mouth every day. And I'm for that. He's talking about, look what it says, all the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. I'm still hungry. I wouldn't eat another tomato sandwich. But he's saying not only that But all the hard work you're doing, all that time and effort you're putting in, yet your soul is still empty Your soul is still empty. He's addressing this idea of trying to have my work and my labor. I'm a hard-working man. I work, I work for what I get. Good, that's wonderful. But that work can't do for you what only God can do for you. And the poor man says, Boy, if I'm gonna work hard and I'm gonna I'm going to go from rags to wit riches and I'm going to apply myself. I'm going to work long days and put in the I get the OT. I'm going to be wise with my money and someday I'm going to be rich. And that's fine. And a lot of people have done that But it's not going to do for you what only God can do for you. It's not going to fill the hole in the soul that only God can fill. And Solomon is addressing this idea of people that work and work and work and work and work, and maybe they're brilliant, and yet they push God out, and they never pursue the needs of the soul. They take care of the body. And he says, you're going to be dissatisfied. It cannot happen. Hard work, I'll put this down, hard work is good for the soul. We talked about that before. You work hard all day long, you feel good at night, right? You're sore, your muscles are sore, but there's fulfillment, right or wrong. Everybody agree with me? Everybody alright? Sure. But it doesn't do for my soul what only God can do for my soul. Hard work is honorable. God highly uh speaks highly of hard work. In fact, he created us. Part of the purpose of our creation was to work. But that work in and of itself cannot do for me what only God can do for me. Hard work can, often does, make a wealthy man out of a poor man, but it can never make a saint out of a sinner. And hard work, for all the benefits there are, it can never fill an empty soul. The soul is hungry for God. The soul of mankind is hungry for God. That's what it was created for. That's why all around the world you find every culture. We talked about Mary Slesser, uh good good report on her And every one of those tribes and every one of those most remote civilizations, every one of them worships some sort of God. Why? Because the soul is hungry for God And he's saying if you're looking to work, you're looking for hard work to do meet that need, it will never be met. It will never be met. The appetite is not filled. Look up at verse 3. He makes a similar statement when he's addressing the rich man's perspective on wealth. Look down in verse 3. He says, If a man beget a hundred children in many years, so that the days of his years be many, look at this And his soul be not filled with good. Same statement. Here's a guy, rich man, I'm gonna have a big family, I'm gonna live a long time, I'm gonna get the best health care. Boy, my life is gonna be something But if you don't meet the needs of the soul, it's not a good thing. And he says down here, the appetite, the soul is not filled. Hard work can meet physical needs, but it can never meet spiritual needs. can never meet spiritual needs. So when we work for what's under the sun, it'll take care of us physically at best. But it will do nothing for the soul. Will do nothing for the soul. How many people say that's that's a pretty basic concept, right? Understand that. That's a pretty basic concept. But we miss it. But we miss it Workaholics trying to find some purpose, some meaning in life, some fulfillment. Work, work, work, work, work And yet it'll never meet that need. So I noticed in verse number seven, employment and work cannot satisfy the soul. I noticed in verse number eight, this is number two, earthly wisdom cannot satisfy the soul. Earthly wisdom cannot satisfy the soul. Look at verse 8. For what hath the wise man more than the fool? Now remember, he's talking about people living under the sun. He's talking about people that push God out of their life. So you have this worldly wise man and you have a fool. And he says, What hath the wise man more of the fool? If he doesn't have God, he doesn't have anything more, does he? Not spiritually speaking. What hath the poor that knoweth to walk before the living? The worldly wise man and the fool both have empty souls without the Lord. Empty souls without the Lord. I mentioned Sigmund Freud. I've got a little report here on Howard Hughes. How many people recognize the name Howard Hughes? You talk about a wor a worldly wise man. He knew how to work the system. He knew how to succeed under the sun. He worked hard and he knew how to how to how to do it and And uh incredibly successful. Let me read a little portion of what I read about Howard Hughes. At the age of 45, listen to this. He was the most glamorous man in America He married an actress, he piloted exotic test aircraft, and he worked on top secret CIA contracts at 47 He owned a string of hotels around the world and he owned an airline, TWA, and they flew them all over the world. Twenty years later, not 47, he has worked the system, he knows how it works, he is worldly wise. Very, very successful. At age 65, 20 years later, he still had plenty of money, $2. 3 billion, 65 years old. But as the world's richest man, he became the world's most pathetic man. See if this doesn't sound like Solomon a little bit. He lived in a small dark room atop his hotel. There was no sun, no joy. He was unkept. He had a straggly beard, had grown waist-length. His hair fell down his back. His fingernails, he refused to trim his fingernails. They were over two inches long. His once powerful six foot four inch frame had shrunk to about a hundred pounds. This famous man spent most of his time watching movies Many times the same movie, over and over and over, up to as many a hundred as a hundred and fifty times he'd sit in this dark little room in his pathetic condition watching the same stupid movie over and over and over and over and over. He lay naked in bed, deathly afraid of germs. Life had no meaning for him whatsoever. Wasting away, hooked on drugs, he died at the age of 67. Because he refused the medical help of a device his own company designed. Sam. I got thinking about that. I wonder if Howard Hughes, if he had read the book of Ecclesiastes and paid attention to what Solomon said, how things might have been a little different for him But he went down the same road that Solomon said. And the wealth, working hard and all that, never fed his soul. God was out of the picture And the worldly wisdom, working the system and knowing how it works, he was no better off in the end than the fool living in the streets without God. And that's what Solomon's saying. Hard work, employment, and work, it's not going to satisfy your soul or my soul. Worldly wisdom, we can work the system, be very successful here under the sun. But if the Lord's not a part of our life, if we if we don't know Christ as Savior, we're no better than the foolish person. We're no better than the fool. When we stand before God And by the way, every single one of us will one day stand before God. Every single human being that ever has lived, ever will live, is alive now, is one day going to stand before our Creator. That is clearly taught in Scripture. There's no getting around that. There's no escaping that. The question at that great day of judgment is not going to be how high was your IQ? The question at that great day of judgment is not going to be how hard do you work and did you work and how successful were you under the sun? It's not going to be the question. The question is not going to be how many degrees do you have and how much education do you have? It's not going to be the question. The question is going to be, did you know my Son, Jesus Christ, as your Savior? The question is going to be, did you trust me and love me with all your heart? Did you live for me and serve me? That's the question. So, well, work and employment cannot satisfy the soul. He says in verse number eight: earthly wisdom. cannot satisfy the soul. I read a fascinating story. How many people recognize um the pilk down man? Anybody anybody if you're in in school you studied the pilk down man. Anybody anybody recognize that? How many people have no clue what I'm talking about right there? How many people aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I questions I ask The pilk down man was this supposed ancient man that had lived Neanderthal millions and millions of years ago. And uh I'll just give you the account here. Uh he was 40 miles south of London, over in England, a tiny village named Pilktown. In 1908, a lawyer by the name of Charles Dawson. Claimed to have discovered an ancient skull. As they dug around there, morph bones were discovered, and suddenly the world have had proof Of Darwin's theory of evolution, we had the missing link. Um, the pilk down man The scientific literature that came out about this pilp-down man was enormous. More than 500 doctoral dissertations were written about this skeleton that was found. 500 doctrinal dissertations. Schoolchildren were shown pictures of what the pilkdown man looked like and how he fit into the evolutionary chain. One of the world's greatest atomists, the study of the human body, wrote more about the pilkdown man than anyone else. He wrote famous books on this discovery. He based a lifetime of work on this man, this pilkdown man, this skeleton they found. When he was 80 years old, two men paid a visit to his house, Kenneth Oakley and Joseph Weiner. They paid a visit to his house. And they came to him with information that was going to shatter him. The pilked down man, 500, over 500 doctoral dissertations studying this pilked down man. This man, Keith, had given his whole life. to studying it and writing about the pilk down man. Two men showed up at his house and they said, we've got bad news. He said, what's that? He's 80-some years old, gave his whole life to it. So what's the bad news? Bad news is that whole pilk down man was a hoax. Never existed. Just made up, a fraud. The pilk down man was a hoax. Nothing more than an old human skull, the jawbone of a orangutan, and a dog's tooth. And apparently the fellow that quote-unquote discovered it had put this thing together, fraud. And the greatest minds in the world at that time fell for it. And wrote all the books and told all the children and taught it as a fact, and the whole thing was a fraud. For 40 years, the brilliant scientist had trusted in a fraud. Keith was a rationalist and profound opponent of the Christian faith. Yet his autobiography tells of him attending evangelistic meetings in Edinburgh And Aberdeen, seeing students make public professions of faith in Jesus Christ, and often himself felt like he was on the verge of conversion. So this guy's just about to be saved But he rejected the gospel because of the pilk down man. This was proof in his mind that the Bible was wrong. And he rejected the truth of God. He rejected Jesus Christ as Savior because in his wisdom, quote unquote, he fell for a fraud. And he died an unsaved man in his sins. How many people agree with me? That guy's no better off than the fool. That guy's no better off than the fool. He believed a lie. He believed a lie. And Solomon is telling us here in the later days of his life, he said, I pushed God out of my life. I've done all that. I've lived for everything under the sun. And I see that the worldly wise man and the fool of this world are no better off when it's all said and done if we push God out of our lives. Pushed God out of our lives. And then verse number nine, he says, eager wishfulness cannot satisfy the soul. You say, okay, preacher, I'm not going to look to working hard for uh to find fulfillment in my soul, my heart and soul, and uh I'm not gonna go to worldly wisdom, but what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna live in a fantasy world. A fantasy world. Look what he says in verse 9. He says, better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. That phrase, wandering of the desire, has this idea, fantasizing. Fantasizing. We live in a generation that lives in fantasy world. Right or not? Uh what's this new thing they've come out? You you can hook it onto your phone, you put it around, and uh it looks like everything is real and you're right there. What's that Virtual reality. And you you ever see you ever see clips of people doing that? I've never done it, I'm not interested. But people put that on and they actually think they're on a roller coaster. And they're going, hmm, mm-hmm. Right? Anybody ever see those pictures? And you know what it is? It's a fantasy world. It's not real. And we live in a generation, and Solomon is referencing it, but live in a generation that is trying to escape reality. And find fulfillment and find something to fill that hole in the soul, and they're looking to fantasy for it. That's how Hollywood makes millions and millions of dollars. Escape reality, escape the the emptiness and the boring and the hole in my soul and go and watch this movie and for a little while I feel like I'm some kind of great star and I'm this super person because I'm watching this movie, I'm relating to it. The problem is when the movie's over that hole's still there Fantasy. Fantasy. Um uh Hollywood is a big promotion. Um and I I'm not against this completely, but fiction novels are fantasy. And boy, we'll read then and we're in this fantasy world, and for that time that we're reading it, oh, our hearts are filled, and we have purpose, and we're a hero, and we're relating to this, and then the end And we're right back to an empty heart and soul. Empty heart and soul. Now I'm not saying all this is wrong. I I enjoyed years ago. I don't hardly I don't but Dad and I were talking. I don't read fiction I don't know when's the last time I read a fiction book. Decades. That's one at on time. But years ago, uh Louis Lemoire. I loved reading Louis Lemoore. Anybody here ever read Louis Lemour books? Oh, they're fascinating. And I'd read that, and man, I'm the hero. Walking in that town, I'm gonna rescue everybody. Gunfights. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Don't look at me like I'm stupid. Come on now. Man, I'd read that thing and I'd be some cowboy riding out West. And uh I I hate to admit it, but I'd get I got an old 30 uh 30-30 Winchester lever, I'd get that thing out Man, I'm in this fantasy world and everything's great and I'm a hero. And the stinky part was the end. And I'd come back and I'm still a knucklehead. I'm not a hero, I'm not this great cowboy, and I miss most of the things I shoot at And Solomon is saying, listen, there are some people that look to fantasy to try and find some fulfillment and find something to escape reality of life. Video games. People get so caught up in these video games and it becomes reality to them. And while I'm playing this game, I'm the hero and my life has purpose and my heart is full and I'm and I'm something. But it's fantasy. And then the game's over and the few times that I played them, I always died right at the beginning. Pac-Man. You're dead. Right? But the game's over. And that hole in the soul is still there. And Solomon is addressing these various areas of life. And he's saying, listen, if you don't know the Lord If you're not living for God, if your heart and life isn't focused and in love with Jesus Christ, there is a vacuum in your life that nothing in this world is going to fulfill. Work Uh wisdom, play, fantasy, all of that under the sun is going to leave a vacuum in your heart and soul. And do we not see that in our world? I know we've been saying this over and over, but the book is repetitious. And we look at a world that is angry, that is frustrated. Fighting each other, demanding this, screaming at that, fighting over this, mad about this, blaming that And the whole problem is there's a hole in their soul that they're looking to others and things and stuff and actions. And fantasy trying to desperately fill that. And it never gets filled. And I'm always hungry and I'm always empty. And I'm looking for something. And it will not meet it. And I'm frustrated. And Solomon says the whole problem is you push God out. You're not walking with God. You're not yielded to the Lord. The Lord isn't filling you, empowering you. Isn't that sad? Isn't that sad? Um I read about a fella down in New Zealand. I think it's a true story. He was down in New Zealand and um he had a little fishing boat. And he went out and he catched just enough fish to buy him food for the day and take care of things. And one day a millionaire came by and saw him come in. He had a few fish and He says, uh could you not catch any more? He says, oh no, there was fish out there. I could have got a lot more. He says, why didn't you get them? He says, it's more than I can eat. It's more than I need. But if you caught all them, the millionaire said, you could bring them back and sell them. He said, what would I do with that money? He says, buy a bigger boat. Because what would I do with a bigger boat? You'd catch more fish. He said, what would I do with more fish? He goes, well then you could sell and make lots of money and then you could look out and enjoy your life. He goes, I think that's what I'm doing now I'm enjoying my life. Now, what that fisherman was saying, I think, is what Solomon's trying to say on a spiritual realm. We have everything we need to find meaning and purpose and fulfillment in life. And we don't have to be at each other's throat and we don't have to be fighting and and angry and demanding this and blaming that and you're not treating me right and you're not doing this and the government isn't that and the people aren't this and anti-riot. And they're trying to gain stuff that's never, ever, ever, ever gonna do for them. But they already have. We have the Lord. We have the Lord. Am I making any sense? We need prayer. Our church needs revival. In our homes, in our marriages. We need to subtract self and put Christ there. Because self isn't working. Demanding my way. Getting angry because someone else isn't doing what I think they should do, and they're not treating me right. And we're frustrated. And we're exactly what Solomon says life is. Under the sun. And what we need to do is, I need to get myself, subtract self, and put Christ in. And start looking to Him for my fulfillment and start looking for Him for my purpose in life. And then there's meaning and purpose, and the frustration is gone, and the vanity is gone, because I'm living for that which I was created to live for. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd revive us. I need it. Help us to look beyond the sun. Help us to lean and trust and look to you to meet our needs and not the things of this world and the people of this world. God, we need your help. We need your help. We need revival. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many of our church folk tonight We'd be willing to humble ourselves at an old-fashioned altar and pray that God would extract self And replace them with Christ. In our hearts, our homes, our ministries. And it would be no longer us that live, but Christ that liveth in us. That we would decrease and Christ would increase And I think that frustration and that anger and that all that comes with that would fade away as we have a new purpose, a new focus, a new meaning in life, that which God intended us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, I'm on board with you. I know what you're saying. I want to pray earnestly Not that someone else will get right, not that someone else will die to self, but that I'll die to self. And I'll be yielded to the Lord and I'll replace it with Christ. Is there any like that feel that way with me? Any at all? Preacher, I'm praying with you on that. It's not the others. It's not others. It's not others. It's me. And God will help us. When we humble ourselves like that, that's when God begins to work. Is there someone here tonight saying, preacher, I'm not sure that I even know Jesus Christ is my Savior. I know we talk about it, we hear about it. But I can't honestly say that I know Jesus Christ and I need him in my heart and life. And I need him to save me and give me eternal life. and have a home in heaven, and you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart. I know I need to accept Jesus as my Savior. And you say, preacher, pray that God would help me do that. Help me sell. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. I need Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Now, Father, here's our invitation. We ask you to stir us. Maybe husbands and wives would find a place in altar and pray together. Say we want Christ in this thing. We just need to die to self. Maybe single folks, Sunday school teachers, workers, whatever it is. But Lord, maybe we'd come and really seek you with our heart on this Sunday night. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are about eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the imitation. How about it?