Great. Matthew, chapter number five, if you would, turn there. Don't pay any attention to the two folks sitting over in the other section. But somebody keep their eye on them. Now we're we're glad they can sit over there. Matthew chapter five, verse number thirty-one and thirty-two is what we're going to look at. And uh before we read this and before I get into it, I'm not going to give the whole lesson one in one night. We're gonna break this up. We usually end up doing that anyway, but uh I'm doing it deliberately tonight because I I don't want to even try to cover this subject in just uh all in one lesson. So we're probably going to have three the way it looks now lessons on the subject that the Lord is addressing here in this passage. Another thing I want to say, this is not going to be an exhaustive study on the subject of divorce and remarriage. It's not going to be an exhaustive study. We're just going to kind of look at some general things, what the Bible teaches. We're not going to look at every reference in the Bible. We're not going to look at every aspect of it. And then the other thing I wanted to say about it is uh this is uh what I'm gonna teach here in this is my understanding of scripture I I don't uh I I'm not presenting this as I'm giving the final word on the Bible teaching on divorce and remarriage. And the reason I'm saying that is this There are tremendous men of God that differ on their understanding of what the Bible teaches here. In fact, even uh men that are great Bible scholars that I highly respect, men that some that come through and preach from our pulpit that I tremendously respect would have different views on some of the aspects of what we're talking about. I believe we would agree generally overall what the Bible teaches, but there might be um uh different aspects of it where they would uh take a differing uh opinion. So I'm saying all that to say this. Uh I'm I'm not giving the final word. I am going to tell you this. I have studied this subject very diligently It has been a personal concern of mine since I got saved, as most of you are aware of my home situation. and uh what was going on there. And so this was a very personal, very great concern of mine to know what the Bible teaches about divorce and remarriage. So I've given a lot of attention to this over the years. I feel like I have a pretty firm grasp of what the Bible teaches on this. So I'm pretty confident in what I'm uh I'm very confident in what I'm preaching tonight Uh but there are some men, you might read a book or something where they take a little different approach than I do. You might talk to a great man or something, they might have a little different approach. And they have every right to be wrong, you know, and um that's fine. But look at Matthew chapter 5, verse number 31. It hath been said, of course, this is Jesus speaking, it hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. Alright, that's what's been said. That's what the Pharisees have been teaching. Verse 32. But I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery. And whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery. Divorce and remarriage. Let's pray, and we'll see what the Bible says here. Father in heaven I ask you blessed now our study in your word Lord, particularly this subject, Lord, I know it's very sensitive. There's a lot of feelings, and Lord, I pray that we would be uh Clear in our understanding of what your word teaches. I pray that you would fill me with your spirit, that uh you would teach and pre speak through me to our hearts, that our homes would be strong, our marriages would be strong. And we would be able to help others perhaps that have struggles, be able to point them to your will for their lives and your will for our lives. So again, I yield myself to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. And uh bless Lord in Jesus' name. Amen. I do want to say this also when we're studying this. This is a great thing about going verse by verse through the Bible, is You end up dealing with subjects that a lot of times people won't deal with. A preacher might want to might preach not preach on a subject because it's sensitive, because maybe they're uh situations differing things. But if you take a passage of scripture, and I'm giving you my thinking on the why I do thing preach the way I do as far as subject. Um if you take a passage and go verse by verse through that, it's amazing how you can cover so many areas that you might not touch on if you were just preaching you know just on a scatter type basis. And so I really appreciate this approach to it and it's and God has blessed it. The Bible deals with every aspect of human experience. I think we understand that. God has given to us in His Word divine principles That applies to every possible scenario we can face in life. Now, that's not to say that there is a chapter and verse stating specifically on every possible subject. For instance, you know, the Bible doesn't tell the Bible doesn't say thou shalt not smoke pot. Right? There's nowhere in the Bible it says that. How many of you agree with me God doesn't want his people to smoke pot? You agree with that? How many of you agree God didn't want anybody to smoke pot? Yeah. God doesn't even want the devil's children to smoke pot. Now, where is there a verse that says, thou shalt not smoke pot? No. So how do we come to the conclusion that God doesn't want people to smoke pot Yeah, Helen. Yeah, absolutely. And Brian said there's general principles given in Scripture, even though there's not a verse that says, Thou shalt not smoke pot. There are general principles. One of them is that our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit. along the same lines, but we are given to be stewards of these bodies. These are not our own. They're Lord's and we're to care for it and do what's best for it. And so What I'm trying to do is illustrate the fact that though God may not address every specific area with a thou shalt blank or thou shalt not blank There are principles in Scripture that apply to every possible situation man can ever face. And that's one of the amazing things about the Word of God. It is a timeless book. And uh, you know, if if if God would have told Moses in uh on the mountain and put down in the Ten Commandments, uh, thou shalt not watch HBO You know, they would have had no idea what he's talking about, you know, or what didn't exist. But he gives principles. I'll set no wicked thing before mine eyes. He gives principles That applies across the ages, across cultures, across technological advances. And this is an amazing book, is what I'm trying to say. And so We're get here in our passage, we're in the Sermon on the Mount, as we remind us every time we look at this, the Lord is addressing The Pharisees teaching that as long as you don't do these outward things, as long as you have the outward, the superficial, everything's fine. It's a works-based salvation is what the Pharisees were teaching. They weren't addressing the heart, the condition of the heart. They were not addressing a man's personal relationship with God. It's talking about, don't you don't do these things, only don't murder, don't commit adultery. If you divorce your wife, at least write a bill of divorcement for her, you know, do these superficial things, and everything is fine and you're good. And the Lord says, no, no, no. Your righteousness has to exceed that. It has to be deeper than that. It has to be more than that. And as we study this, we find out that We cannot keep the law. We fall so short of that. And so that's what the Lord is approaching. That's what he's addressing here. But in doing that, he's dealing with these various subjects The first one was murder and anger. We looked at that. Pharisee says, thou shalt not murder. You've heard it said, thou shalt not kill. And he says, I said, don't be angry. So he has murder and anger, and then he addressed adultery and lust. Now he's touching on the subject, divorce and remarriage. Now as I was looking at these six illustrations he's using to show how that the law goes farther than just the superficial, I noticed, and I don't know if you see it here, but I noticed somewhat of a connection between these subjects. I see a little progression here I think when he addressed killing and anger, and then he comes down, second of all, to uh adultery and lust, I think there's a bit of a connection there. Now I don't want to go off on this, but if you'll study through scripture, I see a connection somewhat between anger and sexual sins. What happened when David committed adultery at Bathsheba and he was approached by Nathan? He got very what? Angry at Nathan. And uh Samson was a very angry man. And uh so I think there's a connection there. It's a work of the flesh. And uh so you have this murder and anger, then you come down, which uh is connected loosely perhaps with uh lust and adultery, and then with the subject of adultery leads into the subject of divorce. And remarriage, and that's addressed. And then even you go beyond this, and he says, from there from the issue of divorce and remarriage, he comes down. You have heard it said, Thou shalt not forswear thyself. But I say to you, verse 34 Swearing out at all. Here's the idea of taking vows, which ties in with the marriage situation. And it just progresses down through there. So I don't believe it's just a uh I don't believe it's just a helter-skelter subject. I think the Lord is applying these in a connected way and a progressive way. So that would be the subject maybe of another study. I don't believe they're just random subjects. I think there's a little plan and purpose to uh what he's saying here. Now, uh, as I said, this is a subject often avoided. This is a subject that's tied to strong emotions. Divorce and remarriage are very, very hurtful And I want to assure I know uh you know, coming from as I said before, my my past, my history, um I want to be very, very sensitive. We're not trying to open up any old wounds. We're not trying to administer any kind of false guilt or anything like that. We want to do what the Bible says. Amen. We want to approach every subject from God's perspective. And here's what I found. If I will see things from God's perspective, I see them a whole lot clearer and I feel a whole lot better about it. I understand it a whole lot more. I found that if I do things God's way and follow God's plan, things work out a whole lot better. How many people found that be true? If you do it God's way, it works better. How many people ever did something your way and it was a mess Yeah, it's like every day. And um so uh so we're working through here and we're looking at it. Uh as I said, the gospel concerns every aspect of our lives And that includes our marriage. And that includes the troubles that come to marriage. That includes the breakdown of marriage. And God addresses all of this in every situation. Now, I have three areas we're going to look at in this. We're going to get to the first one tonight. The first area I want to address on this is the context of the Lord's teaching. And what I mean by that is he's taking what the Pharisees were teaching, and then he's comparing to what the law actually taught. And so that's the context of it. The Pharisees teaching, the law teaching. We're actually going to look at what the Word of God in the Old Testament, the law taught about divorce and remarriage. And then we'll look briefly at what the Pharisees were teaching. But that's the context. Then we're going to, in the second part of this study, we're going to look at the exception. That the Lord gives concerning divorce and remarriage. And by that I mean in verse number 32. Bible students, scholars, commentators, they'll refer to this as the exception clause. If you're ever reading a thing and they're talking about divorce and marriage, you see them refer to the exception clause. This is what they're talking about in verse 32. But I say unto you that whosoever shall put his wife saving saving for the cause of fornication. He's putting an exception in there. There's a little clause here. And so I want to look at that. And what does that mean? And what does the Bible teach about that? And then the last part, and we'll probably we might tack that into the second one, it'll probably be its own, the third, is our response to God's will. How do we respond? to this teaching and in whatever situation we find ourselves, how to respond to it. So let's first of all tonight I want to look at the context of the Lord's teaching. the context of the Lord's teaching. I want to point this out again, just this by way of reminder, verse 31. It hath been said By him using that phrase, he's telling us that he is not doing something. What is he not doing? I mentioned this every time so far. He is not quoting Scripture. He is not quoting Scripture. He is referencing what the Pharisees have been teaching. How would it be worded if he was quoting Scripture? It is written. It is written. Anytime he quotes Scripture, he'll say something the Scripture saith, or it is written, or thus saith the Lord, something along those lines. That's not what he's saying here. In none of these illustrations These six illustrations, does he say it is written? He says, you have heard it hath been said. It hath been said of old. So he's quoting What the Pharisees have been teaching. He is not correcting the Word of God. He is not altering the law in any way. What the Lord is doing is He's correcting their perversion. of what the law was, the Pharisees' false interpretation of what the law is, he's correcting that. But at no time does Jesus Christ ever alter or correct the law of God, the Word of God. He never does that. And by the way, if Jesus doesn't correct the Word of God, we shouldn't either. So it's good. It's fine. We don't need to alter it. We don't need to correct it. Now, let's look at what the law taught. When he says, but I say unto you, he goes back and he's referring to the Old Testament law. I want us to look at what the law taught. So, teaches, I should say. Alright, so how many people have your Bible with you? Alright? You got the Old and New Testament? Good. Let's go to Genesis chapter number two. We're going to start right at where God starts And we want to notice a few things about the very first marriage that took place. Genesis chapter 2. Anybody know who the bride was in the very first marriage? Eve. Very good. And of course Adam was the group. Genesis chapter 2, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 18. If you don't know where Genesis is, it's right before Exodus. And it's right after the front cover, the index. Alright, ready, here we go. Verse 18. And the Lord God said It is not good that the man should be alone. It's the only thing in creation God said was not good. And God created them that way. God created him incomplete. I will make him a help meet for him. And out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every creature, living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all the cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field But for Adam, there was not found a help meet for him. Now of all the animals, none of them fit. None of them were right. None of them matched. None of them meet the need. Alright? Verse 21. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, Wow. No. Adam said, Sorry. Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh I bracketed verse 23 and 24. I bracketed that, I put in the margin of my Bible, Adam's wedding vows. I think that's Adam's wedding vows. And this is his marriage, so to speak. Therefore shall man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. That is God's design for marriage. And verse 25, they were both naked, and man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Now let's look at Hit Adam's marriage vows here. Look at verse number uh 24. This is where he gives the design for marriage. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother. What happens when you leave someone? You go away from them. The word leave there has the idea of forsaking, walking away from. You're on your own Uh he should leave his father and mother. Now this is this isn't what the Bible teaches. This is what I suggest. And now most of us here, you most of you all have been married longer and I'm alive. But um uh some of you. But here's my advice. Now, this is just Leatherman advice here, but I believe very strongly that when a couple gets married, they ought to move out. Go get their own place. They ought not to stay in with mom and dad. Now I know circumstances sometimes are such that that might have to happen, but you really need to leave. Get out of there, forsake it, go. And uh personally, depending on the situation, personally, Kathy and I have talked about this a lot, uh they ought to go far away You know, we got married, we went to Indianapolis, uh, eight hour drive. Uh so um but anyway, leave. Now let's look at the next word. The word leave there, as I said, has the idea of forsaking. Doesn't mean you're unkind, you're but you're leaving. You're not Let's look at the next one. Therefore shall man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife. The word cleave is an interesting word. It means to, sometimes you hear her use to illustrate, it means to glue together. to glue together, but it's a little stronger than that. It has the idea of fusing together. Um the one usage that I was fine, the way it was used, has the idea of to to unite together in a permanent union. It's like You know what I mean by fusing where the where the molecules, the makeup of the two items actually merges into one. That's the idea of coming together. The concept behind the word cleave there has a permanent idea behind it. It's a permanent type thing. So a man shall leave his father and mother. By the way, The child's dependence and interaction with the parents is not a permanent. We raise them for the purpose of them becoming their own person. Become their own individual, uh independent being. But the marriage is cleaving, fusing together in a permanent basis. And then it says, and cleaving to his wife, and they shall be one flesh. I put in the margin of my Bible aside that inseparable. Inseparable. Has the idea of uniting and being inseparable, one flesh. So the arrangement here, right from the get-go On marriage. Now Lord is addressing the subject of divorce and remarriage. But we need to understand what the marriage is. The marriage is this. This is the arrangement. God's design right from the very beginning was, now we shouldn't even have to say this, but it was and is one man and one Woman. There is no other such thing than that in marriage. You can call whatever call you can call anything you want marriage. It ain't marriage. unless it's one man and one woman. You can pretend you're married, but you're not married. Uh sometimes when the kids are real small, they'd get the dog and pretend I'm married to the dog. You know, or you'd have a doll and pretend I'm married or stick, you know, this is my husband. Oh, you can pretend all you want. Two men can pretend they're married all they want. They are not married. Amen? Two women, they're not married. And so God's design was one man, one woman, for life, and there was no other options That was it. That was the design from the get-go. So the Bible's teaching on divorce and remarriage is marriage was just that: one man, one woman, four life, inseparable. But Sin entered the world. And sin brought about a breakdown of God's design. And the breakdown of God's design, one man, one woman, for life, inseparable, for life, independent of parents, the breakdown of that design was not because there was any flaws in the design. The design is good. The design is right. It's divine. It's perfect. The breakdown of the design was because of flaws in the characters. Of those involved in the design. In other words, the sin nature in the part of man, the part of woman, brought about the breakdown of God's design. The design is good. If we follow the design It works. If we don't follow design, if we allow our sinful nature to corrupt the design, then we have problems and we see it all around us, and many of us have felt the sting of that So, by the time I was doing a little study, and of course I went around then, but by the time that the wall Deuteronomy where the law was given to Israel concerning, among other things, divorce and remarriage. By the time that law was given We are told by biblical historians that divorce that marriage had become just a chaotic institution. And we see that in people marrying multiple wives. And we are told by some of the history books that the divorce was so rampant that it was just over the most trivial issues. up to this point where it was just rampant. A man could divorce his wife for the most uh meaningless things. He just didn't like her anymore and he'd divorce her and throw her out And so God gave his law dealing with this subject Now here's the thing. Sometimes people say, well, the law gave man permission to divorce. That's not, I don't think that's technically correct. The law was given, I believe, to control the divorce that was so rampant for every minute little thing. So let's look exactly what did the law say was acceptable for divorce? So to do that, we're going to go to Deuteronomy 24. Now again, I'm not the final word on this, but um I think it's pretty clear here What the intention was in the law when it did grant to man the option of divorce. Was he opening a new door that had been previously been closed, or was everything chaos? And he is bringing some order to it and trying to regulate it to some degree. Deuteronomy 24, look at verse number 1. When a man hath taken a wife and married her, and it come to pass that she find no favor in his eyes. Now if it stopped there. You'd have even more chaos. But he qualifies here a little bit. Come to pass that she find no favor in us eyes, because he hath found somewhat Uncleanness in her, then let him write her a bill of divorce, give it in her hand, and send her out of his house. And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another man's wife. And if the latter husband hate her and write her a bill of divorcement and g and give it at her hand and send her out of his house, or the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife, her former husband which sent her away may not take her again to be his wife. After that she is defiled For that is abomination before the Lord, thou shalt not cause the land a sin which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance. So there is a concise statement of the law Concerning divorcing. Now, I don't know if you looked at that real carefully while we're reading it, but you notice something is conspicuously missing in that statement. Did anybody pick it up? As far as the reasons for uh being divorced, a bill of divorcement being given. Anybody notice something missing? Anybody else? It does not mention adultery. How about that? I wonder why does he not say? Now when you get to the New Testament, we're going to see. As we already have in Matthew 5, the Lord says, except it be for fornication or adultery would be adultery. But the Bible doesn't say that here in the law. Why is that? Let's look at some verses. Come back to Deuteronomy 22. We'll find out why that doesn't. Now I'm going to look at that word uncleanness there. We're going to look at that. But it doesn't say adultery. Now why does it not say, except it be for adultery? Look at Deuteronomy 22 and verse number 22. If a man be found lying with a woman, married to a husband, all right, what's happening here? What are they doing? They're committing adultery. If a man be found, lying with a woman, married to an husband, then they shall both of them Die. Both the man that lay with the woman and the woman, so shalt thou put away evil from Israel. I put in the margin of my Bible. Adultery is evil. So that's what happens if a wife commits adultery. In this case, a man's found, he's sleeping with another man's wife. They're both supposed to what? Die supposed to be killed. Would you agree with me? Her death would be the end of that marriage. Right? If she's dead, they're not married anymore. Come back to Leviticus, just a few pages earlier there, Leviticus, and chapter number Now, Leviticus 20, verse 10, and Deuteronomy 22, verse 22 are going to be significant a little bit later on When we talk about that exception clause. Leviticus, what did I say? 20 Alright. And verse number 10. It gets 20 in verse 10. And a man that committeth adultery with another man's wife. Even he that committeth adultery with his neighbor's wife, and the adulterer and the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. So here you have adultery has been committed, person's married, adultery is committed, they're under the wall, they're to be put to death. If a person is put to death, that ends the marriage. Alright? Romans talks about that, and we'll see that a little bit later. Death puts an end to the marriage vows, no longer obligated. And uh free to marry. So adultery in Deuteronomy 24, where he's addressing the subject of giv uh of giving a bill of divorcement in a situation where if God says it's okay to give a bill of divorcement, He doesn't address the subject of adultery because adultery under the law required death and that would not be an issue anymore. They would have been executed and it would no longer be an issue So let's come back to Deuteronomy 24. Everybody following me so far? And so your husband commits adultery under the law, the Old Testament law, he commits adultery, he's dead, you don't have to divorce him Because he's dead. And so some of you ladies are smiling awfully big there. But um So anyway, so what is this come back here? I don't mean to make light of a very serious subject. What he says here in verse number one of Deuteronomy 24, she found no favor in his eyes because he had found some uncleanness in her. So the fellow says, I found some uncleanness in my wife. I am going to give her a bill of divorcement, send her on her way. I'm no longer obligated. There's no longer And that's what divorce is, we'll look at this later, is a severing of all obligations, severing of all commitments, severing of all interaction, complete uh ending it. If you say I divorced myself from that issue. Say, I'm no longer, I have nothing to do with it anymore. So what is this uncleanness that God says that a man is able to give to his wife this writing of divorcement? Well the word uncleanness is an interesting word. It means Shame, indecency, the overwhelming use in the Old Testament where it's translated, overwhelmingly it's translated nakedness Now it's not adultery, we know that, because adultery severs the marriage because it ends in death. Adultery ends the marriage because of its consequences, death. So what does he mean by if she if he find in her some uncleanness, some shame, some indecency, some nakedness? Well to be honest with you, I studied that and studied that and studied that. I'm not exactly sure what all that involves. I I don't know w what that was. And I can't find an answer to that, what that was, this uncleanness on the part of the woman. It's a moral aspect to it. It's a shameful, it has to do with some degree uh involves nakedness of some sort. So whether it's extreme immodesty, whether she is behaving uh very immodest or whatever, I don't know. I don't know I don't know how what all it involves. But I do know this. Whatever it was, in under the wall, it it was cause, uh it was an allowance For a divorce to be given. I know this. It was an extreme situation. It was an extreme situation It's not like they're out, they went out to Denny's and she said or did something that caused him shame. Oh, I'm so ashamed I'm going to divorce you. It wasn't that. I know this because of other teachings in Scripture we're going to see. It was an extreme situation. Where I I want to say my impression is it was an intolerable situation where God, under the law Get what allowed man to give a bill of divorcement. This was not a license to divorce Divorce was rampant. One Bible historian said that people, men would divorce their wives because they didn't prepare their food correctly. And they'd get mad and you're out of here and they'd go find another woman. Or because she didn't look pretty enough, or this, that, or the other. That's what was happening. This is bringing it down under control. And the Lord's saying, all right. only in these extreme situations where there's uh where there is uncleanness involved, then you may give uh uh uh an uh uh uh bill of divorcement You may, it never, nowhere in the Bible, nowhere in the Bible does it require a person to divorce their spouse. Nowhere. Very best under the law it says you may. You may. It's controlling an out-of-control divorce situation. Now, why was divorce out of control? Why were people divorcing? Because of man's sinful heart. Not because of the design of marriage, not because it was God's intention to allow this to It was because of God's sinful heart, because of man's sinful heart, because of man's unforgiving heart, because of man's mercilessness. That God under the wall allowed man to write a bill of divorcement. It was never required, never instructed to do this simply allowed. And Jesus expounds on that. Alright, we got a little bit of time. Let's uh go to Matthew chapter 5. Now, well with the Matthew chapter 5 is where we're at. Let's go to Matthew chapter 19. I want to look at where Jesus addresses this same subject. Now, Jesus gives his interpretation of the Old Testament law, of what the Old Testament was actually teaching. Will you agree with me? Jesus' interpretation is the correct interpretation. Right? Pharisees were interpreting it. They had it all convoluted. Jesus interpreted what the Lord was saying, what the law was saying, and uh it's correct. Look at Matthew chapter 19. And verse number three. And notice carefully here, and I'm probably not going to get to all this, but notice verse 3. The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him. Question: What was their motive? They were trying to trip up the Lord. They're trying to catch him in something. This is important Their motive in asking Jesus about divorce and remarriage, their motive was not to determine the will of God concerning divorce and remarriage. They weren't innocent. They weren't sincere in asking this. So the whole question, the whole question in my mind is is is I want to say bogus. Because they're not, that's not their intention to find out what the Lord taught about the words of marriage. They're just waiting for him to say something they can take them down Alright? So the Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And the answer to that is what? No, it never was. They're trying to trick the Lord. And what they're trying to do is justify their interpretation of the law in saying, oh yeah, it doesn't matter for anything in the world. You can just divorce for whatever. That's not what it says. So their motive is wrong. One, they're trying to trick the Lord up, they're trying to catch the Lord or something. They're also trying to justify their own position, get the Lord to justify their position, which was unjustifiable. So let's read on. And he, Jesus, answered and said unto them, Have you not read? That's a good question. Didn't you read your Bible? Have you not read that he which made them at the beginning, Genesis 2, made them male and female? That ought to shut up the sodomite marriages right there, as far as I'm concerned. Are we on the air, David? Good. And said, For this cause shall a man leave His father shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife. And they twain shall be one flesh. Alright? So what's the Lord doing here? He's restating the original design. He's coming back and saying. This is the way God designed it. Verse 6, wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. Alright, there's God's design. One man, one woman, joined together, one flesh, not put asunder, cleaved, glued, fused together. He's restating what the Lord's design is for marriage. But then he goes on, and the Pharisees press the issue. They say, okay, verse 7, they say unto him, why didn't Moses then command to give writing of divorcement? They understood what God's design was, that they were to be together for life We understood that. So why did God and what's their motive? Trying to trick the Lord up. They're not trying to find out why Moses did this. They would just want to trick them. And to put her away. He saith unto them, this is what we just touched on, Moses, or the law, Moses, because of what? What's it? Verse 8, because of the hardness of your heart suffered you, allowed you to put away your wives. But from the beginning it was what? Not so. He's saying the design is good. The design is right. The design is of God. The design is still in place. But sin is entered in, and because of your unforgiving, merciless, hard hearts, God under the law, through Moses under the law, said, all right, in this case This extreme case of uncleanness you may. Now look what he says And I say unto you, now this is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, and here's that exception clause again. Except it be for fornication, which we understand in the m context of marriage is what? Is adultery. Except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery. Whosoever marry her which is put away doth commit adultery. And so the Lord is saying here, he gives the reason that the law allowed divorce in extreme cases because of man's hard heart. Then he restates The severe restrictions on divorce, very, very severe restrictions. One reason only, he's saying here. But from the beginning It was not so. So he's stating God's will. Now, if we go to Mark chapter 10, we don't have time. If we go to Luke chapter 16, we have the exact same statement. The only difference is In Mark and Luke, the Lord leaves out the exception clause. In Mark 10 and Luke 16, he says almost verbatim, but he doesn't say, except it be for fornication. He leaves that clause out. Now, what does that mean? I think Jesus' interpretation of the law's teaching on divorce and marriage is this. One, God's design is for no divorce, in fact, no separation. God's design. Cleave together, one flesh. What man hath joined together, let not man put asunder. God's design from the get-go was no divorce at all. Man's sinful heart corrupted God's design. And God, to control that to some degree, allow divorce and remarriage in one very restrictive, extreme case, and that was case of fornication or adultery Says in that case, you may suffer you to do that. Now, so that's the law's teaching. That's the law's teaching. What was the Pharisees' teaching on this? And this is very brief. They had two positions. Basically, this. The first position that the Pharisees had when they were approaching the Lord, one of the one group of the Pharisees, very large group of the Pharisees. Their approach, their uh uh teaching on divorce and remarriage was anything goes. Doesn't matter. But just m much like today, you can divorce over anything. She wrinkled your shirt when she ironed it, divorce her Uh divorce. What? You guys had a fight? Divorce. I mean that was their solution to every marital problem, divorce. That was the one attitude. And it was prevalent throughout Jews' history. The other, there was an element among the Pharisees, and they taught pretty much what the law taught They held pretty tight to it and were pretty strict in their understanding of that. You remember Joseph and Mary. When Joseph found that Mary was with child, he immediately, and understandably so, assumed she had what? Been unfaithful. And she had been with another man. Even though they weren't married, married, they were spoused, which was just as strong in its commitment. And so he me he sought because she had in his mind committed adultery He had legal justification to put her away. But because he was a righteous man, he was going to do it what? Privily, quietly. He didn't want to make a scene, didn't want to make her look bad. He knew who she was, he knew what she was. She wasn't this is total shock, I'm sure that this would happen And so he uh he says, uh I can't do this, I can't deal with this, I'm putting her away, but I'm gonna do it privately. She's a good girl for the most part, I don't understand. Well then, lo and behold, it wasn't what he thought it was anyway. And so that was an element of the Pharisees that held pretty strongly to what the law taught. that for one reason and one reason only in extreme cases it was allowed. So that is in summary What the Bible teaches, the law, I should say, taught about divorce and remarriage. Now we get to the next subject, and we're going to look at this in a couple weeks, and that is what the Lord's teaching is: this exception. What does that mean and how does that play? So I want to end tonight's lesson with this thought. Marriage is a sacred institution. It is designed by God. It is one woman, one man for life. That is God's design. That is God's intention. You say, preacher, we got problems, some things happened in our marriage. What's God's will? I can say to you emphatically, and I do this, it is God's will that you stay together and work it out. That is God's will. I'm gonna give you some scripture for that. Malachi chapter 10. That's going to be in our next section. Actually, it's going to be in the last section when we see everything the Bible teaches. That God hates putting away is how it's the term. The Lord hates putting away. And so we'll get to that. But this is God's standard. God's will is that marriages stay together and are but Having said all that, reality is in the real world, sin corrupts. Sin causes problems. Sin hurts And we are living, we're having the union of two very, very, very sinful people. Very sinful people. You say, I'm not that sinful. Oh yeah, your heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. So is mine. And so, how many people found that whenever sin is involved, it causes problems? Yes. And so that's where the issue is. Well, that's another interesting thing, and I was hoping nobody would notice that. So I generally don't take questions. But um no, that's actually a good question. Nowhere can I find in the Bible where it has a woman divorcing a man. I can't find it anywhere. And the only conclusion I can come to that is because under God's economy initially it was man is the is the is the um the head of the home or the term I want is the uh uh uh the head of the home, I think, is the term. But man is the one a initially man was the one there and uh and was that. That's the only thing I can come up with. But there's nowhere in a Bible where it has a woman writing a bill of divorcement. for the man. Now I'm getting way ahead of myself because I really want to deal with this in the next lesson. But the writing why was it writing of a bill of divorcement? Why is that such a big thing? I just say get rid of her Well because if he would just send her out um and it wasn't explained why they were divorcing if it wasn't clear The assumption would be, or the suspicion might be, that she had committed adultery. And if she had committed adultery, then the law required her to be killed. And so I believe it, that writing of the Bill of Divorcement, this is why we are divorcing. This is why I'm divorcing her And it's not for adultery. And I think that was a form of protection for the woman as far as, okay, it wasn't adultery. She didn't do commit a capital crime. And you follow what I'm saying? So, but to answer your question, um I don't I don't know. Nowhere is it's always the man putting the woman out. And so and you see that added that mentality all through scripture. So if you have any other questions, write them down. And uh I'll try and answer them. But I think you'll I think it's interesting and I really believe and and I wanted to say this earlier, don't come to a conclusion on what I'm teaching until I'm done. Alright, because I'm going to tie it all together at the very end, and I think you'll see very, very clearly what the Bible teaches and what God's under what God's will is and what God teaches. about divorce and remarriage. And I think you'll appreciate it. I really do. So um bear with me. It'll be a couple weeks until we get there. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you bless now and help us, Lord, as husbands and wives, to work very, very hard At this institution of marriage that you've given to us. Lord, it's a tremendous responsibility, and we're humbled by it. And I pray that you would teach us To do what we need to do, to trust you and obey you. And we ask, Lord, you'd help us. How many folks, I'm not going to give a full-blown imitation tonight, but how many folks would say, preacher, pray for me? I want to be that good husband. I want to be that good wife. that God wants me to be. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my desire. And sometimes hurtful things happen, sometimes hurtful words are said, sometimes hurtful deeds are done. And we just have to understand God's design is good. It's right. It's perfect. Father, bless us and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.