To this here. Um I I read those letters in place of singing. How many people are glad? Amen. That's good. Verse 31. It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. But I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery, and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced, committeth adultery. Now remember the context of what this is. Jesus is uh early there in verse number 20, he says, your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. They were all external, superficial, fat righteousness. They looked good. But inwardly they were a mess. They were never saved. He goes, You've got to have a better righteousness than that. It has to be more legit than that. Then he gives these six illustrations how what the Pharisees were saying was good enough And then what God expects from us, and it leaves up first it's anger first it's murder and anger, then it's uh adultery and lust, and now he's at this issue of marriage and divorce and He's kind of I I'd almost get the impression he's tacking it on to the previous where he talked about adultery and lust, and then he brings up this subject of divorce and remarriage. And so that's what we're looking at. Let's pray We already started this. I'll briefly review and then try and get to some new territory. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study tonight. Lord, I know that This can be a very sensitive, very uh uh sometimes painful issue. And so, Lord, I don't I don't want to hurt anybody. We don't want to open any old wounds Lord, we don't want to cast judgment, but we want to be faithful to your word, Lord. So help me to teach your word faithfully and in the Spirit of Christ. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit Speak through me and help us, Lord, to understand this very important issue. And Lord, maybe we'd be able to help others. And you could use this tonight. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we have this progression, as I was saying, this anger, uh, the murder, the uh Pharisees, as long as you don't kill anyone, you're alright. Jesus says, No, no, no, if you got anger in your heart, you need to deal with that Pharisee says, well, as long as you don't commit adultery, all right. Jesus said, no, no, no. If you got lust in your heart, you got to deal with that. Now he brings up the subject of uh divorce and remarriage. And then last week or two weeks ago, I guess it was, we looked at the context of this teaching here. And again, I want to point this out. Verse 31, he says, It hath been said. He's not dealing with scripture. He's not quoting scripture. He's quoting what the Pharisees were saying about Scripture, their traditions. First thing we looked at was the law's teaching on divorce, the Old Testament law, what it taught on divorce. If you remember, we went to Genesis chapter 2. Went to the very beginning when marriage and and the home was established, and we noted there several things. When Adam took his marriage vow, so to speak In verse 18 and 25, uh first thing he did was he uh he said uh said that they need to leave their father and mother. So you've got to get leave that family setting, that uh that family structure, and you go out and establish another. Cleave unto the wife And so the idea there, as we pointed out, was a permanent union. And he says, they shall be one flesh. And the idea is this, that they're to be inseparable, one flesh, joined together. Um the arrangement here for this marriage was God's design. Right from the beginning, God said it's to be one man, one woman, uh for a lifetime. There was no other options at this point. There's no other options. That was God's design. That was his intention. That was God's standard But what happened? Sin entered the world, and that design that God had given began to break down. You don't get far into scripture and you find uh uh some offspring of of Adam, he's marrying seven wives, and you find more and more, and that initial design, that initial pattern, that setup the Lord had Right from the beginning, one man, one woman uh united together for their lives, leaving the home structure, establishing their own home, and of course their kids doing the same thing That structure, that design, begins to break down. Not because there was something wrong with the design, the design is good, but sin came in. and corrupted the people that make up the design. You can have the best uh you can have the best structure and architecture of a building. You can have the best uh most secure, safe, sturdy uh design in the world. But if the materials that make up that building are poor, that structure is going to fail. Follow what I'm saying? And so the design of marriage, husband and wife together for life, that design is good. There's nothing wrong with that. But the people that make it up have become flawed. We become sinners And so that structure began to fail. By the time the law was given to Israel, marriage and divorce had become a chaotic uh institution. They were divorcing over the most trivial issues, and so in Deuteronomy we noted God established some rules concerning uh divorce and a remarriage. He did allow that uh a husband could give a bill of divorcement, uh bill of writing to divorce the wife And that was established. But he had to give that. We pointed out there's no mention of adultery in the Old Testament law when it's referring to divorce Now the Lord does here. We're going to look at this. You get to the New Testament, that becomes an issue. And the Old Testament was an issue. Why did we say that adultery in the Old Testament was not a factor in divorce? Because They were killing them. The consequences of adultery was death. Just like murder and and uh all these other things, if a person was caught committing adultery, the law required they'd be put to death And so, uh how many of you agree with me, death would end the marriage? Yeah, it's kind of hard. That would pretty much put an end to that. So the adultery wasn't an issue. And uh we look at that. Uh the giving the bill of divorcement was not a license to divorce. It was, I believe, that was the Lord trying to rein this in and say, listen, if uh uh if it's gonna happen, you've got to do it the right way. And uh of course we suggested that the writing for a bill of divorcement, and that was emphasized was for the woman's protection that she wouldn't be kicked out and made to appear like something had happened uh that she should have been uh put to death for and there and it was a bill of divorcement. So And then we got to um uh Matthew, we looked at that, we're gonna look at T's here a little bit. Then the Pharisees, their approach to it was to They had two approaches to divorce. I know we already touched this, but I'm laying groundwork here. Pharisees' teaching was uh two positions. One was anything goes And that would have been more along, I believe along the Sanhedrin might have been a uh in that position where um, you know, if she burnt your toast and you you had it She can she's out of there. You know, they could divorce over almost anything. Whereas the other uh school of thought was uh they stuck pretty tight to what the law said, what was taught, what God had given. So Old Testament, the design at the beginning, one man, one woman for life. Sin enters in. The design begins to break down because of the parties involved in it God makes accommodation. He does allow for divorce under very strict circumstances and very strict guidelines. Now we get to the New Testament. Jesus is approached about this later on in 19, we're going to look at. And the Lord makes some statements here that that uh uh are interesting. I see in Scripture, I see to and only two conditions where God allows for divorce. Two and the term the Bible uses that Jesus used are exceptions. To the rule as far as one man, one woman for the rest of their life. Now, before we look at these, let me make a few statements Years ago, when I was first saved into my Bible college years, into my years in the ministry out of Bible college, I held to the position, perhaps because of my background. I approached this subject of divorce and remarriage and the Bible's teaching on it. I approached it with a conclusion first. I had settled in my mind On a conclusion. And then I came to the scriptures and I tried to make the scriptures fit my conclusion. You follow what I'm saying? What did I I had what was I doing? What's the little sprays we like to use? I had the cart before the horse Because of my experience where I grew up in, and experience of my family, I had a conclusion. My conclusion was this. My conclusion was under no circumstances at all, ever, in any situation, under any conditions. Is divorce ever acceptable by God? That was my conclusion. And I would come to passages like we're going to look at, and I would try and make those passages fit my conclusion. But as I studied the scriptures and as I began working with people, getting out in the real world, my conclusion, I found it harder and harder and harder to get my conclusion to fit with what the Bible taught. Now before you react to anything and before you you go, I want you to hear me all out till I'm completely done. But um I see there are two exceptions that the Lord Jesus gives, the Bible gives, in this matter. uh of divorce and remarriage. Let me say this. Divorce, even on the situ in circumstances where it is allowed by Scripture Is a result of hard, sinful hearts. Always. Divorce is always the result of a hard, sinful heart. Either on the part of both parties. Or one of the two. There is a hard, sinful heart involved. Jesus says that expressly because of the hardness of your hearts. He's he's allowing this. And so uh what does it mean to have a hard heart? And I'm getting a little ahead. We're gonna look at this here in a little bit. What does it mean if something is hard? He says their heart is hard. What does that mean? Anybody want to take a shot? How do you see that? Uh-huh. All right. Is that what you were saying, Helen? It's impenetrable It's a heart. We were digging the drain out here years ago when I first came. The basement would flood every time there was every time there was Dew on the grass, the basement flooded. And um so uh we brother Paul Harvey came, got a guy, we dug that thing out. We hit granite out there and man that was hard. We couldn't bust through it I put this down. He says the hardness of your heart, a heart that is unplyable. You can't mold it, it can't be changed, it can't be corrected, insubmissive, unmovable. And so whenever there is divorce, there is always at least to some degree, in one way or another, a hard heart. So I'm suggesting to you tonight, I see in scripture Two exceptions where God will allow divorce. And I'm wording it that way deliberately, where God will allow divorce. So hear me out. Number one, uh for the cause of adultery. For the cause of adultery. Look with me here at chapter 5. Then we're going to go to chapter 13 or chapter 19. Look at chapter 5 And verse number thirty two, but I say unto you, now watch the wording here very carefully, that whosoever shall put away his wife Now he makes a statement. Saving for the cause of fornication causeth her to commit adultery And whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery. Now come over to chapter 19. Keep your place there in chapter 5. We're going to look at several passages, and we'll just have to watch the time here Chapter 19. Now remember, saving for the cause of fornication. The word saving has the idea with the exception of. So puts her away, marries another, commits adultery, with the exception of fornication. Look at verse 9. of chapter 19. And I say unto you that whosoever shall put away his wife, now look at this next thing. This is what Bible scholars refer to as the exception clause. And believe me, there's a ton of fussing over this. I say unto you that whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, And shall marry another, committeth adultery. And whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. Except it be for fornication. Now that word fornication, it it covers a multitude of sins. In the marriage Context. In the context of marriage, it's referring to what we understand as adultery. In fact, the word term adultery is used to deal with a lot of different sins. But the overwhelming emphasis in Scripture and in Jesus' teaching is one man, one woman, four life. One man, one woman, become one flesh. No separation, no divorce. That is the overwhelming emphasis In Jesus' teaching. In fact, you go to Mark and the other places he referenced, you don't find that exception clause. It's only in these two passages. So the emphasis of the Lord Jesus Christ, the will of God, the plan of God, the design of God, one man, one woman, four life, one flesh. Now, he gives this one reason for adultery, fornication, except it be for that cause Now, why is that? Why does he allow, why does he say that adultery is one situation where this marriage can be dissolved in divorce, it can end in divorce I'm suggesting you the same thing we brought up the last time we studied this, we touched on here in a little bit, Deuteronomy 22, 22, Leviticus 20, verse 10. The judgment for adultery was death Adultery puts to death that marriage reunion. Marriage puts to death the marriage. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number 7. Death ends the marriage. Nobody that I know of, no Bible scholar that I know of, or a Bible believer that I know of, believes that if a person's spouse dies, that that person is not free to go remarry. Anybody you know what I'm saying? Nobody believes that. If I would die, Kathy would be free to remarry. Um, he'd have to deal with me when he gets to heaven, but um she would be free to remarry. But uh uh the death opens that up. Our marriage would be uh would end at my death. She would be free to remarry. Now look at Romans chapter number, what did I say? 7. And I want to begin reading and go ahead and begin reading in verse 1. Now, Romans chapter 7, he's not talking about marriage. That is not the subject. The subject is the law. And our relationship to the law. But he brings marriage in as an illustration of how when w Christ died we're no longer obligated to the law And he the illustration he's using is when a spouse dies, the other living spouse is no longer bound in that marriage. They're free to go to someone else. Notice what he says. Know ye not, brethren? For I speak to them that know the law. How that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth. For the woman which hath a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he liveth. But if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. So then if while her husband liveth she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband be dead She's free from that law so that she's no adulteress, though she be married to another man. So there's the standard. Now what I'm suggesting is why did Jesus say That uh the only reason he would allow for divorce is adultery. I'm suggesting you because the judgment of God on adultery is death Though it's not carried out, though, at some point in Israel's history it transitioned over to where they would allow for divorce. So, according to the Lord Jesus Christ, in these two statements He allows for divorce in the case of adultery. Now, is there a second area where the Lord allows for divorce? I see one. If you would, turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Now, believe me, it took me a long time to get to the point where I would Allow for either of these. I'm telling you, I did biblical gymnastics to try and make that phrase except it because except for the cause of fornication, make that not mean what it was saying And um uh but I can't get around it. Now, in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, we have another situation. I'm gonna read an extended portion of scripture. I want to begin in verse number one. We're going to go down about halfway through the chapter. So just follow along. Pay close attention to what he's saying. Now, verse 1, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, apparently they wrote to him about this subject It is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife And let every woman have her own husband. Now let me just stop there. Verse 1 says, not good for a man to touch a woman. Is that meaning we shouldn't shake hands? No, there's nothing wrong with that. The next verse tells us what the context is to avoid What? Fornication, let him get married. So the ideal he says it's good for a man not to touch a woman. He's talking about touching in an intimate way, an endearing way. It's not a good idea for a man to go around kissing other women than his wife. Any people agree with that. If you are glad to hear your pastor say that and agree with that. Amen. It's not a good idea for a man to be intimate with another woman. It's good for a man not to touch a woman. And uh those types of ways, and however you want to apply it. If you don't know how to apply that, see me, I'll help you But notice what he says. Then he goes on. Let every man have his own wife, let every woman have her own husband. Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence. Important word. And likewise also the wife unto the husband. The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband. And likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife. Befraud ye not one another. Except it be with consent for a time that ye may give yourselves of fasting and prayer, and come together again that Satan tempt you not for your incont incontency Um what is he talking about? He's talking about physical intimacy. And uh I think it's interesting he uses the word benevolence there. It's a kindness that's giving of myself to my spouse and vice versa. If we don't uh engage that, it's defrauding, and that's a crime punishable by law in the financial world And so uh pretty serious. Now he says, verse 6, but I speak this by permission, not of commandment, for I would, now what he's saying here, he's saying, God didn't tell me to say this, but this is my opinion For I would that all men were even as myself. Paul was no doubt single. Some suggested he was widowed. One guy I was reading said that he might be divorced. I don't believe that. I don't think he was ever married in the first place But every man hath this his proper gift of God, one after this manner, another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. But if they cannot contain Speaking physically, physical intimacy, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. Now, unto the married I command. Yet not I, but the Lord, let not the wife depart from her husband. Alright? There is God's standard. That's the design Verse 11. But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband, let not the husband put away his wife. Now he's writing to Christians here. Now look at verse 12. To the rest speak I, not the Lord. Now what does he mean by that? To the rest, the rest of y'all. I speak not the Lord. What he's saying there is this. I'm touching on a subject that the Lord has not dealt with before. Jesus did not speak on this subject. I'm addressing a new subject. And you're going to see why, I believe that's what he's saying here. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, here's a brother, he's saved. He has a wife that's what? Unsaved, lost. If any man, if any saved man has a wife that's lost. Question, do you think that would have been an issue in Corinth? Absolutely. Good night. The gospel is spreading like wildfire. People are getting saved, not just within the Jewish community that had pretty strong homes and had the Old Testament teaching on divorce and remarriage. But now folks in the Gentile world are getting saved like crazy And a lot of these situations, you're having the husband get saved out of paganism, but the wife is not saved. Or vice versa. A wife gets saved. She hears the church. The church comes through the neighborhood. She trusts Christ. God's changing her life. The husband is not going along with that. No way. I ain't buying into those crazy people. And uh or vice versa. So that's the situation they're facing. And this I would suggest was very, very common. Where you have one saved and one unsaved just because of the tremendous advance of the gospel. This is brand new message coming into these Gentile areas. And so let's read on. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. I'm suggesting you there might have been some in Corinth. Maybe a guy gets saved, his wife gets saved, they're not sharing each other's faith, they're not sharing each other's uh convictions or whatever, I want to suggest there was probably some that were tempted to say, listen, I'm kicking you out of here. And Paul was saying, no, don't do that. If she's fine living with you, or vice versa, if he's fine living with you as a Christian, don't boot them out. Don't divorce them because they're lost. A spouse being unsaved is not a grounds for divorce under any circumstances. So what's he saying? Let's read on. And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave them. You guys stay together. Why? Look at verse 14. For the unbelieving husband is what? Sanctified by the wife. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Then he brings in the kids. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy? Now what's he saying? That verse you've got to give a little thought to. What he's saying is this. He is not saying that if I'm saved and my wife is unsaved, we grew up in paganism I hear Paul preaching. I get her in conviction. I trust Christ. Man, my life has changed. I'm worshiping Jesus Christ now. I'm baptized and living for him. My wife says, no way, I want nothing to do with that. He's saying in verse 14, because I'm saved now, my wife will benefit from me being saved. It doesn't mean she's getting saved because I'm saved, therefore she's automatically, because she's my wife, we're one flesh, she automatically gets saved also. No, no, no. But he's saying she's sanctified in the eyes of God, because she is one flesh with one of God's children, she stands out in God's eyes. She is she benefits from that. How would an unsaved spouse benefit from a saved spouse? She gets saved. Maybe still, but Peter talks about that. Let me ask you this. Do you think a Christian is praying for God's blessing on his or her home, even if the spouse is unsaved? Sure, that spouse is benefiting from the prayers of the saved person and God blessing that home and responding that. I want to suggest to you needs are being met that might not have been met if one of the spouses weren't saved They're receiving the blessing. She or he's receiving the witness from that person. She is receiving the influence and the godliness of that person. I'm telling you, it's better to have a saved spouse than a lost spouse. They make better spouses. Right? And so he's saying, don't boot them out. Don't divorce your spouse because they're unsaved. Don't do that. Now let's read on. Verse 15. There's a key word, the very first word. What is it? But a brother has an unbelieving wife. If a wife has an unbelieving husband, don't boot them out. If they're happy to stay with you, you let them stay. You live with them. You don't divorce them. They're benefiting from you being saved. Maybe they'll get saved. It's good for them. Good for the kids. But if the unbelieving what? Depart, look what he says Let them depart. A brother or sister, saved person, brother or sister, is not under bondage in such cases, but God hath called us to peace. Notice in verse number 15 he says, but look at it carefully. Who is taking the initiative to dissolve that marriage? The unsaved. The unsaved is taking initiative. Don't you, brother, you sister, don't you take the initiative and divorce them. Don't you do it. You'll be sinning against God. You'll be breaking God's design. If the unbeliever takes the initiative and departs, then that's their choice The word depart there means to separate oneself or to remove oneself from. I tell you what I really found interesting. It is the exact same word where Jesus uses back in the Gospels in Matthew 19 and Mark chapter 10. Where he says this, what God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. Exact same word as depart. What he's saying here is, if the unbeliever, the unsaved party in this marriage says, I want to put us asunder. I'm not going to live with a Christian. I'm not going to live like this way. I am departing. I am putting this marriage asunder. I am divorcing you. That's what they're saying. He says, if that's the case, let them depart. Now We can would see if you agree with me. We can safely assume that Christians would do everything they can to try and keep it together, right? We do everything we can. He says, let us live in peace. But here's the point. He says, let them depart. You're not taking initiative here. You're not pushing them out. They are the one. That are making this decision. Here's my point. When he says, let them depart, I think he's saying this. You can't stop them. You can't what are you going to do? Kidnap them? You can't make them stay. And so he's saying, listen, don't fight. See what the last phrase is there? God hath called us to what? Peace. The word peace there means absence of hostilities. You can't fight that. If they made their mind up and they are going to leave, there's nothing you can do. You cannot stop that. Let them depart. Let them depart. In fact, the implication here is in my mind, is you're not obligated to stop them. Now I would believe as a saved person, I would love my spouse. As a husband, I'm told to love my life like Christ loved the church, gave himself for it. And I would want to do everything I can to keep that together and they would get saved. But if they make their mind up, hardness of their heart, they say, I'm walking out of here, I'm leaving, there's nothing I can do. Now here's the phrase I want to get to. Look Again at verse 15, if the unbelieving depart, let them depart. There's nothing you can do about it. A brother or a sister, saved person, is not under what? Bondage in such cases. In that situation, where the unbelieving left, there's nothing you can do about it. You're not going to fight them. Trying to do everything I can to keep together, but I can't. Their heart is hard. They're putting it asunder. The believer spouse is not under bondage. Now, what would be the only thing they would be in bondage to? What would that bondage apply to? The marriage covenant. Um, I think he's saying here they leave And they make that decision. They're going to walk out. The brother or sister in that case, in such a case, is not under bondage to them. I still don't have those obligations as their spouse to be carried out. I can't. It would be impossible. And so I see here two circumstances where God says, I will allow divorce. One is if adultery takes place. In the Old Testament, they'd be dead. It would have ended the marriage anyway. And so he says, in that case, except for the cause of fornication And then in Corinthians, if the unbelieving hardens their heart, they want to do, they walk out, they leave. I can't stop that. I'm not in bondage to them anymore. To me, that's suggesting Your your the divorce, it's ended. That marriage is ended. Now, God's plan, one man, one woman for life. Period. One flash. Sin enters in. The design breaks down. Not because the design is bad, but because the materials are bad. And now you got an issue with divorce. You got saved and unsaved. You got adultery coming in, which shatters. By the way. This really isn't addressed in scripture, but I think it's true. If a person makes a vow, takes a marriage vow, and they deliberately violate that vow. That vow becomes a lie. Right? If I vow to my wife, I will forsake all others for you, and then later on I deliberately, knowingly break that vow. That vow, I turned that vow into a lie, is what it becomes. And so this matter of uh of adultery is there's so many aspects to that where it violates and destroys the marriage in so many ways. So we have adultery and abandonment are the two words I use. Adultery, abandonment, where God says, okay. Now what's our response? Can you bear with me? Because I want to keep this all together. I don't want to have to go back over this again. What's our response? Though God allows divorce in two very restrictive cases These are very narrow, very specific situations where God says, okay, you can. How does a person respond to that if there is adultery or whatever? I want to suggest several things we need to consider. I'll try and give these very quickly. Number one, I need to consider God's will. I want to suggest to you, it is never, ever God's will for a husband and wife to separate and divorce. He said, preacher, you just said there's two cases where God allows it, but it is not his will. You say, preacher, nothing can happen that's against the will of God. People die and go to hell every day. That's not God's will. People sin and break his word every day. That's not his will. So, God says, in these two cases, I will give you the option. You can choose, and the one you really don't have much choice in with the unbeliever leaving, but in the issue of adultery, I will give you that option if you want to. That marriage has been severely violated. If you want, you can walk away from it, but That is not my will for you. That is not my will. Matthew 19, 6 through 9, he makes a very clear statement. He says, let not man put asunder. That is a very clear statement. That word one flesh, if you take something that is one flesh and you tear it apart, That is incredibly destructive. Even if God says, okay, you can't, that is incredibly so somebody put it this way, divorce is much like an amputation. You survive it, but there's less of you when it's over. That's true. That's true. Again, verse 8 of Matthew 19: divorce is a result of a hard, sinful heart. God allows it, but he does not will that. That is not his will From the beginning, God's will is that the two be won't come one and stay together. Take your Bible. I want you to see this in Malachi, last book of the Old Testament. And I and I really want to finish this up here because I don't want to come back and go over all of this again. But come back to the last book of the Old Testament, Malachi, right before Matthew there, and look at chapter 2. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 15. It's not until the second half of verse 15 that really touches on what we're talking about. First first part of Matt uh Malachi 215, did not he make one? Speaking of marriage, see verse 14, he talks about she's thy companion, the wife of thy covenant. And did he not make one? He's talking about the marriage unit. Yet had he the residue of the Spirit, wherefore one. Now here we get that to see that he might seek a God's seed. Now here's what I'm getting at. Therefore Verse 15, take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For verse sixteen, for the Lord For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith, look at this, I underscored this in my Bible, he hateth putting away. That phrase putting away is divorcing, separating that marriage, breaking it up. God hates it. That is not his intention. It violates the picture that marriage is supposed to be a price in the church. It is just a violation in so many ways. God hates divorce. God hates separation. He hates the breakup of marriage. So the overwhelming emphasis in Scripture is the sanctity of marriage. The permanency of marriage, that is the emphasis in Scripture. Now God Jesus said, in the case of adultery, if you want to, you can. I'll give that to you. I mean if it was Old Testament economy, they'd be dead, you'd be free anyway. So you can if you have that option, but it's not my will. I don't believe God would hold against us. I don't think God would judge us, but I think he says, that is not the best thing. That is not my intention. I'll let you do it, but it's not my will. I think the second thing we need to consider, first of all, is the will of God. If your spouse has been unfaithful to you, and you say, all right, I'm done with this, I'm walking out. Wait a minute. Stop and think about what is God, what would God want you to do? What would be the best thing to do in the will of God here in this situation? The second thing to consider is the Lord's example. Wish we had more time. Hosea is a horrendous book, but it is a fascinating book You know the story. Hose marries Gomer. At the instruction of God, Gomer almost immediately after their marriage is unfaithful to him. They have kids almost immediately, she has kids by another man, almost immediately after their marriage. And it begins a series, we don't know how long it is, several years, no doubt, perhaps many years, of just continual unfaithfulness, one man after another. If anybody had a license to divorce their spouse, it would have been Jose. Multiple adulteries. Perhaps scores. She is living like a harlot, except the difference was she didn't charge anything. That's his wife. Imagine the devastation to Hosea's heart. His life. But Hosea stays faithful. He refuses to divorce her. In fact, he goes after and makes sure she's okay the best he can until finally you know the story, she's shot. And she's on a uh slave uh Block, and he buys her back when no one else will. For pennies, the price they Judas betrayed Christ, he buys his wife back. And the Lord said, that's exactly the way I am with Israel. You guys have been unfaithful to me. You've betrayed me. You've quote-unquote cheated on me so many times. But I've stayed faithful to you. I've stayed faithful to you. The scripture there is Hosea 2, 19 and 20. The Lord makes a profound statement about his faithfulness to Israel. And God says, I will not divorce you. I will not do it. You are my wife. So one, before you walk away, you say, man, it is devastating. I'm telling you, there is nothing as devastating as adultery, unfaithfulness in marriage. That is Devastating. He said, I want to walk away. I'm done. It's hurt. It's too much. Alright, God says, You can, I'll give you that. My will, my design, this thing stay together. My example to Israel, I stayed faithful to Israel. God could have divorced Israel and said, I'm done with you, but he didn't do it. And there's one last thing and and that is this. My testimony. My testimony. Now I'm not saying that There's adultery, and a person makes the choice to divorce that person. I'll say this as a pastor, I would respect that, and I would respect that decision. God gives that option. But I'm saying, what a more powerful testimony would it be if I say, you know, my spouse has never sinned against me as badly as I have sinned against the Lord. Nobody in this world has hurt me as badly as I have hurt my Savior. And if he can forgive me And if he can be so gracious and kind and give me second, third, fourth, fifth chances, maybe I can do that with my spouse Maybe I can work with them. I'm telling you, God gives grace to those who are gracious. And God is very merciful to those who show mercy. And God helps us. So you follow what I'm saying? God's plan, God's design, He makes it clear. One man, one woman for life. Sin has brought in, and with sin comes devastation, adultery, unbelief, hard, sinful hearts. That structure breaks down. The design is good. The materials are corrupted. And so you have divorce, you have this breakdown, you have these difficulties. Jesus says, adultery takes place. I give you that option. And I'll tell you when I when folks come to me and sit down and counsel, I'll just, this is just between us now. If there's adultery in the case, one of the first things we'll talk about it, and one of the first things I'll say is, listen, I'll show them this verse. I say, you have an open door here. You want to walk away from it. God gives you that option. But I want you to stop and think about it first I want you to stop and pray about it and look at what the Bible says and and maybe maybe the best thing would to be work this thing through and try and get God give God the glory. I believe that's the right approach. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I know this is a very emotional issue a lot of times. It can be very painful. I think your word's clear here, Lord, what your will is, what your plan is. I pray you'd help us. Most of us here tonight are older. We've been in this thing a long time. I pray you to give us the grace and the mercy that you've shown us, help us to show that to others, even in the most extreme situations. I pray, Lord, for our young people growing up, we could communicate to them the sanctity of marriage, the importance of that. And Lord, when divorce comes and when adultery happens and when these things happen, give us the grace we need to be Christian about it and to deal with it in a spiritual way. Help us, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. With our heads