Pastor, can you open your Bibles to First Corinthians? First Corinthians ten. I want to thank mom and dad for coming out. Man, that's awesome. It's like Christmas morning. Jamie, am I on this one now? For good? Cool. First Corinthians chapter ten. Excuse me. Verse 31. What I'm going to be speaking about tonight has been on my mind for a little while. Some of you teens, you might recognize some of the things I'm about to say. But um Lord laid it on my heart, so here we go, right? Verse 31 says, Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, Do all to the glory of God. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day you've given us. I thank you for the services this morning. Lord, I thank you for those two kids that were saved. Lord, what a blessing that is. Lord, I ask that you be with me now as I preach, Lord. Just help me to say the things that you would have me to say, Lord. And if there's anything that comes into my mind that's not according to your word, Lord, please Please keep me from saying that. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There is a command given here that's uh pretty familiar. I think most of us probably have this verse memorized. If not, we're at least very familiar with it. But the command is whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. It is something here that we are supposed to do. Let me say it this way. It is something we are supposed to make sure we do when we do things. Whatever we do, make sure that you're doing it to the glory of God. And I think what's interesting is it's everything. There's some things I think are obvious, like we know, okay, we're supposed to Go to church, we're supposed to witness, etc. But it's everything, big or small, whatever we do, do all to the glory of God. So we're going to dive into that tonight and just kind of look at that and look at a few things. I did some looking up of what this word glory or glorified meant, and um what I think probably the simplest definition I found in Webster's dictionary. It says to praise, to magnify, and honor in worship, to ascribe honor to So I believe what God is telling us here is that we are to praise God in everything we do. We are to worship Him with our actions, with our thoughts. We are to praise Him Whatever it is we do, big or small, we are to magnify him, to lift him up with every action. And with every action That we do, we are to keep this in mind. Whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. And the opposite of bringing glory to God would be to bring a reproach to him. Instead of lifting him up, bring him down. Instead of making his name better, make it worse. Instead of glorify, bring down. With every action we do, big or small, one of the two things is going to happen. We're going to either glorify the Lord or not. So you might be thinking, okay, I know that's important. And if you love the Lord, you're probably thinking, okay, I I I want to glorify God, I want to do that, so how do I do that? If it's such a big deal, which it is And if it's such a serious matter, which it is, how do I do that? Go to 1 Corinthians 6. Back just a couple pages. 1 Corinthians 6 And this is where we're going to probably spend most of our time, actually, is in 1 Corinthians 6. I'm going to start reading in verse 18. Flee fornication, every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you Which ye have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify. Glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. So, how do you glorify God? First of all, I think if you're going to glorify God, you're going to glorify God by doing what's right with your physical body. It's not yours. It's his. We are not free to do what we want with our body. That's a lie. We need to understand that our body, our physical body, is a holy thing. We're not free to mess up something that's holy. Now, with that being said, when we use our body in a the right way, the holy way, it glorifies God. Guys, listen to me. Look at me. When you do what's right with your body, it glorifies God. Now I know a lot of times we think, okay, yeah, teens need to listen to this. Yeah, everybody needs to listen to this. Everyone needs to understand that if you do what's right with your body, it glorifies God. And I'm not just talking about what we would call, you know, sensual things. Fornication, adultery, of course that's covered. But any action either glorifies God or not. I was picking on one of the teens a couple weeks ago. We had donuts. Now donuts are okay in moderation. He ate twelve donuts and then proceeded to eat donut holes And ended up walking off with a container of donut holes. Now every action either glorifies God or not And I told him, you know, if you're going to get a sugar rush and fall asleep while Pastor's preaching, that probably is not going to glorify God. But every action either will or not. Now when we do what's right with our bodies, I mean and when when we don't display them for sale, when we don't flaunt them and say, here's God's temple, take it if you want it When we do what's right and we set up standards, we don't go to bed with our phone in our hand, we don't put the computer in our bedroom, we we set up standards and say, you know, with my body, I'm going to glorify God. Well, obviously that glorifies God. But what happens when we don't do what's right with our physical body? Man, it makes him look bad. Makes God look bad. Instead of listening to verse 18 here, where it says, flee fornication, we seek it We seek to do the things that we're told not to do with God's temple. There is no standard. We're up late at night searching for trouble, not just stumbling on it, but actually searching for it. God's not glorified in that. God's not glorified with that. Hey, if if whatever you do due to the glory of God, it's gonna hey where he's talking about your physical actions. Your body. Guys, you guys need to understand this. If you are saved, which I believe most of you guys are, your body is God's temple. Don't treat it like garbage. You know, one thing I was thinking about, Pastor, this this is kind of comical, but it's it's not at the same time. What would I what would happen if late at night I grab Courtney and we just come over here and we just start spray painting the side of the church. It'd be very bad. Why, obviously because it's illegal, right? I'd probably get fired. But why would it be so terrible? It's God's property, right? It's God's house, we would say. Well, isn't that what our body is? We'll mark it up as we please. We'll turn it into a pincushion as we please. Like I can do what I want with my body. No, you can't. It's not yours. That's why we set up standards. That's why we Set up guards and protections because this thing does not belong to me. It belongs to God. And when we Treat it like garbage. I I mean I just I don't understand some of the things that people do. I really don't. But if something was entrusted to your care, wouldn't you take care of it? But we don't do that, do we? We don't do that. And if we do, that glorifies God. If we don't, it doesn't. So Matthew 5, 16 says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. When we do the right actions, when we do what's right with our physical body, and I'm talking all aspects, when we do the right thing, people say, hey, you know something's different. They see light shine through And what happens? God is glorified. Now that's the commandment to glorify God, right? Now, with that being said, when we have no good works, when we don't do the right actions, when when our Facebook looks just like the rest of the world, if not worse, and and the things we Snapchat and tweet and Instagram and all that other kind of stuff, it looks just as filthy There is no light shining through. And when no light shines through, God's not glorified. Whatever you do, whatever post, whatever picture Whatever funny little joke, whatever you do, does it glorify God? Does it glorify God? We need to make sure that if we're going to follow this and we're going to glorify Him, We need to make sure we do what's right with our physical body, not just that. And I think this right here is where we miss out a lot of times. Verse 20 of 1 Corinthians 6, for ye are bought with the price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit. Spirit, which are God's. We'll hear this verse preached on, no doubt a lot, and and no doubt many more times. We'll hear sermons from this passage. But one thing that really stuck out to me the most was this You know, we say, oh yeah, our bodies, God's temple, we understand that. It's not ours to do with as we please, but neither is our spirit. Gly God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. They're both His. Your spirit. Just like you're not free to do with this physical body what you want, it's his, we understand that, so is your attitude Your spirit. I was talking with someone earlier this week, and I consider him to be a very wise man. He said, someone with a good spirit is someone who has a good attitude that results in good actions. I think that's good. That's good stuff. Now, when someone has a good spirit, it glorifies God. But on the contrary, when someone has a poor spirit, a rotten attitude, God's not glorified in that. With that being said, we could apply it this way. When mom and dad tell you to do something, you don't have the freedom to mumble and complain under your breath. Got that, Ross? Better not. When your boss says, I need you to do this, you don't have the freedom to go to complain to your other coworkers. A poor spirit. Hey, you would say, oh, I would never treat my body like this. It's God's temple. I would never smoke. I would never drink. I would never do this. Adultery, I would never do that. But at the same time, your spirit is rotten. That's just as much his as the body. He paid a price for both. Glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are his. I think of um of Saul. When he had an evil spirit come on him, what had resulted, what was the result of that? A bad action, an evil action. Threw the javelin. Right? When we have a poor spirit, it affects the physical. We need to understand that the body and the spirit It takes both to make up the man, body, soul, spirit, right? We're made up of that. And they all affect each other. So the the spirit you have will affect your actions. The attitude you have will affect your actions A rebellious attitude will result in rebellion. A good spirit will result in glorifying God with the right actions. Does that make sense? Is that good? Good. It made sense to me. So here's the thing. When you're on your way to work in the morning and someone cuts you off And you have a Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church figure on the back of your car. Your spirit, your attitude Is going to result in an action that will either glorify God or bring a reproach. Are you glorifying God with your body, but are you glorifying Him with your spirit? Because that's what affects the body. Now, I think the problem is this. Well, one of the problems is the past few mornings, I think it's the cold air, I've been waking up just with this dry throat. But that has nothing to do with anything. So I think the problem with this is with the the subject is this. When we are about to do an action, I think we asked the wrong questions. The command is what? Whatever you eat, drink, whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. We're not wondering if what we're doing is glorifying God. We ask the wrong questions. One thing I've been trying to teach these teens is whenever you make any decision, we need to ask, is this holy? Does this glorify God? Those are questions we should be asking. Instead, we ask questions like, is it okay? Or is it that bad? See, when you say, is it okay, what you're really saying is, can I get away with this? Right? So now if the line is drawn right here in the middle. There's a line right there. Pretty wide too. It must be the shadows. But there's a line drawn. We know we're not supposed to be over here. We're not supposed to be over there. But we'll get pretty close and we'll say, is this okay? Now what's the issue? It's the heart. You see, you you want to be over there. Okay, I'm a Christian, I'm saved, I'm supposed to be over here, but how close can I get? What that's telling yourself, and really what you're doing is telling on yourself But that's saying that you love it over there. You love the world. Now when you say, is this okay? You're saying, can I get away with this? Because I want to be as close to that as I can be, but still be technically okay. I think of um I thought of a lot I wrote the reference down here in Genesis 19. You don't have to go there. But God's about to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Wickedness was going on. God was about to destroy it. And uh he tells Lot to leave, go to the mountain, and Lot wanted to go to another little city because he liked it. God says, go, he says, can't I go there? Now Genesis 1920 said this. Lot said, This city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one. Oh, let me escape thither. Is it not a little one? The problem when we ask, is it okay, is a heart problem. We still love the things that we used to do. We love the things of this world, the way the world dresses, maybe the music, the shows, the movies, whatever. And we want to see how close we can get to that and still be okay. Can I tell you something? If you have to say is it okay, it's probably not. If you're wondering, is this okay? It's probably not. But the problem you need to address is the heart. Love not the world. Either things are in the world. And the the command, the greatest command is to love the Lord thy God, right? You see, if we have a love for him, we'll want to stay as far away from that as we can. It won't be a question of how close can I get, because you love this, you want to be as close as you can get. No, you'll hate it You'll want to stay far away from it. It'll detest you. And you'll be so far over here, you'll never have to ask the question, is this okay? Another question that we ask a lot, is it that bad? Is it that bad? Or sometimes we'll make the statement, it's not that bad. Well first of all, if something's not that bad, that means it's a little bit what? Bad. It's like jumbo shrimp. There's no such thing. Okay. Is it that bad? Now, when we ask the question, is it that bad? What we're really doing is comparing what we're doing to the world standards. Now, follow this with me. Once you start on the it's is it that bad or it's not that bad path, you don't stop. Let me explain. Compared to a PG-rated movie, a G movie is not that bad, right? Now compared to a PG13-rated movie, PG is not that bad. Might be one cuss word. It's not that bad. Now compared to an R rated movie, well PG thirteen is suddenly not that bad. Compared to an X rated movie R rate is not that bad. Now what happens is is when you get on this track of it's it's not that bad. You'll end up so far over you never thought you'd make it there. And even when you get to the lowest point you've ever been, you'll still say, It's not that bad. Here's the thing. When we say is it that bad What we're really doing is make comparing our standards to the standards of the world. Now, evil men will wax worse and worse. They're moving in a direction. It and it's a a downgrade. They're going to get progressively worse. I heard the illustration of a man, he was um deep sea fishing and they did they got so far from land they couldn't tell which direction to go. So they saw another ship and they said, well we'll see how far we go from that ship. We'll know which way we're drifting. After a few hours, they realized that ship was drifting and they were both going the same direction. So they had to drop anchor and realize that that ship was getting further and further out. There is things that the world does now that twenty years from now you guys will say, oh, it's not that bad. There's things that happened twenty years ago that right now we're saying, oh, it's not that bad. We were just joking around about Andy Griffith. Now I better be careful. Actually I'm not gonna be. But um the only man in the show that was married was the town drunk, and we laughed at him, right? Anyway. And now we're like, oh, it's not that bad. Twenty years from now we'll be laughing at shows that are playing now. Saying, oh, compared to this, it's not that bad. Once you start down that track, you don't stop. And they're moving. Like I said, they're getting worse and worse. We're comparing our standards to theirs. Our standards will never be as bad as theirs We'll always be a little bit better, but we're moving. Worse and worse. Rather than comparing our standards to the world, we need to be comparing our standards to this. This does not move. It never will. It still says it's good for a man not to touch a woman Got me? It still says it. Said it hundreds of years ago, it'll say hundreds of years from now. And other things, we could keep going. That's not changing. The world's moving the wrong way Don't ever ask the question, is it that bad? Because the answer will be, no, it's not. And man, you'll end up in a place you never thought you'd be, and you'll still say, oh, it's not that bad. Not that bad. Rather than saying, is it okay? Rather than saying it, is it that bad? What we need to be saying is, does this glorify God? Is this holy? Is this right? And if you're even having to ask the question, it's probably not. Whatever you do Do all to the glory of God. Not whatever you do, make sure it's okay. Not whatever you do, see if it's that bad. No, do it to the glory of God. All to the glory of God. Now, with that being said, yes, thank you. I appreciate it, whoever said that. Thank you. Must. Now there's always someone who's going to say, now listen, Pastor Matt, here you're telling me things I can't do. I want to do things that I want to do. Okay. You might be saying, Why should I? I don't want to Watch what I do with my body. I don't want to watch the physical actions. I like doing what I'm doing. Why should I glorify God? I don't want to change my attitude. I'm right anyway. Why should I glorify God? Go to Psalm 86 is the last place you'll turn. Psalm 86. Well not the last place ever. I hope. Psalm eighty-six. Why should I glorify God? Look at verse twelve. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart. And I will glorify thy name forevermore, for great is thy mercy toward me. And thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. Hey, you want to know why you should glorify God? Hey guys, listen to me. You want to know why? You should make sure you do the right thing with your bodies. You want to know why you should make sure you do the right thing with your attitudes? Why should you glorify God? Are you kidding me? Look at His mercy. How many of you ate food today? Me too. How many of you breathed today? You all know we do not deserve this. Now how many of you, if something happened to you, you know you'd go to heaven? We don't deserve that either Great is his mercy. Man, Pastor, people talk about when they get to heaven. I'm excited. I can't wait to get there. It's going to be great. But man, his mercy while we're here. Man, the good thing he's done for us here. My goodness. I mean, last night I asked Courtney for fried chicken and it was like 30 minutes and I had eight pieces of fried chicken. You talk about mercy. Man, I don't deserve a slice of anything. Do you get a slice of chicken? No, that's pizza. Never mind. But man, he's merciful to us. He's good to us. I can't get over the fact, and I'm not just saying this because you're here at mom and dad, but I I can't get over the fact of how good God has been to me just by the family I've been born into. My goodness Both of my parents together. Wow. Love it. Their parents Together. And I get to thinking about things like this. Man, I am just so blessed while I'm here on this earth. How could I not glorify God? How could I not live for Him? And then He delivered us from hell. Why do we love him? Because he first loved us. Gave himself for us. And man, if there's someone here and you're not sure you're going to heaven, you're missing out. We were just talking about how our body and our spirit was bought with the price. It was expensive And man, you can get you get to go to heaven if you trust in him. That's a pretty good deal. Why should we glorify God? There's mercy. I love it. Lord, thank you for this day you've given us. Lord, I just thank you so much for how good you've been to us. Lord, in everything we do. May we glorify you. May we live for you. Lift your name up. Lord, I thank you for this church and the people here. I ask now that you bless the invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.