I want us to go into our conference this year asking us this question, do I love the Lord? Asking ourselves that question. Now, the question is not, does my neighbor love the Lord? That's not the question The question is not, does that person sitting in front in the pew in front of me, does that person love the Lord? Or the person behind me or the person beside me? The question this morning is not, does my spouse love the Lord? Fellows, I don't want you to sit here and try and determine whether your wife loves the Lord or not. Ladies, I don't want you to sit here and try and figure out whether your husband loves the Lord or not. The question is this: do I Love the Lord. And by the way, I think if we spent as much time working on our relationship with the Lord as we do worrying about other people's relationship with the Lord, we'd be far better off. Can I get an amen on that one? Some folks are very good at determining whether other people love the Lord or not, and they're blinded to their own spiritual condition. So the question is not: do my parents love the Lord? The question is not, do my children love the Lord? Now I want my parents to love the Lord. I believe they do. I want my children to love the Lord. The question is not, does my pastor love the Lord? Now I would like for my pastor to love the Lord. If I was a member of a church, if I was not the pastor, I would want the pastor to love the Lord. Question is not, does my church love the Lord? The question is not, does my president love the Lord? By the way, the overwhelming majority, I don't know if I should say this, the overwhelming majority of our political leaders are not Christian. I think that's pretty obvious. So we need to quit expecting them to act like Christians if they're not Christians. And we need to pray for their salvation. Can I get a amen there? We need to pray for their salvation The I like I I mentioned this several times recently. I like what Lester all said. If you want to save America, get Americans saved. That'll turn it around. But the question of this message and this hour, and I want to, I'm praying will linger in our hearts and minds going into this important week of meetings: do I love the Lord? The Lord Jesus Christ did not approach Peter and say, Peter, does John love the Lord? He didn't say, does Andrew love the Lord? Does Bartholomew, does he love the Lord? Does Matthew love the Lord? He didn't say that. He said, Peter, do you love me? Lovest thou me? Somebody approached the Lord Jesus Christ and they said, What's the greatest commandment in all the Word of God? And Jesus' answer was: the greatest commandment is: thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. If that's the greatest commandment, then the question we're asking ourselves this morning is vitally important What God wants from you and I more than anything else, what God looks to you and I for more than anything else is our love And if that's his greatest desire, if that's his greatest command, then I need to stop and ask. My Creator, the God I'm going to answer to. Do I love him? Do I love him? I thought of this when Jennifer was singing the song was beautiful. The fact that God loves me. Makes that question very important. God loves me so much. If God commended his love toward me so much that he would die for my, give his own son to die for my sins, if he loved me that much. Do I love him? It's an important question. It's an important question. I want to look at a few aspects of the Lord's approach to Peter here. And as he uh as he presented them with this question that really tore Peter up. We'll look at this here in a minute, but if you come down to uh Verse number 17, he says, he said, and the third time Simon, son of Jonas, loved something. It says, Peter was grieved. I mean, this really bothered Peter that the Lord is pressing this issue. Do you love me? Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? It bothered him. My first thought in this question that the Lord presents to Peter is, I want us to notice the timing or the sequence. Let the Lord ask this question. Everything God does, God never does anything haphazardly. Not just what he says and does, but the timing of what he says and does is very important. God doesn't do things haphazardly. God never does things without a plan or a purpose. And he's asking Peter this question. The timing of it, the the the timing, the chronological uh uh uh timing of this is significant As I was thinking about that, I thought about back into Esther chapter number four where you remember the story of Esther and she uh uh becomes uh she's uh uh in like a competition, like a beauty competition and of sorts uh for the the K. And they're preparing and going through that. In the meantime, um Mordecai is her uncle and he's raising her, and uh wicked Haman talks the king into slaughtering all the Jews. Do you ever notice the Jews have always been hated by the world? Why is that? Of all people, why does everybody hate the Jews? I'll tell you why, because they're God's people. Now let me throw the let me throw this then. America abandons the Jews. America is in big trouble. Every nation that does that is in big trouble. And so, Wicked Haman comes to King. He talks him into making a decree that all the Jews will be slaughtered. Genocide. Wipe them all out. Well, Esther is a Jew. Nobody knows that in the palace there, and she's in this competition, and she's in the running. And Mordecai approached her and says, uh, well, she's a the competition or order, she's the queen at this point, I'm sorry. And uh Mordecai approached her and said, listen, you've got to talk to the king about this. You've got to uh uh uh you know confronted and stop this. You have you have the king's ears. She goes, I can't go in there. If he doesn't invite me and I show up, he could have me killed And he makes an interesting statement. I think it's verse fourteen. He makes an interesting statement. He says, and I'm putting in my own words, he says something to this effect. He goes Esther, God has put you into this position for such a time as this. In other words, it's not a coincidence that you're where you are when you're there. God does not work haphazardly. I don't believe it's a coincidence that you're in the service this morning when this message is being preached. I don't know what's going on in your life. I don't know what may may or may not be happening in your life, but I know this. God has a plan and purpose for everything to happen. So when the Lord approaches Peter, And he says, Peter, lovest thou me? And again, Peter, lovest thou me? Peter, son, uh Simon, son of Joseph, lovest thou me? I look at this and I look at when the Lord is saying this, and I think it's significant. The timing is deliberate. Now, when is the Lord saying this? When is this question being asked? Well, I notice that it's at the end of the Lord's ministry. He has a very limited time left on earth here in his physical body. It's only 40 days. And he has these 40 days to spend with his disciples. He has this 40 days, this very limited time to be with them physically before they are going to embark on the adventure of a lifetime. And God is going to use them in ways they can't even imagine at this point. And so He's got a very, as I said, very limited amount of time to spend with the disciples. So that tells me whatever he is speaking to them about is no doubt very significant Whatever he chooses to discuss, whatever issues he addresses in that limited time frame, anticipating what's about to take place, is very, very important. He's not just Fill in space. He's not just talking for the sake of talking. The time he has to spend with Peter personally is very limited. Now He doesn't ask Peter at the beginning of his ministry when he first sees them by the seaside there fishing. He doesn't approach Peter then and say, Peter, lovest thou me? In fact, Peter, I think when he says in verse number 15, he says, Lovest thou me more than these? I believe he's referencing verse 3 when Peter said, I'd go a fishing. The Bible doesn't say clearly, but I think he's saying, Peter, do you love me more than you love that business? Do you love me more than you love your job? You love me more than you like that endeavor. He doesn't say that when he first meets Peter, Peter was fishing. Peter didn't even know him. Peter was just getting, becoming aware of who Jesus Christ was, and he had no idea where he how his life was going to change in the new direction the Lord was going to lead him in. And so the Lord didn't ask him at the beginning of his relationship with Peter, do you love me? But it's at the end, as the Lord's about to leave. And before he leaves, Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Lovest thou me? There's a real danger in the Christian life. Let me address this just briefly. There's a real danger in the Christian life And that is this, of losing the novelty of my relationship with the Lord. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Say, yep, I know God saved me on a scriptural basis. I know when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell. By the way, if you're here and you don't have that settled, you're not certain about whether God has forgiven your sins or not and saved you from hell. You need to take get that taken care of. But there's a danger. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God forgives my sins, He saves me from hell, He gives me a home in heaven, He gives me eternal life, He begins changing my life. And I'm telling you, for me, and I assume for others That was exciting. These changes that are taking place in my life. And the things I'm learning about the Lord and my preconceived ideas about what Christianity was before I was saved, and now I'm finding out I had no idea what Christianity was. This is incredible And God is answering prayers, and God is changing things, and there's peace in my heart, and there's purpose in my life, and it was all so new. But as time goes by, if we're not careful, that novelty wears off And we say, yeah, I've heard a sermon on that subject 742 times. I've got them all written in the margin of my Bible right here. Sometimes I'll preach on a passage and one of the churchmen I'm glad you take notes, I'm glad you're writing your Bible. I'm really they'll come up and say, Preacher, you preached on that on June sixth, nineteen forty-three I wasn't even alive then. How could I preach it? But that there's a danger of that novelty wearing off, and as time goes by, Our love for the Lord, if we're not careful, we'll get cold. And sometimes, hey, sometimes the old heart even gets hard. I've heard that so much. I'm no longer sensitive to the Spirit. I'm no longer tender-hearted to God's instructions. I've heard it a thousand times. You know, sometimes we need to stop and really meditate on John 3. 16 We've heard it so often we could rattle it off in our sleep. And every now and then we need to just come back and stop and say, wait a minute, I need to remember what God is telling me in this verse. And so there's a real danger in Revelation. I wanted to turn there, but for sake of time we won't. If you'll jot it down, in Revelation chapter 2, verse 1 through 4, he's approaching the church there. And he said you, well, let's go ahead and turn there. Well jump, go ahead. I think this is important to look at. Revelation, last book of the Bible. Chapter 2, the Lord is addressing seven churches here, literal actual churches, and he's kind of giving them a critique. He's, it's uh, my wife is up for her job evaluations here this month. And so it's basically the churches are being evaluated by the Lord. Boy, that's a humbling thought And he says to the church here at Ephesus, verse 1, he says, unto the angel of the church at Ephesus, right, I uh these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, I know thy work. And thy labor and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. Alright? They're real careful. They're very uh they've got works, they're very patient, they're working hard, they're busy about the ministry, they don't put up with false doctrine. They take a strong stand on that which is right, and they take a strong stand against that which is wrong. Thou hast borne, verse 3, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored And hast not fainted. I mean, that sounds good. Amen. But look at it at verse 4. Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee. I can feel their heart sinking. Because thou hast, what's that next phrase? Left thy first love. He says, your love has grown cold. Peter, do you love me? It's been three years plus. We've been through some things. Peter, do you love me? Is the novelty worn off or do you love me? They left their first love. The word left there has this idea that they allowed this to happen They allowed their heart to get cold. Oh, they were busy, man. They're giving out tracts and they're prayer meeting and they're taking a strong stand. And I mean, they're doing what they're supposed to be doing. And the Lord commends them for that. But he says there's something wrong. And the heart of the problem is your love for me has grown cold. The novelty has worn off, and you're just doing this. uh out of a uh because it's right, maybe out of duty, which is fine. He doesn't doesn't condemn them for that. He says, but you've left your first love. They allowed this to happen They weren't careful. Listen, you and I need to continually be examining ourselves. Am I in love with the Lord? Is my love for the Lord on fire? It's one of the reasons we bring through and periodically, uh try to on a fairly regular basis, bring through revival meetings. We try to do things where God can search our heart and rekindle that fire and rekindle that love for the Lord. Peter's been with the Lord three and a half years now, and the Lord says, Peter, lovest thou me. It bothers him. I think the second thing I notice here about the timing or the sequence of this question in 1 John is it's after Peter's tragic failure. You know the story. Peter had, when the Lord was taken before Pilate and he's about to be crucified, Peter's confronted three times as to whether he's one of the Lord's disciples, and three times Peter denied that he even knew the Lord. Would you agree with me? There's no doubt in my mind Peter was disappointed with himself, to say the least. What a failure. I I I say this occasionally and I don't make a big deal about it, but I tell ya The man in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that disappointed this pastor more than anyone else is myself. I disappoint myself often. And Peter, no doubt, was overwhelmingly disappointed. He was grieved when the Lord comes and says, Simon Peter, lovest thou me? I believe it bothered him. Now I want to point out here something. Peter failed, and he failed tragically. But I'm gonna point something out something out. Every Christian fails at some point. You say, preacher, I have never sinned since I got saved. My Bible says you are a liar. Well, you made it me. I didn't say it. Even Christians fail. In fact, we're pretty good at it. Um Every Christian fails. But I believe what we can see here, I think we can take away from this, it is the degree of my love for the Lord. That determines how thoroughly I get back up after I fail. In other words, I fail, I blow it. It happens. Christians do. The best of God's men have failed But I found that those that genuinely down in their heart love God and really love the Lord and understand, appreciate all that He's done for them. They have a genuine heart love for God. When they fail, it is devastating. But that love motivates them to get back up and go on for God. I like Proverbs 24, 16. A just man falleth seven times and rises up again. So the timing here, it's after the Peter has failed terribly. He's fixing to go fishing, and there's various motives there. He may have had that, and I want to preach on that sometime. But he loves the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Let me put it this way. Let's ask ourselves this question. Do I love the Lord? Do I love the Lord enough to get back up and go on for Him? Say, preacher, you don't know how badly I messed up. I don't know, and unless it's absolutely necessary, I'd rather not know. But I do know this. God still loves you. God can still use you And I'm saying to you this morning, just decide that you're going to love God, you're going to get back up on your feet, do whatever needs to be done to make things right, and go on for God. So the timing or the sequence of this question, first it's at the end of the Lord's ministry. Peter had been with them an extended period of time and You know, there's a possibility that love waning, that w uh leaving that first love, the extractment he first had. It's after he failed, and brother, that can that can hurt. Third thing I know, oh by the way, before we go on to the third thing about the timing, I think it's interesting. Peter denied the Lord three times And the Lord asked Peter, questioned Peter's love three times. Isn't that interesting? I've got the idea that the Lord is helping Peter get back on his feet Peter loved the Lord. There's no doubt about that. I'm convinced of that. But the Lord's pointing out, Peter, your love for me is not as strong as you thought it was. And I want to help you get back up. Three times he failed. Three times the Lord asked him this. The Lord's helping him get back on his feet. My restoration to the Lord and his service begins with a restoration of my love for the Lord. The third thing I notice about the timing or the sequence of this question, first it was at the end of the Lord's earthly ministry. It was after Peter had failed, but it was also right before the start of a great work of God. In just a few short days, the Spirit of God is going to fall on Peter, and he is going to be filled with the Spirit of God. He's going to be filled with the power of God, and he's going to stand before a great crowd of unsaved people and he is going to declare the mighty works of God. He's going to preach the gospel to thousands of people in one setting And 3,000 people are going to be saved and baptized as a result of that one message. God is about to use Peter in ways he never dreamed possible. His life is about to be changed in ways he never imagined would take place. And I believe the Lord is saying this, Peter, not in so many words, but Peter is about to be involved in a ministry that is supernatural. He's about to be involved in a ministry, he's about to be used of God. in ways that you and I and Christians around the world are still talking about 2,000 years later. And I believe the Lord is wanting Peter to be sure that his love is on the Lord And his love is not focused on the ministry. Peter is going to be the center of attention. He's going to be a lightning rod. He's going to have a powerful, powerful, effective ministry. And the Lord is establishing things. Peter, you need to be sure your love is on me. Not so much on the ministry. Do you know it's possible to love the ministry and not love the Lord? It's possible to love studying the Word of God yet not love the God of the Word. It is possible to love preaching the Bible and yet not love the God of the Bible It's possible to love a bus ministry and not love the Lord that I'm trying to bring them to. It's possible to love the singing in the choir and singing specials. It's possible to love doing all that and yet not love the God I'm singing about. And the Lord wants Peter to be very clear in his heart and mind and have it established. I love the Lord. However, he chooses to use me. Whether it's in preaching before uh three thousand of people, or it's languishing in a prison, or it's having my head cut off for the cause of Christ, however God chooses to use me, my love is established and focused on on Jesus Christ. And that brings us contentment. However, God, however you choose to use me, that's not the issue. God, the issue is I love you with all my heart. Do with me as you see fit. So the timing is significant here. Peter's love must be focused on the Lord Jesus, not on the ministry. And by the way, not on the results. The Bible tells us there was 3,000 people saved and baptized. Some folks occasionally, not often, every occasionally, and we take attendance, and I like to keep track of people numbers saved and baptized. I'd like that Sometimes we get criticized and say, well, you shouldn't keep track of all that. They did in the Bible. Right? In fact, you say, well, don't worry about numbers. The Lord has a whole book named Numbers. You know what that book is filled with? Numbers. How many were in this tribe, and how many were on that tribe, and how far they went here, and what happened this and how many days that was. So I don't have a problem. I've found that folks that criticize, sometimes folks will criticize the church for keeping track of attendance and number baptized and all that. But every one of those that criticizes, I notice they count how much money they get. Now maybe the money is more important than the people, I don't know. You follow what I'm saying? Now that's just getting something off my chest. Let me get back to my message. There's tremendous, there's about to be phenomenal results. 3,000 people saved here, later on 5,000, later on multiplied. And there's a real danger that Peter could fall in love with the results. And want more, and I have to have this, and it has to there has to be a certain level of results, or I'm not happy Listen to me. What God chooses to do through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, that's up to God. What we need to make sure is we love the Lord Jesus And whether it's five or five hundred or five thousand, that's not the issue. The issue is, do you love the Lord Jesus? And so the timing or the sequence of this question here is significant. The Lord only has 40 days to spend with these guys, 40 days with Peter It's right after he failed. So Peter needs the Lord to intervene here to get him back up. And there's about to be a phenomenal ministry take place ahead of them And the Lord wants to be sure that Peter's love is clearly established in his heart and mind. The second thought notice thing I notice here is first was the timing or the sequence, the second is the intensity or the seriousness of this question. When the Lord looked in Peter's eyes And he said, Simon, son of Jonas, and I am convinced, the Bible doesn't say this, but I am convinced the Lord's eyes were piercing Peter's soul. Lovest thou me? That's an intense question. That's serious That is a heart question. And say, Peter, do you have all the answers? Neither do you know all the doctrines that I've established in the Word of God. That wasn't the issue. That's a head, that's a head question. Lord says, Peter, do you love me? That's a heart question. Now, the doctrines in the head, that's important. But God always begins with the heart. When God changes a person, He begins with their heart Now, what man wants to do, what church wants to do, what religion wants to do, religion begins on the outside We've got to change this, that, and the other. Don't misunderstand. The Bible gives principles for address and for how we dress and behavior and all these things. The Bible addresses all of that. But that's never where God begins. God always begins with the heart. Salvation does not begin with the change of my behavior. Salvation begins with the change of my nature. What I am, my heart. Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He's touching on his heart. He's addressing his heart condition. Salvation of a soul begins in the heart, that if thou shalt confess in my thou the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in thine heart that God has raised, thou shalt be saved. It's heart. You say, oh, I ask you this, do you know for sure when you die your sins forgiven on your way to heaven? You say, oh yeah, I know. How do you know? I was baptized. Baptism doesn't have anything to do with the heart Well, I'm a church member. We had a fellow attend here for a period of time, older fellow, and went and visited with him and uh started talking to him. He's telling me why he was coming here. We were real glad for that. I asked him, I said, Sir, do you know for sure when you die your sins for you and on your way to heaven? sitting in his living room and uh he goes, Oh yeah, I'm I'm sure I'd go to heaven. I said, G wow. I said, uh how do you know? What gives you that assurance? What makes you so sure? He said, I was Sunday school superintendent of our church for forty years. Has nothing to do with the heart. And I tried to show him being a holding a position does not save my soul. Having God cleanse my heart. And give me a new heart through faith in Christ. That's what saves my soul. So when the Lord says, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? This is an intense question. This is very serious. He's getting to the heart of the matter. Victorious Christian living is a result of a heart of love for God. Faithfulness to the Lord is a result of a love for the Lord. Separation from the world. And you know, I wish more churches would preach on separation from the world. We're embracing the world's values. We're embracing the world's morality. The churches One of the most neglected teachings in Scripture is separation from the world's priorities, the world's worldview, the world's values, the world's behavior. But genuine biblical separation from the world is a heart issue. You say, what are you talking about? Here's what I'm talking about. In fact, if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to 1 John, not the Gospel of John, 1 John, back towards the end of your New Testament. For the deacons, first John is right before second John. So help them out. Listen, they're beating us. I gotta get every dig in I can, alright? And Brother Ed's lost his voice, praise the Lord. 1 John chapter 2 and verse 15. Ah, now in my Bible, I underline this in red eight. Because I think this is a very significant passage. All the Bible is important, but I think this is an area that needs attention. 1 John chapter 2, look at verse 15. Are you there? Look what it says. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Now look at this. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. That's interesting. What does he mean by that? The Lord is telling us that as a and it's this book is written to Christians. He's saying, as a child of God, as someone who's been saved from sin in hell and has eternal life, I'm a citizen of heaven, I'm a child of God That I am not to love the world. Now the world there doesn't talk about the people. He's talking about the values, the principles, the morals of society. I'm not to love that. Look at it this way: this world crucified my Savior. Suppose you had a child and someone tortured and killed, brutally killed your child. And then one of your other children became buddies with the person that did that to your child. They'd hang out together and they'd try and dress like each other. Are you listening? And they'd and they'd go to the same places together and you'd say, wait a minute, look what they did Be a little disappointed. Now we need to think about it. When we're wanting to look like the world and act like the world and go and do the things that this unbelieving immoral world wants to do as a child of God. Wait a minute. This world is what crucified and rejected my Savior. I need to think that through a little bit. And he says here, if any man love not the world, these are the things that are in the world, if any man love the world, he says this, the love of the Father is not in him. Now on a surface reading of that, it looks like it's saying If you love the world, God doesn't love you. But that is not true. Because God's love is an everlasting love. God's love never stops. God loves me regardless of my behavior But I believe what he's saying here is this. If I love the world, then my love for God is not there. See what I'm saying? If I love the Lord like I should, this world's not going to have any appeal to me. And if I'm in love with the world, then the Lord's not going to have much appeal to me. And so this issue, Simon Peter, lovest thou me, that's an important issue. This heart issue affects my separation from the world. It affects my faithfulness to the Lord. Love for this world, this world system, will strangle my love for the Lord. And my love for the Lord If I love the Lord like it should, it will overwhelm any love I have for this world. Now let me bring it down to where we're at this week. We're going into missions conference. We're going to talk about supporting missionaries. Let me take that back. We're not going to talk about supporting missionaries. We are already talking about supporting missionaries. Supporting them financially. You're going to hear a lot about that. We don't do this all year long. We touched on it, but part of the year we zero in on the matter of our church and us as individuals supporting missionaries, getting them support so they can go around the world. We're gonna talk we're talking about supporting them with our prayers. They need our prayers as much as they need our bucks. We talk about praying for our missionaries and we have a system in place each week. I can pray each day for a list of missionaries. We have it in your bulletin right there laid out. uh uh an organized method of praying earnestly for our missionaries. Wednesday night we put specific requests in the bulletin. They need our prayers But as we go into this, I want us to understand that, oh, and by the way, we're going to touch on another area about individuals giving yourselves to go to the mission field. And God calling, just like he did out of the church at Antioch, God says, separate me, Paul and Silas, Paul and Barnabas. And we look at God coming down and touching maybe some folks in Mountain Lake and saying, I want you to separate so-and-so and so-and-so to the mission field. Now I said all that to say this. Everything we're talking about begins with a heart issue. You ought not to support missionaries because your preacher says you ought to support missionaries. You ought to support missionaries because you love the Lord Jesus. See what I'm saying? It's a heart issue. Nobody should ever go to the mission field because mama wants them to go to the mission field. They ought to go to the mission field because they love God and God wants them to go. It's a hard issue. It's a heart issue. And so, the timing of this question, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Three times. It was at the end of the Lord's ministry. It had been a period of time. It was after his failure. It's just before God's about to do some amazing things through him. It's a heart issue. It's intense. It's serious. He's addressing his heart. And thirdly, and last of all, I notice this question is a testing or a searching question. I think it's interesting, if you would, come back there to John chapter 21 real quickly with me. Look very carefully at verse 15, 16, and 17. And I don't often say this, I like to approach Scripture this way sometimes. You can learn a lot from what the Bible does not say. And notice what the questions the Lord does not ask. The Lord does not ask, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou my sheep? He says, feed my sheep, feed my lambs. But Simon, do you love me? That's the test. Do you love me? He doesn't say, Simon, son of Jonas, obey my word. Do you obey my word? As I mentioned before, we can obey the Lord without loving the Lord. But you cannot love the Lord without obeying the Lord. My love for the Lord is the true test of every aspect of my Christian life. My love for the Lord is the true test of every aspect of my Christian ministry. The most important thing for Pastor Letterman to do, girls, is for Pastor Letterman to love the Lord Jesus Christ with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his mind. Can I get an amen on that? Most important, and I joke around with deacons, I love our deacons dearly. But I'm telling you, the most important thing for every one of our deacons to do is to love the Lord Jesus Christ with all their heart, with all their soul, with all their mind, with all their might. And we could just go right on down a list of all the different responsibilities, all the different positions, all the different ministries that people hold throughout our church. The number one priority is that we love the Lord Jesus Christ with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's the test. Every kid needs a daddy that loves Jesus Christ with all his heart. Tell about child abuse and as horrendous that is. I tell you, that steams me. I tell you, you get a dad who doesn't love the Lord trying to raise kids. That ain't right. Mother ought to love the Lord Jesus with all her heart. Hey, by the way, kids ought to love the Lord Jesus with all their heart. That's the test. That's the test. My love for the Lord is the test of every aspect of my Christian life. Now, in Peter's case, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee. Feed my sheep. Feed my lambs. Now, you might take issue with me on this. That's fine. But when I think when the Lord says, feed my sheep, feed my lambs, I wonder if that doesn't at very least include missions. You go out and you you reach people and you teach them. You you teach people the gospel and they that believe it you baptize them Them and those that get baptized, you teach them to keep all things whatsoever I have commanded to you. If you love me, then you invest yourself in others. Peter, if you love me like you say you love me, then you get out there and you feed those sheep and you feed those lamb and you invest yourself In the well-being of others, and that would certainly at least include giving them the gospel of Jesus Christ In Kazakhstan, in Mongolia, in Argentina, and people dying by the thousands in Nepal Do you love me? Invest in that. That's the question. Do I love the Lord? All over this planet, there are people whom the Lord loves dearly. And he wants those of his children who love him to feed those people the gospel and the word of God and meet their needs and help them. I was in Mongolia a few years ago. had the privilege to go over with Dr. Keene. And they told us en route and when we got there, they said in the capital city of Ulim Batar, they said there are, and I don't remember the exact number, I want to say 10,000 children who live in the sewers. Sewer system. I mean it's i i that is such a bizarre lifestyle over there is it's just uh very different than what you and I are take for granted. And they kept telling us about these children and and the the level of alcoholism, drunkenness, and we saw a guy laying out in the field probably 300, 400 yards out of field, just laying there. And little kids standing beside him and they said, oh, that guy froze to death last night. He dropped over dead and the authorities are coming to get him The average temperature when I was there was 15 below zero. We were there in February. That's the average temp for February. And so one day we went down to the market on Saturday. We went we were doing working on the translating thing. We went down to the market, we got some souvenirs, and they told us in route, they said, you're you're gonna have these little dirty kids come up to you They're what they call the sewer kids. Don't give them anything. They said if you do, you're going to have a riot. It doesn't help them, it makes matters worse. And lo and behold, we're going up. There's this like big plaza area we parked and we're making our way up and there's people everywhere. And sure enough, they I mean we're Americans, we stand out. Sure enough, this little kid, he said something in Mongolian. I said, I don't know what to say. Yes, uh we gates, you know, that's German. Um And the kids just tag along. And the fellow that was with us, one of the missionaries, and there were some national Mongolians, they said, Don't don't do it. We can see it in your face. Don't do it. We had to walk right on by. Hey, that's that kills you. Little eight-year-old kid. He lives down in the underneath. Lord says, if you love me, go feed my sheep. You get out there. You help those people in those countries. And if you can't go yourself, you do everything you can to get those that can. And get them there. You know, we were in New Zealand a month or so ago. Didn't have any seward kids in New Zealand, pretty wealthy where we were. Kids driving fancy cars, sixteen, seventeen-year-old kids driving cars that I'll never afford. You know what? Those kids were just as lost as the sewer kids. There's sheep that need a savior as much as anyone else. So my question going into our missions conference is this The question we need to ask ourselves when in our missions come is this. Do I love the Lord And if I do, lovest thou me, Simon, son of James, lovest thou me? Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love you. Feed my sheep. Feed my lambs. Invest yourself in others. Say, preacher, it's talking about money and giving yourself and all this. I know it. It's Bible. It's necessary. We don't do it all year round. We don't take up a faith promise offering next like we do next time. We don't do it every week. We don't do it every month. But it is part of our love for the Lord. Fell got saved. I mean he was green, he was on fire for God. He just wanted he loved the Lord for forgiving his sin and changing his life and cleaning him up. And he loved the Lord. He says, preacher, I want to be baptized. I love God. I want to be baptized. The preacher said, okay Sunday they're coming down in the water, the preacher's there ready to baptize. The preacher noticed a bulge in his pocket. And he said, Sir, wait a minute. Your wallet is in your pocket. It's going to get all wet. He says, That's right, preacher. My wallet's getting baptized too. You know what he was saying? He was saying, I love the Lord and I want him to have everything. It's all at his disposal. It's all at his disposal. I'm asking this uh we're asking ourselves this morning, do I love the Lord Jesus? And if that's if I do, Peter, we find out Peter didn't love the Lord as strongly as he thought he did. Lord's pointing it out, pointing it out. But I'll tell you, Peter got it straightened out. And he fell in love with the Lord. And he ended up giving his life for the Lord gladly. Ask ourselves, the next few days, Wednesday night, we begin our missions conference. I think it'll be great at an altar here this morning as we go into this week of missions. Lord, I do love you. But search me and try me. I want to love you the way you want me to love you. I'm yours. Lead me, direct me, use me to feed your sheep. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. I pray that our hearts would be prepared for this important meeting this week. I pray that our homes would be characterized by a love for the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray our workplaces, our testimonies would be Testimony to the fact that we have a genuine love for the Lord Jesus challenges and convicts us. Some of us, no doubt, have areas in our life as a Christian we need to adjust. Some areas need attention, some need to be put aside, others need to be added. Lord, challenge us and convict us as you did, Peter. With our heads bowed.