Church has a large testimony. I hope you know that. Uh people know much about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and most of it's good. All of it's good. And uh we I I will say this, and this isn't two preachers patting each other's back. Uh your pastor is much loved down at our church, and he does a great job. He and my assistant pastor are kind of out of the same mold. I I don't know how to that's a that's a compliment to both of them. Uh but we love having him for our wild our wild game supper. I can't say it. But uh this past year, just this January, we had we fed, I believe it was around 650, 675. And Pastor Leatherman priest, we had over 30 saved. And so it was a great time, great, great evening, and we're we're just glad we have that friendship. I'm sure glad to be here this morning, and I'm sure glad there's not 18 inches of snow, aren't you? I'm just going to be honest with you. I love every day the Lord makes, and I do rejoice in it. But I just really love those non-snow days. I really do. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Psalm 138. I'll give Just as you turned there, the thought that I gave to our Sunday school class, where we really kind of started our thinking about what revival is. And how we're going to see it. And please understand this. Revival is a word that has become a catchword, a catchphrase. Everybody wants revival. But we don't often talk about what it takes to have revival. We want revival for our nation. We want revival for our community. We want revival in our school. We want revival in our churches. But we just skip over that part that the only way the nation is revived and the only way our community and our schools and our churches are revived is if churches like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church And the people of Mountain Lake get revived themselves. Revival doesn't start in Washington, D. C. It for sure doesn't start in Congress. It's never started in a statehouse. It starts in a heart. And the people of God who love this country and love their community and love their neighborhoods, love their church. Including myself and your pastor, we've got to come to the place where we stop talking about generic revival and we talk about getting down in our lives paying the price to be close to God and know the mind of God so that God can send revival. Only God can send revival. If there is a revival, it will only be because God sends it. But mark this down. God sends it when we seek it. Can I say that again? God sends it when we seek it, not when we speak it. We're good at speaking about revival. We're not near as good at seeking revival So what God has laid on my heart for these days that we're together is to challenge this preacher and to challenge each and every one of you as individuals. Let's not worry about what our spouse does. We care about that. Let's not worry about our brother and our sister. Let's let God speak to our own heart. Let's tell ourselves the truth. About ourselves this week. And then when we tell ourselves the truth about ourselves, then God can help us see revival. in our lives. Have you got your place there in Psalm 138? Let's begin reading in verse 1 I will praise thee with my whole heart. Before the gods will I say praise unto thee. I will worship toward thy holy temple. And praise thy name for thy loving kindness and for thy truth, for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name. In the day when I cried, thou answeredest me, and strengthenest me with strength in my soul. All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O Lord, when they hear the words of thy mouth Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly. But the proud he knoweth afar off. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me Thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. The Lord will perfect that which concerneth me Thy mercy, O Lord, endureth forever. Forsake not the works of thine own hands. Let's pray and ask God's help Lord, we're thankful for this morning and thankful for this church. God, thank you for allowing us to be together and in this place today. And God, we give this day to you. We give this moment to you. And I pray that every distraction would be calmed. I pray that every heart would make a very simple decision to yield their attention for these next few minutes. To the Holy Spirit taking the Word of God and applying it to their hearts. Lord, I pray that there would not be one proud heart that would resist hearing your truth And I pray that there would not be any sense of pride that when you spoke to us, we would be slow to answer. I pray for lowly and humble hearts that would simply respond, Holy Spirit, to what you tell us to do today. And God help us to begin the work of revival by asking you for help in our hearts. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. You were in our Sunday school hour. You know that this psalm sounds really pretty similar to Psalm 63. Now David is not in a cave when he writes this psalm, but it is a psalm of David, and there were some certain truths that were always in David's life It's a psalm of high praise. In verse 1, he says, I will praise thee with my whole heart. Before the gods will I sing. Praise unto thee. Notice verse 2, not only is it about praise, it's about worship. He says, I will worship toward thy holy temple and praise thy name. In verse 3, I won't take the time to read it, but in verse 3, God says, or David says, God has answered my prayer. I called unto the Lord, and God answered me. He strengthened me Hey, let's set this down as a as a truth today. If we will call out to God, God will answer us. If we will seek the Lord, God will allow us to find Him. We can find Him in this matter of revival. Then it takes an even more personal tone down along in verse 6 and 7 and 8. And he says, God draws close to those who are lowly. Now that's an important concept of revival. If you're too proud to admit your need of God, Don't mess a whole lot with revival. Because God will have to break you before He can revive you. If you're too proud to admit that there are some things that need to change in your heart, that need to be strengthened in your life, or that need to be taken out of your life, then I'm going to be honest with you, God's going to have to deal with you on another level before you can be revived. But if you are willing, what's it in Chronicles say, if we are willing to humble ourselves and pray Seek the Lord. It is that heart that God will answer. It is that heart that God will help. So let's just establish it this first service. Let's just be honest and let's say, God, I am I'm taking the pride out. If you speak to me about something that I need to change in my life this week. I will change it. I will listen to you. And it doesn't matter if anybody else does. It doesn't matter if anybody else resists God. I'm just telling you I'm willing to listen to you. That's the lowly heart. That's the humble heart that God can speak to. And then I want you to notice this again in verse 7, our text verse Though I walk in the midst of trouble. David says, I praise the Lord, I worship the Lord. David says, God's answered my prayers. Just things, if you read the first six verses, you'd say, well, everything is good in David's life. But then in the midst of that, David says, But I live in the midst of trouble. Tightness. Difficulty. That's true of every life in this room. Not any life is all bad. There are praiseworthy things in every life But in life, we live with difficulty. We live with testing. We live with the distractions that the devil puts in our way. and the discouragement that the devil can put in our way. And ultimately his plan is to defeat us. And David's answer to that is God, I'm living this life, and some points it's great, and some points it's difficult, but God, here is my prayer. Will you please revive me? Will you please revive me? Let me say this. Every heart and life in this room to include this preacher and that preacher. Needs revival. Every heart. And that's David, the king, the sweet singer of Israel The man after God's own heart, the man who said, I praise, I worship, my prayers get answered, and then he says, But I live in the midst of trouble. Will you please revive me again? That's the heart cry of every person in this room. It's not all bad. I'm not in deep sin. Some things are going just fine, but God, I know I live in a difficult world, in a difficult spot, and I want a spirit of revival from you Let me list three groups of people that are in this room today that need revival. Here's number one. Why do I need revival? Because I'm hungry and thirsty and I want to continue to grow. Because I'm hungry and thirsty, and I want to continue to grow. Hey, though we are blessed, and though we're in church this morning, and we'll be in church tonight, Good. And though we'll be in church Monday through Wednesday, and though we try to do the right thing, every single life in this room has room to grow. Has room to go on and be more for the Lord. I remember when we were raising our three kids, my wife was unusual. She would prepare like a week uh for a week she would prepare great meals. And I mean three times a day those kids would fly to that table and they would eat and man they were nutritious meals, they were great meals, my wife. Is a great cook, can you tell? But then after she'd feed him for a week or so, she'd say, you know what, I'm not preparing you any food for a couple of weeks I have fed you enough. You're fed and full up, and I'm just not cooking anymore for three, four weeks. And so the kids would become emaciated. They'd be starving. And they would just literally, they just couldn't. Now do you believe that? Every week for all the years that they were in our home, and every week now when it's just an empty nest with her and I She cooks and cooks and she goes about her business preparing the meals that are needed, not just to sustain life, but to make life good. Where in the world do we get the idea that we don't need too much of God? That we can feed a little bit on Sunday morning or a little bit on Sunday night We can feed a little bit through the week, but we don't need God all the time. You wouldn't dare treat your children like that. You wouldn't treat your husband like that. And no husband would think that he could go weeks and weeks without food and he'd be just fine. I don't care how much Bible you know, there is more to be known, and there is a way that we need to draw closer to the Lord. There is a way that we need to beg God, please create a greater thirst in me. Please create a greater hunger in me. The Bible says, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Let me ask you this morning, I know you're good members of Mountain Lake Independent. I know you love the Lord But are you hungry for more God? Are you thirsty for more righteousness? Or has your appetite changed? Paul the Apostle was a man who lived in a constant state of revival. He was constantly seeking the Lord But I want you to note his attitude. Very quickly, I want you to turn with me. Keep your place there in Psalms, but turn over to Philippians chapter 3. Philippians chapter 3. Now I want to begin reading in verse 10. Now let's remember who we're reading about. We're reading about the Apostle Paul. The great missionary of the New Testament. He has started churches. In his life before Christ, he had the equivalent of many, many doctorate degrees. He knew the law. And God is using him through the Holy Spirit to write the greater portion of the New Testament. Stay with me. Paul is not backslidden. Paul is not backslidden. Paul is not backslidden. He is a man of God who is walking with God, but I want you to see his attitude. Notice in verse 10. that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Not as though I had already attained, either was already perfect, but I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth unto those things which are before. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of the God in Christ Jesus There is not one person in this room. You may have read your Bible this morning. You may have prayed before you came to church. You may have taught a Sunday school class this morning. You are not where you need to be. There is a way to grow. There is a way to plead God. Make me more conformable. I want to be more like Jesus Christ. I want to understand his sufferings more. I want to understand maybe even what it is to be despised. And rejected when I go and try that tell that person to the Lord. I want to know what it is to be completely dependent upon my Heavenly Father. I never, never, ever want the attitude in my life that I've done enough, come far enough, learned enough, and what I need to be enough. It's never true And may every believer in this room, whether you're walking with the Lord today, never come to the place where they say it's enough. It's never enough. It's always saying I've not apprehended. I'm not where I need to be God, give me a greater hunger. God, give me a greater thirst to pursue you and to know you and be made conformable to you. Here's number two. Who needs revival? Those who would say, I'm weary and I'm worn and I need refreshed. I'm weary. I'm worn. And I need refresh. Paul tells us something we need to remember in Galatians 6. He says, let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. I've been in the ministry for 41 years. I've pastored Heritage Baptist Church that we planted for 37 years. Let me tell you what I've seen over the years. I've seen people who serve and get weary and stop serving. I've seen people who go for a while and get worn out or get offended or hurt and get weary and stop serving. I used to ride a bike. I've got two metal knees now, so I don't do much riding of a bike. But I I used to ride a bike And uh I I used to ride my we our home was near the Quantico uh preserve, and boy, just hundreds of thousands of acres, beautiful woods and quiet roads and so I would ride those roads. And when I first started riding that bike, I was a real novice. And I would ride east into Quantico. And man, I first few times I'm riding, I'm thinking, man, I'm strong. I'm really a strong pedaler and a bike rider because the wind was at my back. And then I would turn around. I'd feel so good about it. I'd go 10, 12 miles out, turn around, and then I was pedaling into that west prevailing wind. And I'd say, I'm weak. I'm stupid to have gone that far. I don't know if I'm going to make it home. Now, can I say something to you? The life of a believer Is a life lived walking into the wind. This world hates you. It hates what you stand for. It will do everything it can to work against you. It will do everything it can to make it difficult. And sometimes when I'm walking in my Christian life, I feel like I'm one of those weathermen, you know, walking into the hurricane where he should be inside instead of outside telling you about it. It's just like every step is a difficult step. But I want you to notice, and I want you to turn there for the sake of time. Paul just says, here's what the Christian life is. In Galatians 6, he says it's restoring fallen brethren. Have you ever invested your life into somebody and you've been seeing them grow and you're seeing them trust the Lord and then all of a sudden they just go away? It wears you out, doesn't it? Breaks your heart. You have to bear one another's burdens. You have to be the one who, even though you're facing burdens in your life, You're trying to help those who are bearing burdens, and you're trying to lift them up and strengthen them. It can wear you out. There's the work of the ministry. I know in this room today there are bus workers and Sunday school teachers and downstairs there's junior church workers. I love the word faithfulness and I love those people who have taught fourth grade boys for 40 years or 50 years. The ones we really need to pray for are those who have taught junior high boys. for for over an hour. If you've ever taught junior high boys, you know what I'm talking about. But they keep at it and they keep at it and they keep at it and they keep at it and and I'm just telling you, it's tough. It's difficult, and you get worn out, and the devil whispers in your ear, nobody knows you're doing this. This doesn't work. These boys aren't going to stay doing this. They're not going to stay with this. They can't make this. And he's just constantly whispering into our ear, give up. Give up. Go back. Go back. You can't keep at that Mountain Lake Independent Church. They got a special meeting every couple of weeks. They got this and they got that and they expect this and they expect that. It's just too much. Too much. Too much. That's the devil whispering to you. God saying, keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. I want to show you a story, and I want you to keep your place there in Psalm 138, but go to Mark chapter 6, real quick. Mark chapter six Now I'm going to read a passage, make a comment or two about it, but I sure want the Holy Spirit to expose to you the truth that it's talking about. Look at verse, let's go to verse 30. Mark 6 and verse 30. Notice as I read. And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus and Told him all the things, both what they had taught, done, and what they had taught. Now they've been out preaching. And then Jesus says to them in verse 31, He said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and rest awhile. Boy, I'm sure they thought in their hearts, Oh, praise the Lord! We finally get to sit down for a while. We've been out here preaching two by two, holding revivals. We've been working, starting churches, trying to see people saved. We're just exhausted. Finally, Jesus recognizes we need a break. And so there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. And they departed into a desert place by ship privately. The people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all the cities, and outwent them, and came together unto him. And Jesus, when he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion toward them. Because they were as sheep not having a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far past. Send them away. That they may go into the country round about and into the villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. He answered and said unto them, Give ye then to eat. Now, wait a minute. I'm sure if I would have been one of the disciples, I said, I thought we came out here to rest. We came out here to rest, and now you got a big crowd again, and you're telling us now we got to feed them again. All you do, preacher, is tell us to have a stakeout and then have this and then have that, then have this, and then have that. Well, I got him, didn't I? Yeah. We need a break. We can't go on ministering. We can't go on teaching. We can't go on feeding. We need a break. Well, let me tell you what Jesus' answer to that is. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread and give them to eat? He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? Go and see! And when they knew they say five and two fishes, he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the green grass. They sat down in ranks by hundreds and by fifties And when he had taken the five loaves, the two fishes, he looked up to heaven and blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples, and set before them, and the two fishes divided He among them all, and they did all eat, and were filled. They took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fishes, and they that did eat of the loaves were about five thousand men And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the ship, but they were all angry at him, and they said, We're not doing it. We've had enough. We're not going. Oh, oh, wait a minute. Did any of them say that? Here's the truth. They didn't need rest. They needed revival. Can I say that again? They didn't need rest. They needed revival. Jesus saw them come back and he knew they were weary, but he knew what they needed, and he said, Let's go apart, we'll rest a while. But his plan was, as he was followed, that he was going to show them that what will revive you, what will strengthen you More than a week away, more than a month off, more than a year away from the ministry, is seeing that God blesses the ministry. There is nothing more restful, nothing more revival. than to see God give victory in ministry. Sometimes the devil whispers in our ear, you need a year off. You need to let somebody else do this. You just need to tell them you can't keep doing this when in truth you need to get with God and say, God, breathe into me the strength to do this. And God show me the power of the Holy Spirit in what I do and show me victory in this so that I can be revived in Hey, I know who I'm talking to. I'm talking to the cream of the crop. I'm talking to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I know all you do. I know what you do. I know how you care. And I know the devil will come around and tell you don't do it anymore. anymore. You need revived. If you're weary and you're worn and well doing, you don't need to quit. You need to get on your face before God and say, breathe strength into me anew to keep going. Here's number three. Who needs revived? We need revived when we get distant and cold and we need to come home. I'd remind you of a passage in 1 Samuel 30. I don't want you to turn there, but 1 Samuel chapter 30 and verse 6 says this. David was greatly distressed for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved. every man for his sons and for his daughters. But David encouraged himself in the Lord. Let me talk to you about that. The reason all of that took place is because David was not in Judah. David was not in Jerusalem. You know where David was? You know where Ziklag was? Ziklag is a Philistine city. And let me tell you what happened. Stay with me. Saul had pursued David and pursued David and pursued David. And he had stayed right and done right and been right. He'd been forsaken by this one, forsaken by that one, and he just came to the place where he said, I'm worn out with it. I've tried to do the right thing. I've tried to work hard. I've stayed here and I'm worn out with it. I'm leaving. He was the perfect picture of what we just said in point two. He had done right, done right, done right. But he was tired, weary, and the devil whispered, You don't deserve this. You don't deserve to be treated like this. You don't deserve to give yourself like this. You need to think about yourself. And he said, I've had it with Judah. And he walked down into the land of the Philistines and started serving a Philistine king David, what is a Jew doing in the Philistine city? And for 16 months, sixteen months He lived in Ziklag, paying homage to a Philistine king, besmirching the testimony of his God and his own testimony God finally had enough of it. And desiring to bring David to his senses. He said, David, a Jew does not belong down there. A man of God does not belong with the pagans. And they swept in and took that city and took his family and all of his possessions and the families and possessions of all those men. Those men wanted to stone him. Listen Hey, the devil makes a lot of promises when he gets us to leave where we need to be with the Lord, but give it 16 months and he'll show you what it really is. David wasn't made happy because he followed the devil's leadership. David wasn't happy because he left God's work and because he got away from God. He was miserable and they were about to stone him And David, when they were about to stone him, the Bible says he sat down and he encouraged himself. Now let me tell you what that means. It doesn't mean that he sat down and sang A little ditty of a Sunday school song and said, I'm okay. What David did was he got down and he said, I've got to face some things in my life. I have made some wrong choices. I am in this place, not in the will of God, but in the will of my own flesh. God did not send me to Ziklag. God does not want me in a Philistine city. I'm here because I was stubborn and disobedient, and I've got to get that right. And there on that stump or on that rock, when he realized what he had done and he came to himself, he humbled himself before God. He said, God, I've been wrong. And I can't believe where I've gotten to. Because this is not who I want to be. This is not who you want me to be. And God, I don't want to be here. And God, will you help me? You know why David got encouraged? Because David understood that God is never the God of a clenched fist. He's the God of an open arms to his people I love that story of the prodigal, don't you? The prodigal did not go to the far country because it was what God wanted. He didn't go to the far country because it's what his father wanted. He went to the far country because it's what his flesh wanted. And he went down there, and the Bible says he came to himself after he had squandered all that he had, and he was living in the pig style off the food they swapped the hogs with. He comes to himself. And he says, What in the world am I doing here? I'm a child of my father. I've done wrong and I'm going to humble myself and go back and And and I'm sure that when he got up out of that hog pin, he was thinking in his in his heart, What's my father going to say? What's my father going to do? Well, if he'd have been the elder brother, if the father would have been the elder brother, he'd have been there with a fist that said, You're not my son, you're not coming back in this place, but that's not who our God is. Our God is the God of open arms that says, Well, I'm glad you got it right. I'm glad you came to yourself. Come on in, boy. Let's start over. Man, I'm glad we serve a God like that, aren't you? Because I'll tell you, I've made that trip a few times, have you? Have you? I've made that trip from the hog farm back to God. I've made that trip from where my own foolish, stubborn self disobeyed back and found him with arms open and ready to do it again. That's who needs revived. You know who needs revived? People who are walking with God, but they need a greater thirst and a greater hunger. You know who needs revive? People that are serving, but they're tired. They're worn out It's hard walking into the wind all the time and it's it's hard when the rest of the world doesn't pay the price and it's Hard when the rest of the world doesn't tithe, and it's hard when we see them get ahead and they don't give the mission, and it's hard when they're not getting up early on a cold Sunday morning. It's hard when they don't come back in on a cold Sunday night and It's hard when they're going to stay home Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday. I'm just telling you, sometimes it's just hard to lean into the wind and we get tired The answer is not to quit. The answer is not to let up. The answer is not to pull back. The answer is to get on our face before God and say, Oh God, I live in the midst of trouble. Wilt thou revive me? Will you strengthen me? And I know full well that there's folks in this room who know the Lord, who love the Lord, and you can't believe where your life has gotten. You can't believe what you're looking at on that stinking computer You can't believe how hard your heart has gotten towards someone. You can't believe that that bitterness has just grabbed your heart. You just can't believe that what you used to do, you You don't even care about doing anymore. You've just gotten someplace where you don't know how you got there, but you know it's not where God wants you, and you know you don't want you to be there. And you know that the satisfaction you thought you would have is not there. The devil lied to you. Come to yourself and say, I'm going home. And you won't find God like this. You'll find God like this. Now, let me answer this and I'm done. Where's home? Can I tell you where home is? Right down here. Home is humbling ourselves to go to that place Where we can meet God. I'm sure that prodigal son would have loved to have said, Well, I'm going back to the city, but I'm not going back to that house because all them people will they'll think something of me. But home is humbling ourselves and not caring what anybody else thinks. Home is saying, I'm not putting my pride of person above my passion for you, God. I'm not putting my pride above anything. I want you, God, and I don't care whether anyone else does. And I don't care whether anyone wonders why I'm going. I know this, that if I humble myself And I cry out to you. You will hear from heaven. That's what David said. He said, I cry out, and God hears, and he strengthens me. And if we want revival, it's time to stop saying the word, and it's time to get it into the practice of our life. And we are revived by humbly seeking God. Saying, God, I may not be deep in sin, but I want you to increase the hunger in my heart for you. I want you to increase the thirst that I have for you because a Christian is never done growing. He's never to the place where he can be complacent. I want more of you. There's some of you in this room this morning that need to come and say, God, I'm worn out. And the devil just whispers in my ear all the time, the rest of the churches in town don't do this. That family doesn't do this. God, I don't want to give up and I don't want to go back. I don't want to get tired. I want you to breathe life into me. Because when Jesus knew he had some tired apostles and some tired disciples, he didn't give them time off. He gave them a dinner of 5,000. And they had to feed it. And they were invigorated by it God hears the truth. I can't believe where I am. It's not where I want to be. I don't know how I got here, but I know I don't want to be here. And Lord, I want to take a trip home. And I want to meet with you with a humble heart and just tell you, please revive me. Please bring me Bring me back home. You may be here this morning and unsaved. Down here at this altar this morning will be people with Bibles or be available. They could tell you you may not know God, but they could tell you from this Bible how you could know Christ as your Savior. Would you pray with me? Who needs revival? See, when we think of that, we think of the lost. We think of sinners who are really wicked in their life. But I'll tell you who needs revival. David said the guy who praises God, the guy who worships God, the guy who's strengthened, he lives in the midst of trouble and he needs revival. He needs to be drawn closer to the Lord. It's never enough. It's never enough. It's never enough. I'll tell you who needs revival, the person who's just worn out, tired. Leaned into the wind a long time and he needs to beg God for help and revival. I'll tell you who needs revival, that person who's away can't believe where they've gotten to, but they want God's help to come home. Coming home. Coming home. I wonder how many would say this morning, preacher. I'm just going to be honest. I don't care what anybody else says. I I just want to be honest. The Holy Spirit has spoken to me. Now I'm not going to tell you which category I fall in, but the Holy Spirit has spoken to me. I've heard from the Spirit of God. I know. That is a member or a friend of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm not thinking about my brother, not my sister. I'm thinking about me. There's something that you talked about this morning. I know I need Would you slip your hands up? God bless you. Many, if not most, of the hands in this room. I want to tell you, my hand is up. My hand is up. Because I want to be made conformable to him I want to be as much like Jesus as I can be. And I want to tell you I'm light years away. I'm light years away God speak to us. And I pray that you would move on our hearts. We may have thought this revival was just an evangelistic meeting, and we want people to be saved. But God, if revival is going to start in our nation, it'll be because we passionately seek you for our lives. So where we've become complacent, Speak to us. God, we want to know more of you. Where we become weary, God, speak to us. Rest is not quitting. Rest is successful service that you bless. And where we have gotten off into a land where you don't want us to be, speak to us. For those who are unsaved, give them courage and Holy Spirit, right now speak to them about their need of salvation and your love for them. And help them to come. So God, work in our hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We just quietly stand to your feet, our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Pianist is gonna play. Don't wait. God spoke to you. Just come on