First, 2 Peter chapter 1, look at verse 10 with me. Now again, this is in the in the middle of a context here. He's talking about their spiritual development. And notice he says, wherefore the rather, just what he'd been talking about before, people that did not uh do these things that were necessary to grow as a Christian, develop my faith. They weren't doing them And when they if they didn't do that, they would forget that they were purged from their sins. That's where we left off. Now he picks up and says, wherefore the rather Brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure. For if ye do these things, ye shall never fall. Boy, what a promise. If you do these things, you shall never fall. How many people here ever stumbled a little bit in your Christian life? Anybody been there? Sure. He says, if you do these things, you'll never fall. And so I just entitled it, Do These Things. So let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now. Our message tonight that you would speak to our hearts. We've got our Bibles open here in front of us, Lord. We believe, as we said this morning, we believe this is your word. We believe it's true. So I'm asking, Holy Spirit, that you would take this portion and then the truths presented here and apply it to our hearts And pray it would help us and affect us in our faith, in our walk with you. So I yield my will to you again tonight. I ask with all my heart you feel me With your Holy Spirit, Lord, as I present my body for you to use in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Some people grow old, but they never grow up. And all these many years I've uh worked with people who were senior citizens in the faith, I should say. They've been saved. By that I mean this. They were saved a long time. And I've worked with some people that were saved a brief period of time, and on occasion you come across some folks saved for a brief period of time that are actually more spiritually mature than folks who were saved for a long time Follow what I'm saying? They grew old spiritually. They grew old spiritually, but they never grew up spiritually. Somebody put it this way, some people are raised in the church, but they never get in Christ. Just because you're a church member doesn't make a person saved And so Peter is addressing these believers. And as we've emphasized through 1 Peter. Now, 2 Peter, these are folks that have been persecuted intensely. 2 Peter, I believe, if I'm reading this correctly. The persecution has died down some. It's not as intense as it had been. They're re-establishing churches. They're re-establishing somewhat of a normal Christian routine in their lives. And sometimes, if we're not careful, we can get into a rut. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And get where we're just kind of going through the motions. We talked about that a little bit yesterday morning. And Peter's cautioning them, and he's challenging them to continue to grow. Continue to work on the development of your faith. Continue to seek to be a more mature Christian, more mature faith. Some people grow old, but they never grow up. Let me show you a few verses where the Bible addresses folks like that. If you would come with me back to First Corinthians chapter number three. First Corinthians is a classic example of not just an individual, but a church full of folks, a church. That had been around for a bit of time. Paul had led people to Christ, he had organized the church, established it, put some leadership in place, and he moved on on his missionary journeys. And that church grew older, but they never grew up. Look what he says in chapter 3 of 1 Corinthians verse 1. He says, And I, brethren, and you can kind of sense the frustration on his on his heart and mind as he writes this. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual. I sense some frustration there. But I cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto what? They've been around for a while, but they didn't grow up. Bates in Christ. I fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it. Neither are ye now able. He said I had to teach you just simple little basic things, but by now you should be on to the meatier things of the faith. You should be stronger. Your Christianity should be more developed than what it is now And he's and he's frustrated with them. They were growing old, but they weren't growing up. He says, Are you not yet carnal? For as where is among you envying and strife? And he goes on and describes their condition. Come over to chapter 13 of 1 Corinthians. He touches on this again. And I think he's a little, like I said, aggravated maybe with this church's lack of development, with their immaturity. But they shouldn't be stronger than what they are. Look at verse of chapter 13. Look with me, if you would, at verse 11. He says, When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child We all understand what he's saying, but look what he says. I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I did what? Put away those childish things. Do you know what he's saying? He says, when I became a man, I grew up I grew up. A friend of mine and he's preached here uh years ago, uh Dr. uh Tom Sexton, who's bus director down at Highland Park, and we became friends. I worked under him for about three or four years probably. And he uh preached a message one time, it always stuck in my mind. He preached a message, he called it, you've sucked the bottle long enough. He's talking about a little baby, it's time to be weaned from the bottle, it's time to grow up. I think Peter is challenging these uh Christians that are kind of settling down. He compliments them tremendously earlier, and he's not he he th they're good people. And they're saved and I believe they love the Lord. But they're in danger of becoming comfortable where they're at They're in danger of just settling in and not diligently pursuing the development of their faith. And so he's addressing that In Hebrews chapter 5 we won't turn there for sake of time, but um he addresses it again, I believe it's Paul's the penman there, and he says, uh you should be teachers yourselves, and you're having to be taught. You haven't grown up. You haven't grown up. Peter's exhorting these believers to press on in the development of the phrase, press on in the maturity of their faith. Now, I'm going to jump right into it. Number one, I want us to notice here back in our text, verse 10 of 2 Peter chapter 1, I want us to notice there must be a commitment To our spiritual maturity. There must be a commitment to our spiritual development. Growing up spiritually does not just happen. I've got to decide what kind of Christian I'm going to be. I have got to decide whether I'm going to grow in my faith or not. If I just sit down and wait for it to happen, it's not going to happen. In fact, the exact opposite will happen. There will be not entropy, is that it? I'm trying to say entrophy where you're deteriorating. Atrophy I'm trying to impress you with my tremendous education and word skills. In other words, what I'm saying is If I just sit back and I don't work at growing as a Christian, I don't invest any time and effort, attention to me growing as a Christian, I'm going to deteriorate. My faith is going to get weaker. It's just the same thing physically. We don't ad if we don't uh no pain, no gain. No ad no if we don't give attention to it, it's not going to happen. And so he's telling them here, he says, you have to commit yourself to grow and develop spiritually. Look what he says. He says, wherefore the rather, brethren And he uses this word diligence. He used it three times right here in the beginning of this book. Diligence. Give diligence. To make your calling and election sure. Give diligence. The word diligence means to quickly apply myself. There's a sense of urgency behind that word diligence. Don't procrastinate in your Christian life. Be diligent about it. Oh, I'm going to be a good Christian someday. You wait and see. Well, you better be working on it now. Amen? There has to be a commitment. We've challenged in all the years of my preaching, I've challenged the people, dedicate yourself to Christ. Commit yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ and to grow in your faith and to do what needs to be done for me to mature. Be the Christian God saved me to be, the Christian that God intends for me to be. There must be development there. That word diligence is the exact opposite of negligence Don't neglect your spiritual growth. And I think on the part of many Christians in this day and age, there's tremendous neglect. of the ch uh spiritual growth. I take very seriously the responsibility of the church and as pastor of the church to stir people up, to not neglect their spiritual growth, but provoke God's people to grow. And do what needs to be done. So he says, give diligence to this. Commit yourself to this. Spiritual growth, as I said, does not just happen. Spiritual maturity does not just happen. My faith is not going to be strong if I don't apply myself, if I don't commit to developing a strong faith. When I commit to that and I determine and give all diligence to grow in my faith, then I believe God steps in and helps us. Just like physical health and physical well-being requires commitment, diligent effort, so spiritual health requires commitment and diligent effort. So Peter's calling on these believers, and I believe through the pages of Scripture, Peter and God the Holy Spirit is calling you and I on a new year to commit ourselves To grow spiritually and mature spiritually. Wouldn't it be a shame if we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and He says, I couldn't deal with you as spiritual, I had to deal with you as a baby Christian. Wouldn't that be a shame? So there must be commitment. There must be commitment. Number two, I put this down, there must be a confirmation of my salvation. Now he touches on something here in the middle of verse 10 that I think is vitally important to spiritual development, to grow spiritually, and that is this, I must have assurance of my salvation. And he sticks it right in there. Look what he says. Give all diligence. Now look, to make your calling and election short. Now, he's not telling us that we have to do something to be saved. He references these things. And I think he's back talking about verse 5 through 7. We'll look at that here in a moment. And don't misunderstand. Don't get in your head. Don't let some false teacher or preacher tell you that we have to do something to be saved. We are not saved by works. We are not saved by things we do. We're not saved by the lifestyle we live. Adding to my faith virtue and the virtue knowledge and the knowledge temperance and the temperance patience and the patience godliness and the godliness of brotherly love and adding to brotherly love charity that is not what saves me It's one thing that saves me and one thing alone, trusting what Jesus Christ did for me on the cross. So he's not telling us that we have to do certain things to be saved. And he's certainly not telling us we have to do certain things to stay saved. Now here's the thing. He says, giving all diligence He says, make your calling. How's he wording? He says, make your calling and election sure. He's not saying, all right, you got to do some things to make your election sure, to make your salvation secure. I wasn't here long as a pastor, and there was a family member of one of the members, and for I I could never remember who what family it was, but there was a family member that passed away. And they had a funeral out, it was another church, they attended another church, and I wasn't doing the funeral, but I attended it because it was a kin of one of our church folk, and it was out in the valley, if I remember, some church out in the valley The preacher was doing the funeral and he was talking about Christ dying on the cross for our sins, being buried and rose again. He's talking about salvation. And I'm sitting there quietly in my pew, as by myself, and sitting there quietly saying, amen. He's given the gospel. Jesus died, buried, rose again. And then he said something that I believe is directly contrary to Scripture. He says, now you've got to live it. And these are his words, quoting, he said, you've got to live it, or you're going to lose it. And that is not true. Listen, I'm not saved by how I live my life, and I don't stay saved by how I live my life. I'm saved by faith in Christ. It is Christ that did what needed to be done for me to be saved, and it is Christ that does what needs to be done for me to stay saved. My salvation is not based on me or my actions, and my assurance, security of my salvation is not based on me or my actions. And we will be, we have been, and we will continue to be crystal clear that once a person is saved, they are secure in that salvation. It cannot be lost under any circumstances. I'm as secure, I am as sure of heaven. As a believer in Jesus Christ, I am as sure of heaven as if I am already there. Study Ephesians. Says we're already there, as far as God's concerned. And so he's not when he says make your call and election short, some people, false prophets, take that and run with it and say, oh, you've got a Make sure you've got to do this and you've got to do that so you can be sure to be saved. No, no, no. He's saying, listen, you've got to have this settled. We do not do anything to get saved. We don't do anything to stay saved. Jesus Christ has done it all that needs to be done. All we do is simply receive it. Look there In verse number one, he puts it this way. To them who have obtained like precious faith. In other words, we don't do anything. We don't work for salvation. We don't earn it. We simply by faith receive it It's just a gift of God. A gift. Listen, if somebody offers me a gift and then requires that I pay for it, is that a gift? No, it's a what? It's a purchase. If somebody offers me something, then they say, all right, you've got to pay for it, I'm buying it off of them. That's not a gift. If somebody offers me something then requires that I do some work to obtain it, is that a gift? No, that's a payment. I'll give you this, you do this work. God doesn't sell salvation and we can't earn salvation. It's a gift we receive by faith. I mean people already understand that. We're just saying that to keep it front and center, that we're saved by grace through faith, plus nothing, minus nothing. Just keeping it there. So he says, make your short, make a uh make a uh there must be a confirmation of my salvation that I know I've been saved and it's Settled in my heart and mind. That's what he's saying. That word sure there in verse 10 means this. It means to make firm, to be steadfast, secure. We're saved by faith in Christ and we're secure by the Word of God. Now again, we're going to look at a few verses here. Keep your place here. Come with me to 2 Timothy 1. Second Timothy chapter one. I hate preachers that drink water in front of me when they're preaching. Always makes me thirsty, but I have this little device in my mouth and it's bothered me. 2 Timothy chapter 1, look with me if you would at verse 12. How many people would agree with me Apostle Paul was a saved man? Yeah, absolutely. By the way, he was saved the same way the little bus kid gets saved. Faith in Christ. Same way an old wino gets saved. Same way a uh an ex-drug addict preacher gets saved Paul is saved the same way. Look what he says. For the which cause, verse 12, I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. Look at this. For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that what's the next word? He is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Who's doing the keeping here? Paul or Jesus? Jesus, he's the one that keeps it. He says, I know whom I believed. Paul knew he was saved, and he knew he was secure in his salvation. That the Lord would keep him. The Lord would keep him. I'm glad that Jesus keeps me saved. If he wasn't doing it, I'd be lost. I'd have been lost within hours after I got saved, probably. If it was up to me. So he says, make sure, make sure. And we won't turn there. 1 John 5:13, many of y'all know that verse. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may Know that ye have eternal life. Now you may believe on the name of the Son of God. This morning we had a young man king uh uh get uh had concerns about his salvation, Pastor Matt talked to him. He had been saved previously, but he did not have assurance of his salvation. And I'll tell you, I shout as much over somebody having assurance of their salvation as I do them getting saved in the first place. Thank God for that. And so he's saying, he's saying, Listen, there needs to be a commitment if you're going to grow spiritually, if you're going to grow up and not be a baby Christian anymore And develop your faith and be what God intends to be, you're going to have to make a commitment. You're going to have to invest time and effort, attention to that. There needs to be some discipline to do what needs to be done if I'm going to grow. It doesn't just happen And then he says there needs to be a real confirmation of your salvation. Don't go around wondering whether you're saved or not. You need that settled. Make sure that your salvation is settled and secured. Apparently this may have been an issue with these believers. Perhaps they had somehow they maybe had some questions there. And he's saying, listen, you need to make sure that you need to confirm the fact that you're saved. And you need to know it. And last of all, let me quickly give you a third thought. There must be a continuation in the Christian disciplines. Number one, a commitment. Number two, confirmation that, yep, I know I'm saved. I'm trusting in Christ. He's saving me, he's keeping me safe. And then there needs to be a continuation. Salvation is not a goal achieved. It is a new life begun. The start of something new. Uh sometimes I think people and we have to be careful when we present salvation, and Pastor Matt's got a really good class on Thursday nights on on lessons on how to share the gospel, how to be a soul winner. We have to be careful about that. I think sometimes we people give the impression that once they get saved, oh that's it, and uh everything's settled and I can just go on with my life. It's actually, if any man be in Christ, he's a it's the beginning of a new life. It's the beginning. How many people here ever stop and think what you would be if you didn't never came to Christ? Anyone ever think about that? Good heavens. Probably be dead But when we come to Christ, he changes our lives. It's a beginning of a new life. And we've got to continue in what is required to grow. Let's look at what he says here. He says, wherefore the rather, brethren Give diligence to make your calling election sure. Then he makes a statement, for if ye do these things. Ye shall never fall. Boy, that caught my attention. Never fall. I don't want to fall, do you? I don't want to mess up. He says, if you do these things, you'll never fall. The word do there is interesting. We have a, well, you just go do that. But it it has the idea here, the word it comes from has the idea to do persistently It's not just to go do it, but do it, keep doing it, keep doing it, keep doing it. There is a lot of redundancy in the Christian life. Get up sun get up in the morning, Monday morning, read your Bible, pray, do what you need to do, morning devo uh morning devotions, um hopefully put on some deodorant and um maybe uh take a shower, clean up, get some decent clothes. And uh you go through that little routine. Tuesday morning, guess what? Get up and do what? Same thing over again. Wednesday, do the same thing over again. Thursday, do the same thing. Friday, same thing. Sunday. Sunday, time for church. We went to church last Sunday. Oh yeah? Do it again And just keep doing it over and over and over. And that's what he's saying here is there's some things you just need to keep working at. You just need to keep doing it. Just need to stay at it. Every now and then some preacher will come up with a sermon or they'll write a book, The Secret to the Christian Life. I'm here to tell you there ain't no secrets. There are just some basic things you gotta do over and over and over He says, if you do these things persistently, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. I think one of the keys to spiritual development is good old-fashioned down-home faithfulness. Doing what I'm supposed to do, when I'm supposed to do it, where I'm supposed to do it. Says if you do these things, now what are the these things? I spilled the beans earlier in the message. These things are the things listed In verse 5, 6, and 7. In fact, he keeps, in the next 10 verses, he keeps referring back to these things. These things, verse number eight, for if these things be in you, verse number nine, he that lacketh these things, verse five through eight, uh seven, uh verse ten, these things, verse twelve, these things, verse fifteen, these things. I get the impression that these eight things he lists here are pretty important to my spiritual growth. He says, if you do them, you're not going to fall. You're not going to fall. If you add to your faith virtue. You get saved, you put your faith in Christ. Alright, add to that doing right. Virtue is moral excellence Just do right. You say, well, what does that mean? That means you tell the truth all the time. Means you work eight hours for an eight-hour pay. Give eight hours of work for eight-hour pay. Amen? It means you're honest, you're faithful, you have integrity. So you got saved? You got saved? Praise the Lord. That's wonderful. Now add to your faith, doing right. Keep your word Keep the garbage out of the house. Careful what you watch, what you read, what you listen to. Get that ungodly music out of the house. Come on now. It's called virtue. It's virtue. And he says, add to that, add to virtue knowledge. And we've already preached on these. And he goes down through it. And he says if you'll keep doing these things, keep adding these things, these seven, eight things here, if you keep doing that, you will never fall Now the question is, what does he mean by fall? What are you talking about? We never fall. Is he saying you'll never lose your salvation? Well, we've already established that. Weren't you listening? We just said a few minutes ago, you can't lose your salvation. He's not when he says you'll never fall, he doesn't say you'll never lose your salvation. That's not what he's talking about here. The word fall here means to stumble, to trip. Oh, excuse me. And uh Means you're not looking, you stumble over something and lose their salvation, but in your Christian life, in your Christian development, you stumble and you you're not growing like you should You've fallen in your spiritual growth. It's not falling from grace. The Bible's clear that that doesn't happen. But I fall in my walk with God, I fall in my testimony. Did you know that you and I can work, some of you young people can work. In your Christian testimony in school, if you have unsaved parents, you can work on that, and you and I can have a work at a Christian testimony for 15, 20 years, and one night of stupidity ruin that whole testimony. One stupid foolish action and ruin it all. You know what that's stumbling in my Christian life. He says if you'll do these seven, eight things, add to your faith, virtue, virtue, knowledge, knowledge uh patience uh temperance, temperance, patience, patience, godliness, godliness, brotherly kindness, brother kindness, charity. If you'll keep on adding that, keep on working that keep on working that keep on working that you're not gonna you won't mess your testimony up You'll have a good clean testimony. You can walk a good clean Christian life. Doesn't say you won't ever sin. That's not what we're saying. But we don't stumble. You say how can you not stumble? How can you sin and not stumble? Easy. When you sin you confess it, you get up and go on. You deal with it the way the Bible says. And so there needs to be a continuance. Stick at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Do you know what a veteran is? You know what a veteran is? A veteran is a rookie that never quit. Right? He stayed at it He just kept doing what he was supposed to do. He just kept following instructions, kept doing what he was told, kept being a good soldier, and became a veteran. You know what a mature godly Christian is? Grown-up Christian? Mature grown-up Christian? What is this? Christian just does what they're supposed to do and just keeps on doing it. Just keeps on doing it Doing virtuously, studying their Bible, gaining knowledge, being godly, brotherly kindness, loving the way God loves us. Just keep on doing that, keep on doing that. So mother prepared a big meal, special meal for her family. She had a bunch of kids, four or five kids, and dad. Some special day. She put a big meal together. Boy, she had uh uh she had turkey, roast turkey, and uh she had mashed potatoes Gravy all over the mashed potatoes. She had corn. Not just corn. She had creamed corn. How do you people like creamed corn? I didn't have I ate a long time ago, and so I'm describing what I want. She had green beans, cranberry sauce. Can I get an amen there? Not much. Apple pie and ice cream for dessert. How about that? She prepared the spig meal. Alright, so kids! Dinner's ready, come on in. I made something special. These kids come running in. They had prayer. House smelled all this food. These kids piled in there there. They said grace. Those kids dug into that meal, I mean, just devouring it. And one of her boys sat there and he was just kind of picking at it. And she watched them and everybody's just cleaning the plate up and licking the bones and I mean they're just licking their plates and they're and the one boy's just kind of picking there. She goes, What's the matter? He said, uh I'm not hungry. And she said, what in the world? I got this big meal. I prepared this. Everybody's loving it. Why are you not hungry? He said, because I've been snacking on junk food all afternoon. And it took away his hunger for that which was good for him. And right. You know why I think some of us don't add to our faith virtue and the virtue knowledge and the knowledge Temperance, pench, temperance, patience, patience, godliness, godliness, brother kindness, brother kindness, charity. You know why so? Because we've been eating the junk food of the world and we've lost our desire to grow and be the Christian God wants us to be. And I'm here to tell you what the world has to offer is a sorry substitute for what God has for us. Let's commit ourselves. 2024, I'm going to grow. I want to be a strong, mature Christian. I want to do what God tells me here and add these things, these disciplines, let's add these to my life so I can be not a babe, a mature babe in Christ, but a strong godly man and woman of faith, a teenager of faith. Strong. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven I ask you bless us. Help us, Lord, to just commit to this, not play around with our Christian life. Now play around with your word and what you instruct us. Help us take it seriously. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I'll just put us all on the spot tonight. How about that? I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, I'm willing to commit myself this next year to grow and be that Christian God wants me to be, to add these things to do diligently. Add these things to my Christian life. I'm going to work at it. I'm going to make a commitment to be the Christian God wants me. Any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher. That's my prayer this coming year. I want to commit to that. Now he's not writing to new Christians. He's writing to seasoned Christians, been a long time. He says, you need to work at this. You need to commit to this. Maybe an old altar on the first Sunday night of the year, an old Baptist church, kneel and say, God, I'm committing myself to grow and give the attention and effort that's required To grow and develop my faith the way you intend for me to be. Father, bless our imitation, help us. In Jesus' name, let's stand against