Uh announcement I will be taking the tape table down fairly quickly uh after the service. So if you are interested in getting any more preaching tapes or preaching sermons, uh uh music CDs, anything like that, if you can head back there right after the service 'cause I'll be uh yanking that thing down uh fairly quickly after the service. Been great to be able to be here again. Always enjoy coming. And uh some places uh uh some places when you come you look forward to leaving And uh you know you leave with a good case of frostbite, but it's always good to look forward to coming here. I mean that. And uh you feel like when you leave your batteries have been recharged. I'm talking about the speaker I I just uh I just uh I think one of the great compliments you can give a church is when you come to it, you just feel at home. And uh I just feel at home here Really do. And uh good to see familiar faces and uh folks that are not just church members anymore, but you've become friends And uh I do appreciate the kindness and the hospitality uh that's been extended to me. And uh y you know it's odd you even have visited Jerry, right? Jerry, you know, is it Jerry? No, not who's the guy the Greg, Greg, you know I Greg says, Well how long are you going to preach tonight? And normally when a visitor says that, you know, you you really get on you know you get on guard, you know, I said, Well I I I I'll be short and no no no no he says, I want you to be long tonight. That's odd for a visitor, isn't it? Of course he died anyway, amen I had somebody come up to me tonight and said, Brother Baron, you said you've been around the block a few times. Yeah, I've been around the block, I've been at this forty years. They said, Well could you just before you leave tonight, could you just could you just give us some things that you've learned in life? And I thought, well, yeah, is that okay? Would you like to hear a couple things I've learned in life? I I let me let me give I just jotted a couple things down here just real quick, okay? Give you a couple things that I've learned in life since since somebody asked anyway. Here's a real important thing that I've learned in life It's always darkest before dawn. I I I haven't finished yet. We just I I'm I'm waiting to see where you're going. It's always darkest before dawn, so if you're gonna steal your neighbor's newspaper, that's the time to do it. Amen Here's something else I've learned in life. If you can't swim, never test the depth of water with two both feet If you think nobody cares if you're alive, try missing a couple car payments Here's something else I've learned. This is really a great thought. Before you criticize somebody, you should walk a mile in their shoes. That way when you criticize them, you're a mile away and you've got their shoes. Another great thought here. If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is probably not for you. Here's another great thought. This is a good one. This is what I live by right here. If you lend somebody twenty dollars and never see that person again, it was probably a wise investment Huh? Hey, here's another great thought. Some days you're the bug, some days you're the windshield. You meditate on that. There's a great truth there, amen. Here's another one. Everybody seems normal till you get to know them. Right, Gary? Right, Greg? Let me give you let me give you one more here. There are two theories to arguing with women Neither one of them work. Amen. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to John chapter 17. John chapter 17. Hope that little bit of wisdom helped you there a little bit. Amen. John Chapter Seventeen And I'm going to begin reading in verse one These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal. That they might notice these two words here, that they might know thee. The only true God and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I want to bring you a message tonight. Here's the title, Do You Really Know God? Or just know God. There's the big difference there, you know that? Think about what I just said. I believe the vast majority, you say, how many? 98% of Christians. That's a lot. But I think I know what I'm talking about a little bit. I believe the vast majority of Christians go through life and all they know is know God. Would you really like to know God or just know God? Big difference. I want to talk to you about that tonight. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening Lord, I pray that we would uh that we would understand that what we're about to preach on tonight, it it it in reality, it wraps up, it literally wraps up every single thing that we've preached on this week. From prayer to soul winning to revival to every aspect of the Christian life. When we walk out of here tonight, we have a choice. We can go through life, oh, we're saved. We can go through life and We can just know God. Or we can be one of the few that know God on a level that very other few Christians Ever get to know a one. Help us to choose the best. Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, if you study your Bible, the Bible teaches us Not only the possibility of knowing God, but it's also our duty to know God. Do you ever stop and think about this? As we go through life, think about this, as we go through life, are there not certain advantages, are there not certain benefits to knowing certain types of people? Huh? How would you like to uh have as your best friend Somebody that is a certified master auto mechanic, a professional candyman, plumber, electrician, and he was your best friend that couldn't do enough for you. Would there not be an advantage to having somebody like that as a close friend? Huh? But now get a hold of this. We forget this. As much as there are benefits to knowing certain types of people in this life, there are far more benefits to knowing God. Show what I'm talking about here. While back ago I was preaching down in Pepsi Cola, Florida. Got on the plane to fly back home Philadelphia. When we got on the plane, the pilot said yes. She said, folks, and I already I already knew there were going to be some problems. She said, Oh my, we had to go through Atlanta. The death trap of airports. He said uh he said uh uh folks he said uh it was US Air. He said uh he said uh Th th there's storms all up and down the East Coast. I'm just letting you know before you you you change your flights in Atlanta, he said uh uh the flights have completely been disrupted. A lot of them canceled, a lot of them delayed He said, so uh as soon as we land, he said, you need to go and check the board to find out if you're gonna make it to your destination. And uh so we landed in uh Atlanta and uh I ran to the U. S. Air Board, I looked at all the Philadelphia flights one after another, canceled, canceled, canceled, canceled. But there was one that said, on time. But it wasn't mine And so uh I ran to the US air counter and uh I said, ma'am, I said uh I said uh I I I'm supposed to catch a flight uh to Philadelphia. I said, my flight's canceled. I said, but and that's all I got out of my mind. I said, I said, but she goes, sir. She said, I know what you're gonna say. She said, you can forget it She said uh that one flight that made it in before the storm ship that's on time, she said uh that flight is not only packed. She said, but there is a waiting list a mile long. And I looked at her, and I got a you you can probably tell by this, but I have a sense of humor. And so I looked at her, I said, Well, are you trying to tell me that I'm not getting out tonight? And she just looks, she goes, Yeah I said, well, when do you think I might get out? She goes, at the earliest tomorrow morning. I couldn't believe it. They gave me a I'm used to this by now, but they gave me an eight hundred number. You can go there they have a little area where you can in in Atlanta we can go over and You you they they'll rearrange your flight connections and everything. So I I've got the eight hundred number and uh I turned around to go to to to make that phone call And uh I've got my roll-on bag. Y'all know what I'm talking about, my black roll-on bag. But my black roll-on bag is unique. You say, what do you mean by that? I've got stitched right in the middle, a giant Bright Pro Russian orange, Marine Corps emblem. You can't miss it I turned around and I'm pulling that thing. And all of a sudden behind me I hear, hey Marine, I stopped. Turned around and looked. There was a U. S. Air captain. He said, You a Marine? I said, Yes, sir. What's a Marine? Always a Marine. Not like the army, amen. Where's he at? There you go. Yeah. Army. A R M Y ain't ready to be a Marine yet, amen. But that's you know I hate to pick on you, brother Is that the one that's been skipping out of church? Shame on you. You oughta come a little bit more I said, yes sir. He said, I used to be a Marine Corps pot and instantly, anybody that's been in the military, instantly that that bond, that connection was made. And uh we sat there and uh we were talking about our careers and where we've been and what we've done and everything and and uh we're just there talking. He said, Well he said, Where where are you headed? I said, Well I said uh I was headed to Philadelphia. He said that he said those flights are I said yes sir. I said uh there's only one flight that uh is on time and he said I said that's overbooked. I said I said it looks like I'm gonna be sleeping at the airport tonight And he looked at me and he said, uh, you got your ticket? I said, yes, sir. He says, give it to me. Yes, sir. I gave him my ticket. He says, you wait right here. I stood right there He went back up to the counter, and from afar, I began to interpret the dialogue, which got real intense. He's there like this doing that and she's going like this here and he's going down and that and finally she she just almost she threw him the phone Punch some numbers in, he's on there, he's talking and everything. Finally he gives her the phone, she does a little bit, he comes back, big smile on his face, he says, You're on the flight. He said, Not only are you on that flight, he said, but I got you a seat on the ex ship road. Now, I didn't ask him who got bumped Probably some guy in the army of the air force, amen? But I'm going to tell you something. Even think about this. Even with a casual acquaintance, there are some tremendous advantages. Am I not right? But folks, listen, let me say it again. There are some unbelievable benefits to really knowing God. And there are so few of us that ever realize that, or go a step further, cash in on those benefits. Or we say something like this: here's what we say. Well, brother Baron, I've been going to Mount Lake and Avenue Baptist Church for 20 years. I know God. Well, that's true in a sense. When you got saved, you knew God, but only a little. John 17, 3. And this is life eternal that they might know thee. But you need to understand something tonight. Salvation is only the beginning of your Christian life. It is only the beginning of the long journey of knowing God. There is so much more to know if you want to grow and have a great relationship with the Lord. Uh people say, well, well, Brother Barrett, you know, I've been going to the institute. You know, I know well wait a minute. When we say something like that, well I know God What we're saying is we're better off than Paul. Think about that. You say, what do you mean by that? I could take you over to Philippians chapter 3 and verse 10. You don't have a familiar verse. Well Philippians chapter 3 and verse 10, at that point in time in Philippians chapter 3, Paul is now an old man. Think of everything that Paul has done, everything that Paul has experienced. And then in Philippians 3:10, Paul says this that I may know him. It's almost as if Paul didn't know the Lord when in fact he knew the Lord for 30 years. Think of the trials, the persecution, the theology, the sermons that the Apostle Paul left us. Now Paul's in the innermost prison for Christ's sake, and uh after 30 years he writes this letter and he says That I may know him. And we would say, Paul, don't you know him? And he would say, Oh yeah, I know him, but there's so much more to know. If you really want to get to know the Lord. And when you get to know Him, the more you know Him, the better the Say it. Boy, I think do I need to start over again? Come on. I know it's the last night, but let's not put up the middle block. Amen. The more you know them, the better the Benefits. Come on now. Stay with me. Now, here's what I want to do. I want to give you, hey, by the way, only a two-point sermon tonight. I'm sorry, Greg. Two for two thoughts, two thoughts to really knowing God and then reaping the benefits. But can I say this? Both of the thoughts, get this, are interlocked. Are you with me? You can't do the one without the other. If you do the one without the other, they're worthless. But they are so, so important. I believe, you know, we could say one of the great secrets. It's really not a secret. We just don't want to do it. But it really is one of the great, great secrets. To really getting to know God and therefore reaping the benefits. And I hope you'll see this by the time we're done. What do you do? Let me give it to you real quickly here. First of all, look in Psalm chapter 40 section. Look at verse 10. Psalm chapter 46 and verse 10. Two simple thoughts, two simple steps, but I believe they are the crux of the Christian life. Psalm 46, look at verse 10. What do the first two words say? As soon as you get there, what are the first two words? Be still, be still, and what's the next word? There it is. There it is. Be still and know that I am God. Here's the first step. Be still. Do you know what the hardest thing for a lot of us to do in the day and age that we're living in? Sit down, shut up, and steal yourself. Huh? Hey, come on. Don't we live in a busy day and age? Hey, I don't know about you, but it almost seems like from 5 o'clock in the morning till 11 o'clock at night, we are on the go. We wake up, we're running here, we're running there, we're planning this, we're doing that, and oh hey, we're getting a lot, we're getting a lot done. Hey, we mig I'd even be getting a lot of good done, but in the process We never really get to know God. Stay with me. I'm taking you somewhere. What does God say? Be still and know that I am God. God's saying this. If you want to really get to know me, there has to be a time in your life, a regular time in your life Where you fold up your wings, you shut down your mind, listen, and then you give me a chance to deal with you. How in the world are we ever going to know what God wants us to do, how God wants us to live? what God's will is for our life if we don't sit down still ourselves and listen to what God has to say. You say, well, Pishu, you've got me thoroughly confused now. Man, I I pray every day and I read my Bible. That's not what I'm talking about. It's completely different. Hey listen. Have you ever tried to talk to an obnoxious person? Huh? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Anybody ever do that? We get up in the morning. Oh Lord, help me here. I need this. Oh Lord, this and this. Thank you, Lord. And we're going out the door and the Lord goes, uh-uh, And we have never given the Lord a chance to deal with what he says. Be still and know that I am God. You say, Well, Brother Barons. What's God sound like? If you'd still yourself and listen, you'd know. You'd begin to recognize the voice of God. Kind of like two guys walking down a busy city street. One guy stopped the other, says, you I mean noise, I mean car horns, people, I mean everything, stopped his friend, he says, you hear that cricket? He said, white. He says, how can you hear a cricket with all this noise going on? Guy, uncovered some leaves and there was a cricket. Turned to look at his friend, smiled at him, and said, You hear what you listen for. And that's the same way it is, folks, in the spiritual realm. If you still yourself, hey, listen to me, it may take some time, but if you still yourself, shut out the busy day and age. All the worries, all the cares, after a while, listen, after a while, you'll hear when God speaks Our our problem is we're we're sometimes hey listen, sometimes we can get like little kids. Say what do you mean? Have you ever tried to tell a little five-year-old to sit still? They've got the attention span of a hamster. Huh? Sort of like a hummingburg. Huh? Am I not right? That Josh We're so busy, hey, we don't even recognize when God's speaking. How many guys here have been in the military? I know Jerry and that couple of guys You know, if you've been in the military, every doesn't matter what branch you're in, every branch in the military, when you're going through boot camp, teaches close order drill. Right guys? But I think we'd be in agreement here on that. At least I hope we would The Marine Corps is fanatical about close order drill. Can I get speed little amen there? If you doubt me, take a trip down to Washington, D. C. , go to Eighth and I watch the silent drill team. When a recruit in the Marine Corps, when you when a down Paris Island, when they go through boot camp, they spend hundreds of hours on close order drill in the Marine Corps. The relationship though between the drill instructor and the recruit in the Marine Corps is unique Every drill instructor, I spent two years as a drill instructor at Pierce Island, South Carolina, taught young boys to be Marines. The relationship between the drill instructor and the recruit is unique. It's unique in this way. Every drill instructor, everyone, no exceptions, has his own unique style of cadence. There are no two alike. Believe it or not, they aren't. No two are ever, you make up your own. It is like a foreign language. Are you with me? It's like a second language. And so, let me show you what I'm talking about. Uhaloo, a dalo tal Lo talo, Ada Lo Ada Lo Tallo Now, tell me what I just said To save your life, you've got to tell me what I just said. You don't have a clue. You don't know what I just said? Can you tell me what I just said? You you can't? I mean I understood perfectly what I was saying Now you know what get this. That's exactly the response of the recruit. They stay the first day, I mean I don't like it, the first day go, huh? I I thought English was the primary language. Huh? What in the world is he saying? Come on! I mean there's already pressure on him And now he's thinking, I didn't know I was going to have to learn a second language. I'm not going to make it through. I'm not kidding you. And they're not laughing like you are. So watch this. So what do they do? Here's what they do. Immediately they begin to focus. I mean, an intense focus. On that language. Are you with me? On those words. On the inflections. I mean, every little influence. They are intent. They are focused on that. The first day, they don't have a clue. The second day, they don't have a clue. Five, six days later, they're thinking, oh wait, whoa, whoa, whoa. I I think I recognize that. We can fast forward now. About four weeks, five weeks into boot camp, you can have those recruits out on the parade deck. Round uh seventeen hundred in the day. That's if you're in the army, that's five o'clock, you know. If you're in the navy, that's when Mickey Big Hands on the twelve and his little Yeah. But you can have that platoon out there. I'm not kidding ya That drill instructor can walk up a hundred feet behind them. All the noise of the parade get going on. That drill instructor can walk up behind. They don't even know he's there. He can call that platoon to attention. They immediately recognize that voice and snap to attention. That is exactly how it works in the spiritual realm, folks. But so often we don't recognize that it is God speaking to us because we don't focus on it. We don't spend time listening. You say, why is that so important? You'll see why after step two, but listen, I'll tell you why it's so important now. Because so often, because we don't recognize the voice of God, we don't have a clue as to what to do in the Christian life. That's why so many of us stray out and get out of God's will. Come on. We make wrong decisions. We make dumb decisions The decisions that we ought to make, we don't make them. Because we don't even realize that God is trying to speak to us. So the first thing that he says, be still. You know one of the great decisions you can make in life? One of the greatest decisions I ever made You know one of the great decisions you could make in your life if you'd never done it? Promise God this. I'm going to start giving God 10 minutes. Of my life every morning. Is that very long? Now I'm going to tell you something. Once you begin to recognize God speaking to you, it'll go longer than 10 minutes. Great decision, though. Listen, I'm telling you, a great decision. I'm gonna start starting tomorrow morning. I'm gonna still myself. I'm not gonna think about problems, care, school, work, cleaning house, whatever it might be. I'm gonna still myself. Do not think of anything. And I'm going to work on this until I can hear and recognize the voice of God. Number one, be still. Then number two, remember the two are inner channels, you can't you can't uh take one without the other Number two, look at John chapter seven, verse seventeen. John chapter seven, verse seventeen If any man will do his will, did you get that? Do his will. He shall, what's that next word? No. There it is again. Do his will. He shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. First one, be still. Learn to recognize the voice of God. Then, when you recognize the voice of God, do His will. What's that? Obedience. Whatever God tells you, listen, you may not understand it. You may not understand why. But when you learn to recognize the voice of God, I'm going to tell you something, you better obey. We better do it. Let me make a statement here. I've got it written in my Bible. You can learn more about God in one day of obedience than you'll learn about Him in a lifetime of disobedience. Let me say that again. You will learn more about God in one day of obedience than you can learn about Him in a lifetime Of disobedience. I'll make you an absolute guarantee. When you begin to learn to recognize God speaking to you And then you obey him, I mean with absolute submission. You're going to get to know God, really get to know God on a level that very few people ever get to know them on. And when you get to know them on that level, then you begin to reap the what. The benefits. The benefits. You know what I think? From me on down, I think someday all of us are going to be shocked. Stunned. Disappointed about what we've missed out on because we didn't obey. Because we never thought, you know what? We never thought to try and even recognize what God's saying. And then even if we did, we didn't want to obey it, because we wanted to do our thing. Let me show you how important this is. When we went into a you you remember when I went into evangelism. When when you go into evangelism, I mean you live by faith He's already made you live off love offerings. That's it. You know, we don't have any secret stashes or anything like that. You know, which we did, but we don't. And so when you go into evangelism, you step out by it's scary. I mean it is scary And uh and uh also when you when you when you first go out it is quiet. I mean it you know, until people realize, you know, that you're in evangelism and Liv they realize now where you live and stuff like that. I mean it is quiet and and uh finances are tight and and uh you know you're you're just praying, Lord I know you want me to do this, you know, but so you know, you're gonna have to take care of me. Does that make sense? Come on. I mean that's what we prayed. Lord, I know you want me to hit you, but you know you're gonna have to you're gonna have to take care of this thing. Things were quiet. And that's the situation we were when we went into evangelism. I went out one day, things were quiet, just went into evangelism, didn't have any meetings booked yet. Went out one day and got the mail and uh There was a letter there from a church. It was just a church envelope. And I'd never even heard of the church before. And I opened it up and there was a uh a flyer in there for a revival meeting. But when I looked at the town, the town was about four and a half hours from my house. Long way, amen? Think about four and a half hours. So when I saw how far the trip was, what did I do with the brochure? Help me out here. Trash can. Amen. I mean, that that, you know Trash can. I kid you not. As soon as that flyer hit the trash can, God spoke. And he said, I want you to go to that meeting. When God spoke, I heard God speak. Now not audibly, but you know, he just speaks in your heart. As soon as he said that, I said what? No, I said no. I'm just like you. Come on. That's it. I want you to go. I said, Well, I'm not going that beaten. I said, Lord, did you forget how far away? I mean that's four and a half hours. That's a whole day. That's a lot of gas. We didn't have money back yet. And uh so I walked to it, one five minutes later. Five minutes later, God says, I want you to go to the meeting. A couple minutes later, th this whole thing didn't it wasn't more than fifteen minutes. He came back again, he said, Bill, that's what he calls me when he gets mad. Bill, I want you to go to the meeting. I said, Okay, Lord. Now I didn't have a I'll be honest, I didn't have a good attitude. But I knew God wanted me, and I said, okay, I'll do it. I went to Marley, I said, hon, I said, uh, I said, I'm gonna go, I had to dig it out of the trash. I went tomorrow. I said, Hannes, I'm going to go to this meeting. She goes, that's a long way away. I said, I know. I said, God wants me to go. I said, you want to go with me? She goes, nope. God didn't tell her. So I got in my car, started driving, listen, and I didn't have a good attitude. I didn't really have a good attitude. I just knew God wanted me to do it. Okay, I'll do it. Part way there I started to try and adjust my attitude. And I'm thinking, you know Probably the reason that God wants me to go here is so that I can learn something about revival meeting. I never held a revival meeting. Now I'm thinking that's probably what God wants me. He wants to teach me something So I drove there, I got there, I'll never forget this, pulled in the parking lot, the pastor and the evangelist were standing out in front of the church. I walked up, I introduced myself, I said, hi, I said, I said, I'm Bill Barrens. The evangelist looked at me and goes. Bill Behrens. He said, didn't you just go to evangelism? I said, yeah. The pastor looked at me and says, You an evangelist? I said, Yes, sir. He said duh. You know he said I don't have any book buddy book next year. He says, You got anything open next year I'm thinking take your pick, it's pure white. Amen. I mean the slate is clean, you know. But I looked at 'em. Now, right now my mind my mind my my heart's thumping. You know, back in those days when I got one meeting, I was I was I was on a high for a month. And uh and uh I should wash it out, you know I think we can work something out. Now Right then, get this right down. Am I getting happy that I obeyed that I was able to hear and obey Am I come? I'm thinking, hey, I haven't even hit the door yet and I got a meeting. I go back and I'm shit right about in here. And uh the evangelist gets up and he says, Brother Bear, stand up. He says, stand up. He said he said, I want you to know, brother, we got uh evangelists here. He said, he just went in evangelism. He said, he said, uh, you pray for him. He said this is what he said. He says, you pray for him. He said twenty-five out of twenty-six guys go into evangelism never make it And I'm thinking he didn't have to say that. He said, Well you people pray for him and everybody, oh yeah, we'll pray for him. I said that Hey and and I learned something. I did, I learned something that night Now, right about then, am I getting I'm happy. Come on. I'm I'm thinking, boy, I tell you what, I'm number one, I I sure am glad I was able to hear God's voice. Number two, I am glad I am really glad that I obeyed. Number one, I learned something. Number two, I got a meeting. Service is over. People are, you know, walking around. Some old lady, I mean, sweet old lady, Christian old lady, about 80 years old. She walks up. She goes, Oh brother Bear, she says, I want you to know I want to be praying for your meeting, or you for your for your uh ministry. I said, Well, thank you very much. Paper. Huh? Paper. Now I'll tell you what you don't do. You don't go, oh, no, you don't do that. You put it in your pocket And you go to the restroom. I put it in my pocket, and I calmly walk to the restroom. When I got in the restroom and the door closed, I opened up, it was a check for a hundred dollars. I'm up to I learned something. I got a meeting, I got a hundred bucks in my pocket Woo I'll walk out. Another old lady walks up Oh, Brother Barrett, I'm gonna be playing for you. God bless you. Thank you. I ran in there. I opened it up. Another chap. Six hundred dollars. I'm now up to seven hundred dollars I gotta meet him. I learned something. I hit that restroom door. I'm looking for old ladies. Forget the men, forget the teenagers. I'm looking For white-haired old ladies. Amen. I'm shaking hands with all of them, amen But nobody else had paper. But I'm telling you sir, hey, listen, can you tell I'm still excited about it tonight Man, I'll tell you what, you talk about being keyed up. Man, I needed a shot of ripple. I mean I'm just, you know, whoa. You know, I I man I'm thinking, wow, you know, I I I got a meeting, I learned I got $700 in my pot. Woo! People are leaving. The evangelist comes up. He says, You hadn't home? I said, Yeah, he's got a long drive. I said, yeah. He said, hey, he said, what about this? He said This is what he said. I'll never forget. He said, this is just a one-horse town. It was a small town. This is a one-horse town. He said, two blocks down here, there's a 7-Eleven. You all know what a 7-Eleven is? He says Let's go down there. He said, I'll buy you frozen coffee. We'll sit in the curb and talk. Frozen coffee? Real men don't drink frozen coffee. I'm sorry Real men drink strong, thick, black, dark coffee. It's the kind of coffee Lester Roloff is drinking in heaven tonight. Amen. But we went down there, he bought me frozen coffee. I didn't drink it. You know, you say here's how you fake it out. You sit there with a with that stroll and you blow bubbles, you know. It sounds like you're drinking. You know. So we're sitting there and he says, uh how are things going? Well they're going. He says, No, he says, How I said, Well, you know how they're going? He goes, Yeah, he says, I know He says they're slow, aren't they? I said, Oh man, are they slow? He says, you gotta pay a price. I said, Oh yeah. I said it's not easy. He says, you wait right here Jumped up, he ran to his car, popped open the trunk. He's back here fooling around the trunk, slammed the trunk, ran back, before I had time to do anything, he grabs me And sticks a piece of paper in my pocket, he says, that should be enough gas money to get you home. I learned something. I got a meeting. I got $700. And I got guests, but hey, am I happy? Am I glad I listened and that I could hear? Am I glad I obeyed? Oh, I'm driving home. I couldn't afford a cell phone back in those days But that car was bouncing. It was on that. I got about halfway home. And I I thought halfway home, I thought, wonder how much best money he gave me Reached in my pocket, pulled out, there was a check for $1,000. I'm now up to $1,700. I didn't even preach. I thought I thought about going into the ministry of encouragement for a van. It takes a lot more, amen. Now let me tell you something. Do you just maybe think, I mean, do you just made me think that I was awful, awful happy that I was able to hear the voice of God? And then number two, do you think that I was really happy that night that I obeyed? Now, watch this. Here's the part that scares me, it ought to scare you If I had not obeyed, I could have made a good excuse. Am I not right? Well, it was just too much time. It was just too far. And I could have soothed my conscience And I also think this, get this, I also think this. I probably would have made it in evangelism. I'm guessing I'd have made it. I could have been here tonight, I'd have been preaching, I'd have said, Boy, I tell you what, people, boy, God is good. I'm going to tell you something. God is good. But you know what I think? God would be looking down from heaven and saying, Oh yeah, Bill I am good, but you have no idea how good I could have been if only you would have obeyed. Oh my, come on. We got a little drop-off right there. Come on. You know what I often wonder? I often wonder the benefits, the things that we have missed out on. Because number one, we didn't steal ourselves. We didn't stop and learn to recognize the voice of God, but just as importantly, when we have recognized that it was God dealing with us, speaking with us, we just didn't want to obey. Pretty important, isn't it? I often wonder when we listen what we hear Maybe during the course of this week, come on. God coming and saying, Hey, you need to be faithful to the house of God. We heard that. God coming and speaking to some of us and saying, Hey, you really need to get more serious about your prayer life You really need to more so focus in your not somebody else focus more so on having revival in your life. Maybe God spoke to some of you on that Maybe there are some of you here tonight, God during the course of the week said, Hey, you really need to work harder at being a soul winner, giving out the gospel, giving out more tracts, something like that Maybe during the course of the week God spoke to somebody and said, Hey, you know what? You don't even have a ministry. You need to have a ministry. You need to serve me in this local church. Hey, maybe, maybe during the course of the week we talked uh, what was it, the other night, about attitudes. Did you hear God speaking? Hmm? I wonder, I just wonder what we miss out on, hmm? Because we're not going to obey. We're not going to do what God wants us to do. Oh, we might even come down the altar. But then when we get up, by the time we walk out the door, we're thinking about what we're going to put on our pizza. And because we got too busy to obey, I think someday all of us, I'm talking to myself too tonight. I think someday all of us are going to be shocked and stunned and filled with regret and disappointment at what could have been But not, because we would not obey. It would have been a little thing It would have been a little thing for me that day just to say, ah, four and a five, that's that's nine hours round. I'm not gonna do that. Another two hours, yeah. I could have soothed my conscience. Come on But look what I'd have missed. I often wonder what I have missed, because I want to do it my way. Because I don't want to obey the voice of God. Folks, listen, it works both ways. Not just with preachers, but people sitting in the pews. Let's still ourselves. Let's learn to recognize the voice of God. And then we may not understand it. But whatever God tells us to do, say, Lord, I'll do it. Because I'm excited to see what you're going to do when I step out by faith and I obey your voice. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed and every eye closed.