Book of Psalms 119. I was excited when the scripture reading this morning was from Psalms a hundred and nineteen. If you know anything about Psalms 119, it's all about the Word of God. I think every verse has something to say, maybe for the exception of maybe one or two. The every verse has something to say about the Word of God. It's a rich chapter of God's Word concerning the words of God. And uh this morning I want to preach a message that I've entitled, Do You Love Your Bible? Now there was a survey taken here just a little while ago. How many have one Bible? Hands were raised. How many have two Bibles? Hands were raised. How many have ten Bibles? Hands were raised But do you know that over half of the world does not have one Bible to their possession? They don't have one verse of Scripture to their possession. And if we really love this book and it's done a number on our lives, don't you think others would love this book and it would do a work in their lives as well? The responsibility of getting the message of God's word to the world has been placed upon the people of God. It's placed upon the church We have that job, that responsibility, that assignment to go into all the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. We need a Bible in order to do that. And I ask you this morning, do you really love your Bible? Let's bow in prayer and I'll bring the message God has laid upon my heart. Father, we do thank you this morning for The excitement and the thrill of being here and what is being done in the Bible ministry here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Thank you for all of those that take part and participate and work and pray and give in order for God's word to go forward. And to countries that we might never get to, to a people that we might never see, in a language that many of us cannot even speak, but to a people that you loved and gave your son That he might pay the debt sin that they owed. I pray this morning, Lord, that you would help us. May the Spirit of God work in our midst. Accomplish that which you purpose to do. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. If you know anything about Psalms 119, you know that it is one of the great, great chapters of the Bible. It's a chapter That deals with the Word of God. And I don't believe the Lord could say enough about His Word. The longest Psalm, the longest chapter in the Bible, Psalms 119 Is all about that blessed book that we call the Bible. When you read through Psalms 119, the psalmist uses a number of expressions To tell us about God's word. He calls it the law of God. He calls it the word of God. He calls it the judgment of God He calls it the testimonies of God, and he refers to it as the statutes and the precepts of God. He refers to the Bible as his commandments and his sayings. And throughout this book of Psalms, 119, over and over and over again, you hear the psalmist repeating those words in reference to the word of God. You read the Word of God, you'll discover that it'll give you strength when you're weak. Would you save into that? I mean, it'll give you strength when you're weak and you don't think You can take another step. You open your Bible and you begin to read, and all of a sudden there's a new joy in your heart and a new strength in your bones and a willingness to go forward and serve the Lord When you read and study the Word of God, it'll give you peace in times of great distress and trouble. When you read the Word of God, it provides instruction. When you need to make decisions, it'll help you with those decisions that you make in life. You read and study the Word of God, it brings clarity in times of confusion And if there was ever a day of confusion, it's today. And people need the Word of God to clear up all that confusion. You read the Bible, it gives you hope when you feel hopeless. There are many people that are traveling down the corridor of time that are helpless and hopeless, and they need the Word of God to help them along life's journey. Is it any wonder? That the psalmist cries out in Psalm 119 and verse number 97, and he says, Oh how I love thy word. This almost understood. When I read this book, there's wisdom. When I read this book There's direction. When I read this book, there is hell. When I read this book, there is hope that I have. And he said, Oh, oh, how I love thy word. Do you? Do I? Do do we really love this book called The Bible? Men have tried to burn it, but as the choir was singing this morning, the Bible still stands. Men have faced it as skeptics, and they have scorned it, and they have slandered it, but the Bible still stands Fools have tried to bury it, but the Bible still stands. There are those that have scorned the Word of God and have tried to banish it from our schools and from our government institutions. And even denominational churches have taken it out of their pulpits. But the Bible, boy, I feel a shout coming on right now, the Bible still stands And it's able to do what God sent it forth to do. I want everybody to have a Bible. And I'll not sleep and rest until we labor and toil and give our very best to see to it. People have a Bible to read. The Bible still stands. Over and over again, the psalmist manifests his love and his devotion to the Word of God. In verse number 97. The verse that I just quoted, Oh, how I love thy law, it is my meditation all the day. In verse number 113, the psalmist cries out, and he said, I hate vain thoughts. But thy law do I love. What's the law represent? The Word of God. What's the judgments? The statutes? The precepts? The sayings, it's the word of God. And so the psalmist said, I love the Bible. He tells us in verse number 127. Therefore I love thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold. Let me get personal now. Are you ready? If you really love this book, And you want others to love this book. And you cherish and treasure your Bible more than you do the money that's in your pocket. It won't be hard for you to write out a generous, a generous check this morning. I feel the shout coming on right now That's what the psalmist is saying. I love and I cherish and I'm devoted to this book above gold and silver and all that that could ever acquire or purchase. I love the Word of God. So it won't be difficult to depart with a little bit of dough, if you really love this book. It tells us in verse number 140 Thy word is very pure, therefore thy servant loveth it. You love the Bible You want to spend time with it. When you love the Bible, you want to get into it. When you love the Bible, you want to read it and study it and memorize it and meditate upon it. You love the Word of God. And you also want to share its timeless truths. with others. Why why would we ever love the Bible? Well I've thought of three simple things. I'm a simple preacher. Three simple things. Number one, I love the Bible because of what it claims. What the Bible claims. It's God's words. I was saying some of that in the Sunday school hour. It's the very words That proceeded out of the mouth and the heart of God. Now, I'll confess to you, I've never heard the audible voice of God. And I don't believe there's anybody living today that has heard the audible voice of God. I felt the moving of the Holy Spirit in my heart. And I felt the impression that the Holy Spirit makes upon a person's life But the only words that I have to go on are the words that proceeded out of the mouth of God, and he put it in a book, and he sent it to me. It's the very words of God. Do you know that over 3800 times in the Word of God you come across two little phrases? One, God said. Number two, thus says the Lord. Throughout the Bible, over 3,800 times, he tells us, reminds us, this is what I said. And thus saith the Lord. Consider this. The Bible is eternal and unchanging. Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 8, the grass withereth, and it won't be long until some of you really hope the grass begins to wither. I mean the rains that we've had and and the way that the grass is growing, you're not cutting it once every other week, you're cutting it several times a week, and you're hoping the sun comes out and withers some of this stuff The Bible says the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of God shall stand forever. That's the claim the Bible makes. In verse number 89 of Psalms 119. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. That word settled means made firm. It means that it's fixed, unalterable, unchangeable. God doesn't change his mind concerning what he put in this book. The Bible claims to be the Word of God, and it's eternal and unchanging. I'd have to say to you this morning that the Bible claims God's words are powerful. Would you agree with that? They're powerful. Jeremiah 23 and verse number 29 compares it to a fire and to a hammer. Is not thy word like as a fire, saith the Lord? And like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces? That's what this book is. Powerful, penetrating, piercing, dividing asunder God's words God's word is true. Psalm 19 and verse number 7: the law of the Lord is perfect. Nothing to be added to, nothing to be taken from. Perfect. In every single word that is spoken, it's perfect. Converting the soul, the testimonies of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. You know why we have so many dumbbells running around today? They haven't read the book. They don't study the book. God's word is pure Psalm 12 and verse 6, the words of the Lord are pure words, the silver tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. That word purified means that this book is without error. It's without mistakes. It's without contradictions and flaws. The Bible I like what the Bible claims about itself. The Bible claims that God's words are from Him It's not some angel that wrote it. It's not some conjured up idea that man had. God spoke. And he told men to write this in a book and give it to people. How do you see your Bible? How do you see it? I love the Bible because of what it claims The second thing that I would say to you is I I love the Bible because of what it contains. Not only what it claims, but what it contains. Psalm 119 and verse number 162. Look at that verse. Psalm 119 and verse number 162. I rejoice at thy word as one that findeth great spoil. Do you know what spoils are? Andre, are you listening? Do you know what spoils are? Spoils is what you find when you take a city. And you've run off all the inhabitants of that city and everything that they left behind, all their treasures, all of those things that they loved and adored and felt as valuable Those treasured items that they couldn't carry out when the army was standing up against them. Spoils And when you read through the Old Testament, you'll find when when David would take a city, sometimes God would say, Take the spoils Take everything that that's left in the city. Gather it to yourself. Take it home. Use it. Enjoy it. And then there were other times that he said, No, no, no, I don't want you to take these spoils. You leave them right where they are You remember the bleating of the sheep? They weren't to do that. They were to destroy everything. So a spoil is something that someone else treasured and found to be valuable. Something that they garnered to themselves that they wanted to keep forever. Sandy, do you know what we find when we begin? Oh, I feel a big one coming on. Do you know what we find when we read that book? We find the spoils. We find what God treasured and valued, what He deemed as important Something that he wrapped around and garnered to himself, and he said, here, take my spoils. Take what I see as valuable and important and use it for my honor and for my glory. Spoils. Spoils. When you search the scriptures, you find the way to everlasting life. That's a great spoil, isn't it? The Bible tells us in John 5 and 24, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that reads the reader's digest and gets the latest copy of Newsweek magazine. And embraces that as being truth. Well, when you pass from death, you'll continue to remain dead. My Bible says, verily, verily, and anytime you see a double, verily, God is saying, here is something that is extremely important. You better pay attention and sit up and listen to what God's words say. Verily, verily, I say unto you: he that heareth my word. And believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. It begins with the Word of God. You're not going to grasp it and understand it and be able to receive it without hearing and coming in contact with the Word of God. That's why we're sending these books to Peru. We're sending the very words of God to a people we might never see and meet this sight of glory We're sending them the words of God so that when they come in contact with the Word of God, they can believe what this book says and have everlasting life. Pretty good deal, isn't it? When you find what the Bible contains You're going to discover that there are golden nuggets to enhance your life. Golden nuggets. Rich jewels that'll fill your soul and make you want to shout. You study the scriptures and search the scriptures, you'll find great wisdom to help with every decision that you have to make. There's not a person in this auditorium that's not going to have to make some decisions this week. I've got mine, you've got yours. We better find out what God's Word says about these decisions that we have to make and make sure that we're going down the right road, making the right choice and decision in life. You read and study the Bible, you'll find everything you need for a life of godliness. Preacher was talking in Sunday school about the teen banquet. Developing and making and building And and and instilling within young people the truths, the spoils of the Word of God to enhance their life, to build their life, to establish their life. To help them in the choices of life. Well, let me just tell you something. Everything that we need for a life of godliness is found in this book called God's Word. If you want to know how to live godly, follow the Bible. Follow the Bible. You'll find you study the scriptures You're going to find the light that you need for the journey to the eternal city. I'm looking forward to heaven, are you? You know, we talk about streets of gold, but that's going to pale in comparison to the Savior. We talk about pearly gates, and that's going to mean nothing when we see Jesus. We talk about the stones, the precious stones that are used to build the foundation of that eternal city, and that's going to be meaningless to us when we see the Savior. It's Him that we want to see. It's Him that we want to adore. We're not going to run over to the pearly gate and just stroke it and say, My, you've done so much for me. Now we'll be running at the feet of Jesus, praising him and thanking him and adoring him and loving on him. When you read the Bible, You're going to find the light that you need for that journey to that eternal city. You read and study the Bible, you find the events that are just ahead for the believer and for the unbeliever. Why do I love the Bible? Because of what it claims. Why should we love the Bible? Because of what it contains. Why do we love the Bible? Because of what it causes. Not only because of what it claims, and not only because of what it contains. But also because of what it causes. When when you love the Word of God, great things begin to happen in your life. You can read it, you can study it, you can memorize it, you can meditate upon it, you can apply it to your life, and great, great, great things. Start to happen. All of a sudden, you'll find assurance to your anxious soul. In verse number fifty of Psalms hundred and nineteen The Bible says that this is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word hath quickened me. It it gives us the solid foundation. It gives us the the very assurance and confidence that we need in life in order to keep on, keeping on. Do you ever feel like quitting? Did you ever climb out of bed and thought, I j I just don't want to do this I I just as soon stay in this sack and and pull the covers up and let the world keep on going. I'm done with it And all of a sudden you grab your Bible and you begin to read your Bible, and that assurance for your anxious soul begins to build excitement and thrill and anticipation and motivation They keep on keeping on. The Bible brings peace in the midst of perplexing problems. Psalms 119 and verse 165. The Bible says this, great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Do you ever meet someone offended? Go stomping out of church. I mean bad as a hornet. They got offended Well, they might as well just put up a placard that says, I don't love the Bible. Because that's what they're advertising My Bible says, great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. That's an amazing truth to me I've seen so many offended people over the stupidest, dumbest, babyish things in the church. Well, he didn't call on me to sing He chose Susie Q and she knows she can't sing. I'm much better than what she is, and that that Pastor Leatherman, he just he just bypassed me, overlooked me, didn't call upon me. He chose her, the worst singer in the church To stand in the pulpit and sing, I'm not coming back anymore. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Oh, but you don't understand, preacher. I I I'm I'm uh I'm more studious in understanding of of the Bible. And I should have been the one appointed to that class. I should have been the one teaching that class. Preacher knows that. He knows I'm better qualified to do that. I've been saved longer than that. Joe has ever been saved. He's just a new Christian, a baby Christian. He doesn't know a thing. I know more. I know more. I have forgotten more than he will ever know. I'm offended. Might as well put up your placard. Great love has disappeared. You're not loving the Bible. Offensive individuals, people offended. Might as well say it. I don't know the law of the Lord, the word of God, the way I should. Well he he did not shake my hand I come into that church this morning, he turned his back on me, went the opposite direction, and he didn't shake my head. I'm going right back out that door, get in my car and and go to that Crossroads church down the road. That's where I'm going. Well, when you go through the door, take your placard with you. Hold it up so everybody can see. Just let them see. Great love have they that love thy law. Nothing shall offend them. Just show it off Go right up to the preacher and say, Here, this is my testimony. This is what I want the church to know. Would you mind if I walk up and down the up up and down the aisles today and just let everybody know right where I stand on these things? I don't love the Bible. I've been offended at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm not going back there, and I've come here till you offend me. And the preacher says, sit down and shut up. So you pick up your placard, walk right back out the door. Great love have they that love thy law, nothing shall offend them. I love this book because of the blessings that it brings. It'll bring hope to the hurting soul. Y'all have been through some real storms. I can look across this congregation and see people that we've prayed for. You had a big storm in your life. A storm that hurt. A storm that was perplexing. A storm that was disturbing. And and my Bible says in verse number one fourteen So those hurting, hurting souls Thou art my hiding place and my shield. I will hope in thy word We've all had precious loved ones that have passed And we've walked that lonely road to the graveside and said our farewells And you might as well just look at that verse when you're departing that gray sign. I'm thankful, God, that you're my hiding place. I'm thankful, God, that you are my shield and I'm going to continue to hope in your word. I love the Bible because of what it causes. Things look dark and bleak and desperate and depressing and difficult His word brings hope. Is it any wonder That the psalmist cried out in Psalms 119 and beginning with verse number 33, Teach me! Teach me. He cries out in verse number thirty-four. Give me understanding Can't you just see the anticipation and the eagerness and the hunger that's on that psalmist's heart as he thinks about what God has and what he wants God to impart to him? And he and he says Teach me and give me understanding of thy word. He says in verse number 35, make me to go in thy path. Here's a man that really loves the Word of God, and he's saying, Oh God, teach me, instruct me, show me, give me what I need for this journey that I'm on. He doesn't stop there. He says in verse number thirty-six, Incline thy heart. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies Verse 37, turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity. Verse number 38, establish thy word unto thy servant. Verse number 39, turn away my reproach which I fear, for thy judgments are good. Why do you love the Bible? Is that the way you come to God? I want you to teach me, Lord, and give me understanding and show me the path that you want me to pursue. The psalmist love the Word of God, and so should we. Now let me ask you this Do we love this book enough to be devoted to what it teaches And do we love this book enough to be willing to do what is necessary in order to get it into the hands of people around the world? If it has impacted you, it will impact somebody else. And that is what this is all about. We want the word of the living God to impact people's lives. Is that worth a sacrificial gift? What's your hopes? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Every head is bowed and every eye is closed and in just a moment we'll have a song of invitation I wonder how many here this morning can say, Preacher, I I know I'm saved. I I know I'm on my way to heaven, and here's my hand in testimony to that. I know that I know that I know I'm saved. Could I see your hand if that's you? Amen. God bless you. Can put your hands down. Maybe you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you'd say, Please pray for me. I'm I'm really not sure about that I need saved. I can't I I'm not sure that heaven will be my eternal home I need prayer, I need help. Could I pray for you? Slip up that hand and put it back down and we'll certainly pray for you. Is there anyone like that? Anyone like that in the house? Maybe you're here this morning and You feel you've been rather neglectful to God's word. Not been as faithful as you ought to be in reading it and studying it and meditating and memorizing it, following it. And and and you need to change that in your life. You're missing out on what the Bible causes in a person's life that loves the Word of God. Maybe you're here this morning and and say I believe I could do a little bit more in helping others to get a copy of God's Word. I could work a little more. I could give a little more. In whatever way God is speaking to your heart this morning, I would invite you to gather with us around the altar this morning and let's get a hold of God. Get back into his word, follow his word, and do what we can to get the word of God into the hands of people around the world. I'm going to pray and then I want the instruments to play, and if God speaks into your heart Would you come this morning, Father? Bless the word of God to our hearts today. How we thank you we have a Bible. And how heavy our hearts are because there's so much of this world that has yet to be reached. Please help us, Lord. Please speak to our hearts. As the pianist is playing, if God speak into your heart, what would