A good song. If you would turn with me to James chapter 1. I'm tempted to say, I'm going to try and be real brief tonight. I was sitting there when they were singing saying, should I say it or not? Should I say it or not? Why I probably shouldn't because number one you don't believe me and two because it's probably not going to end up being true anyway But uh I really am gonna try for that. Two biggest lies in the world. You know what the two biggest lies in the world is when the government shows up at the door and says, I'm from the government, I'm here to help you And when a Baptist preacher says, Well I'm just going to be brief, you know, both of those are are baloney. James chapter one, I'm going to read a passage of scripture and just to get the context for we're going to look at verse 22, but I'm going to begin reading in verse 21 of James chapter 1. I'm going to read down through verse 25. And the reason I'm doing that is because this is one subject. This is one passage dealing with uh the subject, but we're breaking it down into bite-sized morsels. Verse 21 of James chapter 1. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness And receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Then he continues on. We looked at that last week. He continues on. But Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of the liberty and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the word, look at this, this man shall be what? Blessed in his deed. That's a promise of God. And so I want to look at verse 22. Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. Deceiving our own selves, doers of the word. Let's pray and ask God to speak to our hearts. Father, I'm grateful for a good day, Lord. You've blessed. I feel like uh Lord, this was definitely the Lord's day. As we worshiped you and sang and fellowship together, Lord, as we finish out the day in your word and then around the Lord's table, we ask that you would meet with us Again, I pray for this message. Again, I plead with you, Lord, please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present to you my body anew. I yield my will to you. I ask you to speak through me And God, I pray, beginning from behind this pulpit here and all the way down behind through every pew, that you would motivate us, stir us, provoke us to be doers of your word. And not just hears. And that's my request, Lord, for this message. In Jesus' name, amen. Isn't it a tremendous blessing to be a part of a church that teaches and preaches the Bible? I mean I just don't take that for granted. To me it is a great joy, a great privilege, a great blessing to be a part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church that From the smallest children's ministries all the way up through the senior citizen ministries, believes, teaches, and preaches the Word of God. If we ever stop doing that, we're in trouble. If we ever get away from the Word of God, if we ever uh push that aside and belittle the teaching and preach the Word of God, we're in big trouble. So we're it's a blessing to be a part of this Now sometimes we've got to be careful, and I'm guilty of this, sometimes we get the idea we're the only ones that teach and preach the Bible. That's not true. There's a lot of good churches out there that are teaching and preaching the Bible. We're grateful for that. Not as many as there used to be. But there's some out there. We're not the only ones. And uh and but it is a great privilege and uh we thank God for that. I think it's a good thing. I believe it's a good thing if we can get people ourselves included, but get people in and under the sound of the Word of God You follow what I'm saying? If we can get people, unsaved people, people out of backslidden people, people away for the Lord, people don't think about God or heaven or hell or the Bible, religion, any of that stuff If we can get them underneath the sound of the word of God, that can have a powerful impact on their lives. Just getting people under, regardless of what their motives may be Uh this may surprise you, but sometimes people come to church with not the best of motives. Do you ever know that? Uh you know what? I'm gonna shock some of you. Some of these kids ride our Sunday school bus so that they get a treat. How about that? You say what? They don't come just to hear the Bible and sing songs? No, some the only reason they come is to get a treat. But you know what? They come and get a treat and they hear the word of God. And so even though there are mo uh I've known situations where a fellow went to church just to see a girl. You know that? You ever uh you how many people believe you say no way. Oh yeah, yeah And I I know situations where some girls, uh they never cared about church, never gave it a thought at all, but there's some good-looking guy, and boy, she'll go to church, be with that guy. How many people believe that? Sure. And you know what? A lot of times that happens. They get saved. They get under the Word of God And so, even though the motives for coming to church or coming under the Word of God may not be the highest of motives, maybe they want a treat or get a gift or giving a prize out, having a meal And whatever that may be, the Word of God, if it's preached and it's declared, it can have a powerful impact in that life. Uh how many pe I wonder I'm just curious here. Anybody recognize this name? I don't know if you would or not. Hugh Latimer. Hugh Latimer. Anybody recognize that name? He was a preacher back in the 1500s over in England. And he was kind of a Puritan type guy and uh did a lot of reading. He was a powerful preacher. He actually was burned at the stake by Queen Mary, Bloody Mary. She was Catholic and she was trying to get everyone to convert to Catholicism. He refused to. He held to the Word of God. She said, deny the Bible or be burned at the stake. He said, I'll burn at the state before I deny the Bible. That's the caliber of fella he was And he was out visiting in a neighborhood, urging people to come to church. Again, this is 1500s. And he came across a lady, and she said this. She said, uh, uh, she goes, I cannot sleep at night. And whatever medicine they had at the time, she ought to have taken different medicines and whatnot, and I cannot sleep at night. I'll go nights uh nights on end without sleeping. She said this She said, I wonder if I come to your church, if I'll be able to sleep. Now, I can testify. That's a very effective means of helping people sleep You know what Hugh Latimer said? He said, come on. He said, I'd rather have her in church asleep than home, not asleep. And he made this statement, I like this. He says, you never know. The word of God may just catch her napping. Cute little play on words. Um, if I was sick, I'd want to be around doctors. Wouldn't you? You have a better chance of getting better. uh being around doctors. And so this is the point I'm trying to make. If we can get people under the sound of the Word of God, if we I was out um Thursday night, we were out visiting and uh there was a fella I tried getting Ed and Charlie to go visit them and they wouldn't do it. So I went to visit the guy. And um that's another story. But uh I went by there, but I didn't have the apartment number. I knew basically where the guy lived, but I didn't have the apartment number, and so I went to one door and I said, I'm looking for so-and-so. They said he's next door Whenever this gal was coming up the door just as I was going up and I went over, I said, I'm looking for so and so and we talked a little bit and she sent made this statement. She says, um, and she didn't know who I was. She goes, You know what would be good? I said, What's that She said it would be good instead of putting your little religious papers just leaving them on the door. She said it would be good if it would be better if you knock on the door and actually talk to the people and engage them I said, I couldn't agree with you more. I said, in fact, let me ask you a question. And uh I began to share the gospel with her and got talking to her. And after we talked a little bit and a visit Well well yeah I was w I was driving away and I thought, you know, I agree it's better to have one-on-one, but she's missing a point The fact is, the Word of God is powerful. And a little gospel tract left on a door can have a powerful impact on someone who will read it, whether anybody's there to talk to them or not. See what I'm saying? And she failed to realize the power of the Word of God. The power of the Word of God. I'm saying this. Let's not turn people away from getting under the Word of God. Maybe somebody comes in and they're a little rough around the edges and there might not be this, that, or the other. Hey, let's get them in under the word of God. You never know what God's word might do in their heart and life. God's word is powerful. It's life-changing. Now, our passage here deals with the Word of God. And it addresses, in particular, a very grave danger For Christians, I want to remind you the book of James is written to believers. This is not addressing the unsaved. The unsaved need the gospel. That's what they need. The book of James is addressing believers. Look at verse 2. We've highlighted this a number of times. My brethren Count it all joy. Verse number six. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Wherefore, verse 19, my beloved Brethren, he's talking to Christians. He's talking to saved people. And verse number 22 in this whole passage here addresses a very grave danger that Christians face, and that is this. That we get into the habit of just hearing the Word of God and not actually doing what the Word of God says. And that's a dangerous place to be in. My message has only two points tonight, and each point has is one word. These are the two points. Number one, this makes up my outline. Number one, I want to talk about an exhortation. And number two, I want to talk about admonition Now they're very similar in meaning, but I think you'll understand what I'm saying. I'm going to look at verse 22. Two things, exhortation, admonition Number one, an exhortation. Now what is an exhortation? What does that word mean? It simply means this: to urge someone. or to advise someone on something, give them an exhortation, and this is the definition I'm after, to caution someone or warn someone about a danger. Give him an exhortation. I want to warn him. I want to give him some caution. And I want to take this verse 22 and I want to study it backwards. I want to start with the second half first, then look at the first half. So look at look in your Bibles here with me at verse 22. Be doers of the word. Now look at this. Not hearers only Deceiving your own selves, not hearers only. Now he puts that word only on there, and what does that tell us? This is not hearers only deceiving ourselves. It means we are to be what? You follow what I'm saying? Well yeah, we are to be hearers. He's not saying don't be a hearer of the word. He's saying, yeah, you need to be a hearer, but don't stop there. Don't only be a hearer. Listen, we've got to hear the word of God. That's important. It's vitally important. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Romans chapter 10. Alright, are you all staying awake? Everybody doing all right out there? Okay. I'm being brief. I really am. Look at Romans 10, verse number 13. Romans 10 verse 13. We're talking about hearing the Word of God. We've got to hear the Word of God. Romans 10, verse 13. Everybody there, did you find it? Look what it says. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How many people like that verse? Boy, praise the Lord. Now read on. How then shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? The answer is what? They can't. If they don't believe on him, they can't call on him. How shall they believe in him of whom they have not what? Heard. And they can't. And he goes on, how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be saved? As it's written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace. And bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? Look at verse 17. So then faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the Word of God. Boy, what a great missions passage that is, isn't it? People in Kazakhstan have got to hear the Word of God. They don't hear the word of God. They're not going to be able to understand the gospel, believe it, and be called on the Lord and be saved. And uh you can go through all the countries of the world. They've got to hear the word of God By the way, good report. Brother Luke Knickerbacher was able to yesterday morning speak in a Tibetan school. They invited him to come in and Teach the Bible to these Tibetan children in Nepal. That amazing thing. And he was able to do that. I don't know what all the statistics were, but he was just praising God. It went well. He was able to share the gospel What an amazing thing that we're able to put some money in an offering plate, send that out to Brother Luke. He's over in Nepal and he's able to have people hear the gospel. That stirs my heart And so, what a great mission's passage is here. I can't believe something if I don't hear it. I can't obey the Bible if I don't hear it. Now he says, be ye doers, we're not hearers only. That means we're not to just be a hearer. I believe every person ought to read their Bible every day. I believe he really should. I really believe he should. But that's not all we should do Hear what I'm saying? I believe Christians, I believe Christians ought to go to church. I believe that church ought to preach the Bible. But just going to church and hearing the Bible preach isn't all we ought to do. Be hearers only. There needs to be more than just hearing, more than just knowing what the Bible says, more than just knowledge. Now look at this. This is what caught my attention. Not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. That has the implication there that if all I do is hear the Bible only. I'm fooling myself, that I'm deceiving myself if all I do is hear it. The word deceive there, I like this definition, means come to a false conclusion. And the one definition was this, to use a false logic to come to a false conclusion. In other words, he's saying this. There are some people, some Christians, that have the idea. That because I heard the sermon, therefore I'm a good Christian. I read the Bible, therefore I'm a good Christian I have these verses memorized in my head, therefore I'm what God intends for me to be. That is deceptive logic. The purpose for hearing the sermon, the purpose for reading the Bible, the purpose for memorizing the scriptures isn't just to hear it, to take it in only It's so that I can what? Live it. Do what it says. And so he says, you're deceiving yourself. You're deceiving yourself. If all we do is hear God's word and we don't do what it says, we're fooling ourselves into thinking everything's okay. I've said this over the years. I believe with all my heart. There are people burning in hell right tonight. I hate to say it. But there are people burning in hell right tonight. that knew exactly what the gospel was. They had it in their head. They heard it, but they never applied it to their lives by accepting Jesus and they died and went to hell. Isn't that tragic? I'll say this, there are Christians, got all kinds of verses memorized. They've read that Bible, they've read it, they've read it, they've heard sermons, they have their favorite preachers, they've got their favorite sermons. Boy, I'll never forget that sermon. That was the greatest sermon I've ever heard in my life. But that's all it is. And they fool themselves into thinking I'm a good, strong Christian. Because I heard that Um listen, I'm all for honoring the great preachers of the past. I am all for it. And I want to try and honor. But if I think I'm a good Christian simply because I heard Dr. Lee Robertson preach, I'm fooling myself From a hearer only. From a hearer only. So an exhortation, we're given in this verse 22, the second part, is an exhortation. He's warning these believers. He's saying, listen If all you guys are doing is hearing it, if all you're doing is reading it, that's all it is, you're fooling yourself. And that leads me to my second point of the message is an admonition Now an admonition is very close to exhortation. An admonition simply means this, to urge someone to fulfill a duty. And what he's doing here, he's taking these believers and he's saying, Listen, you're hearing the word of God. That's good. But don't let it stop there. I'm urging you to go on and do what it says. An admonition is a mild command or an advice to obey. And look at the first part of verse 22. But be ye what? Doers of the Word. I circled that word doers in my Bible. Be ye doers of the Word. We've had for many years we had Bible Institute here. I love Bible Institute. And uh we had offer, you get credit, and to get the credit, you had to read the books, you had to take uh write the papers, you had to take the test, in other words, you had to actually do something to get the credit But we also offered an audit. You could audit the class. And the person that audited the class, they didn't have to take any tests. Uh they didn't have to read any books, they didn't have to write any papers, they just fit in and they could take in what they wanted. And that was fine. I'm all for that, I wanted to do that. But basically they could sit in and listen to what was taught, but there was no responsibility. There was nothing they had to do to respond to neither did they get any credit. When I was a student down at Temple University There was folks in the classes. A lot of times older folks would sit in on the classes. They would audit the classes. And so when it came time for finals, they'd just sit over there and drink a soda pop. And uh I'd be having to take the test. I hated them with all my guts And um I mean I hated their guts uh with all my guts. But um I thought those stink pots And uh they sit there and they just get all the excuse me, freebie stuff. And here I am, I gotta take tests and write papers and do all this stuff. That's what he's talking about here. He's saying don't just audit God's word Don't just audit the sermon. Just sit there and listen to it and not have any responsibility. Be a doer of the Word of God. That word doers, I like this definition. It means to be a performer. And this is the picture I got in my mind. Be ye doers of the word. Not heers only. The picture I have in my mind of this word doers is that of an actor. And there's a play going to be going on, and he's given the script, he's given the plot. And here it is. And so he reads down through it. And the whole idea for an actor to have the script, to have the plot is so that he goes out on the stage and does what the script calls for. Right? You follow what I'm saying? You don't just sit on the side and say, man, this is great. Alright, you're the one that's all right. I'm reading it. Uh great, but be a doer. Get out there and perform it. Get out there and do what that script calls for. Get out there and and uh act all that out. And that's what he's talking about here. Not being hypocritical and just putting on a show. He's saying, listen, what the Word of God calls for, you've got to do it. Go out there and fulfill it. I like what Warren Wearsby said. He said there's a lot of Christians who mark their Bibles Listen, I'm all for marking the Bible. You see my Bible, I got it all marked up. I like it. I don't read my Bible without a pen in hand. And I do that. He said this. A lot of Christians mark their Bibles But their Bible does not mark them. The Bible leaves little or no mark on them. In other words, they'll read it, they'll hear it, but they won't do it. Take your Bible with me if you would and turn to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter seven, he's admonishing us. Matthew seven And I want to begin reading in verse number 24. Matthew 7, 24. You got it there? Everybody happy? Say amen. Amen. Good. Uh look at verse 24. Where therefore Look at this. Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and what doeth them, aha, not a hearer only. But doeth then I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house. Look at this, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. Now let me stop there. That rock, a lot of commentaries you read, they'll say that rock is Jesus. Now I agree, Jesus is the rock of our salvation. He's the rock cornerstone of the church. He is the rock. But in this context, I don't believe that rock is referring to the Lord Jesus. I circled, I underscored the word rock, and I drew an arrow up to them that doeth them. The rock in this Proverbs is the doing of the Word of God. That's where the security is. He says, if you'll hear my words and do them, You're like a builder that built his house upon a rock, upon the foundation of obedience to the word of God. Follow what I'm saying? Now look, he goes on, he expands on this. Verse 26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, he's a hearer only, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which buildeth his house upon the what? Sam. And the rain descended, floods came, winds blew, beat upon that house, and it fell. For great and great was the fall of it. What's he say? He's saying, listen, if we want to succeed, if we want to be solid, if we want to uh uh last and endure in life, we've got to not just be a hearer of the Word of God, we've got to be a doer. How foolish To disregard God's instructions to us. And I see it all the time. I've been in the ministry since 1985. And I've seen it all the time. Somebody hears what the Bible says, they know what the Bible says. It's right in front of them. They understand it. They agree it, and then they just disregard it. And what a mess it makes out of their life. And sometimes you just want to scream and say, listen, just do what God says. It'll work out. It'll be fine. And people just disregard it. How foolish, how foolish. There was four preachers together. They got into a fairly heated discussion. They were talking about which version of the Bible she used. There's all these versions, and they got into discussion. They were just going at it and uh they were going on. One of the preachers stood off on the side. He didn't say hardly anything And um they said, well what's your opinion in this matter? Now I'm I need to give my opinion right here. Uh I the Bible, uh the King James Bible is God's preserved word in the English language That's not an issue. But listen to this what this one preacher said. These other three are going at it, arguing about versions of the Bible. The other guy's standing off on the side, just kind of quiet. They finally looked at him. Well what's your opinion? He says, I'll tell you which version I like best. He said, I like my mother's version the best. They said, what? Your mother has a translation, a version of the Bible? He goes, yup, she sure does. They said, uh What's her version? He said she translated it into a life of obedience. I thought, amen for that. In other words, what he said was she took the word of God and incorporated it into her life, and she simply did what it says. Ah, we believe the King James Bible is God's word, no doubt about it. But wait a minute. If all we do is carry around a King James Bible and we don't do what it teaches us to do, we're deceiving our own selves. Well, bless God, King James. Amen. I'm all for it. But we better start doing what's between these covers. Or we're deceiving our own selves. We need to get beyond just hearing and start doing. Now this was my prayer for myself when I finished preparing this message. I said, Lord, help me. Be a doer of the Word of God. I want to do what your word says. And I'm asking our church as we go into the Lord's Supper. I'm asking every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, let's ask God to help us be doers of the Word of God and not just hearers only. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord. So we're challenged from your word to be doers of the word and not hearers only. Help us, Father, to be doers. God, motivate us, stir us, help us, prompt us. To do what your word says. God, we live in a world dying and going to hell desperately needs the gospel. You've told us to go into all this world. Help us to do that. He told us to be pure and godly in our lives. Help us to do that. Told us to be kind and gracious. Help us to be doers. I wonder with our heads bound and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm praying for myself along with you, that God would help me be a doer of his word And do what God says and live out what the Word of God teaches. How many would say, preacher, that's my prayer also, along with you? I want God to help me be a doer of His Word. God bless you, hands all around. Wouldn't that be a powerful thing if all of us tonight would just humble ourselves before the Lord, Lord, stir me, help me to do What the Word of God says. Father, bless our imitation, I ask, as we go into this Lord's Supper, that we would be doers of your word in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.