Everyone worked very hard uh this morning and leading up to it. The choir as we've been saying did an excellent job this morning. I'm so grateful uh for everyone that just has such a burden, such a concern that um Uh for several things. One is that souls be saved. That's the bottom line. That's what we want. And number two, we want to do everything we do at our very best for the glory of God And I really felt like today folks uh worked real hard and and went the extra mile and wanted things to be right and good and in its and everything in its place. So I'm very grateful for that And we look forward to some more big days coming up in the future. James chapter 2, I want to read, I'm just going to read verses 21, 22, and 23. James chapter 2. The Bible says, was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. Now I've entitled this whole section, Does Anyone Believe That You're a Believer? We're looking particular at an illustration that James gives in the life of Abraham. He sets Abraham up as an example of someone whose actions, whose behavior, whose works testified to the fact that he actually was a believer. He actually did have faith. And so uh I want to finish that. We started it I believe last week uh looking at Abraham. I want to finish that thought and then Lord will on next Sunday we're going to look at Rahab Uh fascinating woman, amazing story. And uh James again under the inspiration of God will put her up and hold her as an example of someone whose actions, behavior testified, confirmed as to the legitimacy of her faith. And so let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I do ask now that you would bless and speak to our hearts. It's a busy day, a full day. We're grateful for the privilege to serve you. And we pray we could finish today out strong. God, that you would stir our hearts again and teach us from your word, challenge us to grow. And to walk close to you. And I ask you to use us. And we would be a shining testimony to the glory of God and the power of the gospel in a person's life. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, with all my heart. Yield myself anew this hour and pray you'd have your way and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This whole portion of scripture, beginning in verse number fourteen all the way to the end of the chapter, it almost gets a little repetitious. It keeps coming back saying that faith without works is dead Faith that uh does not uh produce works is dead. And he keeps pointing this out, he keeps emphasizing this over and over and over, he keeps making this the stating the same truth in various ways over and over again. And this is the idea behind it. And some people misconstrue this and You know, oh oh, as I study, other men say, you know, there's such controversy here over this passage. I don't see a controversy here. Be honest with you, all I see here is this Genuine faith in God produces works in the life of the believer. He is not teaching that we are made acceptable to God because of how we act or how we live. My behavior does not make me acceptable to God. Jesus makes me acceptable to God. But what he is teaching here is this. Is that if I genuinely have put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, if He has saved me, works will be the result of that. That will produce action. That will be produce certain behavior in my life. And if I say, oh yeah, I have faith in God. Oh yeah, I have faith in Jesus Christ. If I simply say that And it never produces any behavioral change in my life. It never produces any uh good works to use the Bible term. Then that claim, that claim to be belief, is shallow, it's empty, it's unprofitable, as he says here. And so he keeps emphasizing this over and over and over again through this rather lengthy portion of scripture. And as I said, now he's holding Abraham up. And he's saying, so to speak, he's saying this, for instance, here's Abraham. And uh uh Abraham's faith uh was confirmed by his works. In fact, that was my first point of this message last Sunday. That's all we got to was the confirmation of Abraham's faith. Look at verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works? Now I put in the margin of my Bible beside that phrase, justified by works, I wrote this down, in the eyes of man. He was justified before God because of his faith. The Bible makes that very clear in Romans. But in the eyes of man, in the eyes of others, his justification before God was evident. By his works, by his actions. That's what testified to his justification. Now when did that happen? When he offered Isaac, his son, upon the altar. And so we have the confirmation. Abraham's works testified to the legitimacy of his faith. Genesis 22, 12, we pointed out that God said, Now I know. That you trust me and have faith in me. His behavior testified to the fact that he legitimately had faith in God. Now here's my second thought in this Abraham being used as the illustration. First was the confirmation of Abraham's faith. The second one is this, and I thought this was interesting, was the completion of Abraham's faith The uh uh first was the confirmation. His behavior confirmed the fact that he genuinely had faith in God. Now we have the completion. Two words caught my attention in this passage. Alright? Are you with me? Everybody with me? Two words caught my attention. Notice with me, if you would, in verse number 22. He says, See thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made what? Perfect. Now I thought that's interesting. He says, by Abraham's faith, uh he says, by Abraham's works His faith was made perfect. I'd really like to have everybody's attention up here if we would. Just listen up here. Listen, it's not me talking that's important. It's what's being preached that's important. And so out of respect for the Word of God, I'd really like to have attention here on the Word of God, if you would, please. The completion of Abraham's faith. And he uses that word perfect there. He's saying that Abraham's works, his behavior, his actions, particularly in the issue of taking Isaac up and offering for a sacrifice That perfected his faith. That made his faith perfect. Now, what does that mean? The word perfect means this: to carry through to completion. It means to it's this idea, to complete a job, to bring to its objective was one definition I came across or to carry something out to its desired result. So when he says Abraham's works brought his faith To a completion. Abraham's works finished the job that faith had to do. Now he's not saying, here's a word of caution. He's not saying that faith is insufficient. Some folks teach, some churches teach that you have to have faith plus works to be saved. The Church of Christ teaches that you have to be saved and be baptized to be saved. Uh you have to you have to trust Christ. I'm sorry, you have to have faith, trust Christ your Savior, and be baptized to be saved. That's not what this is saying. It's not saying that faith is insufficient to save me and therefore you've got to add some works in it for faith to be complete. It's not what he's teaching. We know that's not the case. What he's saying here is that genuine faith in Christ will produce these good works in the life of the one who has it. And when good works are produced, faith has reached its goal. God wants us to trust Christ as Savior. We preached that this morning. I tried with all my heart to preach that this morning. God wants us when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, here's the thing, salvation is not just to get us to heaven. Salvation is to change my life so that I can serve Christ here on earth. Take your Bible with me if you would. I want you to turn here to this. Ephesians chapter 2 Now I wouldn't plan on going here, but I just feel like maybe this is important to highlight here, Ephesians chapter 2. And of course, most of us are familiar with Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. For by Grace, are you saved through faith and that not of works? Um lest any man uh by Not of works, lest any man should boast. Alright, we're very familiar with that passage, and it's very clearly teaching that it is my faith in Christ, not my works, that makes me acceptable to God, that saves me from the judgment of my sin. Now, how is that faith perfected? What is that faith going to do? Notice verse 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. See what he's saying? That we should walk in that. In other words, the goal of my faith in Christ is for God to come in my life, change my life. and produce these good works in my life. Get me serving God. So faith, the good works, is the completion of my faith. It is the carrying out, it's getting the job done Of what my salvation is intended to do. So Abraham believed God. It was counted to him for righteousness, the Bible says. And now James tells us that when he offered Isaac up, that He acted on that faith. He worked on that faith and did that. That faith produced the final end it was out to do. Here's what I believe he's saying. What I'm trying to say to you is God wants us to live for him. When we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, the goal of that, the job of that, is to change my life so I'm living for God, serving Him, witnessing for Him, and producing a life of works for the glory of God. And when those works are there, those works are produced, that faith has accomplished the job it was intended to do. So when he says here in uh In James he says, and by works was faith, Abraham's faith, made perfect. And so you have the completion of Abraham's faith. A person has, here's for instance. A person has faith. Let me ask you this. Let me put it this way. How many folks here believe that the gospel can save even the hardest sinner? How many people believe that's true? How many people, let's put it this way, how many people have faith? Believe, have faith, are confident that the gospel could save the heart. Some hardened, drunken, wife-beating sinner in Ahmadi of Kazakhstan. If he would hear the gospel, that gospel is powerful enough, could save him and change his life and make him a good, godly, uh, humble servant of Jesus Christ. How many of you will have faith that the gospel could do that? Alright, now we say we have faith. Now what that faith is to produce is for us to give ourselves to try and reach these people with that gospel. Just saying I believe that is empty, is unprofitable. But the works make that faith in the gospel Perfect. Make it complete. They accomplished the job of that. For instance, yesterday we had 20-some people down giving out little gospel tracts. Now some of them were kids and they're having a good time. I don't know if they fully comprehend what exactly was taking place. But the reason we invested time and effort and money and and uh half of a Saturday, the reason we did that is because we are absolutely convinced that first of all these people need the gospel and second of all if we get the gospel to them all of them could be saved and we trust that some of them will be saved. And so that action, that giving of myself in the time in that certain period of time, given that, is what that faith in the power of the gospel produces. That is am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying And that's what James is saying here was true about Abraham. His offering up of Isaac completed what God intended for him to have faith in. God wanted Abraham to trust him. And in doing so, the product of that would be Abraham offering his son up, because God had all kinds of purposes behind that. Now if all Abraham said was, I believe. Yeah, I believe God could raise Isaac up. I believe that God was in control and this would be a good thing to do. And he never does it, his faith wouldn't have been made perfect. It wouldn't have carried out the intention of it. And so that word caught my attention. By works was his faith made perfect. Then I got to verse 23 and I noticed another word, kind of along the same lines And the first part of verse 23 says this, and the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God and was imputed unto him for righteousness. That word fulfilled. Now he says because of Abraham's works, because of Abraham's taking Isaac at the instruction of God, trusting God. produced him, take him up to the mountain, offered Isaac up there on the altar and uh and uh trusting God that God knew what he was doing, God was going to do best. Those works not only completed Abraham's faith were were what God was intending But it also fulfilled the scriptures. Now I wrestled with that a little bit. How does my behavior fulfill the scriptures? Well, again, I always look to the meaning of a word sometimes to help me understand. I looked up the word fulfill. It means this: to carry out to a desired effect. Or it means to bring something to pass. Something was fulfilled. It was brought to pass. It was accomplished If we reference, and we do this a little bit nowadays with our world situation, if we reference something as being fulfilled prophecy, what do we mean by that? It was carried out. It happened the way the scriptures said it would happen. And by the way, we do look around in our world, and I see our world falling into place exactly as the scriptures say they will. It will. And so when he says here that Abraham's actions, his good wo words, his good works, fulfilled the scripture. The scripture was fulfilled In other words, he's saying this: Abraham's behavior in trusting God and doing what God said and living as God instructed him to live and behaving the way God instructed him to behave. God said that is exactly what my scriptures teach will happen when a person has faith in me Abraham's actions confirmed what God said about him. Having faith was actually so. Turn your Bibles, if you would, to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Now, some of you all have this verse memorized, I'm sure of it. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. This is a good verse for every Christian to be familiar with 2 Corinthians 5 and verse number 17. This is a good verse to underscore in your Bible, by the way. 517, 2 Corinthians 517. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? New creature. If a man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Agree with me? That's a scriptural statement. Sure, it's directly from Scripture. And so, if you have a person who accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they are now in Christ. That's a position. And now they are a new creature. And the idea there, the second half of the verse is has the idea of a progressive series of events, a progressive action. Old things are passing away, old old things are becoming new. Their life is changing. The old sinful things, the worldly frame of mind, the worldly way of action, the old attitudes towards the scriptures. The old uh priorities that were in tune with the world and the sinful flesh and the the old behavior that's passing away and that's fading off and uh all things are becoming new, new like Christ. I'm starting to think the way Christ does. Spirit of God is controlling more me. The fruit of the Spirit is being carried out in my life and my life is changing and becoming and the old words that uh filthy words are falling aside. I'm getting a new vocabulary and the old music is Worldly ungodly music, I'm getting new godly music in my life, and these things are changing. When those events are taking place, those changes are taking place I am fulfilling the scripture that says if a man be in Christ, old things are going to pass away, all things are become new. See what I'm saying? My my life is verifying, carrying out what the Bible says would be true about my life. And if you have a person that gets saved, They say and they say I've got faith in Christ. I've trusted Jesus. He's my Savior. But old things are not passing away. And things are not becoming new, and they retain the worldly way of thinking, and they retain the world's view of life and priorities and values. They have the same attitude towards the Bible they had after they say they got saved that they had before they got saved, and they have the same attitude towards church after they say they got saved that they had before they got saved, and they have the sam And there's nothing passing away, and there's nothing becoming new, my life is not fulfilling What the scripture says would happen if a man be in Christ. And that faith is dead. It's not productive. It's not producing what the Bible says that faith would produce. You say, preacher, you've been saying the same thing for three months now on Sunday nights in the in the book of James. I know. You know why? Because the book of James keeps saying it over and over and over again for a long series of verses. So Abraham's behavior, when Abraham, when the Bible says Abraham believed God, and then God tells him to take his son, go up and offer him for a sacrifice, your only son, whom thou lovest, and Abraham actually does that He's fulfilling what God said real faith would do. He's confirming, he's carrying out the scriptures. He's fulfilling them just like prophecy is fulfilled. Now Let me give a word of caution here. Here's where we have to be careful. Is possible, and it happens, that a person may accept Jesus Christ as Savior and genuinely put their faith in Christ. And yet that change is taking place, the old things are passing away, all things are becoming new, but it might not be totally visible to you and I at this point in time. What I'm trying to say is this. This is not given to us to go around and determine whether that person's faith is genuine or not. This is given to us for me to determine whether my faith is genuine is genuine or not. You and I have no idea what's going on in the heart and life of that person. God may be working them over. God may be doing all kinds of things. It may take a serious time. I don't know why. I don't know why it happened to me this way. But when God saved me, he changed me overnight. Now I can give you, not quite 500, like the resurrection of Christ, but I can give you a heap of witnesses That could stand and testify that kid was a different person the day after he got saved than he was the day before. I don't know why God did that for me He doesn't do that for everybody. And by the way, I'm still growing. I'm not saying I've arrived. Lord asked my wife about that, but uh But I am saying this. It doesn't happen that way for everybody. John Mark, it took a while for him to grow and be everything God intended for him to be. Lot never did be everything God intended for him to be. And so I want to caution Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that we be very, very careful about this. that we don't go around trying to judge whether this person has legitimate faith or not. What I need to do is make sure my faith is legit. And make sure that it is God is working in my life and that I am growing and that I am developing. Now here's another word of caution. The presence of sin or immaturity in the life of someone who claims to be a believer does not make their claim to be a believer illegitimate. I'll tell you in my mind, what makes my claim to be a believer illegitimate is if I can sin and God doesn't chasten me. If I can do wrong, if I can flat out disobey God, and God doesn't chasten me in some form, whether convict me through the Word of God Or work in circumstances to get me to humble myself and turn from that. If God is not convicting me, Hebrews chapter 12 tells me that my claim to be a believer is illegitimate. So we have to be very very careful here. I don't believe James is telling us this, so we go around trying to determine whether uh whether uh Brother James uh James is telling us whether Brother James Smith uh uh faith is legitimate or not. That's for him to determine. Follow what I'm saying? And my faith, for whether I'm a genuine my faith is generalized for me to determine. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. So Abraham, the Bible says that Abraham, his works, his actions, fulfilled what the scripture said would be true. Um caution, not me making myself Oh, and there's another caution. It is not me making myself a new creature. That's a danger. God's not saying, listen, you better make yourself a new creature or you're not saved. That's not what he's saying. He's saying if I'm saved, I'm becoming a new creature. It's what God is doing in my life I've had people say, I've had people say, you've got to repent of all your sin or you can't be saved. If somebody would have said that to me before I got saved, I would have shot myself in despair. There would have been no hope to be saved because I could not stop sinning. I wanted to. I was begging God, take away my sin I don't want to be this kind of person. I don't want to live this way. And if somebody would have come up and said, Dennis Leatherman, you cannot be saved unless you quit that sin, I would have said, I'm doomed for hell for all eternity because I can't quit this sin. May 7, 1979, as you know, I bowed on my knees and I cried out, Jesus, I need you to be Savior. I wasn't asking Jesus to save me from hell. I was asking Jesus to save me from sin. Later on I found out I wasn't going to hell. That was nice. And so we have to be real careful. It's not us. He's not saying you've got to change your life, you've got to be a new creature, you've got to make old things pass away. He says if your faith is legitimate in God, God is doing that to you God is working in your life. God is making those old things pass away. God is giving you how many folks here, you're living a life as a Christian spiritually you never dreamed you'd be possible to be before you got saved. Anybody give testimony to that? I never dreamed I'd be kidding, speaking, preaching the Bible. Are you nuts? Living for God, trying to do right? This is what God does in our heart. And he says, if your faith, you claim to have faith, and it doesn't produce all this stuff, and you're not seeing these changes, this work isn't, you're not fulfilling the scripture, then that faith is dead. It's unproductive. It's not in Christ. Galatians chapter 5. I wish we had a little more time and I really want to quit here, but Galatians chapter 5 gives us a list of the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. And I come back to this so often in my mind. Tell you what, let's turn there real quick. Would you do that with me? Galatians chapter five. This is such a key part in Christian living, I believe. Now if a person is here and he's addressing saved people. And here's a person who's a saved person, but they're living in the flesh. They're not yielded to the Lord. They're not surrendered to God. They're not filled with the Spirit of God. And they're just living for themselves, they're living for their own understanding. And he says, look at verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envings, murders, drunkenness, reveling, and such like of which I tell you before, have also told you in time past that they which do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. You have a person that's living that way and have all that and the flesh is in control He's saying, listen, you can't come over here and say, oh yeah, I have great faith in God. I've got all this faith in God. Because the Bible says that if you're living for the flesh, those things will be true in your life. Then he comes down, look at verse number 22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there are, there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and laws. And so when I have the fruit of the Holy Spirit in my life, and those things are characteristic in my life, then I am fulfilling what the Bible says is true about a person who's filled with the Holy Spirit And so we have the fulfillment of Abraham's faith, the completion of Abraham's faith, the confirmation of Abraham's faith. Let me give you the last one real quick. Come back to James here, and I'll end with this. I hope I'm not mudding the waters here. I hope you see what he's saying. In verse number, the last part of verse 23, he says this. And he, Abraham, was called the friend of God. Because Abraham's works Because Abraham's faith produced this behavior, produced this lifestyle of obedience and trusting God. and letting God w take care of things, let God work things out, doing what God says even when it doesn't make sense. Nevertheless Abraham trusted God and did what God said. God worked tremendous good out of it. And God says, because he acted on his faith, that guy is my friend. He is my friend. The word called there has the idea of being known as the friend of God. He's given that name. This guy is a friend of God. Now, it's a good thing to be somebody's friend, isn't it? That means a lot to me, to be somebody's friend, to have somebody be my friend. Now think about this. God says if your faith is legit and it's producing good works in your life, like Ephesians 2. 10 says. And that faith is genuinely in Christ. It's God's working in your life. He's doing these things, producing these changes, developing the spiritual growth. God says, that guy's my friend. He's my friend. Now what is a friend? Friend is just a technical definition, is an associate, a companion. I put this down. What is a friend? It's someone who is very dear to me. Someone who enjoys my presence and I enjoy their presence. I like to do stuff with them. I like to be with them. They're my friend. We think alike. We have same interests. We have same values. We have the same priorities. And God says when you and I have legitimate, genuine faith in Him, and it produces changes in our life and develops us. God says that's what I'm looking for. That's who I want. I want to be in their presence. I share their values. They share my priorities. They think the way I think. I want to be God's friend. I want my faith to continually keep changing me and molding me and developing me. I can be called a friend of God. What a title. The creator of everything said, Abraham's my friend, and the whole basis of it was his faith in God. produce genuine, godly, humble works. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us. Lord There's a real challenge. And we need you, Lord, to overcome our self, our pride. And we want you to change us. We want you to develop us. Lord, if there would be somebody, God forbid, but Lord, if there'd be somebody in our church, a member that had never genuinely been saved, genuinely trusted Christ, Lord, I pray they would not entertain that any longer. They'd settle that and take you by faith. And Lord, and then you can make them what they ought to be. Lord, many of us, no doubt, have genuinely trusted you as Savior. Perhaps all, maybe, I don't know. Lord, we need growing. We have some growing to do. That old flesh is such an enemy. That old flesh is so strong. Lord, I pray you'd help us to be fully yielded to you, to act upon what we know you instruct us to do, to just simply Work and do what you say, trusting that you know best. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. It's not a question. But I really got some growing to do as a believer I've got some old things that I need God to keep get out of there. I've got some new things I need God to produce. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. As a Christian, I've got a heap of growing to do yet And I want God to help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. I believe that would be the desire. Surely that would be the desire of every child of God. I want to grow. I want this old pass away. I want things new and right. I want to trust God. Would there be anyone here tonight say, preacher? I'm not confident that I'm saved. And I want to be sure. Now I would never want to put doubts in a genuine saved person's mind, but if there's doubts there, do not entertain them. Make sure. Make sure. Is there any here say preacher pray for me? I see maybe I put on a show being a good person, and maybe I put on a show being religious down inside my heart. I don't believe I've ever trusted Christ, and I want that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need that Now we all know folks that need to be saved, and we ought to be praying for them and living for God so that our testimony uh has a little legitimacy when we witness to them. Let's ask God to help us reach them. Father, bless our imitation now I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together.