Well, we're looking at what has been said to be on by many different Bible scholars, nonetheless Some of the most difficult passages in all of Scripture to interpret and to fully grasp exactly what he's saying, we attempted uh two weeks ago to look at verse 19 and 20. We wrestled with that and tried to uh Gets uh learn exactly what Peter is saying here under the inspiration of God. Now we want to pick up in verse twenty one And Peter writes this again under the inspiration of God. He says, the like figure, now referring back to his reference to Noah, the days of Noah, while the Ark was appear uh preparing where few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. Now we know what he's talking about here. He's talking about Noah building the ark. And the only people that got on the ark, though the invitation was open, the only ones that got on the ark was Noah, his wife. His three boys and their wives, eight people out of all the population of the world, could have been in the billions at that point. We don't know. Eight people saved Now that's what he's referencing. And then he says in verse 21, the like figure, referring back to the ark and them being saved in the ark by the water, the like figure whereunto even baptism. doth also now save us. Huh? Then there's a parentheses there and he qualifies his statement. Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. He says there in verse 21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. Here's my question I want to attempt to answer tonight Is does baptism save us? Is he telling us here? Is he teaching us here that we are saved from our sins and from God's judgment from hell by being baptized? And so let's pray and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, we ask that you would help us to rightly divide the Word of God Help us to rightly understand and interpret what's being said here. Lord, we have no private interpretation. We don't have a corner on this. We need you. To teach us. I need you to teach us. So we come to you with humble hearts tonight, with hungry hearts. We want to know what you have for us to know We want to be right in our doctrine and in our demeanor and in our behavior. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will to you, present my body again. And pray that you would speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know about you, but to me, one of the most fascinating events of all of history is the universal flood And God instructing Noah to build an ark for the salvation of mankind. Isn't that an incredible thing? And by the way, I want to remind you: the art, the flood, the universal flood, the whole world being flooded, and Noah building this art, that is not just a Bible story, it's a historical event. Sometimes we treat some of these fantastic events as if they were just a story. Long ago and far away But that's not the case. Peter, the New Testament church, God's people throughout the Bible and throughout history, understood. that the flood and Noah building the Ark and then being saved by that was an actual historical event, a miraculous Colossal, catastrophic event that changed the world as no other event since uh creation has altered the world up until perhaps the tribulation period And so it was a fantastic event when this world was flooded. And by the way, did you ever see it like in nurseries and different children's books, they'll have this little arc? You know, and all the animals are there happy, you know, and Noah's there, he's got a long beard. And that is not the way it was. This was devastating Billions of people died, drowned horribly. It was the wrath of God upon a very wicked world It wasn't some cute little boat ride, you know, um a listen to a tale of a fateful trip. It wasn't that at all It was the wrath of God being poured on a rebellious, wicked world, and God in love and compassion. Providing an opportunity to escape that wrath, escape that judgment. And of the whole world, eight Eight people trusted God, got on that boat, and were saved. You know, the way to destruction is broad, and many there be that go in thereat. The way of salvation is very narrow and straight, and few there be that find it. Peter seems to be impressed. By this event, this flood and the ark and all of that, because he references numerous times here in our text. He references a number of verses. If you come over to 2 Peter, look with me at chapter 2. Just a few pages over, 2 Peter chapter 2, and you come down to verse number 5, and here he references the flood again. And spare not the old wor verse 4, he says, if God spare not the angels that sin, but cast them down to hell and deliver them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And then verse 5, here he goes And spare not the old world, that's the world before the flood. He spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. There he mentions it again. Now come over to chapter number three of 2 Peter and look with me if it would at verse number 5 He references the flood again. Verse 5, for this they be willingly ignorant of. That by the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth standing out of the water and in the water. Now look at this. Whereby the world that then was, that old world, the world before the flood, the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished. So Peter seems to be impressed by this worldwide flood, and he references it numerous times here in his writing By the way, Jesus referenced the flood also. You read through the Gospels. Folks that deny the reality of the flood, if if they are correct, then Jesus was wrong because Jesus spoke of Noah and the flood as if they really happened. And Jesus said in the Gospels and uh Lu in Mark uh Matthew chapter twenty-four and Luke chapter seventeen he said that in the days of the coming of the Son of Man They will be like the days of Noah. And he references back to the wickedness and lawlessness of the old world, the world before the flood. When God judged it. In fact, all through Scripture, Noah is highly reverenced, is highly respected, I should say In Ezekiel chapter 14, and for sake of time we won't turn all these, but I'll give you the references. In Ezekiel chapter 14, verse 19 and 20, listen to this. Ezekiel links Noah with Daniel and with Job. Now, what do we know about Daniel and Job? They were what? They were great men of faith. They were great men of conviction. We talked about Job this morning. Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. And he stood for God, and rather than giving in to the pressure to not pray, he prayed as he always did, ended up in the lion's den, and God delivered him. And Job, we know of his integrity And Noah is linked with these guys. The scriptures speak highly of Noah in Hebrews 11, verse 7. Noah is listed with the great men and women of faith throughout the Old Testament history. And There's references to the flood in the Psalms over and over and over. You'll come across a reference to the Psalm. And throughout the Old Testament prophets, they reference the flood. And so this was a profound event. When God judged the world with water, and by the way, he promised he would never do it again. Amen? Never do that again. Now, fire, judgment of fire is coming, but never with water. I think I think Peter makes much of Noah for two reasons. And I'm going to answer our the Premise of our message tonight, the question of our message tonight, does baptism say I want to answer that in a minute? That's one of the reasons. But one reason I think Peter references Noah Is you have to think about the overall purpose of 1 Peter. Now come back to the beginning of our study, and we discovered that Peter is writing to Christians that are in what kind of situation? They're being persecuted. Not only being persecuted, they're being persecuted intensely. They have been driven out of their homes. I know I keep repeating this, but we have to keep we have to keep focused on what the context here is They've been driven out of their homes. Their families have rejected them. Many of them have lost their businesses and their possessions because of their faith in Christ. Because of uh for Christ's sake they've they faced all of this. Some have been beaten and imprisoned. No doubt they've had brothers and sisters in Christ who lost their lives because of their faith in Christ. Something you and I, to be honest, have not experienced, at least not to that degree. And so Peter's writing to them and One of the major purposes of the book of Peter, 1 Peter, is to encourage them to stay faithful, to maintain their integrity, to stay true to their Lord. To be a witness even to those who are persecuting them and opposing them, to keep a good testimony, a good witness To not falter nor quit or turn aside. You say, what does Noah have to do with that? Well, we're told in 2 Peter that Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He was a man of great faith. One thing we know about Noah, he was obedient to the Lord when the majority of others were not Robin gave testimony about standing for her convictions. I tell you, it's not easy to stand for what's right, what you know is right, when you're the only one standing for what you know is right. By the way, that's why the church is so important. We can get together and encourage each other to keep standing for what's right. We're not alone. But Noah stood. Had his wife, his boys, and their wives, they stood with him, no doubt. But he was a preacher of righteousness in a world that had rejected righteousness. He was a preacher of the Word of God in a world that rejected the Word of God. Now we don't know how they treated. We're not given a lot of details. But he's writing to Christians now who are facing opposition, who are trying to stand for Christ in a society that rejected Christ. He was writing to young believers who were preaching the gospel in a society that was hostile to the gospel. And he's writing to them to encourage them, hey, Noah stood. Noah was faithful. He obeyed the Lord in spite of an overwhelming majority that rejected the Lord. He stayed true. And I believe Peter is referencing to encourage these dear believers. Hey, we may be the minority. We may not have the support of society. And by the way, we don't have the support of the mainstream media. This world is not our hope. This world is not our friend spiritually. And he's writing saying, listen, you stand, Noah stood, you stood. So I think he's referencing Noah to encourage these early Christians to have faith in God, to stay true to the Lord. To continue to proclaim the Word of God, whether people receive it or not. And I take heart from that. And I'm challenged by Peter's challenge to these new believers that in 2021, regardless of what our nations spiritual condition is. We stand true and we continue to proclaim the word of God as it is to men as they are. That's our challenge. Like Noah, were to be preachers of righteousness in an unrighteous world. So I think one of the reasons Peter is Referencing Noah is to encourage these young believers. Hey, listen, you're not the first ones to go through this. We have a pattern, we have examples, we have encouragement. From Noah and no doubt others. So one reason is to encourage these persecuted believers. And the second reason, particularly in our text here tonight, is to provide a picture of baptism. He references baptism specifically. Now, we could do a great study, and maybe I should preach on baptism a little more thoroughly sometime. We won't be able to tonight for sake of time, but the Bible's very clear that the early church baptized their new believers By immersion, immediately following their salvation. You can't escape that To alter that in any way is to alter the clear teaching of the Word of God. I'm a Baptist by conviction. I believe in baptism. I believe it is scriptural. I think it is important in its correct place. I believe the Bible, it doesn't matter whether I believe it or not, the Bible teaches baptism is by immersion. Now, just you know, take it for whatever it's worth. If somebody sprinkles water in the head, they get their head wet, they don't get baptized. I saw a, I I guess it was the legit picture. I saw a picture on the computer. There's a A family was in a Catholic church and they were ha getting their baby baptized and they were social distancing and the mother was holding the baby here and the priest was over there with a squirt gun squirting the baby from a distance Now I don't uh I wouldn't be surprised if that actually happened, to be honest with you. But that is not baptism So the Bible is very, very clear. The early church, the New Testament church, baptized new believers by immersion immediately following salvation. You say, oh yes, show me that in the Bible. Good. I'm glad you said that. Come with me back to the book of Acts. Book of Acts. By the way, just a little side note here, I you know the titles for the books of the Bible were man-made, right? So if you go to chapter 1, it says uh what's the title you're given there What's it say, Chapter 1, that's the top of chapter 1? So title you're given in your Bible. The Acts of what The apostles. Now that's not too bad. I crossed out the word apostles in my Bible, and I put the Acts of the Holy Spirit It's always spirit empowering the disciples all through there. So that's that was free. I won't add that on my salary or anything. Look with me if you would to Acts chapter 2. Look at verse 41 It's pretty simple here. Just take it for what it says. And then they, now Peter's just preached to them a powerful message. People respond. Verse 41, then they that gladly received his word. What do you think it means when it says they gladly received his word? They got what? They got saved. Peter preached the gospel, they gladly received it. They said, Yes, that's true. We agree with it. We accept that. Look what it says: they that gladly received his word were what? Baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. According to that verse, how long after they got saved did they get baptized? It's right away. It was the same day. Come over if you would to Acts chapter number eight. And here we have Philip is preaching to this Ethiopian eunuch. Now how many folks are familiar with this story, Philip preaching? If not, read it. It's a it's a great Great event. And he hops up in the chariot here with this eunuch that's come up from Ethiopia. And the guy's been reading from Isaiah And he's trying to understand, and um but come up to verse 30. Philip ran hitherto him, the guy in this chariot, and he says, And he heard him read from the prophet Isaiah, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I except some man should guide me? And so Peter, uh Philip explains this to him. Verse 35, and Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture, Isaiah. And preached unto him Jesus. And they went on their way, and they came to a certain water. And the eunuch said, See, here is water. What does hinder me to be baptized? Now that's a good question. What would stop someone from being baptized? What keeps me from being baptized? Here's water. What keeps me from being baptized? Look what Philip said. And Philip said, look at this, if thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest be baptized. Now what's Philip saying when he says, if thou believest with all thine heart? He's saying, if you what? If you're saved, if you're saved, Romans 10 9 and 10, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. He's saying, have you believed in your heart? You believe that this is Jesus. He's the Messiah. He's your Savior. If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. Sure. If you've trusted Christ, you believe, you trust him, be saved. Absolutely. And he, the eunuch, answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he commanded the chariot to stand still. Now look at this. Pay attention to the details. Commanded the chariot to stand still, and they went down both. What's the next three words? Into the water. I put in the margin of my Bible, immersion. They went down in the water. Into the water. And you read through the Gospels and John the Baptist when he's baptized, every time they went in the water, they went in the water, they went in the water. So the Bible's clear, the early New Testament church baptized new believers by immersion immediately following their salvation. I believe every person that gets saved ought to get baptized as soon as possible after they're saved. I think it's important. Now, for the New Testament believers, now here is where I think we've gotten away from the significance of baptism. If you come back to Peter here again to our text, For the New Testament believer, in the New Testament, when they got baptized, they were in s in They were making a statement. Baptism in the New Testament, if I understand it correctly, baptism in the New Testament was a clear, profound statement to all the world. That I am no longer the person I used to be. I am now a disciple of Jesus Christ. And we could go to references, Romans 6 and different places, where it clearly teaches that. It was more than just a ritual. It was more than simply doing something. Now, when I got baptized, I didn't understand the full significance. Of it. And probably most people will get baptized, get saved, get baptized. They don't understand the full significance of it. But here is the importance of baptism. I am dying. I am dying with Christ. I'm buried, and I'm raised again to a what? New life. New life. It's a break with the old man. And it is a public statement, a public commitment that I am now a follower of Jesus Christ. Baptism is significant. In the New Testament, when a believer, when these new believers got saved and they got baptized, Many times it costs them their family, they would be rejected by their family for becoming out as a disciple of Christ It cost them their friends. I'm talking to some folks today. You got saved, baptized, you lost some friends over that. Anybody here at all? I know I did, or so-called friends Sometimes it costs them their life. I had a number of years ago I came across it and I I kept it somewhere and for the uh did anybody here ever put something somewhere where you won't lose it And for the life of you, you cannot remember where in the world I put that thing so I won't lose it. I had an article about a Muslim young man, late teens, that trusted Christ as Savior. Over in one of those Middle East Muslim countries. And they showed a picture of him getting baptized. And they told him his family and the Muslim organization, Islamic leaders there told him, if you follow Christ in baptism, we're going to cut both your hands off. We're going to chop them off. How many people agree? That would be a little pressure not to be baptized. And the next picture showed him After he he got baptized, the next picture showed him sometime later, without any hands, two stumps there He said, I'd rather be publicly identified as a disciple of Jesus Christ than to have my hands. That's the significance of baptism in the New Testament. It cost them something. It was an identification. Baptism was significant in the New Testament. The tragedy is, many, I think, in our day do not take baptism very seriously. I've been talking about even among our independent fundamental Baptist churches. I got saved. You know my story. I got saved. And I had two fellows, and I thank God for them. I love those men. I haven't seen them in years. I look forward to we get to heaven and be able to fellowship together. I have no idea where they're at, whatever I'm telling them. Those two young men took me under wing and helped me and discipled me. But you know they never said one word to me about getting baptized. Never one word. And that I was growing, I was a month into my new life, and I was growing and I knew something wasn't right. It was does anybody know what I'm talking about when the Holy Spirit just disturbs your Your spirit to something is unsettled. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I didn't know what it was. I didn't even understand what all was taking place, but something was disturbed in my spirit. And finally one night I remember very clearly I was still living up in the attic and I had a little desk there and I pulled the the chair out from the desk. And I put my Bible there and I said, Lord, I don't know, God, I don't know what. Something's not right. I need you to show me. And the ignorant young babe in Christ, I didn't know, so I just plopped the Bible open. Now, don't do that. That's not a good way to study your Bible, alright? But in my ignorance, I did. I just plopped the Bible open, I stuck my finger down, and it was where John the Baptist was baptizing people. I need to be baptized. God showed me directly from His Word I needed to be baptized. I needed to come out and identify myself as a disciple of Christ publicly, the way God Established for it to be publicized. And I tell you, I said, All right, Lord, I'll get baptized. And I'll tell you, Pete, that that unsettledness went away. I went and told the preacher and he said, Oh yeah, okay, yeah, that's good. That's a good idea. I look back now and that bothers me. And getting baptized was just, oh yeah, that's a good idea. That should have been one of the first things they approached me about, as far as I'm concerned. Tragedy is baptism is so downplayed even in our independent Baptist churches Little emphasis. I was uh over here in Mount Lake Park. It's been a number of years ago, not real long. Anyone here A number of years ago could be 15, 20 years. Anybody, time is just completely, can't figure it out. It wasn't long ago, I don't think. I was knocking on doors down there and there's little duplexes down by the train tracks. I was knocking on doors and this guy came to the door and um I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and I'm just out inviting folks to church. I'd like to leave an invitation. I didn't know him from Adam. And he looked at me, and there was another guy back in the apartment. He says, hey, and he pointed back to the veil. He says, Hey, I know you We've heard about your church. I said, okay, I didn't know where we're going with this. He goes, you guys preach the Bible and try and get everybody saved and baptized I said, well yeah, that pretty much sums it up right there. I took it as a great compliment Baptism, baptism. It's important. And it's significant and it means something. Now, is Peter suggesting here that baptism saves us? That we're saved by being baptized? I think there's a couple key words here, real quickly. Look with me if you would. Verse 21, the like now what's that third word in? Figure. I think that's a key word. The like figure, whereupon even baptism doth now save us. The word figure there means pattern or representation. We're not far away. Come over real quick. Everybody with me, still? You holding out? Come over to Hebrews chapter 9 real quick with me. It's the only other time that word figure is used in the New Testament. Here, baptism is a figure Ark and baptism is a figure. Now look at chapter 9 of Hebrews and verse number 24. It uses that word also. He says, for Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true. But into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God. What's he saying? He's saying the Ark of the Covenant back that the Jews had in the tabernacle, what they carried around all the time. Remember David uh tried to move it with a ark and uh Uzzah died. He said that ark of the covenant, that's not the true covenant. That's not the true ark That's just a figure. That's just a representation made with hands down here on earth. The real one, the true one, is in heaven in the presence of God. When God gave instructions to Moses to build the tabernacle, he says, follow the pattern that I've given you. That is a pattern of what is in heaven. I was preaching one time and I mention mentioned the Ark of the Covenant about where it is now and I said, I don't know. It probably deteriorated. We don't know what happened until it got vandalized and stripped, whatever. The Babylonians destroyed it And man, I had a fella chew me out. He says the ark of the covenant that the Jews had is in heaven right now. I said, I think you're mistaken. And I took him here. I said, the one in heaven is not made with human hands. The one here that God had Bezaliel and those guys made down here with their hands, that was just a model. That was just a figure of the true one in heaven. And that's what he's saying about baptism. It's a figure. Baptism doesn't save us any more than taking Lord's Supper saves us. It is a figure, it is a picture, it is a representation of what Christ did for us in dying and being buried and rising again. And you and I in Christ dying to our old life or into the old self and a new life being raised. It's a figure, it's a picture of salvation. It is not salvation. In fact, it's kind of like Peter catches himself there a little bit and he says, even the light figure Whereunto even baptism doth now also save us, then he quickly puts in parentheses not the putting away of the filth of the flesh But the answer of a good conscience to God. Now that brings me quickly as I finish up our second key word The like figure whereunto even baptism doth now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. It doesn't talk about taking a bath, it's not washing away sins But the answer, I think that's the second key word, of a good conscience toward God. That word answer there means this: a pledge. It's used, as I understand the definition of it, it's used when you sign a contract and when you sign your name there, you answer that contract with your name You are pledging to fulfill the conditions of that contract. In other words, if I understand this correctly He is saying that baptism is the answer of a good conscience toward God. In other words, Jesus Christ Love me enough to die for me, be buried, and rise again. In my baptism, I am answering that what Christ did for me, I am answering with a life committed to live for him A good conscience. Did you ever notice when we baptize, we say, I've now baptized you, my little brother? In the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, buried with him in baptism, raised to walk in newness of life. That's the answer of a good conscience to God. What's the reasonable thing to do? Christ died, suffered hell for me, suffered the wrath of God, took responsibility for all my sins, all the ridiculous, wicked stuff I've said and done. Jesus Christ took responsibility, suffered the wrath of God, judged, rose again. What's the reasonable thing for me to do? What would be a good conscience response to that? It'd be living for him, right? I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. To present your bodies, a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable God, which is your reasonable service. I think Peter is referencing the ark is a picture, a figure of Jesus Christ providing salvation for us. Uh he saved the Noah and the eight the eight souls there on the ark and the water, saved them from the wrath of God And that's a figure, just like baptism is a figure or a representation or a picture of what Christ did for us in saving us on that cross. You follow? So my question was this does baptism save? And the answer is no. But that does not mean baptism is not significant. When I was in on staff in Neighborhood Bible time, there's a fellow, a salesman, came by the office there about once a month, every couple months or so. He was a Church of Christ fellow. All he wanted to do was argue about baptismal regeneration. You gotta be baptized to be saved. You gotta be baptized to be saved. After about I was there two or three times after a while, it was like We're not arguing with this guy anymore. It just goes on and on and on. So we just say, all right, whatever. Here's a track. It just got old Finally, one time he just pressed it and pressed it. You got to be baptized to be saved. So I said to him, I said, well, what about the thief on the cross? Jesus said, today you'll be with me in paradise. I said, he wasn't baptized. This was his answer. He says, oh yes, he was. I said, what? He goes, yeah, he got saved and baptized as a young man and he was backslidden and on the cross he was just getting right with God I said, really? What chapter and verse you got for that? No, he wasn't baptized. That old boy got saved on the cross. He turned to Christ, trusted him as the Savior, as he believed he would have his own kingdom. Remember me when you'll come into your kingdom. The old boy got saved on his deathbed. Thank God for it. You say, see, baptism's not important. He didn't get baptized. Listen, if you're nailed to a cross, I'll excuse you not being baptized. But unless you're nailed to a cross, you ought to have a good conscience toward God. Say, I'm coming out and out for Christ. Baptism's significant. You say, well, should a little child get baptized if they don't know exactly what they're doing? Yeah We'll teach them, they'll grow, they'll learn, they'll understand the significance of it. How many people here understood everything salvation was when you trusted Christ? None of us. But we trusted them and we grew. So here's my invitation. One tonight, if you've not been if you're saved, you've not been baptized, you ought to get baptized. Anybody get that impression? You guys try to get everybody saved and baptized. Yeah, it's the Bible. Number two, here's my second invitation. Some of y'all are sitting there and saying, well, I got that taken care of. If you if you and I, those of us who have been baptized, are we living up to that good conscience? Am I living the life of a disciple that my baptism declares me to be? Am I following the instructions that Christ gave to his disciples? Am I living in the Spirit? Am I walking in the Spirit? Or am I walking in the flesh? And that's a continual thing we have to address. Because when we follow the Lord in baptism, we answered Yes, Lord, I'm your disciple. I'm a believer. I'm a follower of you. I come out. Now let's live up to that through our life. Amen? Let's fight. Father in heaven, I ask you Help us, Lord, to be sincere in our walk with you. And Lord, this old flesh and the world, we have our ups and downs, just like the New Testament believers did. But we never want to get away from the fact that you've saved us. And now we are identified with you. And I pray you'd help us to live that on a daily basis. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in just a moment.