Second Peter chapter number two. And uh if you would notice with me the very last verse of this chapter, we've kind of been plowing our way through The whole book is 2 Peter, but particularly chapter 2, and um I know it's uh fr it may have come across as rather repetitious And as we mentioned this morning, that is typical in the Bible. It repeats things and re-emphasizes things. But it's repetition a little bit with our Sunday school series in June. And uh so he's winding down here his uh focus on these false teachers, and he says this in verse 2. He says, but it is happened unto then. Now these are these false teachers he's been addressing very strongly. He said, it's happened unto them according to the true proverb. Now he makes a statement that's a little bit unpleasant, I guess, is the term. It says, happen unto them, according to the true proverb, the dog is turned to his own vomit again. And the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. Now you almost had to have heard the message two weeks ago as we looked at verse number 2021. Where these false teachers had come in and they'd put on a good show. Their teaching was wrong and their and their uh uh their doctrine was wrong and their Philosophy of life and the lifestyle they were promoting was wrong, but they cleaned up and they put on a good show And now he's making this statement about them, basically, and this is really the message, they've gone back to what they really are. They put on a good show, but they've gone back to what they really are. I've entitled it Dogs and Pigs. Let's pray, and I'll give it to you just real quick, just a few thoughts here. Father, I ask you to bless as we Look at this final verse in this chapter, and Lord, I pray there'd be some lessons for us, some warnings. And Lord, we just thank you for our church, and I pray you'd help us to be on guard. Lord, we don't want to be paranoid. God, we don't want to see a false teacher being around every corner, but Lord, we do want to do right, we want to be right And so I ask that your Holy Spirit would help us once again this evening to see the importance of right doctrine and right living. Fill me with your spirit. I pray, Lord, I yield myself to you. Pray you'd take me and just be an instrument in your hand in Jesus' name. Amen. I just started a few things about these false teachers that we've already looked at. Number one, I put this down. They're real. Verse number one, he says, appointedly there will be false teachers among you. False teachers are very real. They always have been there, and they will be until the Lord comes back and sets up his kingdom. And so they're very real. Number two, I put this down, they are wrong. Second part of verse number one, he says that they deny the Lord that bought them. Their doctrine is wrong. And again, I know we've been emphasizing this so much, but I want to restate it here again. Anything that's contrary to Scripture is wrong. This is our standard. This is our plumb line. And if it doesn't line up with Scripture, then it's wrong. And anything that's wrong is harmful. It's going to hurt us. You cannot do wrong and not get hurt at some point. And so they're real, they're false teachers, they're very real, they're in our community, uh they're in every community of the world, they get in churches, if we're not careful, they'll get in churches They're wrong, and I put this down, they're rotten. They're uh wicked in their living. They put on a good show, and he He spent an extended period of time here talking about what they really are, and they're very, very wicked uh folks. Their hearts what they are, their character. And what they're promoting. Um they're uh phony, they're counterfeits. We talked about that. They'll talk the talk and they'll put on the show. But it's not real. It's a counterfeit and they draw them away. And then I put, last of all, they're ruinous By that I mean if a false teaching goes unchecked in a church or a church ministry, it will ruin that church and that ministry spiritually The spiritual well-being of a church is based, founded upon correct scriptural doctrine. You cannot be strong spiritually and be incorrect doctrinally And so whenever they alter the doctrine of a church, whenever they get away from the Bible teaching of a church, it has a profound and uh uh has a profound effect upon the spiritual well-being of that church. How many folks have noticed many of the the big denominations have drifted into uh wickedness? You know where that started? Back when they altered their doctrine, when they allowed false doctrine to come in. And so it's ruinous For any church to allow teaching and doctrine and preaching and living that is contrary to Scripture, it will ruin that church. They may be popular, they may have the praise of the world, they may have great crowds. But as far as the spiritual well-being of the church, It will be ruined by false teaching. And by the way, let me throw this out. Just because a church is large doesn't mean it's wrong. There's some very I have some friends that have very large churches and they are they are solid. And just because a church is small doesn't mean it's right. I know some small churches that are as wrong as can get The size of the church is not the issue. It's their faithfulness and adherence to the Word of God, big or small. And so it'll ruin. False teaching will ruin a church. I don't want Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be ruined. I want us to be true. I want God's blessing. Not just as pastor, but just as a member of this church. I want that. And so they're ruinous. And by the way, they're ruinous to themselves. And Peter goes through and he shows how they're going to be judged severely. And he goes back to the Old Testament, gives examples of that. And so now we come to verse number 22, and he's winding down his focus on these false teachers And he kind of, I look at verse 22 kind of as a summary of what they really are. of what their character is. It's kind of uh uh their dis uh their their characteristic and he gives two distinguishing uh uh Let me put my glasses on so I can read what up my notes are. He finishes out this segment with two disgusting Illustrations. Now I don't know about you. I always felt like I had a pretty strong stomach. But what he illustrates here is really pretty disgusting. So let's look at it. He mentions dogs and pigs. Now To the Jews, both of those critters would be very disgusting critters The Jews did not have dogs as pets. They did not have pigs in their backyard to slaughter for the winter. To the Jews, those were very repulsive animals. They wanted nothing to do with them. And um And not just to the Jews. I mean, Peter's not writing specifically to Jews. He's writing to the New Testament church, which was composed of Jew and Gentile. There's no longer in the church, in the New Testament church, there's no distinction between Jew and Gentile. And even in the culture at that time, uh dogs and pigs were not Thought of as great animals. We consider dogs. What do we say about dogs? They're man's what? Best friend in our society and I like having a dog for a pet. I've we've had dogs just about the whole time we had the boys. We would have a dog for a pet and and I enjoyed them. Uh now we have a cat. Pray my wife's watching, praise the Lord. We learned this morning, went up and down, praise the Lord all the time, right? No matter what the circumstance. We can, you know, we like dogs with man's best friend, but I'll tell you, back when Peter's writing this, dogs were not considered man's best friend. They were unclean, nasty animals. We were not unkept, they didn't take care of them, they didn't feed them perina dog chow. They didn't have veterinarians to take them to. They were mangy. They were scavengers. In many cases, they were very dangerous. The Old Testament talks about dogs licking up Jezebel's blood, licking up Ahab's blood and eating Jezebel's El except her palms and her feet. That's the dogs. Even Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verse 2, compared false teachers to dogs. He says, beware of them. They were nasty. And then he compares these false teachers to pigs. And again, a pig to a Jew, obviously, was an abomination. You wouldn't even touch it. You wouldn't get near a pig. Swine. They were filthy. They were obnoxious. When I worked, I worked on a farm from about 12 years old to about 16, so about four years I worked on a farm. And uh they had pigs on the one farm I worked at and we'd take out the we milk cows and then we'd take the old bad milk or whatever and we slop it out into the hogs and I tell ya they just anybody here ever ra raise hogs? Have you ever had more than one or two? You got like sixteen or twenty of 'em? Man, they'll just run you over. They'll eat you alive if they get a chance. And uh nasty and obnoxious, just root you around, knock you over. Um repulsive in many ways, even not just among the Jews, even in that culture then For many, they were considered dirty and repulsive animals. Listen, Jesus referenced in the Gospels in Matthew, he referenced dogs and pigs Listen to what Jesus said about the dogs and the pigs. He said, give not that which is holy unto the dogs. The implication there is the dogs were viewed as very unholy critters. Don't give something holy to a dog. He says, neither cast your pearls before swine. Lest they trample them under their feet and rend you. That word rend there means tear in pieces, and I'm telling you, a hog will do that. Tear you up. What he was saying was that the hogs and the dogs do not appreciate that which is of value. You put a earring in a pig and it you put a pearl before a pig and he doesn't care about that. He'll just trample it into the mire. Put something holy before a dog, he doesn't care about that. He'll just chew it up and tear it up and not pay any attention. And he's saying that's what these false prophets were. They had the Word of God. They had the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the most precious, important message that has ever been declared to mankind. And they trampled it underfoot. They just rejected it like something unholy. Just put it in the mire. The gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ blasphemed it. And Peter is saying that's what these guys are. He's comparing it to them. Now I know what time it is. Let me just give you these three things about these dogs and pigs. Number one, they're filthy. They're filthy. These prophets, false teachers, were filthy. Morally, but spiritually filthy Anybody that rejects and alters, deliberately rejects and alters the Word of God, is spiritually filthy. Built it. To treat the Word of God and reject the most precious thing there is, to treat it like that and have that attitude, I'll just change it. I'll just pervert it. I'll just alter it They were filthy. Second Peter 2, verse 7, back there, he says their lifestyle was filthy. Filthy conversation. Where conversation has the idea of lifestyle. In Jude chapter 1 and verse 8, talking about these same false teachers, he says their thinking was filthy. I'm here to tell you there's nothing pleasant about apostasy and sin. It may be popular in this Christ-rejecting world, but there's nothing pleasant about apostasy and sin. Sin, false teaching can have a very attractive facade This world has perfected the ability to make sin look so appealing and make it so glamorous, make it so attractive. But I'm here to tell you there's nothing attractive about sin. They make it so appealing. They put this facade up that outwardly, man. I'd like to do that. I would like to engage in that. I would like to experience that. That looks fun. That looks great. And they put a facade up that is very, very appealing and very, very attractive. But I'm here to tell you: behind that facade that the world and the devil presents of sin, behind that curtain Is death, sorrow, misery, and darkness Listen, you don't believe me? You say, preacher, I think I don't think sin is that bad. God says don't do this and do that, and God says stay away from that and don't touch this. And all these things that the Bible says of sin, all these things the preacher get preaches against sin. I don't think it's that bad. Uh I'd like for you to talk to Adam and Eve for a minute. Satan did exactly what these false prophets need, convinced Eve That forbidden fruit was good to look upon. Man, it looked good. And man, it would it would taste pretty good And it makes me wise. Why is God saying no to this? Are you kidding me? What's wrong with this? Basically, what Eve was saying and thinking. She reached up and took it. She believed the devil's lie. The moment she bit into that thing, something inside her died. Her soul. She died spiritually. Adam comes along, joins her in that. And from that point on, it's death. Sorrow, heartache, misery. In fact, their very first son became a murderer. Very first generation after Adam and Eve was a murderer. Listen, these guys were filthy. They made it look so good, but in reality, if you buy into their teaching, you buy into their lifestyle. It's miserable. I don't believe it, preacher. Let's talk to Aiken. We don't have time to go into the story behind Achan, but he disobeyed God, took some gold and silver, some Babylonianish garments, some very, very nice threads. Nice dress for his wife. I mean elegant, expensive, nice stuff. A lot of money. What's wrong with this? Man, we were defeating the enemy. This is left behind. Why can't I that first Spoils were to go to the Lord. He disobeyed God. And it cost him his life? And it cost them his children's lives. That tells me they were in on it. They were part of it. Say, preacher, I don't think it's that bad. I don't, yeah, you all this sin you say don't do sin. Don't uh keep yourself pure, don't Don't go to this place and don't go to that dance and don't go to this party and don't do that Oh I don't see anything wrong with it. Uh let's talk to Samson Boy, those women were good looking. It made them happy. He indulged. And his eyes plucked out. And he died a slave in a Philistine circus. The place collapsed in on him along with others. Not one time in Scripture will you find someone that disobeyed God and gave in to sin and it ended up good for him. It's a facade. This world has perfected the ability to convince us that there's nothing wrong with disobeying God. This world is the devil has perfected the ability to lie to us and deceive us into thinking that if I disobey the God that made me And I violate the way he designed me to live, and I indulge in these things, then God forbids, it'll be just fine And it's not just fine. Ask Adam. Ask Eve. Hey, you don't believe me? Let's sit down and talk to King David. Boy, there's Bathsheba. The Jewish tradition said that Bathsheba is one of the most beautiful women in all the Old Testament. He sees her. He wants her. He takes her. How'd that turn out? Oh, they lived happily ever after. No, her husband was killed, murdered. David's little baby died, his family fell apart. Oh, he got Bathsheba, all right. He got what he wanted, but I'll tell you, he lost what he had. That'll happen every time, every time. There's uh uh I'm I'm not just preaching young people, by the way, old folks then too. I'm here to tell you all across this auditorium folks could stand up and say, I believe the devil's lie. And I stepped across that line. I paid for it. I paid for it These guys are filthy. These teachers are filthy. What they're teaching is wrong. And it took a and there was a great price. Appreciate what What Austin sang tonight about the cross. You want to see the end result of what sin is? Look at the cross. Naked shame, rejection, wrath of God poured on him. Jesus experienced the end result of sin. And if you're toying with it, if any of us are toying with sin and we're looking at it, now if we're saved, praise God, we don't lose our salvation. But I'll tell you, there is a heavy, heavy price to pay. And I look at that old cross and I say, thank you, Lord. I look at old cross and see that's what sin does. That's what sin produces death, darkness, pain, wrath, shame These guys are filthy. Number two, I put this down. They're foolish. They're foolish. In verse number 22, Peter's referencing. He says, look, he says there, it happened unto them according to the true Proverb. Well, he's referring back to Proverbs chapter 26 and verse 11. Where he says, um, and uh I was going to quote it, let me read it to you so I make sure I get it right. Proverbs 22. In fact, you might want to put in the margin of the Bible right there beside that, if you don't have a study Bible Proverbs 22 and verse number 11. Listen to what uh what he says here. This is the Proverbs he's referencing. Proverbs twenty-six, I'm sorry, and verse eleven. He says, as a dog returneth to his vomit. So a fool returneth to his folly. In other words, anybody here, I know there's a lot of people here had dogs. We had a dog. That dog will eat some uh that dog will get loose. Maybe you let yours run loose. We're in town, we had a we tried not to let them run loose, but they get loose sometime. No stinking things They would always find, especially in summertime, that possum that got hit on the road. Right? They'd find that thing. And what do they do when they find that old dead st I mean the thing's been out in the sun for a week. It's nasty full of maggots. I'm trying to gross you out here And I ain't done yet. What's the first thing they do? They roll around in that. They come home reeking. But they don't stop there. They fill their belly full of that old rotten possum meat. And they come home about the middle of the night. That old doggy tummy starts rumbling. I'm trying to get somebody to illustrate what I'm telling you. Don't vomit that stuff up Now that what they ate made them sick. It was bad for them. It made them miserable. And that dog will vomit it up, and it'll turn around and what? Eat it right back up Peter says, that's what these guys are. Oh, they cleaned themselves up. We saw that in verse 19 and 20. Oh, they cleaned their self up from the pollution of the world. They could put on a show for a while. They're just phony. They're not born again. They're not safe. They turn around and look at that filth of the world that made them miserable. And they go right back to it. And he says, They're fools, they're fools. Now listen, these guys are unsaved, but I'm here to tell you, I've been doing this long enough, been involved in this Christian life long enough. Christians sometimes go back to their own vomit. Some sin God delivered you from. Some sin God helped you get yourself out of, and you were miserable and guilty and shame. Eat it back up again. Am I right or wrong? The dog. How foolish! How foolish. These guys are filthy. They're foolish. Very thing that made them sick, they go back and eat again. The very thing that destroys your life, you go back to it. The very thing that made a pig stink, he gets cleaned up and he goes back to that which made him stink, reap to high heaven in the first place. He goes back and wallows around in it. That word wallow means what we imagine it does, just get down in it and roll around in it. I thought the word mire was interesting. When we hear the word, we use the word mire, what do we think of? Mud, right? I got looking it up. Mire, as it's used here, is actually mud saturated with dung. The pig's own dung. The farmer gets them and cleans them up. We're going to have a nice little pet. We're going to listen to classical music. We'll wash them and put deodorant and perfume on. We'll put a nice cowboy bandana around its neck. Oh, and we'll call them bacon. You give that dog that pig a chance and it'll go right back out in its own dung, its own mud, and roll around in it. Would you agree? That's pretty foolish. That's what these guys were doing. And I'm telling you, Christians often can do the same thing. Sin, I put this down, sin is moral vomit. Sin is moral mire. And the world makes it look so good and makes it taste so good and make it seem so wonderful. And sin has the same effect on our hearts and souls that the vomit has on the dog and the mire has on the swine, the pig. And then, last of all, I put this down, they were fatal. The end result was not good. They were fatal to themselves. Peter makes it very, very clear here. Jude does the same thing. These people are under the wrath of God. And they die in their apostasy and their rejection. And they suffer eternal death. The most horrific thing I can think of is to die in my sins. Unsaved for all eternity. And that's their end result. That's their end result. Not only are they fatal to themselves, they're fatal to those that follow them. Here's the tragedy about false teaching and false doctrine. Not only what it does to the one that holds to it But that false teaching then will lead others who would come to Christ, would come to the truth. It leads them into a false hope, a false salvation, and they die separated from God for all eternity. One of the greatest dangers to the unsaved people of our world is not the Satanists, in my opinion, is not the rock and rollers. It's the false teachers operating under the name of Christianity that are teaching a false hope, that are teaching an unscriptural Christ. Jesus said in Matthew 24, the disciples came to Jesus, and I gotta quit. He said, They said, Lord, what will be the sign of your coming? When shall these things be? And what will be the sign? He told him, you're not going to know when. It's not for you to know when. He says, but here's the sign. And if you'll study Matthew 24 very, very carefully, the very first thing he says, the very first sign he gives, and he repeats it throughout his message, deception, deception, deception, deception. And one of the chief characteristics of society and the world in the last days is going to be false Christs, false salvations, false gospels, unscriptural doctrine. He says, don't you believe it. You be careful. You beware. It's fatal. It's fatal. It's fatal. Our society is saturated with lies, right or wrong. If you listen to social media, if you're listening to what Hollywood and the media Politicians, if you listen to all those voices out there in the world that are screaming at us I'm here to tell you we're being exposed to lies. Now, here's the purpose of the lies that are saturating our society. It's not to get us to believe the lie. The purpose that society and the world is saturated but lies for isn't to get us to believe their lies. It's to get us to not believe the truth. Because you don't know what is true and what is false. So you don't believe any of it. And if Satan can get us to doubt Or distort what his word says, then he's got us. He's got us. And Peter makes a very, very strong case. For our churches, our church and Bible-believing churches to take a strong stand against false teaching and ungodliness. And lies in the name of Christianity. Right? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help. Help us. Lord, not a pleasant message. But Lord, we're in a spiritual warfare and this stuff's real. I pray you'd help our church. And Lord, I pray for all Bible-believing churches that love your word and want to be true. God, help us be careful. Help us to be to stand. And having done all to withstand, to withstand, and having done all to stand, Lord, help us. In our homes, what our children are exposed to. Please help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. We're going to take Lord's Supper here in a bit. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I want God to be pleased with my life. I want our church to be true to the Word of God. I want my heart to be clean, my life to be right That's what God wants. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, and we'll pray together for one another. That God will help us in that way. Is there any like that? Sure. God bless you. Who in the world wouldn't feel that way? What Christian wouldn't feel that way Maybe an old altar before we go to Lord's Supper, just the time to bow our heads. Lord, search my heart. Try me. I want to be right. And thank God for the blood of Jesus that cleanses us from all sin. Father, bless her invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, amen