Matt uh 1 Peter chapter 3, I just want to read uh verse 13 and 14. And actually I'm not gonna even get to verse 14 tonight. I want to look at verse 13. It says this. I'll read them both, but we're just gonna look at Verse thirteen, and who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. I notice that phrase in verse number 14. He says, be not afraid. Now I tell you, when God says don't be afraid, you don't have to be afraid. God says that. And so let's look at this, and um, we'll have a word of prayer. We'll see uh if there's something here that God can use to help us. Father We ask now that you would bless our time in your word. It's been a good day recognizing these kids and young people and the workers We believe, Lord, that we will get what we honor, and so we want to honor those that serve you and have faith in you and are growing in their faith I pray as we finish out the day in your word that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us, I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me And speak through me just as a conduit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour. And pray you'd open our hearts and minds, apply to our lives the truths in this passage And I pray we go out this week and be a good witness for the Lord Jesus Christ and be good disciples of the Lord Jesus. So help us, Lord, tonight. Challenge, convict, encourage, provoke us to good works is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Peter, just a reminder, Peter is writing to uh a lot of that are probably fairly young believers, now not necessarily young in their age, but young in the Lord. Uh this is only about thirty years after The resurrection and ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's a first generation believers. And they are being persecuted for their faith. As you know, we've been highlighting this. I think it's an important information to be able to appreciate what all's being said. They are being persecuted intensely for their faith. They've been driven out of their homes They've been run out of their communities. They've been uh stigmatized as troublemakers, as enemies of the state. Many of them have fellow believers that had given their lives, been martyred because for no other reason than they're a disciple of Jesus Christ. They're sharing the gospel. They've lost their jobs. Many have been beaten, tortured, stoned. And so they're paying a heavy price for their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, their commitment to Jesus Christ. And Peter is writing to them and he encourages them, as we pointed out. He instructs them. Within the letter, he gives them some important instruction on how to behave themselves in that environment and that type of treatment. He uh and now here he's giving them assurance. We noted that last week. And um he's trying to uh uh assure Persecuted believers. Now, this section here, I believe, is I was studying the book. I believe verse 13 begins a new section on uh in 1 Peter. It's still part of his overall assurance to these believers that God is with them. But he's beginning a section where he's teaching them and he's pointing out that God gives grace in the midst of suffering. God's grace in suffering. I've been knowing the Lord now for over 40 years, and some of y'all have been saved, walking with the Lord a lot longer than I have. But 40 years isn't a short period of time. And uh I've learned a few things from studying the Bible and from my experience with the Lord. And I learned this: that God gives grace, God gives special grace For special circumstances. Sometimes we look at a situation, for instance, these believers going through persecution, and we might say something like this: I don't know if I could do that. I don't know if I could face the opposition and the and the uh violence and still maintain my testimony and my faith in God. You know what I'm trying to say? You follow Man, I don't know if I could do that. I'm reading a book. It's not Fox's Book of Martyrs, but it's along that same subject of folks that have been tortured for their faith. Persecuted for their faith. Some gave their lives, others survived and were able to tell about it. All around the world. And by the way, did you know there are Christians around the world today that are being persecuted intensely? As you and I are sitting here in an air-conditioned uh building with padded pews with a Bible in our lap, we have brothers and sisters in Christ and other places of the world that are starving in a prison somewhere For no other reason than they have faith in God. They trust the Lord. And I found sometimes when you look at someone like that, and I'm reading these accounts of persecution, And I think, man, what would I do in that situation if they came into my home and pointed a gun at my wife and said, deny Christ or we'll kill your wife. Well, what would you do? One account, they had his little daughter, and they said, either you deny Christ and deny that Bible, or we take your daughter's life. How many people like me would say, I don't know if I could handle that? Anyone there? You know what I found out? I found out that God gives special grace. For special circumstances, situations. God gives grace. And you read the testimony and you read the account of these dear folks That's only crime, their only wrongdoing, is their commitment to Jesus Christ. And they pay a horrendous price. And even in doing it, they maintain a testimony, God is good. God is good. God gives special grace, I believe, for special circumstances that we might have to go through. Anyone here ever hear a preacher or hear a Christian talk about dying grace? You ever hear that? When it comes time to die, God gives that special grace, a special peace. I've seen that time and time again. I'm thinking of uh our dear brother Chuck Coddington. Remember how many folks remember Brother Chuck? Tell you, out of nowhere, brain tumor. Boom, boom, boom. Next thing we know, he's on his deathbed I tell you, and I've seen others, but he stands out in my mind of someone that had the grace of God all over them when it came time to cross Jordan. God gives special grace for certain circumstances and trials he allows us, he, in his providence, allows us to go through. He gives us grace to be able to deal with it, grace to be able to maintain a testimony, grace to be able to rejoice, even in horrendous circumstances. So Peter's writing in this section here, he's addressing the grace that God gives for times of suffering. If you would, look in verse number 14. It says, but and if ye suffer For righteousness' sake. Over in verse number 17, he says, For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing rather than evil doing. And he talks about God giving special grace for believers to be able to handle that suffering, that persecution, that opposition. Peter is reassuring That whatever opposition they are facing, whatever persecution that's being inflicted upon them, God in grace will be with them. Now, I try not to be sensationalistic, and I don't think I am, but I think you and I as believers In the United States of America at this time, in the world you and I are living in, I think we need to prepare ourselves at the very least for increased opposition to our faith and our commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe we need to prepare ourselves for that. I think part of our ministry with the young people is to Pray that God's Holy Spirit will use us to strengthen their faith to be strong for the days ahead. I don't want to be pessimistic and I don't want to paint a cloud over their heads. I think their future is bright and God can do great things. But I believe they may have to take stands that you and I never dreamed would happen. God's grace. God's grace. Peter's reassuring them. Whatever opposition they face, whatever persecution is inflicted on them, God in grace will be with them. He'll see them through, he'll enable them to stand. And the interesting thing is, although it you don't see it just on the surface here, but he's using the Bible He's basing this assurance that God will strengthen them, enable them to deal with it. He bases it on scripture. Let me read to you for the sake of time. We'll not all turn there. But he is quoting, actually, or he's referencing, it's not a direct quote, but he's referencing Isaiah chapter 8 and verse number 13. Listen to what Isaiah says. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread And he shall be for a sanctuary. Now that, I believe, is verse 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. So Peter is basing this assurance to these New Testament believers that are uh that are being persecuted or going through this affliction for their faith in Christ. They're remaining faithful. In fact, we pointed out earlier, they're even rejoicing in the Lord in all of this, with joy unspeakable, full of glory. But he's basing his assurance to them on the Word of God. And I want us to stop and say this. Our assurance is not on a hope-so, feel-good, I think-so type basis. The assurance, the assurance that God will help us, that God will give us grace is based on the promises of God Oh, don't worry, be happy. I tell you, that level of assurance isn't going to take you very far when somebody's stoning you for your faith in Christ. I need something from God. I need the truth of God that I can plant my feet on and stand. When this whole world's pouring its opposition on me. And so he's referencing Scripture in his assurance of them. Now, I want to look at verse 13, and I see what time it is. Let me just two thoughts here from verse 13. Notice it says, and who is he that will harm you? The first thing I notice here is the question that Peter is asking these believers. Who is he that will harm you? Now, this is a rhetorical question. He's not trying to gain information. It's not Peter saying, All right, you tell me who it is out to harm you. You know, we'll deal with that. That's not what he's saying He's not trying to get information from them. He's trying to make a point. Who is he that will harm you? He's trying to get them to think: who is it that could possibly harm you If you have God as your Savior, if you have God as your assurance. He's not asking us to gain information. He's trying to have effect upon their thinking I think in so many words, Peter is saying this. Now stop and think about this. Who in the world could possibly harm you? In light of the Savior we have, in light of the God we serve, in light of the promises he's given us, who could possibly harm you? Now, I look at that word harm. What does he mean when he says, and who is he that will harm you? Well, the word harm has two ideas behind it. One is to physically injure somebody. Physically injure somebody. Who is it that could physically injure you? The other idea behind that word harm is this. And I think this is the one he's getting at It means to have a harmful effect upon my mind, or to injure someone to be injured spiritually, mentally, or emotionally. Now we know That there's a heap of people that could harm them physically, right? In fact, it's already happening. So I don't believe Peter is, when he says, Who is he that will harm you? I don't think he's referencing to them being physically injured because of their faith. Because it's obvious that some that people can actually do that. I think Peter is referencing the fact That who in the world can do you harm spiritually? Who can harm you emotionally and mentally? In other words, what he's getting at, I believe, is this: that regardless of what you and I go through, with the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior, and with the grace of God poured upon us We can deal with affliction, we can face persecution, and yet still not be harmed spiritually. Now, I want you to think with me a little bit here. What type of harm spiritually or emotionally or mentally would there be by somebody persecuting me? And what what how would that maybe harm me spiritually if I let it? Hello What may hurt your testimony? I put this down. This is what I was thinking. How would opposition and persecution harm me spiritually if I let it? I think one way is get discouraged Right? I want you to study sometime what the Bible says about discouragement. God always rebuked his people when they got discouraged. He never came down and said, Oh, you poor little thing. He didn't say that. He says, listen, I've given you promises, I've given you my presence. Read the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. They got discouraged. God rebuked them. Discouragement. You know what this whole world wants to do? He wants to discourage you and I from living for God. That's why they call us names. That's why they make false accusations about us. That's why they threaten us. That's why they said all kinds of horrible things on social media about us. That's why they call it and say, I'm coming out there with a shotgun, going to blow your head off. They want to discourage us The old devil's a master at discouragement. It's one of his greatest tools. You know how many Sunday school teachers, bus workers, the devil's been able to get out of the ministry? simply because he got them, harmed them spiritually by discouraging them. I think discouragement is a way to be harmed spiritually. I think fear My Bible says that we are not to fear. Anybody ever here try to witness to somebody or you're going to do something for the Lord and it scared you to death? Anybody here like that? That's the way it was about half hour ago getting ready to preach. I like what Tom Malone said. He says, uh, I just keep reading the Bible until I get up enough courage to start preaching. That's why we read long portions of scripture sometimes Fair. David said, What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. So Peter's writing to them and he says, Who is he that can harm you? I think he's saying, harm you spiritually. What can they do that would bring discouragement? Or what can they do that would bring fear? I think there's another spiritual way to be harmed. There's another way to be harmed spiritually, emotionally, and this is a deadly one, bitterness. I wonder how many of these dear believers, maybe a dear Christian wife, and she saw those pagans, she saw those Roman soldiers whatever come in and raid their home and take their husband off, beating them with rods and drag them off to some prison never see him again. And I wonder if down in her heart and mind and soul the devil won't whisper, you ought to be awfully bitter about that. And Peter's writing to him saying, listen, you don't have to be bitter. You don't have to get discouraged. You don't have to be fearful. Who is he? That can harm you. I think he's talking about the spiritual aspect, not the physical aspect. All through Scripture we saw God's people harmed physically, did we not? What about Joseph? Throwing him in a pit. I would think that hurt. Prison. I was thinking of Jeremiah. Did you ever read the book of Jeremiah? Anybody here ever read the book of Jeremiah? If not, you ought to read the book of Jeremiah. Talk about getting discouraged. He said, I'm not even going to make mention of the Lord. I'm done preaching. They were throwing him in pits, slimy, sinking down in mud, up to his neck. They throw some water down on him, throw some bread down to them, tied old rags, try finally one said, ah, we better get them out of there, tied rope rags to a rope, stuck it under his armpits, pulled him up out of that thing Jeremiah said, I'm done. I'm done with this. God's Holy Spirit convicted him. And he said, God's word was like a fire burning in my heart. I couldn't quit. I couldn't go back with my God. I needed to stay faithful to him. So we know that God's people will suffer physically. Read the book of Acts, beaten, stoned, read the life of Paul. So we know that there's physical harm will take place to God's people, but he's talking about protecting who can harm you spiritually. Who can do that? Who can do that if God is your Savior? I think generally speaking, this world has an intense dislike for the people of God. Say what do you mean? I mean this. This world don't like you and me. They don't. Generally speaking, this world dislikes the people of God. Now, sometimes they'll tolerate us, sometimes they'll give us lip service, but you mark it down. Jesus said, this world will hate you. I like what F. B. Meyer said. He said one of the most terrible positions a Christian can find himself in is to be loved by the world. Did you get that? Let me say it again. One of the most terrible positions a Christian can find himself in is to be loved by the world. You know, we say, we say, oh, the whole world hates me, this is terrible. That B. Meyer was saying, the whole world loves me, this is terrible. Old preacher one time said, he made this statement. He said, What bad thing have I done that the world speaks so well of me? These believers were fully aware of the fact that the world could and would harm them physically. But Peter's assuring them That God's grace will protect you from spiritual harm What did Jesus say? This is little related to this. What did Jesus say about going to heaven and going to hell? He said it is better. He said, if your right hand offend thee It is better to what? Cut it off and go to heaven with one hand than it is to go to hell with two. What's he saying? He's saying my spiritual well-being is far more important than my physical well-being He said, if your right eye offend thee, pluck it out. It's better to go to heaven with one eye than go to hell with two. If your right foot offend thee, cut it off It's better to go to heaven with one foot than go to hell with two. Now he's not suggesting that you've got to pull your eyeball out and cut your ha your hand and foot off to get to heaven. What he's saying is the spiritual well-being is far more important than the physical well-being for you and I. And Peter's writing: who can harm you? Who can harm you? Listen, the grace of God they can't touch your heart and soul. They can't get there. So he asked this rhetorical question. Who can harm you? Who can harm you? Then the second of all, and I end with this, I notice a second thought here in verse 13. And who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? So first I notice the question he asks, and then the second thing I notice is the condition that is necessary. He puts a condition on here. If that's conditional I mentioned this morning in the message, I do have a role to play in my spiritual well-being. You and I do have a role to play in our spiritual health. And the condition here is if we be followers of that which is good. That statement reminded me of Romans 8. 28. How many people here are familiar with Romans 8. 28? What a great verse. This is how we usually quote it. Is everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? This is the way we usually quote it. And we know that all things work together for good. And if we're not careful, we stop there, but that verse does not stop there. There's no promise that all things work to good for everybody. Everything worked to good for all y'all out there. No, that's not what it says. All things work together for good to them that Love God and are the called according to his purpose What is he saying? He's saying this. There's a condition for all things working together good. There's a condition that must be met if I'm going to be protected From the harm that Satan in this world would do to my heart and soul and mind. And look what that condition is. If And who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? Now I like that word followers. It's used different times in the Bible. He's not talking about being a passive follower. I'm just kind of a follower of this. What I mean by that, and I tell you when I was studying, I thought of your mother, Jane, Betty Wampler. And I would go visit her for years. She's been with the Lord, what, three years now? Two, three years? And what uh I visit her, I tried to every week. I didn't always get up every week, but I tried to regularly And uh what a blessing goes here. She was the sweetest thing. And uh I'd ask her, I'd say, Ms. Wampler, how are you today? She goes, Well, all right, considering everything. And uh we just had I'd tease her about that. But she was a follower. of the Pittsburgh Pirates. How old was she? Eighty eighty-seven. And I'd go visit her. And almost every time it was baseball season, she'd be watching the Pirates. And she could tell me, I'm telling you, she knew the pirates. She knew the every player, their birthday, their statistics, I mean everything And um and uh if I I come in there and uh we'd be talking the by the pirates game be on, she'd be watching that game, talking to me while she's watching that game. She loved the pirates Now she was a follower of the pirates. By that I mean she followed them, the statistics, their record, and all of that. What he's talking about here is not a passive interest in something, but what he's talking about is being actively involved Who is he that can harm you if you be followers of that which is good? Actively involved, engaged in, part of it. He's saying, listen. He said, I think what he's saying is this, the safest place in the world to be is in the service of God. Who can harm you if you're involved, your follower, you're involved in doing that which is good, you're involved in serving the Lord You're involved actively part of advancing the gospel, actively involved in living for God as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is he that can harm you? I put the safest place to be spiritually in the center of God's will. Now here's how we misinterpret that sometimes. We say, well, we'll tell a young person, well, uh, if I go to the mission field, I might end up in Indonesia or some Muslim country, and I'm going to be in danger. And we'll say, nah, the safest place in the world is the will of God. But you know what? I've seen people go to places like that and get beat up. We have missionaries, we have been robbed, held hostage down in Brazil. We had missionary in going to Europe, going to uh Amsterdam, was killed in a car wreck in the will of God that's behind a wife and children. We say it's the safest place Listen, we're not, when we say that, we need to understand we don't mean that physically. Sometimes the will of God is very dangerous physically. Sometimes being in the will of God may cost me my life. May cost me my finances. I may lose a lot of things physically in the will of God. What Peter's talking about here is spiritually. And this is what I'm trying to get at, and this is what I want to end with. The safest place in the world for me spiritually is to be in the will of God, serving him faithfully. Nobody can harm you when you're spiritually, when you're actively serving God, when you're engaged in that which is good. Now you and I as a Christian start horsing around with that which is not good. Brother, we're opening ourselves up to spiritual attack. We're opening ourselves up. And so, who can harm you? Who is he that can harm you if you be followers of that which is good Those who are in love with the Lord and love serving Him and doing right, those are the healthiest ones spiritually. Here's my final challenge. Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and you're sitting on the sidelines, and you're a follower in the sense of just simply watching the game? Keeping stats, but you're not engaged in the service and living for God, I'm telling you, you're in very dangerous ground. In very dangerous ground. You're not reading your Bible. You're not praying. You're not faithful to church. And you're neglecting these areas, not following that which is good. I tell you. We're in dangerous ground. You follow what I'm saying? Follow what I'm saying. I don't know if I'm communicating this as well as I wished I was. But I tell you, the safest place to be, here's what I want to say. Safest place to be spiritually. Now we can't lose our salvation, but we can sure lose the peace of God. We can sure lose the joy of the Lord And this is what I want to say. Why don't you just jump in headfirst in the service of our King and say, I'm going to love him, and I'm going to walk with him, and I'm going to be 100% Christian. And the Bible says, who can harm you? Who can harm you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these words. I stumbled a little bit tonight, I think. But Lord, maybe you'd challenge us. Just to be out and out, I pray you'd help us not to be afraid to serve you, witness for you, not to be afraid to make a commitment to be a disciple of Jesus Christ in every sense of the word. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed tonight, I wonder how many would say, preacher, there's areas of my Christian life I need to get engaged in. Maybe it's that Bible reading, maybe it's church attendance, maybe it's prayer, maybe it's witnessing, maybe it's some capacity of serving the Lord here in the church, the choir, the buses, uh, nursery, some way, help clean, whatever. I'm going to be engaged. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas in my Christian life I need to get engaged. Any like that? God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some here tonight say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't have that assurance that my sins are forgiven. I'd like to know that. I don't want to go to hell And tonight you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. Help, pray that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled in my heart and soul. Any at all? Any at all Now we're going to give an invitation. We're going to finish up the Lord's Day, go into a new week. Maybe you get a place old altar. And say, Lord, here am I, use me, stir me, to be engaged, to be engaged. Father bless now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.