Good testimony and song. Second Kings chapter number seven, if you would turn there with me. Second Kings seven. It's good to see see Steve Brant out there. God bless you, Steve. Is that your cousin you have with you? Oh, it's a friend. God bless you. Good to see you. Good to see Jem there too. I tell you, Jem's a real gem God bless you, man. I didn't mean him when I was asking if that's your cousin. Steve's a little slow, but 2 Kings chapter 7. I'm going to read verses 3 through 15. I'm not going to deal with everything that's in this tonight, okay? So you can relax. There's so much here. I just want to pull a few things out to begin with, but this is such a fascinating story. 2 Kings 7, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 3. Three. And there were four. We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. Now therefore, come, let us fall unto the host of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live. If they kill us, we shall but die. And they arose up in the twilight to go into unto the camp of the Syrians. And when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of the Syrians, they're at the edge of the camp. Behold, there was no man there. For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise And they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel has hired us, has hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the Kings of the Egyptians to Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their asses, and even the camp as it was, and fled for their light And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went into one tent and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver and gold and raiment And went and hit it, and came again and entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hid it. Then said one, then they said one to another, We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief Mischief will come upon us. Now therefore, come, that uh that we may go and tell the king's household. So they came and called under the porter of the king And they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and behold there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, and asses tied, and the tents as they were. And the king arose in the night and said unto his servants, I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall catch them alive and get into the city. One of the servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain Which are left in the city. Behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it. Behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites that are consumed, and let us send and see. They took therefore two chariot horses, and the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see And they went after them unto the Jordan, and lo, all the way was full of garments and vessels which the Syrians had cast away in their haste, and the messengers returned and took Now I've entitled the message, Don't Keep It to Yourself. And we're actually going to look at that aspect of the message of this passage. So let's pray. I just share a few thoughts with you tonight and and Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, as we look in your word now, I do ask, God, that uh you would open our hearts and minds to the truths of your word and how they apply to our lives. Lord, uh, I cannot Apply your word to your people's hearts and lives. You have to do that, Father. And so with that in mind, I yield myself to you anew. I present my body anew. Fill me with your spirits. Speak through me to each and every one of our hearts, that we would grow, that we would be the people that you intend for us to be, that our homes, our lives would be pleasing to you. You and uh the Lord Jesus Christ be glorified. Please have your way now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm curious, uh, how many folks have ever read through the book of Leviticus. Not the most popular book in the Bible, I'm sure. But wait till I'm finished here. And by the way, I I don't think I've ever heard anybody say, boy, you know, my favorite Book in the Bible is Leviticus. Nevertheless, it is given by inspiration of God and it's profitable for us. Amen? Now here's my question. You guys are a little anxious. How many folks ever read through the book of Litigus and you thought to yourself, wow, that's a lot of rules Anybody ever heard something to that effect? You go through there and it covers the gamut. Now let me give you something that will help you understand the book of Leviticus and the laws that God gave to Israel You can take the laws that God gave to Israel, you can break them down into three categories. There are what are often referred to as the ceremonial laws Now those were the laws that had to do with sacrifices and the ceremonies around the tabernacle and later on the temple and all the furniture. Involved, they had, uh for the most part, they had spiritual significance to them. There was a spiritual truth being taught in the ceremonial laws Again, the sacrifices, some of the various washings they had within the temple, tabernacle, and many, if not most of those pointed to the coming Lord. So you had the ceremonial laws. But then there were other laws given in the book of Liticus and by God to Israel, and they are what I refer to tonight as the moral laws And those had to do with the interaction within Israelite society, treating one another. There was stuff like if you find your neighbor's horse got loose. How to deal with that. If you know somebody was killed and they didn't know who did it and the process to go through there. So it had to do with the the uh efficient function of society and keeping a right. So it was societal laws or moral laws, whichever you Then there's a third set of laws that were given, and those were uh what I'm gonna refer to as sanitary laws And that had to do with the physical health of the community. And some of these were washings. If you remember reading through there, it says if they find what they call a leprosy in a house. They were to go through this elaborate process of washing it and staying away from it and several things, um uh physical things they'd find on somebody. They had to wash their clothes and and do these different things and stay away from the people. And those all had to do with public health and not spreading of disease and all that. So I said all that to say this. Here we find four lepers. Now remember the situation that we find ourselves in here. Syria has been under siege for an extended period of time. They are dying. They are starving. No food's gotten in. Nobody's gotten out. No fuel. They are starving. They are in absolute frantic distress. We find For lepers, and understanding the laws that God had given to society, it's not surprising that they are outside the gates of Samaria They're not inside where the population is, they're outside, and they're actually in what you could call a no-man zone The Syrian army is encamped out here. The city of Samaria is here with its walls around it, protecting them from the attack. They've been surrounded for a long period of time. They're dying in there. Food's running out. They're starving. And outside the gate in this no-man's zone, you find these four lepers. What in the world are they doing out there? Well They were following the law, the sanitation laws, the sanitary laws God had given Israel. They were not to be with the general public. Leprosy is is was and is an extremely contagious disease. It is deadly Uh if I maybe you correct me if I'm wrong, I still think to this day there's no cure for it. Uh I think we can prevent it pretty much, contain it, but I don't believe there's am I right, Helen? Is that am I correct? But keep it from spreading. But I don't think there's a cure to take it away. So it's an extremely deadly disease and it's extremely contagious And by the way, this wasn't practiced just with Israel. Most societies had recognized that leprosy was extremely dangerous And if anybody contracted it, they were to be separated from the public. They were to be what we would call today quarantined. And so it's not surprising to find these four lepers in this no-man zone. But nevertheless, they're still starving and dying. They have leprosy. We don't know what stage they were in. and it's leprosy, whether they were at the ending stages, where they're about to die, whether it was just beginning. I have a sneaking suspicion they were in the early stages And a little in a few moments I'll explain to you why I think that. But nevertheless, they're in this no-man zone and they have three options Now they're starving just like the rest of the Israelites, and these lepers were Israelites, but they couldn't be under the population. So they have three options. And they say I'm there in verse number what is Is it four? Verse four, they say they express these three options. They say this. We can stay out here outside the walls of the city, like we are. We're starving, and we'll just die here. In other words, we can do nothing and die. Or we can go inside the city. And just violate the sanitation laws, the health public health laws, violate what our qu our quarantine, it wouldn't be quarantination, right? It would be quarantine. Violate that. Go into the public. But there's no benefit in that. If we go in there, we're going to die. They're no better off than we are. Or we've got door number three. We can go out to the Syrians. Now the Syrians are the Israelites' bitter enemies. The Syrians want one thing primarily above everything else, and that is all the Israelites dead. They are on a mission of vengeance, and we talked about that in previous messages. So, of their three options: stay here, do nothing, and die. Go into the city and die, there's no hope there. Or we have one tiny glimmer of hope. That is, go to the Syrian camp, and by some miracle, they may show us mercy. Throw some food out to us. If they kill us, we're no worse off than we are staying here. We die. So these three options. Now I want us to consider a few things very, very quickly about the situation they find themselves. themselves in. Oh, by the way, their their decision was what? Door number three, right? I said we'll go with that. It's our only hope. So they they do that Would you consider with me number one? Their condition, not just leprosy, but of starvation and all of that, opened their eyes that something needed to be done. All right? They're out here. We're dying. We've got to do something. We can't just keep on doing what we've been doing. Something has to change. We must find something to change our situation. Now, it required a siege of an extended period of time and starvation to the point of near death To get them motivated to do something. And you know what I've found? I've been in the ministry for a number of years now. I found that sometimes it takes a catastrophe. To open a person's eyes to realize something different needs to be done in their life. Sometimes it is utter and total failure. On a person's part where finally their eyes are open and they say, you know, I can't go on like this anymore. If I keep living the way I'm living, if I remain in the situation I am in, it is going to destroy me. It is going to destroy my life and my future. Something has got to change. And that's the point where these lepers were Now, sometimes it's failure, sometimes it's catastrophes that are outside our Our responsibility, in other words, we we're not necessarily the ones that produced the situation I'm in, but nevertheless I'm in it And something has to change. As I studied this, I thought about, uh, and it doesn't correspond exactly, but I thought about the prodigal son. How many We're familiar with the story, the prodigal son, right? Uh selfish, uh takes his father's savings, goes out, and what's he do with the money? He invests it and gets much more, brings his father back tons of money, and his dad's very proud of him. No The exact opposite. Um he goes out and wastes it and uh then famine shows up. So he made a series of bad decisions. And then some things took place that he had no control over. Famine showed up. And when it's all said and done, The money's gone. The friends are gone. By the way, the friends of the world always are gone when the money's gone. When the party's over, these so-called friends are nowhere to be found. So he finds himself in the hog pen, so hungry that he is willing to eat the husk That the farmer has thrown out to the pigs, the table scraps, if you will, that is thrown out to the pigs, and he's tended to take them away from the pigs and eat them themselves. Now, in my mind, that sounds a little bit like the situation in Samaria. Except they're not eating pig's husks, they're eating doves dung. So it's a much more extreme case, but this is the point. In that pig pen, his testimony is shambles. His life's investments are gone. He cannot go any lower than where he's at. And I'm reading into it a little bit here, but I don't think I'm violating scripture. The Bible says he comes to himself, and I want to suggest he's saying something like this. I can't go on like this anymore I cannot live like this anymore. Something has got to change. The Bible says he came to himself. His horrendous failure, and the circumstances that came upon him Finally the way he thought. I believe that when that young man Was there in that far city and engaged in his riotous living, he was convinced that the party would never end. He was convinced that this was the way it was going to be. Pleasure in sin forevermore. But the sad reality is, there is pleasure in sin, but only for a season. And eventually the party's over, eventually the money's gone. And finally, at the bottom of the barrel, he says, something has to change. I'm not going to live like this anymore. And his way of thinking was altered. Now, these lepers were not necessarily responsible for the condition they found themselves in. Now, we don't know how they contracted leprosy, whether it was through neglect on their part or they're just innocent victims. Nevertheless In their condition, their condition they found themselves in prompted them to take action. They didn't just sit around and complain about how terrible it was. They didn't just sit around and talk about the situation they were in. They said, we've got to take some action. Now listen. We all heard folks, and maybe we're guilty of this a little bit ourselves, and we complain about young people today, and we complain about the circumstances Circumstances in so many churches. And we talk about this and we talk about that. But until we get to the point where we determine, I am not going to allow our young people to go to the devil anymore. I am not going to allow this church To get sucked into the world's philosophy. I am not going to allow my life to become meaningless and have no purpose or influence for Christ. Something has to change Until we get to that point, nothing's going to change. If we sit here, we die. That's what they said. Something's got to take place. We've got to take action. And I'm here to tell you, if the churches in the United States of America continue to sit back and do nothing for the spiritual well-being of our country. Our nation is dead That's where I would have said amen very loud. Our nation is dead. We've got to do something We've got to get churches to get up out of our pews and into the neighborhoods and communities and start knocking on the doors and sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ because if we do nothing For our country, our children are going to grow up in a spiritually dead land. Amen. Their situation, their circumstances stirred them to do something. And God sent a revival of action to our churches in the United States of America Oh, we've got to do something. We find ourselves in a circle situation. I'm going to bring it home here a little bit. We find ourselves in a situation, a circumstance, where we have an entire country that has no gospel. Spiritually speaking, the nation of Kazakhstan is in very similar situation as Samaria was. They have no gospel. They have no spiritual food to eat. They have nobody there to provide for them. They are worshiping Allah. They are worshiping false gods. They are worshiping superstition. They have nothing to feed on but bones and rocks and wood Spiritually speaking, and somebody has got to do something, or that nation will continue to die and go to hell by the thousands and millions The circumstance stirred them. Something has to be done. Number two, the second thing I notice here Not only, number one, did their circumstance, their condition open their eyes, that something needed to be done. But number two, and I like this one, God often changed chooses to use the most likely, God often chooses to use the most unlikely of instruments. God often chooses to use the most unlikely of instruments. These were four lepers. Whom God used to bring quote unquote salvation to this city This city was going to die. You understand, the Israelites in Samaria were a hair's width away from extinction. This whole city's about to die. And who of all people did God choose to use to bring, again, I'm using the generic term salvation to the city It was four lepers. Now I don't know about you, but if I was God, if I was God, we'd all be in a mess. But if I was God, I wouldn't have chosen four lepers. Maybe a military commander Could say, hey, we gotta do something. We can't sit here. I'm busting out these gates and I'm heading out there. And if they kill me, they kill me. But maybe I can somehow get some food and bring it back in. But not one military commander did that. Looks to me like the king could have said, hey, we're dead. If we just keep our people are eating their own children I'm going to go out there and talk to them. See if we can negotiate some kind of agreement, some kind of peace. Maybe we can compromise somehow. And if they kill me, I'm dead. If I stay here, I'm dead. But I've got to do so. The king didn't do that. God very seldom, let me put it this way, very often God will not use the people you'd think he would use to accomplish his will. Very often God will use the last person you would dream of God using to bring blessing and help to people in need. I wouldn't have thought of four lepers. Who would have thought of that? God. I think it's interesting. Now, I'm not I'm not critiquing this at all. I'm just making an observation. But I think it's interesting. Elisha didn't go out there He's the one that just earlier in the day said, tomorrow this time, you'll be able to buy this food at these incredible prices. Now if I wa if it was me planning this out here, I would have thought, you know, I know who to send over there to the Syrian camp I'll send Elisha. Man, how great would that be? Elisha stands up, tell you what, you don't believe me? Watch this. I'm gonna walk out there. And I'm going to walk right into the middle of the camp and I will prove to you that what I'm saying is true. God didn't even use Elisha. Now here's the point I'm trying to get at. We imagine in our minds the person God's going to use, or the type of person God's going to use. And so often it's this. Oh, God would never use somebody like me Oh, if if we're gonna if we're gonna reach a country for Christ, if we're gonna win souls, if we're gonna influence Oakland and Garrett County, if we're gonna seek the families brought to Christ and lives transformed, it would have to be somebody far greater than me. It would have to be somebody like an Elisha or a king or a military leader. I'm not much more than a leper. God couldn't use me. We should never limit God. It is often that God chooses to use the most unlikely of Instruments to accomplish his will. Four lepers. You talk about unlikely candidates, but God used them In a phenomenal way. In fact, while this whole event is transpiring, I'm going to suggest to you, they did not even know that God was using them. They weren't aware that God had prompted them to get up and do something and go out there. They weren't aware of all that had took place. Nevertheless, God was using them. Now here I'm going to throw a little interesting tidbit out. Maybe you call it trivia. But Jewish tradition Says that these four lepers were Gehazi and his three sons. How many people remember Gehazi? What happened to Gehazi? Remember Naaman, the Syrian commander of the Syrian host, came and uh Elisha told him to wash seven times in the river, and he did, and lo and behold, he was healed of leprosy? And uh he was saved, born again, and he's heading, and he tells Elisha, he says, What do you want? I'll give you anything in the world you want. And Elisha says, I don't want nothing. And Haman goes off, and Gehazi, Elisha's servant, what does he do? He goes chasing out after Naaman, running after him. Hey, hey, wait a minute. Uh my Lord Elisha changed his mind and he said he could use some stuff to give to the preacher boys. And Damon says, oh yeah, sure, here, whatever, and unloads on him. And Gehazi takes it and hides it in his tent for himself. And what was the result of Gehazi's thievery and deceit? The leprosy that Naaman had was put upon Gehazi. Jewish tradition says That these four lepers were Gehazi and his three sons who contracted leprosy from him. Now, that may or may not be the case. I think reading this and the actions here fit my picture of what Gehazi was. This looks like to me like something reasoning that Gehazi would have, and so it could very well be And isn't it just like the Lord to do something unexpected like that? To use a man who had failed completely. He failed spiritually, he failed morally, he failed in every sense. And here he is, a leper. Nevertheless, God's still not done with them. And God uses them to bring great salvation to a nation. That could very well be Ahaza. If you would, as I wind down here, if you would turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And this is one of the most encouraging verses in the Bible, at least in my mind. First Corinthians chapter one. Is everybody doing all right? First Corinthians chapter one. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 26. And I'd like for you to see this in your Bible. As I said, this to me is one of the most encouraging passages of scripture, and I believe it could be very encouraging to you. Look at verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren. Alright, he's talking to saved people How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, in other words, not kings, not military leaders, Not great prophets necessarily are called. Now this is talking about the call of service, not salvation. They're already saved Verse 27. But God hath chosen the what? Foolish things of the world to confound the world. wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the and base things, that means low, wrong These things of the world, and things which are despised, sounds like a leper to me, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not To bring to naught the things that are. Now, I don't know about you, but I find great encouragement in that. I read about mighty men, and I think, you know, I could never be a mighty man I read about wise men according to the world. I think I could never be a wise man. I read about noble men in high position. I think you know I'll never attain to that. But God says that's not what I'm looking to use. I'm looking to use the foolish things of the world. Hey, I can qualify for that. Amen. I'm looking to use uh the uh I'm looking to use the weak things of the world. Hey, I can't be strong like some, but hey, I qualify for weak And base things of the world and things which are despised. Hey, that fits my resume. Now, why would God choose lepers? Why would God choose base things of the world and foolish things of the world and things that are despised by the world? Why would God choose something like that? The next verse tells us. Look at verse 29. That no flesh should glory in his presence. Now I believe when it says about in his presence, it's talking about the judgment seat of Christ. When we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, and God will choose those things That the world does those people that the world does not think so highly of and that don't think so highly of themselves, God can choose them so that when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ When it's all said and done, he gets all the glory and not us. And we cannot stand there and say, boy, it was my courage That accomplished great things for God. Boy, it was my wise negotiations and it was my strategies that saved this country. No. Lord OI was this old sinful leper. Nobody thought highly of the world despised me. And it was just out of you were my only hope, Lord That's all I did. And God says, ah, but I did great things. And He gets all the glory for it. Does that make sense God often chooses the most unlikely of instruments. Who would have chosen who would chose some of the people, myself included? Who would choose some of the people that God has chosen to lead his churches? Who in the world would God have chosen to be preachers that he brings through I mean some of the guys that come through here, now don't misunderstand, they're great men of God, but I get to see them behind the scenes and I think, what in the world? For instance, Bill Barrett What in the world? I hope he's listening. I tell you I would have never chose me Alright. Who do you want the pastor Mount Lake and Pan Burger? I wouldn't have chosen me. We must not limit God I put this down. We must never anticipate God. Because God will so often do the very Last thing we ever expected. And God will often use the very last person we'd ever dreamed of. Never ever say, will you listen to one thing I say tonight? Never ever say God could never use me. That is a lie of the devil. If God can use perhaps Gehazi A leper cast out of God's own people. If God could use these four lepers, God can use you, and God can use me. And if that leper was Gehazi, who failed his ministry and failed his God totally, if God could still use him, God can still use you and I Don't ever say, God can't use me. It's a lie of the devil. God can use you. In ways you and I have never dreamed of. I guarantee you, at the end of that next day When the city of Samaria their bellies were full, and their backs were clothed, and there was donkeys and horses and sheep and clothing and gold back in the city like had never been there before. At the end of the day, I guarantee you those four lepers would have said, I never dreamed God would use us to do that. We had no idea. God can use us in ways we never dreamed. Now I've got a third point, I'm just going to throw it out. I don't want time to expound on it. And that's this. The lepers satisfied their own hunger first. And that was the right thing to do. And this is what I mean by that. And we don't have time to go back to it. But if you go back and read the story, when they got to the Sumerian camp and everything was gone, they went into the first tent. You know what the first thing they did? Did was they stuffed their guts. They ate. Oh, maybe we're starving. And they drank the whatever Coca-Cola and grapefruit juice, whatever they had there, and they drank it up. And then, oh, there's gold here. Ah, I'll get some gold. They run and they hit it somewhere and they come back and they go in another tent and they eat and they drink and all stuff and they're belching and they're carrying stuff. And then and this will be the next message, they say we don't do well. Man, everybody back home starving And here we are, we're picking up. Something's gonna happen. God's gonna judge us if we don't go tell them. They go running back. Now suppose they'd come running back And they're still starving, and their lips are parched and their stomachs are all in, and they come and say, Oh, there's more food out here than you can eat. Everybody says, yeah, right. But now they come back and they've got mashed potatoes in their beard and they're holding a Coca-Cola bottle and their bellies are out here and they're Hey How many people ever heard a preacher burp in front of you before? And they say, Hey, look at this! Hey Samarians, look at this! There's food out there! And you know what? It lent credibility. to their claim that there was food out there when they saw they had food. Now, if you're thinking, you know where I'm going with this for spiritual application. We go to a lost world and we say, hey, there's forgiveness for sins. You can have your life changed You can find a new life in Christ. You can have the joy of the Lord in your heart and find blessing and peace in the worst of circumstances. But we're grouchy and miserable and well, do you know you're saved? Well, I don't know if I'm saved, but you know people can be saved. You know what we need to do? We need to make sure of our own salvation first before we're going to convince anybody else that salvation is true. Amen? We've got to have the joy of the Lord in our own life before anyone else is going to believe that we the joy of the Lord is possible. Somebody's at work going through a hard time, they're going through a divorce or whatever, their financial collapse are losing their house, whatever tragic situation you can think of And you say to them, you're a grouch and you bite their head off all the time, you complain about everything, and you come and say, you know what? If you trust Christ, you could be happy even in this situation And they're saying, you're right. You're not happy. Who do you tell me I can be happy We cuss and use filthy language and sneak and lie and steal at church and li uh at work and uh maybe church, uh um and lie on our time cards and do all that, then we come Or a co-worker and say, hey, you know what? God can change you into a godly person. And they say, oh, great. When's he going to do that for you? You know what we need to do? We need to fill our bellies first. Then we can come to the lost world and say, hey, what I'm telling you is true. Look what Christ did for me. Does it make sense? The lepers satisfied their own hunger first. We are under moral obligation to share the gospel with the lost. That's what James was saying. That's what this conference was all about, our duty. But Let's be sure of our own salvation first. Amen. I worked with a fella before, and uh he never knew whether he was saved or not. He go and witness and share others. And I said to him, I said, how do you give other people assurance of their salvation if you don't have the assurance yourself? make sure of our own salvation. Let's tell others of the joy of the Lord, but let's have the joy of the Lord in our own heart and life. Let's tell others of the power of the blood of Jesus over sin, but let's be sure we have victory over sin in our own lives. I am with this. At the beginning of the 1900s, they were renovating the Washington Monument. Now you may have heard this. And they found graffiti underneath some area they were redoing. They found some graffiti that had been written on there in the early 1800s or in the 1800s whenever this thing was built. But it wasn't like your typical graffiti. This is what it says. Now listen carefully. They uncover this, they're cleaning, remodeling, and they come across this writing on the wall. There were some drawings. It's Said this. Whoever is the human instrument under God in the conversion of one's soul erects a monument to his own memory more lofty and enduring than this monument here That's graffiti. In other words, one person that God uses to win souls to the Lord Jesus Christ will build for himself a greater monument than the Christ. The Washington Memorial Monument. And I say, Amen. Amen. And these four lepers, most unlikely people in the world you'd ever That God would use in a great way. Go down for eternal history saying this. We've got to Tell others. And they're marked as the four men that brought salvation to the city of Samaria. God used to bring it. Isn't that exciting? Now, where are you and I at? Don't ever say God can't use me. God can use you. In fact, I'm here to tell you tonight, God's wanting to use you desperately. We just have to make ourselves available. We just have to say, you know, I don't want to go through life not serving God. I don't want to go through life having no influence anymore. Something's got to change. God, I come to you. Just show me what to do. I'm telling you, God will use you. God will use you. Father in heaven, please bless. Use these truths tonight to encourage us to be Faithful and to be involved in the cause of Christ. Father, I pray you'd convict many of us about the sin of thinking that you are limited and you would not be able to use us for the cause of Christ. of Christ. Help us to repent from that. I pray that all of us here this evening would put ourselves in your hands, make ourselves available for you, and that you would use us in ways that we perhaps would never even think of. Our heads bound and eyes closed.