Matthew, the last few verses there, Matthew chapter number twenty-eight this evening. I appreciate how the church, how you pastor always takes care of us It's just been a good time of fellowship. It's good to see your faithfulness. We see the same people each time we come up here with new faces And uh we understand that a lot of folks are going out uh to South Dakota out there and and uh doing the Lord's work and and uh we we just appreciate the invitation to get to come. We get to do this, we get to come and and be with you folks. And uh it just seems like it's uh we just pick up where we left off. It feels like family. Amen. You feel like family to us. Um The message this evening I want you to think about don't go anywhere. Don't take another step without Christ Matthew chapter number twenty-eight, verse number eighteen, to the end of the uh book there, it says, That Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just take this word, speak to our hearts, Lord. Give each one of us something that we can cling to. uh that we can hold on to for this week, for this first part of the week and and uh till we can get through and get in here again on Wednesday night, Lord. I pray, Father, that you'll just bless that you'll receive honor and glory. If there's someone here that's never trusted you as their Lord and Savior, may tonight be that night. As the Bible track in the back says time is running out. Time is running out, Lord. And Father, we just pray uh that you'll find us faithful. In Jesus' name. Amen. I was thinking about those tracks. I can't get my mind off of them. Time is running out Uh we helped the church last weekend, last Saturday, uh put door hangers up. We did some door knocking and and uh you know it was around Denton, so it's pretty rough Area that we was at you, not Chicago or anything like that. Uh but there's some pretty rough neighborhoods that we were at, and uh Uh one fella he ended up, he was a mechanic, he he saw this lady, she had a alternator laying on the ground and something else, her car wouldn't run and And uh he asked her what was going on when he was telling her inviting her to church and everything. She said, Well my my car's not running. I I need this alternator and everything. So he put it on for her You never know what you're going to get into when you go uh door knocking. And uh I I went to this one place and I got about halfway to it, and here comes a pit bull And uh it didn't have no leash on it or anything, but I noticed his tail was wagging, so I was okay, it was a pup, but then mama come up there. And she didn't look quite as friendly, so I thought, well I if they're going to kill me, I don't want to see it, so I just turned my back and walked away. And the and the little that was running all around me wanting to be petted and everything. The mama she stayed back just a little bit but she was okay too Uh but it that that same street, uh, after I got home, uh uh sometimes I checked to see if I'm in the obituary or not. And and I looked and there was a lady On that street that we had just door knocked on that had passed away that very day, time has run out for her. I hope she was saved. I don't know But you never know when your a last opportunity will be to give somebody the gospel. Uh as many preachers have said in the past, you can't uh witness to the wrong person Uh time is running out. Time is of the essence. And and Jesus, before he ascended into heaven, he told us He gave us this great commission. We find here the great commission, but we also find a great comfort right here in the scripture, knowing we're commanded to go, but we're not alone We have him with us. He said, Lo, I'll be with you. He said, go you therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them deserve all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always. There's not a moment when we're doing the Lord's work, when we're out there trying to give out a Bible tract for somebody, even if they reject it. Don't take it personally. They're not rejecting you, they're rejecting God. They're rejecting the Lord. But he said, I'll be with you. I'll be with you. Not one thing can happen to you As long as uh the Lord doesn't allow it. Amen. And when he does allow it, it's time to go home, and we'll be a whole lot better off anyway. Amen Hebrews 13, verses 5 and 6 echoes this for the believer. Let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as you have. Isn't that something the good to live by today with everything that's at our fingertips that we could have in this rich nation that we live in. Uh I know prices are going up and everything, but we are spoiled rotten uh in America He said, But be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. We've got all we need. If you've got God, you've got all you need See, then the next verse says, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. We go in the power and the strength of God. What is our strength? What kind of strength do we have? The joy of the Lord is our strength. The joy. Jesus went to the cross. He was faithful to the cross because of the joy that was set before him. He despised the shame, but for the joy that was set before him. Knowing what was going to happen because he was obedient unto death, and then rose from the dead Jesus told his disciples in John 15, 5, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. So he's going to be with us. He'll never leave us nor forsake us. But if we try to leave him behind and go on our own, we're going to be fruitless. But with him The fruit will remain. He's the vine, we're the branches. And he says, without me you can do nothing. I use that those verses of scripture so much in these days because it reminds me uh not to take a step Uh we better we better run our purchases by the Lord. Uh there were, I think it was Joshua, um Whenever uh God had commanded them to go in and take the promised land and everything. They got Jericho But uh and then uh this this uh group of people came and and said, you know, uh we've been on a long journey. Our bread's moldy, uh uh our shoes are worn out. This was fresh from the oven when we left. And they didn't inquire the Lord, and they made a covenant with them that haunted them the rest of their time, pretty much. Um We better run everything by the Lord whenever we have a need, whenever we make a purchase, whenever uh the Lord possibly has led s laid something on our hearts to do for him, a ministry or whatever. Take it before God and see exactly how he wants it done. He'll let you know. He'll help you with that. That tells me I had better bring everything before the Lord or it'll fail in my own power. Uh without the Lord I'm powerless. Um I I realize my limitations, even being able to get up and speak to people. If it wasn't for the Lord, I wouldn't be able to take my next breath My heart would quit beating. Uh He's the one that keeps me alive. He's the one that gives you breath. He's the one that gives you uh wind that you can uh praise the Lord with And to worship him and come and worship him in spirit and in truth. Don't go without Christ is the message tonight Paul told the church at Philippi in Philippians 4 13, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Don't go without Christ. Don't leave this place without Christ. If you're here and lost, don't leave here without Christ But let him lead you, Christian. When you go out those doors, let follow every step, follow every command. uh of the Lord that he lays uh on you through the word of God and through the message tonight. Don't take a step without him. In Luke chapter number twenty-three we see Jesus bearing his cross He's got the burden on. He's already been beaten. He's already bleeding. He's already bruised. And he's He's carrying that cross up to Calvary, up to Golgotha. And in Luke chapter number twenty-three, verse twenty-six it says, And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a sirenian coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus. That he might bear it after Jesus. Now, uh I think it's Matthew, Mark, and Luke all uh talk about Simon bringing him out and laying that cross on him and he's carrying it up there. But John uh as one says that Christ bore his cross to Calvary. He bore it all the way. What it was, there's no uh uh contrast in the gospels. There's no mistakes made in the Word of God. Both of them are right. Christ is bearing his cross He's taking every step. But Simon is back there. He's guiding him. He's under there lifting a little bit of the burden up off of Christ as he bears his cross because of his weakness and everything. Uh he gets Those Roman soldiers are known for their meanness and trying to get the most pain out of somebody that they possibly can and torturing them Uh so they get Simon and said, we're gonna get somebody else involved in this. Uh so they bring Simon out there and as they led him away they laid hold upon uh one Simon, a Serenian coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross. that he might bear it after cross after Jesus. He's right there with Jesus. He's bearing it right with him. There's no contradiction in the Word of God. John says Jesus bore the cross Both are right. Simon followed Jesus and helped guide and lift that. Uh Jesus is beaten and bruised and he's bleeding and every time he takes a step He leaves a bloody footprint behind him and and Simon the Serenian, he's behind him, he's down lower. Uh and I think we need to get lower when we're in the presence of the Lord We need to be on our knees before Him because He's worthy of our praise. He's worthy of our worship. So Jesus is walking, leaving those bloody footprints behind, and every time he takes a step Simon takes a step. He's intent on Jesus. He's intent on following him. So every time Jesus takes a step, Simon takes a step, and they go up to Calvary, and Christ is crucified there. That's the way we need to follow Christ. Whenever He takes a step, don't outrun him. We'll get in trouble Simon is intent and focused on Jesus every move. Hey church, don't take a step without following him This was not some new idea following Christ. On many occasions, Jesus said, follow me. That's how he called his disciples, said follow me, and they stopped what they were doing and followed him. He's the example. In the Old Testament, we see the same application over and over Deuteronomy 31. 8. Moses counsels Joshua and the Lord. Capital L O R D He it is that doth go before thee. He will be with thee. He will not fail thee, neither forsake thee, fear not, neither be dismayed. He's telling Joshua. He's telling the people right there the same thing that we learn in the New Testament. Follow him. He will not leave you. He will not forsake you He'll be there every step of the way. In Exodus chapter number thirty-three. In verse number 12, the Bible says, And Moses said to the Lord, See thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. You know, God was pretty well fed up with Israel because of their being stiff-necked and and uh That just not obeying they they had that golden calf incident and and all these things were going on going against them He says, then God says, I I'm not going to follow I'm not going I'm going to send somebody and Moses is a question who are you going to send? He says, Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight Now therefore I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now the what thy way, that I may know thee That I may find grace in thy sight and consider that this nation is thy people. And he said, My presence shall go with thee And I will give thee rest. He says, Yeah, I'll go with you. I'll I'll f I'll lit I'll lead you. You just follow me. And verse 15 says, And he said unto him If thy presence be not with me, carry us not up hence. He said, Lord, if you're not going to lead us, if we can't follow your steps, if we can't follow your path, then just leave us right here I'd rather perish here than not have you leading us. Oh, we ought to all be that close to God. Uh I desire to be closer and closer to God. I fail him so often Uh one one preacher said, I want to be so close to God that I'll be f dead and in heaven three days before I realize I took my last breath. That's the desire we ought to all have, being that close to God Verse 16 says, For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? Is it not? in that thou goest with us, so shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth. And the Lord said to Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken For thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name. I am so thankful God knows my name. Don't go without Christ. Have you ever heard somebody say, and I know people will say these things and they don't really think about what they're saying? Sometimes they'll say something like, I found the Lord. Well, the Lord wasn't the one that was lost. I was lost. But we all sometimes we we get caught up and we say things like that But he found us. He came after me. Uh he c he loved me before I loved him. He loved me first. Amen And then we'll say things like, The Lord's on my side. Isn't that a bold statement to say? The Lord's on my side. Let's think about that for just a minute. Sometimes we speak without thinking. We can often be presumptuous. We can sort of be proud in our speaking. One man said, he's quoted as saying, Sir, my concern is not whether God is on my side. My greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right. See the turnaround there. We can say, uh, the Lord's on my side, but it should be us that's on his side. We should be following close to him. The right thinking, Exodus 32, 26. Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come after me Let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. Now where I've been wanting to get to, very quickly, turn to Joshua chapter number five. Joshua chapter number five. Joshua chapter number five, starting in verse number thirteen. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and did worship, and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord's host said unto Joshua Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so. That's the same thing that God spoke to Moses at the burning bush Told him to take his shoes off. Uh, for the place the ground that he was standing on was holy. It was holy ground. And Moses did so. Now Joshua is doing the same thing. You know, most of the time whenever we read in the New Testament, if somebody bowed down to an angel, they said, not Uh don't don't do it. Only God is to be worshipped. That tells us right there that was Jesus Christ. That was a Theophany, that was a Christophany in the Old Testament, that Christ Himself was standing there with his sword drawn. And And some things that I see about that right there. The children of Israel have crossed Jordan and they're now in the land of promise. I uh it's a picture and type of the victorious Christian life And I probably made the mistake I'll I'll preach sometimes and say, you know, uh when they got over in Canaan's land, that's like us going to heaven Well, when you look in Canaan's land, there's sin there. There's idol worship, there's idolatry, there's immorality going on in Canaan's land This is a picture and type of of victory when God led his people in there and he did the fighting for them and drove those people out, not because Israel was a big nation. Not because they deserved it, but because the others had done wrong uh against God. It's a picture of victory, how God drove them out before them Uh all that remains now is to conquer and win the victory of the land. Uh but speaking from a human standpoint, it seemed impossible for Joshua to do. He's not being given the command, you know, you're going to march around Jericho seven times uh that last day and the walls are going to fall down. He didn't have any idea what was going to happen It seemed too wonderful for him. It seemed impossible for him. I can imagine. Joshua, God's chosen successor uh successor of Moses, is out near Jericho. Through his mind he's probably thinking, what am I doing? Uh uh God, um how about how about giving me some idea? Give me some advice right here Uh the awesome responsibility of the task ahead is probably weighing heavily on him. He's brought him across the Jordan River. God drew uh uh dried up the the water and they walked across on dry land just like they did over in the Red Sea and they come there and now Jericho is before them He sees a man standing there with a drawn sword, so he approaches him and asks, Are you for us or for our enemies? And I love God's answer right there. I love the Lord's answer. He said nay These little like us saying uh do you want an orange or or uh or do you like bananas better? He said, Nay. I mean it's it's a two-sided question right there What he's what the man's saying is, neither one. Neither one. I'm not come to take sides. I've come to take over. That's what Jesus wants to do after we get saved, after we start learning our doctrine and getting ready to go out and be a witness for Him and live a Christian life for Him. He He's He's wanting us to to obey him and to submit to him whatever he asks us to do. I don't want to get to heaven one day and and uh You know, might have some rewards to cast at Jesus' feet and everything, the crowns and and all those things and that's going to be wonderful and everything. But But I would dread it if he somehow had a screen, a monitor up there, and he said, This is what I wanted to do with you, but you wouldn't obey. This is what I wanted to do. This is this is what you could have done for me But you just wouldn't do it. I don't want to stand before God like that. I don't want to be ashamed of his coming. So he says, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come, I've come to take over. It's not taking sides. What we've got to do is get on his side. Amen. Does the Lord have all of you tonight? There's some been some preachers down through history, and we're all just men. We all preachers, some that we highly esteem. They're just human beings. They make mistakes too But God used them mightily because they they surrendered their life completely to him. Now think about Pastor Ebern. Pastored the started uh a mission church out of Calvary Baptist Church in Newbourne and pastored it for 60 years And then, 92 years old, he was still preaching, and the last Sunday he was alive at a missions conference there. Then went to be with the Lord on that following Saturday. I think about Bill Wingard that used to open up Charathon on that Monday morning. Every year I uh he had such a smooth sound uh easy to listen to him and to pay attention to what he was saying and and his program that he had on there, uh the Calvary time God had him. God had a hold of him and used him mightily. I think about Bill Winstead. I think it was Pastor Wingard, Pastor Everen, Pastor Winstead, and Russell Bell that started worldwide New Testament Baptist missions in Shelby, North Carolina. Sent missionaries out all over the world. God had a hold of them and he used them. Why? Because they allowed him to. They submitted their lives to him. I may have mentioned this before, but does God have as much of you as he had of them? Does he have as much of me as he had of them? Have you followed in his steps closely as we should? Are we on his side? Well he was saying to Joshua is if you know what's good for you, Joshua, you'll be on my side. Joshua already had the promise. Church folks, Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, have you received a promise? God's given me a promise that I'm going to live eternally with Him And sometimes I the way this world gets, I'd like to just leave it behind and go. I I'd just love to be with him sometimes. We can get drugged down from time to time Paul said it's better for me to be with you. It's better the Lord's still got some more for us to do Do you have a calling? We've already read where Jesus promised, I am with Yahweh. Joshua received the promise. Joshua 1:5 said, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Joshua 1 9 says, Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. Sometimes I'm not good at getting a point across or anything, but our lives would be so much better if we had loved God supremely. Amen. And our neighbor as ourselves And then have the compassion that Jesus had in telling people and loving people into heaven, telling them about Christ. Forty years later, you know, Joshua was with Moses all through the wilderness. He saw millions. uh of the uh Hebrew children die because of their unbelief. They w he could they could have gone in forty years y earlier into the promised land, but because of their unbelief, because of their fear They did not believe God, and so they died. I can imagine several, several funerals a day. Out there in the wilderness. Forty years later now, Joshua's leading them in. There's still giants in the land, the Anakin, and the walls of the city seem to reach up to heaven But faith looks not at difficulties to the Lord. Faith believes more in the promises of God to help than in the power of Satan to hinder. Faith will give you comfort in the midst of fears. Unbelief will bring fears in the midst of comfort. Faith makes great burdens light. Unbelief makes light burdens unbearably heavy. Faith lifts us up when we are down. Unbelief casts us down when we're up. Faith brings peace and comfort to our souls. Unbelief brings restlessness. Faith brings assurance. Unbelief brings fear. Melton Lake Independent Baptist Church. Don't go without Christ. Don't take another step without Him. Just follow him. You've been following him. I've seen God do great things here. The ministry. It's touched hearts. It's touched lives. Just the radio ministry that y'all got here has reached untold thousands in the Oakland, Deep Creek, Lake area, and all around, over into West Virginia, and so many places Keep following after him with a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. Earlier the people wanted the uh a captain to lead them back to Egypt, but now before Joshua the captain of the Lord's host is the is to lead them forward. To the Lamb. This is none other than Jesus Christ Himself. It was a manifestation of God there in their midst. John said, No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. No, no man could see God and live. But they saw a manifestation of him through Jesus Christ in the Old Testament and then in the New Testament. And they live. John 1 18. Jesus manifested himself many times in the Old Testament. First John chapter number four, verse four says Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. That greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. That's the one that's going to never leave you Nor forsake you. He's going to lead you on. He's going to guide your steps if we'll let him, if we'll submit to him. Don't go or take a step without Christ. He's come to take over. Jeremiah 33, 3 said, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Pastor Ebern clung to that verse When people came up against him, he told me of the battles that he fought, even among his own church members at some time, saying, we're not going to back you in this anymore He said, I just clung to that scripture, call unto me, and I'll answer then. I'm sure he shed many tears before he ever got that one radio station going. He said, man, I'll show you great and mighty things now. It's over 40 stations across the country. It's a worldwide ministry reaching the laws, carrying out the Great Commission, throwing out the lifeline. And you're doing the same thing here in Oakland, the area around us. John sixteen thirty-three. 1633 says, These things I have spoken unto you, that in me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world That's who we're following after. It's a whole lot better than following the world. As in faith promise missions. Don't go without Christ. Don't go without him. Don't get ahead of him. But just follow after him. He doesn't need our money. He doesn't have to have it. It sure does help. It's built beautiful facilities here. That he doesn't have to have our money to get the gospel around the world. No, he don't. What he wants is our heart. When he has our heart, he'll have our pocketbook too. Does he have you? Are you on his side? Don't take another step without him. No, I'm I've run out of time and everything, but uh I've got to leave tomorrow. Head back on the road again. I'm going to be carrying with me uh your faces here tonight and praying for you and thanking you uh for loving FBN. I appreciate those testimonies tonight There's been times at at Sheraton uh that we didn't know what was going to happen. Uh the economy of COVID, when COVID hit, we thought, oh no, we're we're not gonna make our goal this time. We were told, you know, said Uh it's not gonna happen. People are scared and people are gonna hold on to their money and everything. But we didn't realize COVID kept everybody at home too and they were listening to the radio And they weren't going out shopping. They weren't doing the things because they couldn't go some places that they wanted to go anymore. They couldn't take the vacations they wanted to, so they had extra money at home. And so they gave it to Sheraphon and God just blew the the budget out of the water. And then later on the gas prices started going up, inflation started coming in and thought, oh, how what's going to happen? But God has shown himself faithful. That's the one that we're following. Doesn't matter how bad things seem in the news, doesn't matter how bad things get on TV or whatever, up in Washington, D. C. or wherever. It doesn't matter. God's in control. Amen. He said he'd never leave us nor forsake us. If you're here tonight lost, you don't know what kind of danger you're in tonight. I don't want to scare you. I don't know your heart. Maybe everybody here is saved tonight, but with a crowd this size, there's possibility that somebody's here and never received Christ as their Savior. It would be almost as dangerous as getting on a submersible. And I'm not making fun of what happened, them going down to see the Titanic. Uh my heart breaks for their families and and for them. We prayed. We didn't know that it imploded and everything. We were still praying on Wednesday night and and just that begging God to to spare them and have mercy upon 'em. Get 'em back to where they could get back on the boat. But but it's it they were in danger and did not know it. When they got on there they they thought, you know, through it, we're gonna be back in a couple hours. We'll go two hours down, stay an hour, and come two hours back, everything will be okay. They didn't realize the danger. Just like the folks on the Titanic didn't realize the danger that they were in. If you're here tonight and lost, you don't realize the danger that you're in. The Lord could come And take his church out and you'd be left behind. Or you could not make it home tonight. Don't want to scare anybody, but I know testimonies From people saying some so-and-so rejected Christ, got in their vehicle, left, had an accident, died, and didn't have a chance to call on God in repentance Don't leave that undone. Receive Jesus Christ before it's everlasting too late. Is is appointed unto men once to die, and after that the judgment. Or he could rapture the church. The second death is to be feared. If you're born twice, you die once. But you don't really die, you just pass from life to life. But if you're born once, if you've not been born again, you die twice. That second death. Uh Charles Haddon Spurgeon spoke about that second death He said, not the parting of the soul from the body, but the final separation of the entire man from God. This is death indeed. This death kills all peace, joy, happiness, and hope When God is gone, all is gone. Such a death is far worse than ceasing to be. It is existence without the life which makes existence worth the having. If you're here tonight and never receive Christ, the altar's open. We'll take the word of God, show you how you can be saved. If you're here tonight And uh saying I I've not been following close to Christ. I I want to uh rededicate, I want to renew my life with him and And get back on Hey, it's almost like he picks you up, dust you off, and puts you back into the fight again. All it takes is repentance and and just asking the Lord to have mercy upon you and and let you serve him again. Father, I pray, Lord, you take the word now as pastor comes. Use it for your honor and glory. Do that that we cannot do. In Jesus' name. Amen.