Really wasn't my fault that I made that mistake. It's 'cause Jennifer sings lots of ex specials, and so I'm trying to illustrate the lesson tonight about blaming other people for our mistakes. There was a fellow, um A pastor w had a couple in his church that were fussing and uh I mean they were just gone at it. The other one was horrible. It's funny when you work with folks, um uh how that works out. But uh he had he had to come over to the house. And so first he had the wife come in and had her sit there in the living room and he was there, wife was in the other room, his wife was in the other room. And um He had her tell her story and how was all the husband's fault went down to her and he says, you know, ma'am, you're absolutely right So she says, okay, thank you, Pastor. She went out and had the husband come in. Sat down. Wife's in the other room. He's he's talking to the husband. He goes through, he says, tell me your story. He goes through how terrible the wife is, everything, all this awful things He says, you know, sir, you're absolutely right. And so he said, thank you, Pastor, and they went out. The wife came, his wife, the preacher's wife, came and she was furious. She goes, you listen to the Boston's people told two completely different stories. You told the wife she's absolutely right. She told her husband he's absolutely right. She says, that's impossible. They can't both be absolutely right. He looked at his wife and said, You're absolutely right. So that's the one way to deal with it. Look at verse 13, James chapter 1. I'm going to read verse 13, 14, and 15, but we're only going to look at verse 13 tonight. James chapter 1, notice what it says, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Now I want to look at verse 13. And this is the title of my message tonight: Don't Blame God. Let no man say when he is tempted, uh no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God For God tempteth God cannot be tempted with sin evil, neither tempteth he any man. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now or study your word. Lord, we've got a lot going on this week Lord, there's a lot of work to be done and preparation to be made. So I pray you'd help me get right to the point here this evening to share a truth from this, and I pray you'd speak to our hearts. God, maybe a statement made or just the truth of this verse might help some one of us here tonight overcome some temptation, to be able to resist Some temptation, if we just understand a little bit more what it's all what's all involved. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray. Use me to help us grow, be more like Christ, be more victorious And uh bless, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Here we are using this word temptation again. We've been using it all through this chapter so far, the first thirteen verses. We've noticed it over and over and over again. Uh when we get to chap verse 13 of chapter 1, we're actually, if you'll study this whole book out very carefully, you'll find we're actually beginning a new section. This is kind of a new division of chapter 1. The first 12 verses, particularly verse 2 through 12, he's talking about trials, difficulties. Now he's using that word tempted again. But he's using it in a different context and a different meaning. Now, this is review, but I think it's good for us. We need to understand that in the Bible, the term temptation or to tempt can be one uh can have one of three meanings. The first meaning uh is verse 2 through 12 as we've been studying has the idea of going through a hardship Or a difficulty, a special. Sometimes we'll talk, well, I'm really going through a trial right now. Sometimes the Bible will use the term temptation to refer to that type of situation, a trial, hardship, difficulty I'm going through. A second way the term temptation is used is sometimes to refer to going through some sort of test. Or some fo some sort of uh God testing me or proving me in some way. Everything okay? You alright? Okay And so one is a trial, a hardship I go through, a difficulty, sometimes referred to as temptation, sometimes a test. For instance, in Genesis, when God, the Bible says God tempted Abraham. That's an interesting phrase. And he had Abraham, he was testing Abraham, and he had him take his son Isaac and go up on the mount and offer him as a sacrifice. God wasn't enticing Abraham to do something evil. God was never going to have him kill his son, but God was testing him. God was proving him. And so that's how it's used sometimes. Now we get to our text. And the word temptation is used, and this is the way we generally think of it, in the sense of being enticed to do something wrong. The idea of uh temptation, as you and I think, and an allurement to do something that we know is not right. Temptation Is introduced as a concept in the Bible in Genesis chapter 3. Remember Adam and Eve are in the Garden of Eden, and the serpent approaches. The Bible says the serpent was subtle more than any other beast. And Satan began to tempt Eve. He was enticing her to do that which God had clearly forbidden. God said, do not eat of this the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And Satan tempted her. He allured her. He enticed her To do that which God had forbidden. That is the idea behind temptation in this context here. Now, with that in mind, let's read this verse again. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. God is enticing me to do something that is wrong. God is uh alluring me to do something that he forbids. He said, Don't let man ever say that So in Genesis, we have this introduction of this concept of being enticed to do something wrong. Then you see it all through the rest of Scripture. All through the rest of history of mankind is a record of man dealing with temptation to do wrong. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here in James. But come over to 1 Corinthians chapter number 10 with me. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I want you to see this verse. If you do not have this verse underscored in your Bible, I'm going to urge you To find a pen, somehow, highlighter, and mark this verse in your Bible, 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I'll give you the verse in a moment. If you don't have it memorized, This is an important verse to memorize. This is one of the one hundred verses we're challenging our church to memorize that every Christian should have memorized. Chapter ten, First Corinthians, and verse number thirteen Classic verse on dealing with temptation. Look at verse 13. There hath no temptation taking you. Now we look at the context, and we know this is talking about the enticement to do evil. There is no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful. who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it Now, what I want to notice is the first part of that verse. There is no temptation taking you, but such as is what? Common to man. Every single human being deals with temptation. We talked about this a little bit this morning with the sin nature and the conflict between the sin nature. Every single person that lives has a sinful nature. A tendency to do wrong. And temptation is the appeal to that sinful nature to disobey God. This verse tells me that every man is tempted That all of us do it. I had somebody tell me years ago we were working through a situation, I was trying to help them, and they said this to me. They said, Preacher, I have never been tempted in my life. I've never been tempted to do wrong in my life since I was saved. This is a good solid Christian. I said, uh one either is you're delusional or you don't understand what temptation is The Bible says it's common to all men. There is no temptation negative, but such is common to all men. But God is faithful. So we come back. To our context. In uh verse 13 through 15, we're dealing with this this uh enticement to do wrong. And uh I notice in verse 13 through 14, we have the source of temptation. Tells us where it comes from Let's read it again. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So we know the source of temptation is not from God. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. So there we have where the source of temptation is. Temptation does not come from external, it comes from within. That's the source. My lust is enticed. Then we notice in verse number 15, the first part of verse 15, we have the sequence of temptation, what it leads to, how it goes through. Look at this. Then, when Lost hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Alright, temptation appeals to thy sinful desires when that is conceived, when that sinful desire is engaged, and I act on it. Then it turns into sin. Then I put this down, the source of temptation, the sequence of temptation, then I put down this, the success of temptation. Look at the last part of verse 15. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth what? Death. That's the result. That's the result. Listen, whenever I give in to temptation, no good ever comes from it. Nothing good ever comes from giving in to temptation It always leads to tragedy, it always leads to heartache, it always leads to a setback, it always hurts me. It never helps me in any any way And so we have this concept of temptation. Now I am trying to breeze through here. I told Brother Mark what my goal was for tonight, and I am on target, brother. You will be impressed. Alright? So I'm being tempted to not stick to the goal, but I'm doing it. Here's my first thought. Two points tonight. Number one, the expectation of temptation. The expectation of temptation. And let me tell you what I mean. Look at verse 13. Let no man say what's the next word? When he is tempted. I think it's interesting to notice the Bible doesn't say, let no man say if He is tempted, I am tempted of God. He says, let no man say, when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. Listen, mark it down. You and I can just plan on it. Just go ahead and expect it. Temptation is coming. It's gonna happen. Not if, but when. It will happen. Temptation is coming. I would venture to say That I'm talking to some folks right now in my presence in this auditorium. I'm tempted to say I'm tempted to say, I uh I would venture to say That I'm talking to some folks have already had to deal with temptation today. Huh? We've already faced it Not if, when, um uh probably some of us, some of us are going to face temptation in one way or another uh before we go to bed tonight. I tell you those Twinkies are just, you know, they're there before you go to I don't have any Twinkies. I've got cupcakes. But um You follow what I'm saying? It's gonna happen. We deal with it. It is part of life. And he doesn't say if temptation, he says you might as well go ahead and expect it. You might as well just get it in your head. You're gonna be tempted, perhaps, before you go home tonight, before you're uh before you fall asleep this evening You may very well, very real possibility, you're gonna have to deal with some temptation. If you don't tonight, uh tomorrow before you get to work, you might have to deal with it. Tomorrow before the sun sets, you and I are gonna have to probably deal with some form of temptation. Not if you're tempted, but when. Just expect it. Just plan on it, it's the way it is. Um uh uh I I would say this, I I have no doubt, every one of us in here, everyone, no exception Before this week is out, before Saturday night midnight, every one of us are going to have to face and deal with some form of temptation. We're going to have to do it. Let no man say when he is tempted. Listen, if you think you're not going to face temptation, you are a sitting duck. How many people know what a sitting duck is? I got thinking about that. I thought, what is the definition of a sitting duck? So I looked it up Listen to this. Now, this is what we're talking about. I don't give consideration the fact that I have to deal with temptation. I just don't even think about it, uh, I don't expect it You're a sitting duck. This is what I mean. The term sitting duck means to be in a position where I am vulnerable to attack. It means to be an easy target, to be defenseless. I tell you what, we get Christians sometimes, we get up in the morning. And we get about and go about our day and never give thought to the fact that, hey, today I'm gonna have to deal with some temptations. I'm gonna face it, not if I'm going to And we're sitting ducks, and we get hit broadside, and boy, before we know it, right there is this, and there's that opportunity, and here's this enticement, and by the end of the day, we're beaten spiritually to a Pope Because we never gave thought to the fact we're gonna have to uh this is what I think. I think morning devotions are very, very important. Getting alone with God and spending some time in the Word of God, it helps prepare me for the day because I'm going to face temptations throughout the day. I'm going to deal with it. And I'm a sitting duck. If I don't anticipate and expect the fact that temptation is going to be hit uh to be an easy target, to be defenseless. I did a little research on shooting sitting ducks I'm going to write a dissertation, get a doctorate on sitting ducks. But uh I did a little research. You know what I found out? I found out most states it is illegal to shoot a sitting duck Is that right, Chuck? Can't shoot them sitting on the water. They're defenseless. They have no opportunity. You can just take them out. Let me tell you this. Temptation doesn't live by that law. Temptation temptation comes along and says, oh, they're not expecting to be tempted. That's illegal. I'm not going to tempt them. Doesn't work that way. That's when temptation is the strongest, when we don't expect it, when we're not looking for it, we're not we don't have our guard up. I told the story recently of C. I. Scofield was saved out of alcoholism. I believe I have the story correct Saved out of alcoholism, uh, founded the uh Philadelphia College of Bible, attended there one year, years ago, and uh was saved out of uh of drunk drunkenness And he was serving God and preaching. God was using him a great way. Of course he wrote the notes in the Schofield Bible. And I believe it was Schofield said, uh, one day he's coming down, there was a bar up ahead. He's making his way home And he knew that he would be tempted. He knew he would. And so then rather just walking by that bar, knowing that the temptation would be real He stopped, went a block over, several blocks down, and avoided that whole thing. You know why? Because he knew the reality of temptation. He expected it. And he prepared himself for it. When we don't expect it, we just go through life. We're sitting ducks. We're sitting ducks. Though temptation is inevitable. I can still minimize my exposure to it. For instance, as I said, Brother Scopio, I can abstain from certain things. You know, if there's can I There are some places a Christian just shouldn't go. Some places just shouldn't go there. You say, well, it's uh I can handle it, I can control it. You don't understand temptation. Uh there are certain places that Christians shouldn't go. Um uh uh personally, uh Kathy and I, we don't go to movie theaters. We just don't go there. And uh having I went to one after I got saved, 1979 I got saved that summer, we went and saw Jesus movie, and I sat there and I felt so terrible, I felt so rotten sitting in that movie theater, I thought I'm never gonna do this again I just never went back. Even though it was a nice show, it's a good show. I just didn't want to go there. Um we have to be real real careful. Abstain from appearance of evil, abstain from places uh that w would uh in in in uh entice us to do wrong. Uh avoid my weaknesses. I think it's important that we study ourselves. Let me ask you this. Don't answer it out loud. Do you know what your weakness is spiritually? Do you know what your vulnerabilities are? Do you know where you are vulnerable spiritually to different sins and disobedience to God? I know some of mine. I'm still learning, but I know what some of mine are. And I know that there's some days I've just got to watch out. I've got to minimize that temptation because it's going to be there. It's going to be real. I just have to watch out for it. There's another way I can minimize temptation. It's going to happen, not if you're tempted, but when I can minimize its impact. Minimize it. Well, here's another way. I can pray We won't take time to turn there, but Matthew 26, 41. Jot that down. Look at that verse sometime, maybe before you go to bed tonight. Matthew 26, 41, and another verse very similar to it, Luke 22, verse 40. And here Jesus is speaking to disciples, and they're in the Garden of Gethsemane, and he told the three of them to pray and he went off by himself. And what the three do when they were praying, uh he said, You guys pray here, I'm going to pray by myself. Remember he sweat as it were great drops of blood. And he said, God, not my will, but thy will be done And he comes back, what were the three disciples doing? Peter, James, and John? What were they doing? Sleeping. And he says, What? Could you not watch one hour? Then he says, This, pray That ye enter not into temptation. And the idea is this: if they would pray, it would minimize temptation's power on them. I'm convinced there are some temptations you and I face as a Christian that we wouldn't have to if we would just pray like we should. Can I get an amen there? Now I'm we pray. Doesn't mean I'm not going to face temptation, but it does mean I think if I pray like I should, there's some temptations I'm not going to face. Can I just give you a testament personal testimony? When I pray, sincerely get on my knees, and I genuinely earnestly pray to God, and I go through my prayer list, I get up off my knees, I'm really not tempted to listen to rock and roll music I've just been in the presence of God. I'm not tempted. There's a lot of stuff. That temptation just washed away, minimized, and uh, I'm in the presence of God. It helps, it minimizes that temptation. Now, I don't mean to say I'm other tone. I don't pray I'm tempted to listen to rock and roll music. I'm not tempted to listen to rock and roll music at all. But if I are looking at me weird, but um if you follow what I'm saying? He says, pray. So I wonder how many of us know the specific areas where we're vulnerable. I wonder how many of us know. Alright, this is a weakness for me. By the way, what may be a weakness for me might not be a weakness for Tom. What may be a vulnerability for Tom might not be a vulnerability for me. And so I've got to study myself and say, all right, what are my vulnerabilities? What are the areas that I'm prone in this area? Because it's going to happen. Temptation is going to come And I need to deal with it. Let me give you a second one real quick. Number one, the expectation of temptation. Number two, the sinful expression of temptation Now I'll explain what I mean by that. The sinful expression of temptation. Look back here at James with me if again, if you would. Let no man say when he is tempted, look at this, I am tempted of God. That is a sinful statement. I am tempted of God. Now that word say, let no man say when he is tempted, interesting word. It has this idea. To give advice to. Or, better yet, it has this idea: to explain something away. And what he's saying here is, don't you, when you're tempted to do wrong, when you have a temptation in some area, Don't you explain that temptation away saying, oh, well God put this temptation in my way. This is God's doing. Don't you give that explanation? Don't you try and justify that and excuse it by somehow putting it off on God. Mankind has perfected the ability of blaming other people. Right or wrong? We have gotten very good at that. Well I know I did wrong. Well I know this area, I know that, but it really wasn't my fault. It was someone else's and we'd go all of this. Uh I read about uh a manager of a minor league baseball team. And he had an outfielder, the center fielder was the sorriest center fielder he ever had. And he was just chewing them out, the sky was doing terrible. So finally in frustration he called the center fielder in and the manager went out to center field himself. And he says, I'll show you how to do this. He got out to center field, and I believe this is a story, a true story. The first ball that came to center field took a bad hop and hit the manager in the mouth The next one to center field was a high fly ball, he lost it in the glare of the sun, and it bounced off his forehead The third ball to center field was a hard-line drive that he charged with his outstretched arms, and it went past his glove and smacked him in the eye. The guy was furious. He ran back to the dugout, grabbed the center fielder by the uniform, and shouted, You idiot, you've got center field so messed up that even I can't do a thing out there That's pretty slick. Now here's the sad part. We've gotten to the point where we've even found a way to blame God. For our temptation. And that's what he's saying here. He says, Don't you blame God. Every man is tempted and is drawn away of his own lust. It's not God. God cannot be tempted with the evil, neither tempteth he any man. How do we blame God? Let me give you some illustrations. See if you haven't heard these before. Well, I was just born this way. Ever heard that? I know it's wrong, I know it's perverse, I know it's wicked, it's what the Bible says, but hey, I was born this way. That's the classic sodomite excuse. Well, I was just born this way. I was just born with these tendencies. Hey, I know people born with tendencies to beat other people up. That doesn't justify it. That doesn't excuse it. I can't blame God for my sin. How about this? Well, God just made me this way. I knew a person had a terrible temper. I mean blow up over every little thing, all of that. And um uh this was his justification. Well, this is just the way God made me. This is just the temperament God gave me Listen, you and I cannot blame God for our sorry sin. Amen or not? Sure. Now no man say when he was tempted, I'm tempted of God. God cannot be temporal leader, neither tempteth he any man. Now, I really don't want to get into this, but Calvinism, how many people are familiar with that term? Calvinism. Calvinism is a teaching, it's a theological system that that takes God's sovereignty, that God is in control. to unscriptural extremes. And when you boil it down, it comes m uh some of its teaching comes down to this that God is the author of evil. In other words, and I know this is its logical conclusion, and a Calvinist is going to say, no, no, no, that's not what we believe and teach, but this is what the teaching is. That everything that happens happens under the control and the will of God. Nothing can happen against the will of God. And the only conclusion of that teaching Is that if somebody does wrong, if Adam and Eve sin and nothing happened against the will of God, then God must have willed that they sinned. You follow what I'm saying Let me illustrate it. I had years ago, I was working with a situation, and there was the very real possibility that there was some child molestation going on. As horrendous as that was, I don't know it, I couldn't say for certain, but it seemed like it. And I called a preacher that was referred to me that was known to be a good counselor and known to be very helpful And so I called him and uh we talked about it a little bit and he made this statement. He said, you know, if that did happen, then we just take that, that that was the will of God. I said, say what? Well, you know, God's in control and we'll just take that as the will of God. I never went back to that guy for advice again. That's nonsense. That is the end of Calvinism. Well, if it happens, then God must have willed it because nothing can happen against the will of God. I'm telling you, stuff happens against the will of God all the time. Every person that dies and goes to hell is something that happens against the will of God. God is not willing that any should perish. And I'm telling you right now, God is not willing that a little child be mistreated. You know what that is? It's blaming God. It's blaming God. I'm not responsible. Let no man say when he is tempted, I'm tempted of evil. For God cannot be tempted with evil. Look at this, mark this down, neither tempteth he any man. To blame God for my temptation is blasphemy. Our God is holy, our God is good, and our God is pure. We take our own sinful desires, our own sinful enticements, we try and blow that off on God. That's blasphemy. That's blasphemy. So here's my challenge. Let's study ourselves. Let's find out where our vulnerabilities are. Let's find out. Let's look at ourselves in the mirror spiritually. that I'm vulnerable. I know I'm going to be tempted in those areas. Now there's going to be other areas, but especially my vulnerable areas, I want to know what they are, and I'm going to expect and anticipate temptation coming in that area. And I'm going to do all I can to minimize that. Now we get to the next verse. We're going to find how this all plays out and how to uh deal with it and address it a little bit more. But this is what I want to leave with us tonight. Mark it down before you and I go to bed tonight. Definitely before we go to bed tomorrow night, we are going to have to deal with temptation. It's going to happen. It's going to come our way. And so let's just seek the Lord. Say, God, I want to be close to you. I want to be strong spiritually. I want to be everything I can. So that I know when that temptation comes, I can say no. Do you know who's a classic example of that? Joseph. Joseph, what a man of God. Just walk with God, walk with God. Do you think he was ever tempted to be bitter in that prison? I guarantee he was. But he stayed close to God. Do you think he was you think that temptation come when Bon Potiphar uh was coming on to him? He said no. And he fled. So let's stop. Say, Lord, search my heart. Try me. Don't raise your hand. I think some of us know what our weaknesses are. We know where it is. What are we doing to shore that up? What are we doing to make that area strong? Avoid that. Keep that from taking over. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I rush through this and I pray That you would help us. I wish so bad. I long for the day, dear Lord, when we don't have to deal with all this stuff. But until then, help us to stay close to you. Oh God, help us to realize how weak we are and how vulnerable we are and that that temptation is coming. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed and say, Preacher, I know exactly what this verse is talking about. I know exactly where that temptation, where I'm vulnerable in that area, and I don't know. It's not I have none of my business. That's between you and God. But you'd say, preacher, I would appreciate tonight if you would just pray with me that God would help me, give me wisdom to shore up those areas that I can avoid that and minimize that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I know where it is. I know what it is. God bless you. Hands all around Now it might be a good thing before we go into Bible time. I know if the devil's going to hit us, now's when it's going to happen. As we go into a great week of outreach. Hey, we ought to kneel at an altar tonight and say, God help us. Help me stay close to you this week. Help me st walk be strong. Maybe our s maybe our Bible time teachers, missionary and Bible teachers, would want to kneel at an altar tonight, just pray especially That God's power be upon us. We really see Him save souls and change lives. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand it.