John 14, 1. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison, if you would. John chapter 14, verse 1. Just a short little verse, but a tremendous statement from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ. Ready? Let's read it together. Here we go. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. I'm entitled the message: Don't allow troubles to trouble you. Don't allow your troubles to trouble you. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity to be assembled together as the body of Christ. here in a nice warm building, beautiful facilities. We're so grateful for your goodness to us. Another day, another week. And we pray that you would meet with us now in this hour. We pray that your Holy Spirit would take your word. And apply it to our lives. Encourage us, challenge us, convict us, exhort us, provoke us, Lord, to good works. And I pray that when we leave here today, our hearts would be stirred and we'd be closer to you and a little more confident, have a little bit more of the joy of the Lord in our lives. So fill me with your spirit, I pray, as I yield my will to you, present my body anew, and pray that you be the preacher through me and help us to be receptive. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. How many people are familiar with the name Charles Schultz? Anybody recognize that name? Charles Schultz is known for what? Peanuts, Charlie Brown, Snoopy, the cartoon strip. Not long before he passed away. He passed away a number of years ago now, but not long before he passed away, he drew it uh a cartoon strip of Charlie Brown and he was on the beach uh in the sand and he was building a sand castle And as he was building the sandcastle, it became tremendously, it was just a beautiful sandcastle and just ornate and every little detail. And he worked on this thing and worked on this thing for hours And finally got it just right. And in the cartoon strip, Charlie Brown steps back from the sandcastle and he's just admiring how beautiful this thing is and all the time and effort he put into it and just about the time that he is completely satisfied This huge wave comes pouring in and just flattens his sand castle. I mean just flattens it out. That sounds like Charlie Brown, doesn't it? I mean just flattens the thing. And he makes this statement as he looks at just the blank beach there where the sandcastle was, he makes this statement, I know there's a lesson in this somewhere, but I just don't know what it is. One thing that I believe is probably true about every one of us here in this room this morning. is we've had some waves flatten our sand castles, so to speak. You know what I'm talking about? About everybody. As I look around, nearly every one of us had some dreams that we dreamed. We've had some uh investments uh that we put in time and energy and effort, some things that we wanted to accomplish. And the waves of adversity and the wave of tragedy and the wave of difficulty or trial came and just flattened that sand castle. Can I get a witness? Am I right? Yeah, we've all been there. We've all experienced that. Some of us maybe right now are laying on our backs, flattened by the wave of some unexpected, unseen uh adversity has hit us Some waves are bigger than others. Some tragedies and difficulties and troubles that come in our lives, some are life-changing, just alter everything about us. Others are just those nagging little waves that eat away and eat away and eat away at what we're trying to do and what we're dreaming that we can experience in life. For several years, the disciples have been living in a sand castle. They've been with the Lord Jesus Christ in his immediate presence. They saw his eyes, they could look in his eyes, they heard his voice. In many cases, they felt his hands. They saw his actions and reactions and response to various situations. And every time Jesus Christ came through, when there was a shortage of food, Jesus would perform a miracle, take a little boy's lunch and feed thousands. Uh if they needed their taxes paid, Jesus provided a way for Peter to catch a fish, and in the fish's mouth would be money and he'd be able to pay his taxes. I tell you, I put a lot of time and effort fishing, hoping that I can pay my taxes, looking for that fish that has that money in there. So uh so when I'm out fishing, I'm not really just enjoying myself. I'm trying to pay my taxes is what I'm trying to say. So But they lived in this sand castle, so to speak. Their needs were met, whether it was food or taxes. Jesus immediately took care of it right there on the spot Miraculously. They saw Jesus do uh protect them miraculously They're out on a if they're out on the sea of Galilee or wherever they may be and a storm comes up and their lives are threatened They're really in no danger. Jesus is right there. And he stands and uh uh on the uh on the front of the ship and he speaks to the wind and he speaks to the wave and he commands them to be still and the winds and sea obey him They're in the presence of Jesus Christ. They're living in a sand castle, so to speak. Their needs are met. They're protected. They are sitting underneath the most the wisest being in existence, God Almighty. The wisdom of God is right there. They sat under Jesus Christ's teaching and preaching. Nowadays, I guess in certain circles in Hollywood and different great elite, I think the cool thing is the last several years is to have a life coach Anybody ever hear that? I have a life coach, somebody that advises me in my life and and to live my life. I tell you, some of these folks they need a new life coach, I'll tell you right away You talk about the greatest life coach that has ever been. Can you imagine having the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ? Advising you, giving you wisdom, directing you, warning you on a continual daily basis They sat under the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Sermon on the Mount, to me. What a message as they learned the lessons and principles of life from the lips of the one that gave us our life. And so they're living in this sand castle. Every need is met. They're protected from the storms of light. They're given tremendous wisdom and and advice and direction under the lips of God Himself in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. But they're about to be flattened by a devastating wave. Is coming in. Everything, everything that the disciples believed that the Lord Jesus Christ was going to do is about to be shattered Now they were Jews. They had been taught for years that someday a Messiah was going to come. And that Messiah would fall Fill all the promises to Israel, and he would establish the millennial kingdom and rule from the throne of David. And he would push off, he would uh cast off the bondage of Rome. And the days of the Gentiles would come to an end And the glory of Israel as a nation would be re-established under the kingdom of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Messiah. And they were convinced that Jesus was that Messiah. And by the way, he was. But they missed something. There was a part of Jesus Christ's plan for the world that they had missed. They anticipated Jesus going to Jerusalem, rising up, establishing his kingdom, casting off the Roman Empire. Fulfilling all the promises to Israel, and um and uh and they were going to rule with the Lord Jesus Christ. They fully anticipated what we are looking forward to in the millennial reign, they anticipated with the coming of Jesus Christ. They were mistaken. They were mistaken. These dreams of theirs, this sand castle they were living in, is about to be shattered. Look at chapter 13 with me, if you would Just the chapter before here, chapter 13. And notice with me verse 31. Jesus is starting to Reveal to the disciples that no, he wasn't going to sit on David's throne just yet. Instead, he's going to be nailed to a cross. Rather than sitting on a throne, rather than having a crown on his head, uh, he's going to have a crown of thorns on his head. He's going to be crucified. Look at verse 31 of chapter 13. He says, Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. Now, I don't know about you, but I anticipate in my mind, I can imagine, I should say, the disciples are thinking, yes. He's taking the throne. God's going to be glorified. He's going to be glorified as king on the throne of Israel. That's not what the Lord's talking about. He goes on and he says, And if God be glorified, verse 32, if God be glorified in him, God also shall glorify him himself, and shall straightway glorify him. Little children, look at this, yet a little while I am with you, ye shall seek me. And as I said unto the Jews, whither I go you cannot come. And so now I say unto you, What? The Lord's going away. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're not going anywhere. You're the king. You're the king of Israel. You're going to rule and reign. And we're going to rule No, I'm going away. I'm going away. Come down with me, if you would, and notice verse 36. Time and Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Wait a minute, where are you going? That's not the plan. Whither goest thou? And Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. But thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? Anybody see, anybody hear a little hint of shock? In Peter's mind? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What do you mean? Uh what do you mean, uh I can't follow you Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay my life for I will lay down my life for thee. Boy, we're going to battle. We're going to war. We're establishing this kingdom. Lord, I'm right there. We're going to win. We're going to cast off. We're going to have this kingdom set up. Look what he says, verse 38. Probably the most devastating words Peter has ever heard in his life. Peter is in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. He has committed everything to Christ. And look what Jesus says in verse 38. Jesus answered him: Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast what? Denied me thrice. You talk about a blow to the heart of Peter. For three years, three and a half years, he has committed everything to the Lord Jesus Christ. He has given his heart and soul and mind to the Son of God. Who's going to reign and rule from Israel? Now you say you're going away and I'm going to deny you? What a wave. Just shattered everything. The next 24 hours. This is said on the night before he heads up to Garden of Gethsemane, next several chapters here Or is Jesus' conversation with his disciples before he goes to the Garden of Gethsemane? And in 24 hours, every single one Of these 12 disciples is going to forsake the Lord Jesus Christ. Something they never dreamed they would ever do. Something that never entered their mind they would ever do. In fact, one of them is going to betray the Lord Jesus Christ. Now they don't even grasp, at this point, they don't even grasp, the Lord had told them that. They don't even grasp what the Lord's saying. The farthest thing from their minds. Is that any one of these twelve would do such a thing? By the way, just a little interesting aside here None of them, when they did find out, when the Lord even directly told them who it was, none of them dreamed it would have been Judas They all said, when he says, When are you going to betray me? They all said, Is it me? Is it me? Nobody said, Oh, we know who that is. That's Judas. Never entered their mind. That they would do such a thing, betray the one that they loved and committed their lives and hearts and minds and everything to this. And you're saying we're going to betray you? In 24 hours, one of them betrays them, all twelve of them forsake them. There is a wave hitting the sand castle they've been living in that is absolutely going to wipe it out. And within 24 hours, they're going to see the Lord Jesus Christ arrested, unjustly condemned, before their very eyes. They're going to hear the judgment from Pilate and from the authorities. Condemn a man that they know is innocent. They're going to see him beaten beyond recognition, the Bible tells us. His beard is going to be plucked out. They're going to see him stripped naked, a crown of thorns beaten down upon his head. They're going to see him nailed to a cross. In 24 hours. In 24 hours, from verse number one of chapter 14, Jesus is going to be, his bloody, beaten, crucified body is going to be laying in a grave. Twenty-four hours from now, their whole world is about to be turned upside down. All lose their faith, all 12 of them forsake. Jesus crucified and buried. Trouble is coming to the lives of the disciples. And Jesus says to them Chapter 14, 15, 16, and 17, he's laying some groundwork because there's a new chapter in their lives about to begin. Things are about to be totally different, but they're going to go through some difficult trials. The Lord is explaining in verse number one, knowing what they're about to face, knowing what they're what's about to hit them. He says to them, Let not your heart be troubled. There's some troubles coming. Failure, forsaking, death, violence All your dreams, all that you anticipated, all the things you thought the way it was going to be is going to be completely different than what you thought. But don't let that trouble you. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. The Lord's explaining, they cannot allow the troubles of life to trouble them. Now, I don't know about you. I looked at verse 1 and I find great encouragement. One thing I notice there, and this isn't my message, but just a thought here. One thing I notice there is Jesus Christ knows about our troubles. He knows what's bothering, what's hurting in our hearts. I'm looking around, the crowd here, folks watching online, I can't see what's going on in your heart and mind. I've been doing this long enough. I know for a fact there are some people, and I don't know individually, but I just know from experience. There's no doubt in my mind, I'm talking to some folks now, that your heart is deeply troubled. There's stuff going on that has you absolutely turned upside down, inside out. There's things you dreamed, anticipated, uh that are gone. There's things that come into your life you never saw coming And the Lord knows and though I may not see it, I may not know about it, the person beside you, in front of you, behind you may not know a thing about it. I'm here to tell you we have a Savior that knows all about it. Knows all about it. He is aware of, he is very much aware of our troubles. And the second thing I notice there in verse number one is this: he cares about it. It's not like, oh yeah, they're messed up. Yeah, too bad. It's up to them. No, no, no. He goes, listen, I know The trouble going on in your heart. Don't let your heart be troubled. I know what you're facing. I know what you're struggling with. I know how you're feeling. I know how your mind is reeling. But listen, I can help you. I'll see you through it. I can take care that I care about it Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Now, let's look at this verse a little bit, and as I always enjoy doing, I think it's helpful. I did some word studies and I broke it down. And I got looking at that phrase, let not your heart be troubled. And that implies to me that A troubled heart comes naturally. Now, I hope you think along the lines that I'm thinking. He says, let not, don't let this happen. In other words, if you don't take steps. To prevent it, if you don't take some actions to keep it from happening, your heart is going to be troubled. Does anybody see that in there? Don't let it happen. It's gonna it it naturally happens. You have to take preventative actions. You have to put some things in place. You need to make some decisions So that your heart is not troubled. Because if you don't, it's going to happen. Don't let that happen. There's a decision that you and I have to make. There's some actions that you and I have to take If we're going to keep the troubles of life from troubling our heart and disrupting our heart. Let not your heart be troubled. Don't let that take place. Don't let that happen. Make decisions. Put things in place to avoid that. I thought of Proverbs chapter 4, and I think it's verse 23, where the Bible says, keep thy heart with all diligence For out of it are the issues of life. In other words, he's telling us we need to be very, very careful to protect our heart, to keep that thing in place and not let the troubles of life get in and disrupt our heart. You know what sinks a boat? A boat doesn't sink because it's in the water. A boat sinks because the water is in the boat. Follow what I'm saying? Our lives don't get messed up because we live in a world of trouble. We get messed up when the troubles of this world get into our lives, get into our heart, and it troubles us And the Lord is saying, don't let that happen. There are certain things, there are certain actions, there are certain attitudes That you and I must put in place if we're going to keep the troubles of life that are inevitable, they're about to go through. There's certain things they have to have in place in their thinking If they're going to keep their heart from being troubled. We can't avoid living in a troubled world. We do. But we can avoid Having a troubled heart. And that leads to me to the second word there. Let not your heart be troubled. I got looking that looking that up and where it comes from and how it's used And it means pretty much what you would think. It has some very specific meanings. Let not your heart be troubled. It has this idea of being agitated. Disturbed, unsettled, restless, perplexed, filled with doubt Now I'd venture to say most, if not all of us, have been at some point in our life, our hearts have been troubled, distressed Do you ever have a night you just can't sleep, tossing and turning, just troubles in your heart and mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You can't concentrate on what's happening around you because your heart is so disturbed, so agitated About something going on. And it's like, what, huh? And you're not even able to focus on what's happening around you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's what he's talking about. Don't let that happen It's going to happen naturally because we live in a troubled world. We live in a world of waves that loves to flatten sand castles. And he says, don't let that get in your heart and agitate you and perplex you and disrupt you and bring doubts in your heart and mind. Don't let that happen. Don't let that happen. Trials and difficulties and adversities are tools. Now I hope you'll get this thought. This is important. Trials and difficulties and adversities are tools that God uses to develop our faith. Very seldom does faith grow and get strong when everything's going my way When all the bills are paid and everything's wonderful and everybody loves me and man my health my uh uh I'm physically fit and in the prime of physical health, you know, you're like me, and um Very seldom does our faith grow. Very seldom do we mature as a believer when everything's going fine. You know when our faith grows? You know when we mature as a believer? When we're laying flat on our backs on a beach that wiped out by a wave, and everything we thought and dreamed is wiped out, and all we got is God. You know, we find out that God's really all we need. That all our confidence, all our joy, all our hopes were put in something that is as precarious as a sand castle. One wave comes along and it's gone and we realize that we had misplaced hope, we had misplaced confidence, we had misplaced faith. And we direct that faith to the Lord. Trials and adversities are tools that God uses to help us reevaluate our values, readjust our perspectives. And grow in our faith and understand that God can come through when everything else fails. God is faithful. God is faithful. So adversities and trials and difficulties are tools that God used to develop our faith, to strengthen our confidence in His power, in His love for me. I see that in the trials of life. When everything's good, we're living we're living in glass houses and and we're living in um Uh greenhouses where there's no storms, there's no cold, and there's no snow and there's no ten below degrees uh temperatures. Man, a greenhouse sounds pretty good right about now When we live like that, our faith doesn't grow. We don't mature, we're just everything's fine and everything's honky-dory. There are some aspects of the Christian life. I hope you'll get this There's some aspects of the Christian life that can only be developed through adversity. There's some parts, there's some aspects of being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ that can only be developed. Through trials and difficulties. You say, Preacher, I've got everybody's turning against me, and people are mean, they're cussing me, and They're saying hateful things, they're reviling me. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, that gives me opportunity to obey our Lord's instruction, to bless those who curse me, to love those who hate me. To do good to those that revile me and pray for them. I'm able to develop that aspect of my Christian life to be able to love the unlovely The bless, the curse is cursing. Do good to the hateful. Boy, how I grow and mature in my faith. There are some aspects of the Christian life that can only be developed when our sand castles are washed away. There are characteristics of our God. That can only be learned and grasped by disappo difficulties and disappointments. There's some things about God. The only time we really see is when everything seems to be going wrong and then we can focus on them. I learned something a long time ago as a child. It has to be dark out to see the stars. Can't see him in the day. There's some things about God that we can only see and we can only understand All the lights go out. And we see it, feel like we're in the dark, and we look up. Boy, there's a promise of God. And there's an act of God that He says, I would have never seen that. If I didn't have this difficulty, this trial, I'd have never experienced that. There's an aspect of God's love that we can only experience. When our dreams die and our hearts broken, then we God comes in. You follow what I'm saying? He's saying, don't let your troubles trouble you They're a tool that I use. They're an instrument of my love for you to develop you and strengthen you and reveal myself to you. That you can understand how much I love you, and you can understand how powerful I really am to take care of you when everything else fails. Don't let your troubles trouble you Then you say, how do I do that, preacher? Well, I think he's telling them here in these verses that we read. He says, let not your heart be troubled. Then he gives some instructions. He makes some statements, he makes some promises, he gives them information that they can use to keep their hearts from being troubled, from keeping their lives from being totally messed up And that they can grow and go forward. I put three down that I observe here. Number one, I put this down to keep the troubles from troubling. Number one, I need to know Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I need to establish Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And I get that from verse number one. Notice what he says: let not your heart be troubled. Now look at this. You believe in God Now that's great. That's wonderful. Good. Glad you believe in God. But that's not enough. You believe in God? Believe also what? In me. In me. Listen, he's talking to disciples. In fact, if you look at the context very carefully from chapter 13, he's talking directly to Peter This is a conversation between Jesus Christ and Peter himself. Now we're all included in this. It's recorded in God's word, inspired and preserved for us So it applies to us, but his conversation, his eyes are locked in on the eyes of Peter. His face is facing the face of Peter. He says, You believe in God, Peter. Good. You're a good Jew. You believe in Jehovah. That's wonderful. You need to understand who I am You need to believe also in me. See, believing God, as necessary and as important as that is, simply believing God is uh is not sufficient Would you keep your place here? Because we're going to look at some verses yet. Come with me back to the book of James. Back towards the end of your New Testament. You get to Hebrews, and after Hebrews, you run into the book of James. And James makes an interesting statement in chapter 3 in verse number 19 Jesus telling Peter and through Peter to all of us, he's saying, Don't let your let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Good. I'm glad you believe in God. That's good. That's necessary. That's a starting point. But you need to believe also in me. Simply believing in God is not sufficient. Look at James chapter 3, and look with me, if you would, at verse 19. James chapter three and verse number Oh, I hate it when this happens. Chapter two Ah, chapter 2 in verse 19. You thought I said three, didn't you? I was testing to see who I was listening. I was trying to find out who actually turns to the pages when I tell you to. Look at James chapter 2 and verse number 19. Thou believest there is one God, thou doest well. Alright? So Jesus said, that now your heart be troubled. You believe in God? That's good. You believe there's one God, that's good. Now look at this shocking statement he makes after that. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well. Look at this. The devils also believe. And what do they do? They tremble. Devil's in hell believing God. Devil's in hell believing God. I get out witnessing sometimes and visiting folks and Say, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Oh yeah, how do you know? Oh, I believe in God. Listen, now I'm glad you believe in God. And by the way, we live in a world That prof a lot more and more all the time profess not to believe in God. I don't believe it for one minute. I'm convinced down inside their heart and soul they know there's something bigger beyond than what they are. They don't want to believe in God Now believe is God. People say, oh, I believe in God. Jesus said, that's good, but that's not enough. Um come over to John, come back here if you would to the Gospel of John where we're at, but come to chapter three, I think. Chapter 3, and look at verse number 1. James told his, tells us that uh You believe in God? You do well. Yeah, devils do too. They tremble. In John chapter 3, we have a fellow that comes to the Lord Jesus Christ by the name of Nicodemus. A lot of us are familiar with Nicodemus. And he comes to the Lord at night. Now, there's a lot of people like to speculate why he came at night. I don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us Maybe he was a he's a very important, wealthy man, a leader. Maybe he's busy during the day is the only chance he had. I don't know. Maybe he was fearful. Jesus was a very controversial figure at that time. Maybe he was A little concerned for his business and reputation if he's with the Lord, seen with the Lord in public, so he slips in at night. I don't know. But if you look at verse 1 of chapter 3 very carefully, we learn something about Nicodemus. It says, there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. Now notice what he says in verse 2 to the Lord Jesus Christ. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, that means teacher. You're an authority in this area. Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher. Look at this. Come from what? God. For no man can do the miracles that thou doest except what? God be with them. Let me ask you a question. Did Nicodemus believe in God? Yeah, absolutely. He says, Oh, we know you've come from God sent you. Nobody can do what you're doing except God be with them. And by the way, that was a very accurate assessment of the Lord Jesus Christ. But the point I'm trying to make is this: Nicodemus believed in God. And what did Jesus say to him in immediately? He doesn't even respond to these these accurate and true kind statements he makes about the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus doesn't respond to it. And notice how the Jesus immediate Answer to him. Verse 3. And Jesus answered and said to them, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. What is he saying? He's saying, Nicodemus, you believe in God, you do well. Believe in God, but that's not enough. You need to be born again. Just believing in God, just believing in God doesn't make me acceptable to God Just believing in God doesn't remove my sins. Just believing in God doesn't bring the presence of the Holy Spirit into my body and my life. I've got to believe in Jesus. Let not your heart be troubled. How do I do that? Well, you believe in God, believe also in me. You need to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He says to Nicodemus, You need to be born again. You believe in God, but you're outside the family of God Need to be born spiritually. And then he goes on through the chapter, and many of us are very familiar with this. He explains that the way to be born again is by putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. In fact, this whole conversation with Nicodemus leads up to that great golden verse of the Bible, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him, God's Son. Shall not perish, but have everlasting life. And by the way, that word believe there does not simply mean mentally acknowledge that he exists. mentally acknowledge he's the son of God. No, it means to put my confidence in, my trust, my hope in. And so if I'm going to keep the troubles of life from troubling my heart, if I'm going to keep the difficulties and adversities from getting in and disrupting me s spiritually, internally, first of all, I have to establish Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I've got to get my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And until I do that, the Bible's clear, I'm outside the family of God, I do not have access to the throne of God, I do not have the presence of the Holy Spirit in our life in my life. When I got saved, I was working in the meat packing plant. I worked there for about a year and a half or so until I went off to Bible college. God led me to go to Bible college. And these guys gave me fits the whole time. They called me names and just did uh they did terrible things to me that hurt my feelings. And uh I mean they gave me a hard time And God did it. I'm telling you, God did it all. This is this is, I was just a mess. And God, in His love and grace, came in and just transformed my life so amazingly And when I left, every one of those guys that gave me fits when I left, uh, this was back when you used to be allowed to shake hands. Anybody remember a long time? Every one of those guys came up and shook my hand, and a bunch of them said this. I'm quoting nearly verbatim. They said something like this, Leatherman, I wish I had what you had. I wish I had what you had. Now, I in and of myself I had nothing. God had done something for me when I believed on Jesus Christ. God did a work. God entered in my life. The Spirit of God came in. He changed my life. He changed my value. He gave me an inner confidence I never had before. It was the presence of God in my life through faith in Jesus Christ. So you say you want to keep the troubles of life from troubling you? You want to keep these waves that wipe out our sand castles from destroying us? First of all, I need to establish Jesus Christ as my Personal Savior. They needed to establish the same confidence that they had in God. They need to put it in Jesus Christ. By the way, Jesus Christ and God are two and are two of the same. The two are one. There's no access to God apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ and God are one. Come back here to chapter 14, our text. Pastor Matt read it a little bit ago, and I want to highlight it again in verse 8 of John 14. Jesus is having this conversation. Now the other disciples are joining in Thomas in verse number five steps in in the conversation, and then now Philip steps in in verse 8, and they're perplexed. They're trying to grasp what Jesus is saying And Philip said unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Look how Jesus responds to that request. Verse 9. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? Now think about what the Lord's saying here. He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. Wow. And how sayest thou then, show us the Father? He goes, You're looking at him You say, well, Jesus is the Son of God, yes, but he's God. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the great three in one. Philip says, Lord, show this father. Show us your father's house. Well, look at that. You're talking about, show us the Father. And Jesus says, Peter, Philip, look at me. You're looking at him. I would imagine the hair on Phelps' heads go down. I'm looking at the creator of the universe. I'm looking at God Almighty. He says, I'm Him. It's me. He goes on and explains. He says, verse 10, believest thou that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me. He doeth the works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me. Or else believe me for the very works say. He says, you believe in God, good. That's wonderful. Devils believe in God and they tremble. He says, you need to believe in me. You need to understand who I am as the Son of God, God Almighty in the flesh. And you need to put that belief, that confidence, that trust, you need to put in me. And then I can do these things, forgive you, and give you eternal life and indwell you with the Holy Spirit of God. So if I'm going to keep the troubles of this life from troubling me, I need to establish Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. There is no access to God except through the Lord Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh. He said in John fourteen, look at verse six I am the way, the truth, and the light. Now look at this last statement: no man cometh unto the Father but by me. There's only one way to be saved, that's through Jesus Christ. You mark it down. It doesn't matter what the religions of this world may say. It doesn't matter what those who uh operate under the name of Christianity may say There is only one way of salvation. There is only one way to the Father. There is only one way to heaven. That is through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not through our church or anyone else's church. It's not through the baptism waters. It's not through giving. It's not through any works I do. It's through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you write this little statement down? I like to have people write little statements down. Somewhere, write this little statement down. Jesus never fails. You believe in God? Wonderful. Believe also in me. I will never fail you. You trust me for forgiveness of sins and eternal life. I will not fail you. You put your trust in me, I will not fail you. You ever have somebody do some work or something and say, can you do this? Oh yeah, trust me, I can do that. Whether they can or not, I don't know. But I tell you, when we put our faith in Christ, we can be confident He'll come through. Jesus never fails. How do I keep the troubles of life from troubling? Number one, establish Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Number two, understand my home is in heaven. If I'm going to keep the troubles of this life from troubling me, I need to understand this world's not my home. I'm just a passing through. Look with me, if you would, at verse number two. Jesus goes on explaining, says, believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. What's he saying? Sam Peter, this isn't your home. I like that little phrase, my father's house Isn't that a neat statement? It conjures up images of home. Coming home, my father's house. This world's not our home. This world's a mess. I thank God we're not going to be in this old mess forever. We're just passing through. We're just passing through. My first year I traveled as a youth evangelist with Neighborhood Bible Time. We had Did a couple rallies out in Colorado. We were up in Grand Junction, had a great rally, and I'm telling you, I'm just this young preacher boy. Well I was a little older than the other guys. I was about 25 at that point. Young and um twenty-five And went up there and we preached, and I was green as could be, and we did a rally up in Grand Junction, Colorado. And I'm telling you, that church treated us like kings. Nice room. I mean all the food you could eat, they just, it was like, wow, we were in Hog Heaven. I don't know what hog heaven is like But it was great, this was great. Then we went down to South Fork, Colorado, just out just in the wood up in the mountains from Durango. I mean right along a river in the Rocky Mountains and we did a rally And I'm telling you, they treated us like royalty. And then our next rally was in Farmington, New Mexico. That wasn't hog heaven. And I'm not trying to be unkind, but I learned a lesson. The preacher picked us up and we had flown down there to a little airport, I think I think, or I I forget how we got there, we met halfway. But anyway, we showed up at the church, and it was kind of out in a desert area And uh he came in and he said, uh, well we're ready for the week and all the boxes of Bible time supply were setting there unopened. So that told us a lot. There wasn't they weren't ready Um and uh talked about this, oh yeah, where you're staying, follow me. And he took this down the in the basement of the church And everything was dark and dingy. You could smell a little musty and stuff. We got down there. And uh here's where you're sleeping. It was one of the Sunday school rooms, and there was two mattresses leaning up against the wall And he pushed the chairs and tables aside and he flopped one mattress down and drugged the other and flopped that down. He said, There's some blankets and towels over on the table there and uh uh blankets and sheets and pillows on the table there, and this is where you'll be sleeping. And we said wonderful, praise the Lord. And uh he goes, uh we said, Is there a place that we can wash up or anything? Oh yeah He goes, we used to have a school here years ago. We haven't used the showers in years, he says, but we'll go in and here's the showers, and he kind of pointed to them. And uh later we came in there, I mean they were filthy Dirty. We ended up finding some cleaning supplies and scrubbed them down. And so he showed us around and it was like, okay, whatever. And um Then uh different things, a few things. He goes, alright, well he says, I'll take off. We'll be back here in the morning, certain time. And uh he says, make sure you're showered and clean before certain time because the teachers will be in here and they don't want to see you walking around there. you know, un undressed. And uh and so uh we said, All right, okay, that'll work. And then we haven't eaten all day. I mean this is all day, Saturday night, all day. We haven't eaten a bite And uh we said, uh preacher, is there anywhere something we could get a little bit of food? Oh yeah, I forgot. He goes, here he handed us uh about ten bucks or so, a couple of bucks And he said there's a Burger King about five blocks down here. You can go down there and get you something to eat. He gave us a little bit of money. And we went down there and got, I think, small fries and a water And we sat down, my partner and I, we sat down and um I know this is going to be hard to believe, but we started draping. I can't believe that. Why can't we sleep on the floor in a sunny school room? Are you kidding me? That shower's filthy. And we got griping and griping. And every night we'd pray together and we stopped and we started praying and we both got convicted. We said, you know, we got talking. We said, you know, we're going to be here for seven days. I got a job to do. We sleep on a s mattress and have a dirty shower and we get fries and water. And I'm not I don't think we I think we got more than fries and water. I was exaggerating a little bit there. But we came to the conclusion, whatever difficulties and whatever hardships we have to go through for the next six, seven days, it's not going to be that way forever. We've got a job to do while we're here. And this isn't where we're staying. And when I was studying what the Lord was saying here, that's a lot like life. We've got a job to do out here. We're supposed to get the gospel to all the world. Now, are there some heartaches? Do we got to sleep on old mattresses on cement floors sometimes? Yeah. Do we have a have a come up short a little bit in some of the things we want and would like? Yeah. There's some disappointments, yeah. There's some difficulties, yeah. This world's not our home. We're going to be out of here before we know it. How many people think the last 10 years scream to buy? Before you know it, it's going to be another ten years, another ten years. Half this crowd, we're going to be in heaven Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God? Believe also in me. You need to establish a relationship with me. You need to know me as Savior. And then, by the way, not only that This world's not our home. The troubles and the waves and the storms. Yes, but don't let it get in you. Don't let it mess you up. Don't let it trouble you because we're only here for a while. We got a home in heaven where we're going. Heaven is a physical reality. It's a place of spiritual rejoicing. Heaven, and we could do a series on heaven. There's streets, literal streets, there's mansions, there's people there It is a spiritual rejoicing. Number one, establish Jesus Christ as personal Savior. Number two, understand our home is in heaven. How do I keep the troubles from troubling me? Number three, put this down. Anticipate the return of Christ. In my father's house or many mansions, if it were not so, I would have told you. By the way, Jesus doesn't lie. For not so I would have told you. I go to repair a place for you and look at verse three. And if I go and he did If I go and prepare a place for you, look at that next statement. You ought to underscore it in your Bible. I will come again. I tell you, the great hope for the Christian in this old troubled world, this old corrupt, dishonest, dark, spiritually dark world we live in, I tell you, our great hope is the return of Jesus Christ. That's what we're watching for. That's what we're hoping for. Doesn't this world bother you? Doesn't the things upset you and perplex and agitate you? Nah. Lord's coming back one of these days. I have Jesus as my Savior. I'm here for a while. I'm going to heaven someday. And who knows? He might come back here. He might come back today. Amen. He might come back today. What a day that will be. When by Jesus I shall see. When I look upon his face. The one who saved me by his grace. What a day, glorious day that will be. I tell you, that attitude right there will keep the troubles out of your heart. That'll give you peace of mind. That'll give you peace in your heart. Don't let troubles trouble you. Two great themes through all the New Testament was the resurrection of Christ. It was the return and is the return of Jesus Christ all through. These guys were persecuted, they were beaten, they were martyred, stoned, imprisoned. Read Acts, read Paul's testimony of all they went through. And in the midst of that, they sang and rejoiced. Why? Their troubles didn't trouble them. Because they were looking for the return of Christ. Jesus was alive and he's coming back. And they were absolutely convinced of that. And that kept the troubles out of their heart. Take your Bible. I want to end with this. 1 Thessalonians, or 2 Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians, chapter 4. If you knew me as well as I knew me, you'd be amazed I get any of these right. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and I want to begin reading in verse number 16 1 Thessalonians 4 verse 16. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. That's what Jesus said. I go to prepare place for you if I go, I'll come again Ascend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain in this old troubled world Shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Now look at that last verse. Wherefore? What's the next word? Comfort one another with these words. The Lord's coming again. Don't you let troubles trouble you. You keep remembering Jesus coming back. Jesus coming back. Jesus coming back. Comfort one another with these words. I was reading about, this week I was reading about Susanna Wesley. Anybody recognize that name? Again, 19 kids, I believe. She lived during the late 1600s, early 1700s in England. And in England, they had very strict rules about religion. You had to worship God and attend church at the churches that they approved of. Kind of similar to America today, a little bit. No, not really. That was a wrong statement. But uh I mean the government controlled their worship to the T Susanna Wesley believed the Bible. And what was being taught and what was being practiced in these state churches was unscriptural. And she tried to cooperate and she tried to accommodate as much as she could, but she did and often would worship with believers outside of the approved churches. Brother people turned on her, not just the authorities, but I was reading about her and I I didn't realize this until I read it this week They had the the community, the people of the community convinced that these people that were living for God and worshiping God and serving God according to the Bible rather than the states. Mandates, that they were radicals, that they were dangerous to society. They were disruptors is what they would call them. Troublemakers And Suzanne Wesley would determine to raise her kids according to the Bible. And the neighbors turned on her. They burned her troughs, her gardens. They said one they came one night and stabbed. She had three cows to provide milk for her family. Nineteen kids, you need a few cows for that. One ain't gonna cut it They stabbed all three of her cows, killed her only source of milk for her children, called her names, ridiculed her, threatened her. Her faith was in Christ. And she did not let the opposition and the troubles surrounding her get in and trouble her heart. And she raised those kids to fear God. One of those kids' name was John. Ever hear of John Wesley? That guy got a hold of John Wesley, and that guy got on fire for God. And he turned England upside down with the gospel. The Methodists came out of John Wesley's ministry. And you can't hardly go to a little town anywhere in West Virginia or all through Eastern United States. You can't hardly go to a town and don't find either a little Methodist church or an old Methodist building where there used to be a church there. They were on fire for the gospel. I want to suggest to you, all because one mother refused to let troubles trouble her. She trusted God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, you would help us To trust you. I pray that everyone under the sound of my voice would have established a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Not just a belief in God, but a personal relationship. With the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray you would stir our hearts and remind us this world's not our home. We're passing through. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to anticipate your return. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, Man, uh a wave has hit me. Maybe it's crashing over you even now. You say, preacher, I don't want to be wiped out. I want to I want to keep my heart from being troubled I'm going to trust God. I'm going to keep this perspective. Is there any like that, preacher, pray with me? The waves have hid. Man, I don't want it to get in my boat. I don't want the troubled waters to get in my heart and mine. And I need to trust God. God bless you. A bunch of hands. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I know someone that's going through it. They're getting hammered. I want to be a help and I want to be an encouragement. I want to be a spiritual life best for them. Help them come to Christ. Help them trust Christ. Preacher, I know someone needs the Lord. I want to be that witness, that help to them. God bless you. If you're not saved, if you don't have that personal relationship with Jesus Christ, I urge you to come. We can show you from the Bible how to do that. Get that settled. Is there any this morning say, preacher, pray for me? I need that relationship. I need to have that settled. Anyone at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need to have that relationship with Jesus Christ established. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Lord, if there's sin in our lives, if there's changes that need to be made, help us to trust you. Just do what you say. In Jesus' name. Amen.