But ha how many y'all ever felt like I I know this is hard to admit, but how many of y'all ever felt like quitting? I mean you just got bogged down with the rigma row of life. By the way, I'm not going to have you raise your hand because you might have to see your pastor raise his hand. I don't want him to have to admit to it. Yeah, the truth is all of us from time to time come to a stage in our life where we think, uh, I'm just tired of this. And it may be it may be parents raising their kids. Unless you're different than me, there comes times along the way where you're like, good night, these kids are going to kill us This is war. And uh I used to come home from the church and and and I'd you know naively say to my wife, so what have you been doing today? It didn't take me long to understand. The work of a housewife, the work of a mother is unbelievable. I mean it is off the charts. And uh but if you don't believe that's true, just go ahead and and take a week, sir, take vacation from work and stay home for an entire week. And you tend to him and clean the house and cook the meals and take care of all the the snotty noses and dirty diapers and dirt dirty dishes and and everything else. And uh I I'm telling you, I I would gladly go to work every week. To let my wife deal with all that. And uh I I that that's work. And every now and then you kind of you kind of get that mentality of Calgon, take me away You know what I mean? This good night. This is this is terrible. Don't raise your hand. But if you ever have you ever gotten up on a Sunday afternoon and thought I I say got up on a Sunday afternoon because you took that Sunday afternoon nap And thought, do I have to go back again? Really? Do I have to go back again? You heard about the guy who was He was uh getting he was tired as a Saturday night, went to bed late, got up Sunday morning and laying in the bed and his wife kicking him in the bed, you know, saying, get out of bed, let's go It's time to get up and get ready for church. And he kept saying, I don't want to go. And she said, no, no, no, get up, get up, you got to go to church. This is it's church day. Let's go. Get out of bed Like, honey, I don't, I don't, I don't want to go. And he said this. He said, church is boring sometimes, but not here, of course. Church, sometimes, sometimes the people at church aren't kind to me. Sometimes I just feel like no one there even likes me. I don't want to go to church. She said, honey, get out of bed. You've got to go to church. You're going to church. And he said, honey, give me one good reason why I've got to go to church. She said, I'll tell you a good reason. You're the pastor. Get up. Let's go to church. Everyone there. Mrs. Leatherman, you ever had to do that? Kick him out of I I don't don't admit to it. Truth is, sometimes life is tough Life is hard. By the way, we could use that in any scenario. It could be going to work tomorrow. It it could be it could be uh keeping the house the way it's supposed to be. It could be telling people about Jesus It could be any scenario you want to paint. Life gets tough. Life gets hard. And sometimes we just want to throw in the towel and quit Or at least take an extended break. Isn't it the same when you go on vacation, you gotta come home and take vacation to recover from vacation so you can get back to work? Isn't that usually the way it goes? I'm going to look at a passage of scripture tonight that we hear from an aged man who's looking at a young man, and basically what he's telling that young man is this: don't quit. Don't quit. Second Timothy chapter number four in the Word of God this evening is where we're going to go. The Apostle Paul wrote this book, this passage of Scripture, obviously under inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. He wrote this passage of Scripture to a young man. I need a very intelligent person in the crowd. Obviously that'd be a young that'd be a lady. I almost said young lady, but it'd be a lady. But that could tell me who who it could be anyone to answer this question. Who did Paul write this letter to? I know this is deep. You gotta look at the title of the book in order to find out who he wrote it to. But who did Paul write this letter to? Help me out. Who did he write this letter to Timothy! He wrote it in Timothy! Timothy was just a young preacher boy. I like to think Timothy was a teenager, is what I like to think. I well obviously I don't know how old Timothy was But here's this young man named Timothy, and the elder statesman of the faith, the Apostle Paul, the man who's been through the battles, the man who's been shipwrecked, the man who's been beaten to death And God spared his life. The man who's been through unbelievable trial and work. He's put in the time. He's put in the effort. He's emptied his pocket into the offering plate multiple times. He's been out knocking on doors and telling people about Jesus He's been on the bus routes. He's sold, he's brought people to church. I'm just telling you, the Apostle Paul had been through the battles. He has the t-shirt, and the t-shirt's worn out now, too The man's been through it. And he looks named Timothy. And he writes these words. Obviously, God writes these words through Paul to Timothy, and he gives this lesson To Timothy in the Bible in 2 Timothy chapter number 4. And I want you to see it starting in verse 1. We'll get down to the text here in just a second, but 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 1, the Bible says this Paul says to Timothy, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, you're accountable not to me, you're accountable to God. God's our judge. Can I say that one more time? God's our judge. Hey, can I tell you as a church family? And I mean this with the utmost respect. Your judge is not your pastor. It's not his job to go around and police your life. That's not his job. His job is to teach us about Jesus, to teach us the Word of God, so that we can learn what Jesus would have us do Our judge is God. And Paul looks at Timothy and he says to Timothy, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, a good reason that Pastor Leatherman is not your judge. A good reason is for his sake, he's just as much a sinner as everyone else. So it's not his responsibility to judge us, but can I tell you this too? He's not with you all the time. We are prone to put on a good show at church, aren't we? We are. You didn't drive into the church parking lot tonight and bring your spat or your fight with your spouse into the auditorium. And by the way, thank you for not doing that. Could you just imagine coming to church and and couples are walking in, I didn't say believe you did that? I can't and they're having a big old fight as they walk in Keep it in the car before you get out, okay? Better yet, don't have it at all. But if you have it, don't bring it in the church house. Because we come in here and this is kind of like a safe haven, isn't it? This is a place where there's peace and joy and love and acceptance and all those things. And that's why he's not our judge God's with you all the time, therefore live for God all the time. And again, get off my soapboxes and get on off the rabbit trails and get to the Word of God here. He says, Who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom? He says this to Timothy verse 2: Preach the word. Be instant or ready, in season, out of season. Reprove. This is what preaching does: reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine, Bible teachings. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. By the way, we live in that time right now. We live in those times they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust will they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, teachers who just say what the people want to hear And they shall turn away their ears from truth and shall be turned unto fables. So he gives this charge now, verse 5 to Timothy. He says, but watch thou in all things. Endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. In other words, share Jesus Christ with all those around you. Make full proof of thy ministry. God's got a job for you to do. Do that job. He says in verse 6, now Paul's testimony. For I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course I have kept the faith. The Apostle Paul looks at Timothy here in this passage of Scripture, and I believe this to be true. I believe, and you can study this out chronologically, but I believe Paul's coming to the end of his life I don't picture this like Paul's laying on his deathbed and whimpering out these words. I believe Paul is thundering the best he can at the end of his life to a young preacher boy and saying this: hey Timothy, don't quit. Don't give up. Timothy, there's a lot for you to be a lot to be done in our land. There's a lot to be done for the cause of Christ. There's souls that need to be saved. There's lives that need to be changed There's teenagers that need to be reached. There's children who need to hear the gospel. There's a lot to be done, Timothy. So Timothy, don't quit! Keep up the fight. And he gave the the reason for for Timothy this. He gets to the end of the passage we just read and he said this He said, For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. You know what Paul was telling Timothy? My life's almost over. I fought the fight. Hey, hey, Timothy, I've been busy at what I was called to do, and I know my life is coming kind of to the end. We were standing on the door there tonight door front of this man here in town knocking on his door. And I respectfully said to this man 84 years old. He told us his age. By the way, great conversation with this man. You pray for him. I believe he's going to get saved. Jacob mentioned it just a few moments ago in the praise time. I believe he's going to get saved. I really do. I believe that God impressed on me to say this to him. And I said, I mean this with all due respect. And I even told him, I said, you feel free to tell me to shut up anytime you want. I'm not saying that yet in this service, so don't get antsy. But I said to him at 84 years old, you'd probably testify to the fact there's more days behind you than there are in front of you. He said, Oh well, yeah, that's pretty obvious. I'm standing in front of a church family. There's some of us in this room who you say, probably more days behind me than there are in front of me. You've been through the battles. By the way, I'm not trying to be morbid. You've been through the battles. Blood, sweat, and tears, you've worked alongside of a tremendous pastor and pastor's wife. To have God use you to help build a great church here. You've been through the battles of lean times financially. You've been through the battles of maybe some disgruddled people in the church trying to show discord. You've been through the battles of people laying on their deathbed and God taking them on to heaven. Well, what I'm saying is, you've fought some wars, you've been through some battles, and you're here tonight and you're still sticking to the stuff. That's pretty amazing. And I want to stand before you tonight and I want to applaud you and say thank you for your faithful work in reaching a community for Jesus Christ. But the job's not done. Why why does Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church have a sword conference followed up by a youth conference on the same week? By the way, I want to talk to you about schedules, these kind of things. Oh, that's brutal. That's hard. Why do you do those kind of things? I'll tell you why. Because God's not done! Because there's a world that needs Jesus Christ. And Paul comes to verse number eight and he says, This: I have fought a good fight. Hey, can I tell you point number one? I fought. Not I fought, we fought. You know there's some things worth fighting for? There are some things in life that are literally worth fighting for. I was telling the teenagers, Uh yesterday or the day before, I can't remember, it's all blur. I was talking to him, and I said something like this to him. I said, I'm willing to go to jail for some certain things. I'm willing to go to jail for my family. If someone did something to my family, I'm just telling you, I'm going to go to jail for my family. Some of hurts my family. I'm going to tell them, hey, you want to trust Christ right now because you're getting ready to meet him. There's some things worth fighting for. Hey parents, your kids are worth fighting for. Your kids are worth taking a stand for. Your kids are worth saying, hey Satan, buckle your seatbelt because you're getting ready to have a battle, and we're going to fight you for our children. We will not lay over and let our children go to go to hell. We will not lay over and let Satan have control of our children. They're worth fighting for. They're worth fighting for. Hey, by the way, kids, your parents are worth fighting for. To take a stand for mom and dad for the cause of Christ. There's some things worth fighting for. Hey, it's worth fighting for Jesus Christ. It's worth fighting in your neighborhood for Jesus Christ. There's some things worth fighting for as a kid growing up, I have three older brothers. There were times, by the way, if you have siblings, whether you're an adult now or whether you're in that still sibling childish age. If you had siblings, you know what I'm talking about when I say there's fights that take place. I was the young, I am the youngest. I was the punching bag. I was the one who took all the abuse. My my my for whatever my parents owned a roller skating rink and there was a metal hook on the wall. A random metal hook in this roller skating rink on the wall My brothers literally would pick me up and hang me by my belt on the wall. I'd be dangling, and there's no way to get off. You're suck. I'd say, Help! Help, mom! Man, there were fights that took place. I'm not talking about that kind of fighting. What I'm talking about is standing for Jesus Christ in 2021. Letting people around you know that you're a Christian and you're unashamed, it was Paul who said, I'm unashamed of the gospel of Christ For it is the power of God and to salvation. To the Jew first, and also to the Greek. You know what Jesus, you know what Paul was saying there? I'm not ashamed to be a Christian. I'm going to fight for Christ. The book that your pastor referenced, by the way, it's simple. I'm a very simple preacher. In case you wonder You're not going to get something real deep for me. You know what my burden for this book was? We have teenagers who go through our youth ministries Good families, good churches, growing up, going through all this stuff. And they graduate and you ask them a question: why do you use your Bible? How do you know the Bible is God's Word? The introduction on the book is about is about uh and by the way, this is not a sales point. I uh it doesn't matter to me. I've got I've got a bunch of books back there, but it's not a sales point. But the whole introduction of the book is the fundamentals of the faith. The verbal inspiration of the scriptures, the virgin birth of Jesus Christ, the virtual deity of Christ. The sinless perfection of Christ. Oh, hold on. It's talking about the vicarious suffering of Christ. You say, what is that? That means Jesus took your place. You say, well, I put it in a simple format for teenagers to understand. You want to know why? Because that's how I understand it. I want it simple. I want it I want it plain. I want to be understanding, but I I want to understand what the Bible teaches, and that's what this fight is all about What does Jesus Christ teach us? What is this Bible all about? And by the way, a good reason to thank God for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and thank God for your pastor. I I tell you what a good one a good reason to thank God for that is Because he stands up and he proclaims, thus saith the Lord. He's teaching you the word of God. Do we always like what the pastor says? No. By the way, don't say that too enthusiastically. He is listening. We don't always like it. Sometimes he steps on our toes Know what I mean? Sometimes he's saying and he's preaching instead of saying, amen, it's owe me. Ouch! And sometimes, I don't know if you ever sat in a church service before where the preacher just gets on something and you're like, okay, move on. I I got it, okay Thank you, God. I got it. Move on, preacher. Stop pointing those fingers because you're pointing them right at me. I I've sat in many services like that, to where when the invitation was given, I couldn't wait to get to the altar Say, oh God, I needed that. Oh Lord, thank you for speaking to my heart today. By the way, be thankful for a church where he proclaims, thus saith the Lord. Be thankful you're in a place where you're motivated to tell your neighbor about Jesus Christ. Be thankful for the love of Christ that's taught from this pulpit, but not just the love of Christ, the holiness of Christ. Be thankful for what you've got. I see first of all in this passage of scripture that fight that takes place. Hey, can I tell you? Some things are worth fighting for. There's some things worth standing for for Christ. I see number one, I see the fight that Paul tells Timothy, Paul, Timothy, I fought the fight Galatians, he says this in number two. He says, I fought the fight, stand for what's right. I see number two, I finished my course. Number one, I fought, number two, I finished. Boy, can I tell you I love this about the Apostle Paul? If anyone had a reason to quit, Paul did. Paul had good reason to quit. Forsaken. Could you imagine? Let's rehearse the testimony of the Apostle Paul for just a second. Before his salvation, he persecuted Christians. He was a zealot, a Jewish, uh, uh, uh, a Jewish zealot. Believe in Judaism. Jesus Christ was overthrowing his form of religion. He fought against Christianity. To the point where he took Christians. If we lived in Paul's time, Paul would have broken through the back doors and he would have tackled us, beat us, thrown us in jail, and some of us would have died. That was the Apostle Paul. And on his way, on one more journey to go persecute the church, he met Jesus. Praise God for him meeting Jesus. On that road to Damascus, that bright light shone. Paul was stricken down off the horse, literally blinded, and he had a conversion experience. Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus. His life was. Gloriously changed. He went into the city. God told him, Go into the city, the house of Ananias, and I'll into the city, and I'm going to send a preacher to you. And he went into the city. And then God goes to the preacher. Do you remember the story? He goes to the preacher and says, hey, I want you to go see Saul of Tarsus. Do you remember the prophet's response? Uh I I know I'm not using the King James Version in that response. I'm using my interpretation of it. Uh are you sure? You want me to go see Saul of Tarsus? The man who's killing us The man who's trying to destroy our life? The man who's who's tearing down the church and throwing our our other brothers and sisters in Christ, throwing them in jail and killing them? Do you want me to go see him face to face? Is this a joke? Are you just testing me? And Paul goes and sees, excuse me, the prophet goes and sees Paul. And heals him of his blindness and says, Brother, Brother Paul, Brother Saul. Hey, hey, look, he was not well accepted in our circles. Matter of fact, do you remember the first encounter that Paul now converted had with the disciples? They wanted nothing to do with Paul. They didn't trust him even after his conversion. I'm talking about the disciples. They wanted nothing to do with him. Why? Because Saul had such a terrible history. He had every excuse to quit, but he didn't. He kept pressing on. He said, I fought. He said, I finished. Hey, can I remind you, Galatians says this, and be not weary in well-doing For in due season ye shall reap, if ye faint not You know what Paul's teaching us in Galatians? He's saying this, hey, I haven't quit yet. I'm still pressing on. I've not thrown in the towel yet. And don't you quit either. Don't you quit. There's people in this area of the United States who need Jesus Christ. Don't quit. Keep pressing on. Keep going. You say, why are you yelling at us? I'll tell you why. Because I'm passionate about the fact that we have a job to do in the United States of America in reaching people with the cause of Christ. Hey, who are you reaching for Christ? Don't quit! Don't you say I've witnessed to them a hundred times? Don't quit! I've knocked on their door a hundred times! Don't quit! They told me, don't ever talk to me about that again. Don't quit. About four years ago, I was preaching in Sykeson, Missouri. Preaching to a group of teenagers, I was preaching to them a message about telling other people about Christ. After telling preaching that message, literally, and by the way, this is just me. I I I I'm not saying anything about anyone else But I I could be preaching and the Holy Spirit of God starts tagging me. Like Copeland. You point at them, but you got all those fingers pointing back at you. You need this. I was preaching to a group of teenagers about telling people about Jesus Christ. And I even said to them: picture that person in your mind you need to share Jesus Christ with. And as I said, picture them that person in your mind. Guess what God did to me? He said, Copeland, you got something you need to tell too. I was in Sykes and Missouri. I was born and lived my early years in central Illinois. All my family still lives there, and they may even listen to this message tonight. I don't know if they'll listen or not. But God told me this. That not not his voice, I didn't hear his voice. I hope you understand that. But God impressed on my heart. You've got an uncle you need to tell about Jesus Christ. You know what I said to him? Here's what my my I'm preaching the message. And I'm having this with God while I'm preaching. You talk about split personalities, all that kind of stuff, that's me. And I'm preaching the message and I'm having this conversation with God. And while I'm preaching the message, God, God, I've already told him he told me not to talk to him again. I'm literally having this discussion with God. I give the invitation and I go to the altar myself because God wore me out. And I finally said, God, God, okay. If you want me to tell him, I'll tell him. I went to the preacher after that message. It was Thursday night. We went through Friday night with that that week of camp. And as we finished up Thursday night, I went to the pastor and I said to him, I said, I really need to make a trip up to Illinois. It's about five hours up. I said, I need to go, God told me to go witness. And to be honest with you, there was no way I could do it And still do what I had obligations to do at the camp. And so I finished that week at camp. I drove home. I told my wife, I've got to go visit my uncle, Larry. I asked my pastor if I could if I could go up there. I took a vacation today and I drove up to Illinois, seven and a half hours one way. I pulled up in the front front area of his of his house up by the street and I called him on the cell phone. I said, Hey Uncle Larry. He said, Hey Kurt, what are you doing? Good to hear from you. What's going on? I said, well, I just wanted to see if I could talk to you for a little bit. He said, absolutely, I'd love to talk to you. I said, I'm out in your driveway. He said, I'm glad you said that was you. I've got my gun. I was ready to shoot someone. So don't shoot. Walked in the house, I sat on the couch. My Uncle Larry had been to the doctor and he had already had lung cancer. They had taken part of one of his lungs out He'd gone back to the doctor and was diagnosed with the cancer coming back. I'd witnessed it, literally, I'd witnessed my Uncle Larry probably twenty times. Matter of fact, the last time I had witnessed to him was probably five years earlier, and he had told me that time, he said, Don't ever talk to me about it again. I'm okay, leave me alone. I walked into his house that day and scared to death, Pastor. Scared to death. I thought my uncle could literally tell me to get lost. And I walked in the house and I sat down on the couch. His wife sat next to me on the couch and he was on on his recliner with with the oxygen tank and the tube going up and lines running all over the house and the tube- I Just just me. I wanted to reach down and pinch the tube just a little bit and see it. How how does that really you I I'm just kidding, I I I wouldn't have done that. Some of you are like, you're so mean. Oh, if you only knew. My my grandmother, my grandma Copeland is blind. We used to rearrange the furniture on my grandma's, so I'm just telling you that that was that was me. I know I'm terrible. By the way, I didn't invite myself here to preach. I got invited to preach, so it's it's their fault that I'm here. I sat there in my living room with my Uncle Larry. And for two and a half hours, I lovingly and compassionately told him how much Jesus loves him. It actually got to the point where he asked question after question, what about this and what about that and what about and I'm just answering question after question. And I had all day. I drove there just for that purpose And I finally said, Uncle Larry, I know you have a lot of questions, but the truth is, it's not about your questions. It's about what Jesus Christ did for you on the cross. And I said, He died for you and he wants you in heaven. I said, Uncle Larry, if the doctors what the doctors say is true, you don't have a whole lot of time left here on this earth But I want to make sure I see you again in heaven, Uncle Larry. I love you. I want to see you in heaven. And you know what, my Uncle Larry? Finally, he looked at me. Two and a half hours later, he said, All right, Copeland, shut up Just I'm not allowed to say that. Maybe I'm sorry I said that. I'm not allowed to say shut up. I'm sorry. Forgive me. He said, Be quiet, only he didn't say be quiet. And he looked at me and said, Would you just go ahead and tell me what I need to do to get saved? Stop talking and just tell me what I need to do to get saved. I said, okay. We got on our knees right there in his living room. His wife right here is he's over here. And my uncle cried out to Jesus Christ, my aunt cried out to Jesus Christ, and both of them were gloriously saved. Hey, you know what I can tell you? I wanted to quit. I didn't I didn't want to I didn't want to I he already told me don't do it again but I'm so glad I'm so glad I didn't quit I'm so glad. And by the way, who in your life have you been tempted to quit? Who is it that you've gone so far with and you don't know that they're ever going to trust Christ? And you finally say Fine, I've done all I can do. I quit. Hey, I'm here to tell you tonight, don't quit. Paul looked at Timothy and he said, I fought a good fight. He said, I've finished my course. I've done what I'm supposed to do. I didn't quit early, Timothy. I kept fighting. Hey, by the way, you say, when is it that God's done with my life? It's when you take your last breath. And until then, can I tell you? God's not done with you. God's not done with you. Can I say it one more time? God's not done with you. Yeah, but I can't do what I used to do. I understand that. I'm 50, and some of y'all are gonna laugh at this. There's some things I can't do anymore either. I know some of you are like, oh, just wait I understand. I understand. I'm not moaning and groaning, I promise. But I do know this. There's times I I I lay in the bed and I'm thinking, I can't go any further. I've done all I can do. I'm tired Finish your course. Don't quit. And then he says, number three, number one, I fought. Number two, I've I I've I've finished. Number three, I've kept the faith. Do you know when I when I think about Paul looking at Timothy and saying to Timothy, Pastor, I I think about Paul looking at Timothy and saying, I've kept the faith. Do you know what keeping the faith is? Just put cookies on the bottom shelf. That's not meaning you can lose your salvation. Let me just say that first. Can I tell you, when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, get this Your name was written in the Lamb's Book of Life, and it will never, ever be erased. Now I like to tell the teenagers this: when I trusted Christ as my Savior, God started. I I and again, you may argue with me later about this, and I'm not going to argue with you, but I I believe it this way: God looked out and said, Hey Gabriel, Michael! I know you can't believe it, but Copeland just got saved. He just got saved. Start building that mansion for Copeland And I believe those, I believe, I believe right now in heaven there's waiting for me a mansion. And guess what? It has my nameplate on the door. And I'm gonna walk in the I I I get my own place. I I can't wait. I'm gonna have someone come visit me a number of times. She's my wife here, and I'm I'm gonna have her come visit me in heaven. I know that's never mind. I'm just scratching it. My mansion's there and there's no such thing as a wrecking crew in heaven. Do you understand what I'm saying? There's no way I'll ever, ever, ever, ever, ever go to the place called hell. Not because I'm a preacher, but because I've been sealed by the Holy Spirit of God. I have my residency in heaven. I'm already there as far as my position in Jesus Christ. That can never be taken away from me. The Bible says in Hebrews 13:5, He will never leave me nor forsake me. I'm on my way to heaven. So this verse, when he says, I kept the faith, has nothing to do with losing salvation. Here's what it is. You know what Paul's saying? I've kept my focus. I've got my eye on the prize. Hey, hey Timothy! I've been busy at it. I've fought the fight. I've finished my course. I kept my eye on the prize. Hey folks, listen tonight. 2020, 2021, and I'm not trying to beat a dead horse here. But generally speaking, in our lives, these two years have not been the greatest years We've seen oppositions, we've seen trials, we've seen restrictions like we never would have ever dreamed we'd ever have in the United States of America. I mean things that have been absolutely crazy. People my my daughter got sick with some kidney stones and and and she had to go in the we we had a driver's uh emergency room and And she had to go in the emergency room and and they said, You have to go back to your car. I'm like, no way. That's my daughter. And guess what we had to do? Go sit in the car. Some of you experienced maybe even loved ones, maybe even facing death, and and and they were st they were in a room by themselves and you couldn't go see them. I'm not trying to open any wounds there. What I'm saying is this We face some unbelievable struggles and trials in life. I'm here to tell you this. Don't quit. Don't quit. Your child's worth fighting for. Your church is worth fighting for. Your wife, your husband's worth fighting for. Hey eight, that Bible you hold in your life is life is worth fighting for. I had the privilege of coming in. Thursday and spending some time with your pastor and and the trees I says and hey, can I tell you this? You know what I love? I love the fact that they're willing to fight For teenagers. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is really just a generation and a half away from those doors being shut. So can I can I implore you as a church family? Keep fighting. Keep fighting for Christ. Keep fighting for Christ. Keep standing. Keep standing for your family. Keep getting that Bible out and praying. Keep sitting, keep keep that spot in your pew warm. Stay faithful to church. Why? Because the times aren't going to get better But you know what? The darker the night, the brighter the light. Let your light shine. Don't quit. Every head bowed, every eye closed. I don't know what time we were supposed to finish, Pastor. I hope I didn't go over too long. You sit here tonight. Can I just go back to the introduction? Some of you may be sitting here tonight ready to wave that white flag of surrender. Some of you are like, man, if I had known my children would be acting this way, oh I don't know if I'd ever had any. So some of you some of you are like, man, if I knew my parents were this mean I I I could go on and on about the struggles we face. Hey, can I challenge you tonight? It's worth the fight. It's worth the fight. It's worth the fight. Can I challenge you to finish your course? Keep the faith. Keep focus. Brother Kurt, you don't know the struggles I'm facing. You're absolutely right. I don't. And by the way, it's okay that I don't know the struggles you're facing. Because the one who matters, get this, the one who matters knows the struggles you're facing. That's Jesus Christ. He knows the trials you're facing. He knows the circumstances of life. And can I remind you, nothing Is surprising Jesus. None of this that's gone on in our society is shocking to him. He knew it was coming. And he's the one who's there to hold your hand through the struggle and trial you're facing. Can I challenge you tonight? Don't quit. Don't give up. Let's keep up the fight. Let's finish our course. Let's keep the faith Tonight I uh the invitation is just simple. You're here tonight and you maybe you're like I am. Maybe sometimes you just want to quit Maybe sometimes you want to throw in the towel. Can I encourage you tonight? Keep fighting. Can I encourage you tonight? Would you find a spot at this old-fashioned altar in just a moment? And would you ask God to strengthen you one more time to face the fight of life? To finish your course and to keep the faith. Hey, don't quit. Don't quit. Let's commit to God today. We're not going to be quitters. We're going to keep fighting Lord, I thank you for this time in your word. I thank you for speaking to our hearts. Holy Spirit of God, I want to thank you for liberty that you've given. I want to thank you for meeting with us Lord, I don't know the struggles, I don't know the trials, I don't know the, I don't know the circumstances of life for hardly anyone in this room. But you do. And Lord, your word says that no temptation hath taken us, but such as is common with man. And Lord, your word goes on to say that you are faithful, that you give a way of escape. God, you're able. And God, would you help us to rely on you through the struggles and trials of life we face? Thank you, God, for your word. Thank you, God, for a great church we can gather together in to be encouraged in, to gain strength in. Lord, to have fellowship with other believers who they're not perfect either. They're facing the struggles of life too. And Lord, you called us together as a body of believers to edify and encourage each other So God help us as a church family, as the family of God. God help us to encourage one another and draw strength from one another. But Lord, help that strength to ultimately come from you. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the admonition from Paul to Timothy. He's fought a fight. He's kept the faith. Let's finish the course. Lord, help us to do the same. Thank you, Lord, for your love. With every head bowed and every eye closed, let's all stand to our feet as the piano begins to play.