Proverbs thirteen, Proverbs number thirteen. I'm just getting ready for October, okay? So the cherubhon had to had to keep it or I'll get rusty and not be able to do that But uh we appreciate Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, Oakland area, uh everywhere up here for your support of the charathon for FB and Radio and uh Not just your local station. I mean, y'all call in during the charathon and uh it is a blessing and this church has been supporting us for years. Thank you so much for that also Proverbs 13, I'm going to read one verse of scripture right there, and it's verse number 17. Proverbs 13 Verse number 17, the Bible says, a wicked messenger falleth into mischief, but a faithful ambassador is health. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name this morning, that name that's above every name. And Father, you say where two or three are gathered, there you be in the midst of them And Father, we I think about that word midst. I know every person that claims the name of Jesus Christ that is a born-again child of God has uh Christ, the Holy Spirit within them. But Lord, you said you'd also be in our midst and and you want to work in our midst this morning, Father. And I pray that you would just overshadow Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church this morning. Lord, that you move in and out of every heart, uh, that you do a great work that no man, no no one around here would be able to deny that God was here this morning Father, I pray that you would be with those especially that could be here this morning that never trusted you as their Lord and Savior. May the day be that day. Father, bless all the fathers Uh oh, the dads, Lord, I pray that your everything will just be done to your honor and glory. Lord, we pray also that we'd just be able to catch a glimpse of your glory as you pass by our way this morning. And Father, we'd be careful to thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I look at this scripture this morning, a wicked messenger falleth into mischief, but a faithful ambassador is helped. I I remember yeah, I remember being in school at one time, first grade, the worst seven years of my life. But I I think about a game that we played even in first grade and and uh Pastor Matt, you may have done it with the youth here But you get in the circle, you'll all sit in a circle, and uh there'll be a message given to the first person, and they have to whisper that message into the next one's ear And then they whisper to the one beside them that goes all the way around the circle. And by the time it gets back to the last person And that person's asked to stand up and tell what was told to them it has nothing to do with the original message, does it? It it is completely different. I mean, uh I think of a I thought of a song I I has We hear it around Christmas time, uh Ponis Angelicus. Uh I think it's uh an Irish uh song about Christmas uh the angelic uh whenever they came to the shepherds and everything. Ponis angelic, I guess it's Latin or something, but by the time you get around it sounds like Ponhauls and Jelly Juice or something Well, here in Proverbs, King Solomon, the wisest king of Israel and Judah Under direct inspiration as the Holy Spirit compiled these wise proverbs for us to grow in godly wisdom Uh and that's one thing I need is godly wisdom. I go to the Proverbs. When I when I'm down and I need to be picked up a little bit, I'll go to the Psalms Uh there's nothing like the Psalms to get you going and to keep you going on for the cause of Christ. But in Proverbs it's wisdom, wisdom. And I thought what wisdom can we get from just verse number 17 there A wicked messenger falleth into mischief, but a faithful ambassador is health. In Solomon's day, they had to have messengers to relay a message from one place to another. They didn't have cell phones, they didn't have internet Praise the Lord. They didn't. But they had to relay a message, important messages, from one place to another Uh thus we have relay races in the Olympics and in our schools, uh relay race. That came out of that. Uh when the Greeks got a hold of it, uh they they would write their message on a stick. And it was called a message stick and and they would run. One person would run. It was like uh the Bible days uh Pony Express is what it was. That message was there. It was up to them to get that message to where it was going to the next person and to the next person. And uh it it was so important. Oftentimes Someone would fall, someone would get injured, and the message wouldn't be delivered. Can you imagine the tragedy or the catastrophe that could happen if the message is not delivered, if it's not delivered correctly? If it's not, if it was by word of mouth, just like that game we played, i if it ended up being something way away from what's it could it could result in someone dying It could result in a whole city being under siege or or or maybe a war, an attack coming. Rif the message didn't get there in time or at all. Oftentimes the youth of this nation and the world today are getting the wrong message. They're getting the wrong message about, you know, if I get married and I don't like my spouse, we can just end it. And and we go on like nothing happened They're getting the wrong message. They need something. I've already talked to somebody this morning, been married over 60 years. Praise the Lord for that. They're getting the wrong message about uh saying God made a mistake making me the way he made me They're getting the wrong message. We've got to get it clear and plain and presented to them, and where we find that message is in the Word of God. We can uh fathers, you can train up children You can train them up in the way they should go, and when they're old they will not depart from it. They're getting the wrong message about morality. They're getting the wrong message about uh uh the respect of authority If the children don't respect the parents, they're not going to respect God. That is the authority that God has placed over them. If they don't respect God or their parents, they're not going to have respect for the law Of the land, law enforcement officers. We've seen the result of that all across our nation. They will not respect their teachers And there'll be chaos in the schools, in the public schools. We've seen that. We see it in the colleges today. They won't get the right message about telling the truth. They'll think nothing of it as long as it'll keep me out of trouble. I'll lie. I'll tell what I have to to keep me out of trouble. It won't even faze me. There's, there's, it's almost like there's not a conscience. Our young people, and many of us are getting the wrong message sometimes. They're getting the wrong message about suicide. They're getting the wrong message about debt. They say, well, I'll just get another credit card and pay off my debt over here. It's still debt. It's like a uh the Bible calls it a bag with holes in it. It just falls out. You'll get so burdened under debt that you can't climb. We need to have the right message. We're God's messengers and communicators. Dads, you are. And moms, whenever dad's at work. You're the head there. You're the one that is to train up the children. Dad's to help when he comes home. Pastors and evangelists, preachers. But on the home front level, it's dad at the head and the family and mom while dad's at work. We must stand in the gap. I used to think, yeah, we'll stand, we'll tell, but there's a whole lot of more meaning to standing in the gap. In context, it means we're praying. We pray, we stand in the gap between heaven and earth, between God and our families. Between God and our churches, the man of God stands in the gap. We need to stand in the gap for our most precious resource, what made us dads in the first place, our children. We need to stand in the gap for and pray earnestly, fervently, effectually for our children. If we get out the wrong message, disaster is going to follow destruction's gonna follow. In the day we live in, if we give out the The right message is still up to the recipient to obey or disobey it. Say, well, I've done all I could and look what happened. That message has to be received. It has to be obeyed. The Word of God has to be obeyed. Ezekiel, I want to turn there for just a moment. You can turn or just make a reference to it so you can go and read it later. But Ezekiel chapter number 33, verses 1 through 7 Uh the Bible says, again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of that land take a man of their coast and set him for their watchman. If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet and warn the people Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet and taketh not warning, if the sword come and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head He heard the sound of the trumpet and took not warning. His blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. But if the watchman see the sword come and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned, if the sword come and take any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand. So thou, son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel, therefore thou shalt hear the word of my mouth and warn them from me So we are to give the warning. That's all we can do. We can teach, we can train, we can give the warning, but it's got to be heeded also. 1 Corinthians Chapter number 14. 1 Corinthians chapter number 14 verses 8 and 9 says, For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle? So likewise, ye except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken For he shall speak into the air. Now I know that's talking about tongues during the Pentecost and all that in 1 Corinthians. Paul was going to straighten some things out there about speaking in tongues. But right here If the trumpet give an uncertain sound, if there's a warning going out but nobody understands it, then what good is it? What good is it? And I I think it that is being consistent in our in our warnings Don't give out one warning, a message one time, and then give something completely opposite of that. We've got to be consistent In our families and in our lives. So our title this morning is Don't Wait Till It's Too Late to Communicate. Don't wait till it's too late. I want us to see three things quickly this morning. If we are God's messengers and we are, we need to communicate the right message What is the right message? It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the whole Word of God. It's everything in there The death, burial, resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that's the right message that our young people need to hear today. Salvation is top priority It should be in our families, keep Jesus ever before our children We need to be spirit-filled Christians when we share the gospel. We need his power on our witness Have you ever gone door knocking, you hadn't prayed, you hadn't really sought God to to see where you he would have you to go and and and you and the results at the end of the night is nothing. Sometimes we do pray. We pray earnestly and we get door slammed in our face. But we got to keep doing it. We got to keep going. How do we receive that power? That power comes through prayer this morning. Acts chapter number four Verse thirty one says, And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness With boldness, we ought to have such confidence when we prayed and asked God to help us, we ought to have such confidence in in God and Him being right by our side and helping us and giving us strength and power that we need that we can take on the whole world. world. What was in their prayers? What were they praying to where they got this to this place where the where the very place they were at was shaken? Hey, we need to be shook up. I think Peter was the one that said, Yay, I think it need as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. We need to be stirred up, we need to be shaken this morning To go out for the Lord. Well, to be filled with the Holy Spirit that it said right there, they had to be emptied out of themselves. That's what they were praying. I can imagine they were confessing their sins. I can imagine they they didn't want one little thing that would separate them from uh uh from from God at all with uh with their fellowship. With man and God. They wanted to be so close to one preacher said, I want to be so close to God that when I die, I'll be in heaven three days before I ever realize I'm I've left earth That's closeness. That's closeness. So they want to be emptied out. They need to be emptied out of themselves to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. They need to be humble. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray. And then to be filled with the Holy Spirit, we need to seek God and seek His face. And then there's repentance. Turn from our wicked ways. Turn. Do a complete 180. Turn from our wicked ways. And it says, then I'll hear from heaven. I'll forgive their sin and will heal their land. We need revival. The prayer meeting that we're talking about right here that brought this about started back in Acts chapter number one. Acts chapter number one Going in the wrong direction here. Acts chapter number one, starting in verse number eight, it says, But ye shall receive power. This is Jesus' words before he was taken up. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea And in Samaria and to the uttermost part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven I can imagine I'd have been right there with them. I'd have been gazed up. I ain't never seen anybody floating up and and ascending into heaven like that, just taking up from us and looking up and seeing that. I'd have been like that. But what them men were telling, those men in white apparel was telling 'em said, You need to get busy. He gave you a command right there. He said, you'll be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in Samaria and Unto the uttermost parts of the earth, Judea and Samaria and the uttermost parts of the earth. Verse 12 says, Then return they into Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey. And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room. There abode both Peter and James and John and Andrew and Philip and Thomas Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotus, or Zelotes, and Judas, the brother of James. I gotta stop right here. I know this is a different message, but Judas, can you imagine the stigmatism he went had on his life the whole rest of his life? I mean one place it says Judas and then the in parentheses it says not Iscariot. Can you imagine going up saying when we see him one day? Say, I'm Gerald Miller, nice to meet you. Who are you? He said, I'm Judas. Not a scary. Had to tell that everywhere that he went for the rest of his life. These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus And with his brethren, there's the prayer meeting. They're praying. They're getting a hold of God. They're not just sitting there praying a and uh say Lord go ahead and please send the Holy Spirit of God. Go ahead and send they were getting things out of their lives that were not pleasing to God. That's how Peter, whenever after the day of Pentecost, when he preached three thousand souls got saved The the former Peter would not have been able to do that. He he would have got his mind and his mouth going before his brains kicked in And that's what I do so many times. It's my downfall sometimes. Preachers, God called men here this morning, heads of the household, 2 Timothy 4-2. We are to preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. Hey, inside and outside the church. Inside and outside the church. What you are in the church should be the same thing that you are at home. What you are in the church ought to be the same way that you are when you're door knocking and talking to people and being a witness. Your life ought to count for a witness for Christ Dad's inside and outside the home. Be consistent. Pastor Ebern shared his testimony with me years ago. And uh he said, I'm saved. And yes, he was. He was a man of prayer. I looked up to him. And then he talked about other different ones in the church, said, uh, Pastor Duane, Brother Duane, say. Sister Becky saved. Brother and Sister Robinson are saved. Brother Dulak saved. Brother Bazio saved. He told me their testimonies. And on and on. He went through a lot of the church. He said, Brother Miller, we got to reach outside the church. We've got to knock on doors, hand out tracts. If we don't, how are people going to know about Jesus? Said, yes, sir We've got to get the seed out of the barn. I heard him say that many times I remember before we ever became members at Grace Baptist Church, we were members in a church in Archdale up near High Point, North Carolina. And uh never met the fella. He had already gone on to be with the Lord, but there was this elderly fella in the church, and when they go out on visitation He had already been praying all week just for that one opportunity to go and share the gospel with somebody. And they said when it he'd take a uh a Bible track out of his pocket and he would go up to the first door and everything and he was rubbing it through his fingers and everything and and uh said he would just be weeping, tears would be going down his face before the person ever came to the door. And once they came in, he said, Can't I tell you about my sweet Jesus. Can I tell you about what he did for me and changed my life forever? And and and the track. He gave 'em the track before he left and it was all wanted up and everything by the time he gave it to him. But he had such a desire. To see lost people saved and to be like he was. That ought to be the burden and desire of our hearts this morning. Psalm 126, verses 5 and 6 says, They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. I can imagine he's reaping in joy right now. One of those witnesses, great cloud of witnesses. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. I want to turn very quickly this morning to the book of Jonah. The book of Jonah. Verse number 10 in Jonah chapter number 3. Jonah chapter number 3, verse number 10 says, And God saw their works that they turned from their evil way. And God repented of the evil. That means he changed his mind about what he was going to do there. God can do that, that he had said that he would do unto them, and he did it not He said he was going to destroy them. He sent his preacher in there. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be destroyed. It'll be destruction will come. That was the messenger in there with that short message. Then verse uh chapter number four it says, but it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. Well, I guess for one thing, if you read the history of Nineveh, they were horrible to the Jews. They uh I'm not going to get into detail. We've got young people in here, and I don't want to put things on their mind this morning. We've got enough to deal with in the world we live in today. But they were not friendly towards the Jews, toward the Hebrew children And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord, was not this my saying when I was yet in my country, therefore I fled Before unto Tarsus, for I knew that thou art a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil, he said Lord, I knew that if they listened to the message, that's why I went to Tarshish, and that's why I had to go to Wale University and be puked up on the shore I went through all that because I knew, Lord, I know you're merciful, your kindness and your long suffering Verse 3, Therefore now, O Lord, take I beseech thee my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Wow, I can't imagine going in and preaching to a huge congregation and everybody responding to it and me wanting to go out and take my wife. I would love uh for people just to be on the edge of their seats and then when the Alder call is given, everybody rushes down. That would be amazing. But Jonah didn't take it that way. Then said the Lord, Doest thou well to be angry So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city and there made him a booth and sat under it in the shadow till he might see what uh would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a gourd and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. Forget all those people on the altar that are getting right with God. I like this gorge. I'm sitting there, it's shaved, it's hot outside, the shade, but it it's doing me good. But God prepared a worm When the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered, and it came to pass when the sun did r arise that God prepared a behemoth east wind, and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted And wished in himself to die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. He's back to wanting to die again. And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd He just asked him, did he do well to be angry? Back in verse four. And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. Then said the Lord, Thou hast had pity on the Lord. For the which thou hast not labored, neither madest it grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night. Said you had nothing to do with that, Gord, but you were a faithful servant, and you went in and you preached what I wanted you to preach And then they've all turned from their wicked ways. There's a great revival that took place in Nineveh because you were faithful. You did give them the Word of God And God did not forsake Jonah in all this, but look in verse eleven. It says, And should not I spare Nineveh That great city wherein are more than six score thousand persons that could not discern between their right hand and their left hand, and also much cattle Hundred and twenty thousand people. A hundred and twenty thousand people I'm so excited when one person walks out or receives the gospel of Jesus Christ or somebody else is preaching or somebody else is witnessing to that person And God does that miracle in their heart and saves them. I'm excited to no end over that. But a hundred and twenty thousand people Persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left. Some Bible scholars have said that that uh those that could not discern their right hand from their left hand is talking about just the children in that city. They don't know the left and the right. I was probably in third or fourth grade before I figured out my left hand and my right hand Just imagine how many people were there, if that be the case. They were not spiritually discerned. He might be talking about that right there. I don't know. But I do know that Nineveh was an exceeding large city. He walked a day and a half journey into the city. That's a big city. You walk a day and a half and you're you've already gone through Denton several times. Not much there. Our problem is sometimes, and Jonah too, was Jonah was more concerned about himself. You know what's keeping people from getting saved and coming? The only one that we can point a finger at is our own selves for not telling them There's people out there that are ready to receive the gospel. Jesus told his disciples, told those already, look into the fields for there are white already to harvest. Pray God that it sends forth laborers. Send laborers out there. They're ready Have you ever knocked on a door and it's like the fish jumped in the boat? I was just waiting on somebody to share the gospel with me. This is good news. I'm ready to receive Christ right now. Some of them a little tougher Had to go back several times. But just remember that that them getting saved is not in our hands. That's Jesus. We've we've got to just give them the message. We've got to give them a clear message, give them the right message. We need to do what God commands and what he says, not what we think. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 5 and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths. So it's not what's in our mind, what this heart, the heart's desperately wicked, who can know it I was thinking about uh just the other day we'd I've traveled with uh Brother Byron Fox right much during the God Bless America Crusades and and I probably shared this story before, but if you weren't here before you didn't hear it but We were in Canton, Ohio, uh, in the high school there, and we were doing a God bless America crusade up in Canton, Ohio. And for some reason I had everything for my display. I put everything out and I got to look and I had my candy bowl on the table that there wasn't any candy in and I kept looking for my candy. I'd left it out in the van Uh so uh uh walk back out there and and I got the candy and I'm getting ready to go back in and this girl walks up, she's in school. And uh she's on the track team. She said, Can I borrow your phone? I thought, I mean can't know how I don't know people up here. Sh uh she's on the track team. She's if she takes off of that thing ain't no way I can catch her. But she showed me her phone. And it was it was dead. She had one cell left on there and I said, sure, you can use it and and she stood right there. I made sure. I I was in the stance, I was ready to run But uh she called her mom, said, uh, Mom, the track meet is not today. They've canceled it. I need you to come pick me up. And she handed me it back to me Thanked me for it. And I said, Can I ask you a question? She said, sure. I said, if you were to take your last breath today, I said, you're young, but everybody doesn't live to be an old old person I said, if you were to take your last breath today, are you 100% sure that heaven would be your home? She said, no, I'm not. I said, let me ask you this. Do you know who Jesus is? She said, I had never heard that name. This is in America, the home of the free, cause of the brave. This is America where we send missionaries all over the world And somehow one young girl was overlooked, never heard the name of Jesus. I say, can I tell you who he is? She said, yeah. She said, it'll be a while before my mom gets here. And I I took out a Bible tract and showed her in the Word of God how she could be saved, how she could know that he was the Son of God, Emmanuel, God with us, and that he's the Savior of the world. He's the perfect sacrifice. I taught her about what sin was. She agreed that she was a sinner, that she had done things that uh that weren't right. Uh she had told lies. She had done these different things. And I I I told her, I said, you can receive Christ as your Savior. He loves you She said, this is a lot to take in. She didn't understand everything. I said, well, it was about time for her to leave. I said, will you take this track and will you take it home and study it and read it? She said, I will And before she left, I told her about uh the little fella, Eric Little, some call it Eric Lydell, who was a track runner in the Olympics, his parents were missionaries. I said, he was like you. He ran. She said, I poured my whole life into running. That's all I know It's running. I said, Well, you need to be running for the right reason. I told her just very quickly about missionary, uh, Eric Little, and said that He wouldn't run, he was about to not get a gold medal for running the Olympics because he wouldn't run on the Lord's Day He took a stand. So they made it to where he could run another day, but it wasn't the event that he was used to running. He was a sprinter, he'd go fast. Uh but this one was a long distance run that he had to do. And said that uh uh he ran around the track and said people made fun of him They made fun of the way he had run. He would run the first and he'd get out in front of everybody and and but then the second lap when he was coming around He'd close his eyes and just run his throw his head back and run. I'd be I'd run into somebody. It'd be a catastrophe. But he had run with his eyes closed, his head held back, and he'd crossed the finish line in first place and won the gold for his country. Somebody asked him how he did that. Why does he run like that? He said, well the first lap I'm running in my own strength. Second lap, I'm running for God's glory. I'm dependent on him to direct my path. He said, I can run with my eyes closed. We walk by faith and not by sight this morning. Who is it out there that's waiting on you, that's depending on you to give them that precious news of the gospel of Jesus Christ? If you've lost your burden, if you've lost your tears for the loss, and worse yet If you've lost your burden and tears for your own family, we need to ask God to forgive us and give us our burden back Lord, save the lost in our day. Sin revival. Do it again, Lord. We need another great awakening in our own hearts personally, our families, and in our churches. Not only do we need that, a burden in getting the right message out. To commit to giving the right message, the gospel, we need to communicate love. We need to communicate love to others. Acts chapter number four Acts chapter number four and verse number thirty-two. The Bible says, and the multitudes of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither uh said any of Excuse me. Neither said any of them that all of the things which they possessed was his own, but they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. Neither was there any among them that lacked For as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them and and brought the prices of the things that were sold and laid them down at the apostles' feet And distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. And Joseph, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son of consolation, a Levi into the country of Cyprus, having laid uh land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet We need to communicate love. What caused them to do this? What told caused them to sell what they had and to lay it at the apostles' feet? It was love It was love for Jesus Christ. They got boldness, they had power because Jesus laid that on, they knew the promises of God that He would never leave them nor forsake them and that He would always provide for them Uh and if he and if he doesn't provide for us, we'll be with him. Amen. The church ought to love folks. We are the church. We ought to love folks. We ought to have a spirit of love. Some said this was communism, the first case of communism. No, it wasn't. This was communism. Communism doesn't have any love that goes along with it. It's all control and power over people. Communism, there's no love in communism. Prayer creates a sense of unity We can love and pray even when we have trouble. God blesses churches that helps others and sends missionaries that are not tight with their money Look at this church this morning. Look around. Look at all the missionaries y'all send out. Look at all the flags on that American map and around the w that world map out there and all the pins. Y'all are helping the world for Christ. Not only the world, but by radio, door knocking, bus ministry, something's always going on here First Corinthians thirteen, mark this down and read verses one through thirteen sometime when you get a chance. But verse number three says, and though I bestow All my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Are we doing it for the right reason? Are we doing what we do? Are we trying to win the law so that we can put another notch in our Bible cover? Are we doing it for the glory of God? And then verse 13, and now abide of faith, hope, and charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. Paul said that he went through all these things, and it meant nothing to him. Because he had love for the people. All the torture that he went through, all the beatings that he went through, being uh in prison so many times, he did that gladly for the cause of Christ, because of his love for Christ. The thing that keeps us from loving like we should is perhaps a lack of fear. You know the story of Ananias and Sapphire, I'm not going to read the whole thing there this morning, but in verse number five of chapter five of Acts Uh the Bible says that Anis hearing these words fell down and gave up the ghost. They lied to God. And great fear came on all them that heard these things. And then at the verse eleven of Sapphira she fell the same way, and great fear came upon all the church and upon as many as heard these things. We need a proper respect and fear for God this morning. Whenever we have the prophet profit uh the the right, proper fear and respect for God, we'll have the proper respect for one another. And family. Let's communicate love and not stinginess and hypocrisy. Let's practice what we preach. Let's talk the talk and walk the walk. When I got saved uh when I saw myself as a sinner knowing uh that I uh my sins had put Jesus on the cross whenever I trusted Christ as my Savior, when I came to him and bowed down to him I could picture him on the cross because of what was preached that night. The crown of thorns and what Jesus went through for me Uh when I pictured that, I was overwhelmed with his love that came upon me. All the burden of my sins were rolled off of me, sort of like in uh Christian uh in In the book, uh, yeah, Pilgrim's Progress, my mind's going blank. And I was overwhelmed with his love I saw him with my mind's eye on the cross. We need to tell folks, you don't have to live this way, but you do have to get your heart right. We can't do away with repentance and come to Jesus Christ admitting what we are I mentioned Durham Rescue Mission last night, seven souls saved, but I tell them, I was one bad decision away from being where you are. But you're only one good decision away from being where I am. That's just one decision. There's only two kinds of people, saved and lost. Hey, be honest. We slip, we slide, we fall, but like David, we need to get back up. We need to fear God and communicate that that to people. We need to give them the right message. We need to communicate love to people. We reverence God because we love Him. Don't doubt that Jesus could come today. And then quickly, we not only communicate the right message, the love of God, but also we we must communicate the judgment of God. He's just and holy. Say, well, that's not fair. It's not a fair God. He's a just God. He's holy. He's righteous. He's perfect. And we're not. Ecclesiastes 12, 13, and 14, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. In the part of 1 Thessalonians 4 17, and so shall we ever be with the Lord Don't wait too late to communicate. We need to sow, plant, water. Then God can and He will give the increase. Father, I pray, Lord, you'll take your word this morning at your speak to hearts. Bless this church, Lord. Thank you for all that that all the souls down through the years that have come to Christ because of the gospel that because these people were faithful and giving it to others, Lord help us. Help us to take the words of this message as Pastor Lederman comes and work in our hearts, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen