Third John, verse one Says the elder unto the well beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. For I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren and to strangers, which have borne witness of thy charity before the church, whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well. Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles We therefore ought to receive such that we might be fellow helpers to the truth. I wrote unto the church, but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them receiveth us not. Wherefore if I come I will remember his deeds, which he doeth, fighting against us with malicious words, and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren. And forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God, but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself, yea, and we also bear record, and ye know that our record is true. I'm going to pray. I know it's uh a quarter till already. I'll be brief tonight. I'm going to pray and then um this message uh that I've just entitled, Don't be a diatrophist. Don't be Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us. Lord, we thank you for Lord just again just blessing us. So we ask that you would uh uh bless this service now Lord, I ask again that you would take over. Best way I know how, Lord, I just want to give myself over to you. Lord, and I ask that you would direct us tonight, Lord, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So this book, 3 John, written by the Apostle John, it was uh the these are series of letters, 1, 2, 3 John. This letter was written unto uh a man by the name of Gaius or Gaius, however you pronounce that there. We see that in verse one, the elder unto the well beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. So this uh he th this uh man that he was writing to, he was a member of a church uh that John had established. In fact, uh these these three um uh the um books, 1 John, 2nd John, 3rd, John, their letters. Um, John uh had planted churches. Um and and that's that's what uh of course we know that's what the apostles they did. They they went out and planting uh churches and spreading the gospel. And so we have letters that Peter wrote the churches. We have letters from Paul. We have letters here from John. So anyway, he's writing to a church, and uh specifically to the man in this church by the name of Gaius. And uh this guy this man Gaius had a good reputation for being charitable and kind, both to those that were in the church as well as strangers. You look at verse 5. Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren and to strangers, which have borne witness of thy charity. This he was ev evidently he was well known for being uh uh charitable, and for being uh kind and gracious. both to the church as well as strangers. In the short little book, just the short 14 verses, there's a um really four key players in this in this book There's John, the one writing the letter. There's Gaius, the one that he's writing to. And in this letter, he mentions a couple other people. One is Diatrophes, and one is Demetrius. Um I wonder if these guys knew how to spell their name. Anyway. So Diatrophes and Demetrius. Now the church was known for being very charitable. Demetrius was mentioned as someone that has a good report The church was mentioned as being charitable, and then also Gaius was as well. But then we see this man uh Diatrophes in verse 9. In fact, John says, the Apostle John says, I wrote unto the church, but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. Now, just to try to grasp this, the Apostle John, right, we we know we know about him. Um one of the twelve. Like playing in churches. We would hold him very high on our respect list, if I'm saying that right. We would think highly of him He dedicated the rest of his life to serving the Lord, establishing churches, spreading the gospel. And even after he was exiled, he still wrote, God used him to write Revelation And so this man, John, who wrote John, 1, 2nd, 3 John, and Revelation, the disciple whom Jesus loved established this church And then he writes to the church, but Diatrophes wouldn't have it. Now you gotta be pretty bold. to reject the Apostle John. Like that's that's pretty bold. I mean think think of if if um A very respected man of God were to come here, someone that comes often, and then we said, you know what, we're not going to receive you Or if someone planted a church and then the one that planted the church came back to visit and we said, We're not gonna we're not gonna see you. That's that's pretty bold. Right? So that that's what this guy Diatrophes was was doing. Um evidently he was one of the leaders in the church as well. Uh he at least had some sort of of uh he was a prominent figure, some Uh some people when I was studying this uh said he was um uh deacon, some said he was a pastor, I'm not sure, but either way, he definitely had a lot of influence in the church. And um Anyway, so that was Diotrophes. Demetrius was the exact opposite. Demetrius was of a good report. In verse 12, it says, Demetrius hath a good report of all men. And so we have this church here that he's writing to that's known for being kind, loving, charitable. But there's this guy in there, Diotrephes, who wouldn't even receive John, or John's messengers. Because John would send letters and send messengers to the church, and they wouldn't even receive the messengers that John had sent. So that's um It's pretty bold, I think. And um uh uh uh to me that that just kind of surprises me. If if if the apostle John was sending messengers here, I I'd like to think we'd take them in You know what I'm saying? I'd like to think, I mean, we we would probably treat him pretty good, I would think, respectfully, but no, he wouldn't re wouldn't have 'em. He wouldn't have it, uh the the diatrophies wouldn't So there's a few points I want to point out tonight, just just real briefly, about diatrophies and what made him so Uh what made him bad? What made him what makes what makes us not like him? But not just that, but what can we learn from it? Right I don't want to just uh pick this man out of the Bible and beat him up without learning anything, right? For no reason. I think there's things we can learn from this situation. So first thing with the diatrophes, the first issue we had, look at verse 9. It says, But Diotrephes who loveth to have the preeminence. Diatrophies like like attention. You like to have the preeminence. It was all about me kind of attitude. That's what that means. The apostle John is sending messengers and he's like, no, no, no, no, it's not about John, it's not about the messengers, it's about me, right? I'm I'm the big shot. We don't want any of that. It's about me. He'd like to have the preeminence. We would call that an attention hog. And so if there's something we can learn from diatrophies It's don't be an attention hog. Don't be a diatrophist, don't be an attention hog. I think that's obvious. But it was he had a very self-centered attitude And we're going to go somewhere with this in just a minute. We're just looking at his uh character traits or character flaws, I guess you would say, here for just a minute. We're going to go somewhere with this. But that was the first thing. He liked um To have the preeminence. Now, first off, I think this goes without being said, but God should have the preeminence. It's about God Not about it wasn't it wasn't even about John, right? It's not about Demetrius, it's not about uh Gaius, it's it's about Jesus. That's who it should be about. But he wanted the preeminence for himself. And uh every now and then I think we just need to do a self-check and make sure, all right, who's my focus on? Is my focus on myself? Is my focus on the Lord? Is my focus on someone else, their issues, their problems, or maybe their m maybe think of them highly. But if that's my main focus, it's in the wr it's the wrong place. I think we understand that. Um And God should have the preeminence in everything we do. The second character flaw I see here, one, he liked to have the preeminence. But look at this. It says among them, but at the very end of the verse, verse 9, the last phrase is, receiveth us none. To me, this is just disrespectful to John. It was disrespectful to John. John is sending messengers and he wouldn't receive them in it which which implies that he wasn't going to receive John. He wants none of it And to me, this is extremely disrespectful to the man of God. So one problem he had was he was an attention hog. He was he liked to have the preeminence. He was self-centered. But also he was very, very disrespectful. We see the other players in this story, Gaius, Demetrius, and John, all of them were respectful, um, but but Demetrius wasn't. Now look at the next one, verse 10. Excuse me, verse number. Yes, verse number 10. Wherefore if I come, I'll remember his deeds which he doeth. Pratting against us with malicious words. Pratting against us with malicious words. That word pratting it means like idle talk, means like empty, meaningless. But it says with malicious words. That's hate. Malicious means you you you want to get at somebody. So you put it together, idle, malicious, it's it's it's like empty, meaningless Mean talk. I I don't know how how much more simple to say that. Empty threats, I guess you could say. Um meaningless hateful speech. That's how this guy uh talked. About John, and not only about him, but people that he was sending. Malicious, it means harboring ill will or enmity without provocation or extreme hatred. So if we're the he he was a jerk, I guess is how we would say it. He was a jerk. And um he was an attention hog, he was disrespectful And um he was a jerk. Keep on going down the list, prouding against us with malicious words, and not content therewith. He wasn't not only was he not content with what he had, but he wasn't content with how malicious he was. You see what I'm saying? Not content therewith. And um a care a serious character flaw is to not be content. Um To be unsatisfied, right? The Bible says, be content with such things as ye have. To be a covetous person is not a good thing And and I think again, I think we understand that. But he was discontent, I believe, with the fact that he wasn't getting the attention when these guests were coming in He wasn't getting the praise. He wasn't getting the whatever. He was ungrateful. So he was discontent. Look at this. This is where it starts to get really nasty. Neither does he himself receive the brethren. He wouldn't even receive Christians. It's bad enough that he's not receiving John as messengers, but he's not receiving the brethren. He's not receiving the brethren. He's just unrecep I guess we would just say that's unreceptive. Um that he didn't care about um his fellow Christians. And not only that, look at the next phrase. And forbiddeth them that would. Now this this just gets under my skin a little bit. Alright. Sometimes Alright, it's it's bad to be unreceptive, right? It's bad it's bad to not uh like other Christians. It's bad if we hate each other, that's bad, right? Like that's right, okay, cool. But but here's what really bothers me. Sometimes I understand we'll be close friends with different people. Like we're all friends, we should be, but some of us are are closer than others. Alright, cool. We have like interests, like okay, whatever, cool. But when we get upset because someone else is friends with someone else. You follow me? Alright. Hang with me. I'm uh I'm also a youth pastor here, so just hang with me for a minute. This is what this is what what we see. What I see, not really so much with with the group we we have. They're awesome. I love our teenagers. But you see it a lot with teenagers, but also with adults. She's not my friend. He's not my friend. You are. But if you're friends with her, then we're not friends. You follow me? That's diatrophies. Well if you're gonna if you're I thought I thought you were my friend. Well fine, if you're gonna be his friend, then I'm not gonna be your friend Yeah, he not only was he not receiving the brethren and embracing them, but if someone else in the church did Then he was mad at them. Look at it. Look at it. Middle of verse 10, not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would. The the character f flaw I have here is he's a control freak. If you're friends with them, then I'm not friends with you, is what he's saying. That's putting it on the middle school level. So I'm not friends with, if you're friends with them, then I'm not friends with you No, no, no, no, no. You can't be friends with John. Evidently this this this guy had a lot of pool in the church Mean people that are nice to people you don't like. So if you don't like s if you don't like somebody and someone else is nice to them, now you don't like them because they were nice to the person. You don't like. It's I understand we think oh this this is childish. It is. But there's also diatrophies. Now do now do we s do we see that? Yes. Yes. You you I mean you you can you can see in the church, you can see in the workplace, you can see it wherever. It is not a good thing to control. I I I I've told I've told our teenagers this, it's okay if your friends have friends. That's okay. You're allowed to have more than one friend. Mr. Dave, I thought we were friends. And then I saw you the other day. You were talking with James. I thought you were my friend. Well if you're gonna be his friend, I don't like him, so you're not my friend anymore. Isn't it it's kind of comical. But but do we do that on an adultish level? Kind of. We can. We're a little more refined and sophisticated about it. Right? Well and and and you'll see this a lot with um you know um some people say well I'm from this college, I'm from that college, oh you're from That school, you're from that cu oh, you're from Northern? You're from Southern? Well, uh we were friends, but now you're friends with him. Alright, sounds silly But this is what was going on. To the point where John had to address it. Can I just say, if it if someone that you're close to in the church is close to someone else in the church, That's okay. That's good. We wanna all be close to each other, right? Um we're No offense, but we're not all middle school girls. Okay? We're allowed to have friends. Okay. No offense, guys. Sorry. Um and they they're not that way. They're not that way. So he was a control freak. Now here's where it got real bad. Neither doth he himself receive that receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. Whoa. Now we get from not just being mean, but he was actually exercising church discipline because they were friends with people he didn't like. Can I just say we should we should not pick f favorites in the church? I don't think we should. Now are there some people we'll have common interests with, maybe we'll spend more time with? Yeah. But we're all the same family. Let's live like it. Let's treat each other like it. Diotrophes obviously did not So he kicked him out of the church. Now, here's where I want to really kind of bring it home Don't kick anyone out of the church. You might say, well, I can't. Yes, we can. Maybe not, you know, the way we'll you know you know maybe we'll not exercise church discipline and you know excommunicate someone from the church But you can cause somebody to leave by acting like a diatrophies. What was Diatrophe's issues, his attitude? You know someone will you can cause someone to want to leave the church. In a sense, you can kick them out because of your attitude towards them or towards someone they like. Maybe because you're disrespectful, like diatrophes? Maybe because of pride But we've seen it with we've seen it just just in the past few years. We we've seen it in in the in the youth group. Not really not too much though, praise the Lord. But um Someone will say something to a friend. And of course that means everyone knows. Next thing you know, they're gone They got kicked out. By the pastor? No. By their youth pastor? No. But by diatrophies. Who couldn't handle someone else getting a little attention? Who wasn't the center of it anymore. You follow me? Now I'm saying that y th this doesn't just apply to teenagers. Diatrophes, as far as we know, wasn't a teenager. He has some sort of position of leadership in the church. This applies to all of us Better be careful how we talk about each other. If you go to someone and say, you know what, don't tell him I told you this, but you probably shouldn't say it. If you have to go to something, you know, don't tell her I said this, but she is just you probably shouldn't say it. Because they might just go home. Now, let me preface all this entire sermon. Let me preface this with: this is easily by far the most loving, receptive church I've ever been a part of. I mean this is just awesome. And you can you when you walk in you can just sense it. Everyone loves each other here. It's so evident. But this is just a reminder, just in case We ever start to feel a little like diatrophies. Well, how come they get recognized? How come they're the ones that got the attention I've been here for for a year serving the Lord and no one's ever said anything Well, we're not doing it, so people will say things. Again, Diaspora, he liked to have the preeminence. It's all about me. But God should have the preeminence, not us. Not us. So what are the consequences? You may close your Bibles. I'm pretty much done here, but what are the consequences of being a diatrophist? Verse 10, John said, I'll remember it. I'll remember his deeds. People remember rude people. People will remember it. People will remember the way that they were treated. They might not come back to the church, but worse than that, they might not come to Christ. Diotrephes ended up losing his friends. Verse 11. John said, Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good, and he was referring to following Demetrius rather than Diatrophes. So he lost his crowd. He lost his fan club. God will judge you. Proverbs eleven two says pride cometh before um uh then then um when pride cometh then cometh shame excuse me When pride cometh, then cometh sh shame is Proverbs 11. 2. Proverbs 16, 18, pride goeth before destruction. James 4, 6, God resisteth the proud Proverbs 16, 5, everyone that is proud of heart is abominations to the Lord. If we have a self-centered, it's all about me attitude. God will take care of that. God will take care of that. And then also, if you're a Diatrophist, you might just be replaced with a Demetrius. And that's what um that's what John encouraged them to do. So um again, prefacing the whole thing with this is I I I'm not I'm not there's no all alternative motive. Um it's just what's something the Lord laid on my heart. Um this is definitely by I mean this is the most loving church I've ever been a part of and people say it people sense it when they walk in. It's just awesome. So let's keep being that way Let's keep loving each other. And um praise the Lord. Heads about. Eyes close. No one look around for just a moment, please. How many of you say y you know what God's dealing with with me? I've bit have a had a little bit of a diatrophy streak in me lately and God's dealing with me about it. Would you just slip your hand up. Pastor Matt, would you pray for me? I've had a little bit of a diatrophies streak. My hand's up. Amen. Let me put them down. Thank you. Um let's take care of it. Let's take care of it. We'll have an invitation here. If you could stand to your feet, if God's dealing with your heart about anything, when she starts playing the altar's open Um let let's be more like Di Demetrius or Gaius. Let's let's not be a Diatrophes. So when the she starts playing the altar's open