Look that hang on. Alright, you guys wanna open up uh your Bibles to Philippians chapter three. Start off there. Well, um I shared my testimony the other day. Uh shared with you guys I was saved at the age of seven. But I was not a perfect kid after that. But uh but today I'm gonna be talking about um Philippians chapter three verse We're going to start in verse number thirteen. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark. For the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Dear Father Lord, I just thank you for today. Thank you for this opportunity to come out and preach, God. I just pray that you use me as an empty vessel and pray that somebody gets signed eyeless message. Praise all in your name. Amen. Well I went to public school my entire life. My senior year of high school, I got to join a golf team. This golf team, it was one of the best in our uh one of the best in our area So I didn't really get to play many games, but every single day after school I had the opportunity to be able to go out on the field, go out on the greens and be able to play as much as I wanted They bought me a membership for the golf club and we just got to play as much as we wanted on the weekends and everything. Um but I was looking into it and they asked me for my senior uh my senior year, what was the quote that you wanted to have in the yearbook? So I looked up, I was like, boy, I really like golf. So I started looking up uh famous golfers, golfers that had a good influence in on the game, and I saw Ben uh Ben Hogan. And this guy was a famous this guy was a famous golfer. He was one of the greatest um golfers in history. He had he had nine uh champ he won nine championships in his lifetime. He was uh One of the top people today, even still today, his records still hold. But the quote that I use is the most important shot in golf is the next one. So that's what I actually want to focus on today is moving forward. We don't want to stay on our past shots. I failed so many times in golf. When I messed up on one hole I would get discouraged and I would move forward, you know, you'd all be discouraged and every shot that would be worse and worse and worse if you dwell on that last shot that you had. But um b the more I did that the more my coach looked at my scorecard after and he was like, so why are you starting off so good? But as soon as you get a bad score, you drop. Well I told him I was like w well I get frustrated. I mess up on one hole and then after that I get frustrated on the other ones and I want to do my best to be able to get better scores, but doing that I keep on messing up And the coach is telling me, he said, don't worry about the last hole. He said, if you keep worrying about the last hole, you'll never be able to finish as well as you can. And I kept on thinking about that and realizing, you know, this this guy's right, you know, he's it's really good, um, really a good thing that he was telling me. And I was like, well that's that could be a message right there. So um Forgetting your past. Many of us are me well, all of us are sinners and all of us have a past. All of us have those sins that we committed before we are saved and even after we are saved And if we keep looking back at those, if we keep looking back at those past sins, either whatever you were into drugs, stealing, swearing, any of those sins, you keep looking back at those, God has a plan for every one of our lives. If we keep looking back at those, we'll never be able to move forward. Um Thomas Edison was the man that created the light bulb. And it took him many it took him many and many of tries to be able to finish that light bulb. He said, I don't I didn't fail one thousand times. The light bulb was an invention that uh that wa yeah that was with one thousand steps So he never stopped trying. He never gave up. He didn't look back at those past fails. He kept on looking forward to say, I'm going to finish. I'm going to finish my course as strongly as I can. And he kept on moving forward trying to finish his course. And I see Michael Jordan, one of the best basketball players today. Michael Jordan has um amazing records, broke a lot of records. But when he was younger, he kept on moving forward. He he wasn't always the best basketball player. We we don't we're not born as what we are in the future. We're not born as that. We have to grow into it. Michael Jordan became the best basketball player because he never gave up. He never looked back. He never gave up when he missed a free throw. He never gave up when he missed a three-point shot. He kept on moving forward. And right here, the first part of the verse that we looked at, it's forgetting those things which are behind us. So forget those things. Forget your past. Forget your sins. Forget all those things that are holding you back. In the mission story that many of you guys are teaching this week, you guys are learning about um Uh what's his name? Pilgrim. You gotta learn about Pilgrim. Pilgrim has that weight on his deck. And he's walking through the town wanting before he gets saved, he has that weight on his deck. That weight is sin And once he gets that off in the pilgrim's story, it says that it's far away. He doesn't have it anymore. He has he's free. But we get a new weight on us, the whole armor of God. We have that to help us move forward in life. We have the whole armor of God to help us move forward. Satan will send temptations after you. Satan will send those Uh arrows, as in the story was saying, uh many of the arrows that were sharing the story, he has those arrows, he has those darts that are holding us back. He has those things that people don't care. People won't understand and this week we were in people do care. People do understand. We saw twenty-two saves so far. People do care. People are still out there that are looking for Christ. When I was Uh when I was thirteen years old, I led the f my first Soul of Christ. It was back at our church, we don't have Bible time. We have VBS, we came from Bible School. And our church has been running it for almost the entire time we are open. We've been open for almost 30 years now. And uh our church has been running it, we run about 250 kids every year. We have about 70 saved. And that's not us. That's not our church. That's not any one of us. That's God. And we met um a few years ago we one of our years wasn't as good as the rest. We only had we only had a few savings. We kept on looking at that like, oh, you know, last year we had seventy saves and this year we only had twenty. We're looking at that, we're like, oh this is, you know but that's not the way we should look at it. We should have looked at it as one soul is worth it all. One soul is worth everything. Everything that we have, everything that we do, all the money that we spent on that VBS, that one soul was worth it all. But as I was saying, that was my first year that I got to lead somebody to Christ, my youth pastor. Um Me the pastor knew that I wasn't really good at doing it. He saw I told him I never did it before. So he's like, hey, I want you to try this. I want you to be with this guy. His name was Jim Smith. And Jim Smith, he led me outside with these two kids and we were talking to them and I watched him lead them to Christ. And I was like, oh I want to try that. So the next day we had um we had the message and we had the er all these kids raised their hand. There were so many of them. And I was like, I don't I don't know what to do. I got all nervous. I got scared. And as soon as I got scared, I prayed. I said, God. It's not me. It's not anything I can do. I need your help. I can't do this. And I got really scared. And Jim Smith, he tapped me on the back. He could see that I was uh shaking and being really nervous and tapped me on my back He said, Hey, it's gonna be okay. He said, just believe God will help you. Believe everything leave everything in God's hands. Don't look back. If you mess up now He said, um, don't worry about messing up. He said, Don't worry about that. God will take care of any everything. If you use the verses in the Bible, if you use the Bible, God's word, He will take care of every single thing. So I did, I went outside with these kids and I went through the track out of the track and I kept I used the track and I was staring at I didn't even look at the kid once. I was looking at the track the whole time and I was shaking and I was sharing gospel with this kid and this kid he started crying. He was realizing he was a sinner. And I was realizing I'm nervous. It's not me. I could see God working through this kid. I could see God using me as an empty vessel. It was really encouragement to see him and that kid actually got saved that day And many um the next day I got to do it again and again. Every day you do it, every day you share the gospel, it gets easier every time. God helps you every time to move forward in your life. The stories say, Jimmy Moore, Give me Moore from Bucktown We're Learning, his dad passed away actually today in the story And uh the first time I read it I was you know, I was all confused. I was like, you know, he just got saved, all this is happening, everything's going good in his life, and I was like, why would we you know, kill 'em off in the story, but I was talking to uh brother Koontz about it and he was like, well it really shows the kids, you know, not everything's gonna be perfect in their life. After you get saved, life's not going to go sweet. Life's not going to be perfect. You're going to have those hard times in your life. So we were reading the Jimmy Moore's story today, and we're going through it. And uh Jimmy Moore's dad actually shared with him this great advice. Uh he was telling him, don't worry, God will help you. And uh Many of those many of those things that he was saying uh in the story we're learning about the first day. Uh Jimmy Jimmy's dad was a drinker. Jimmy's dad was stuck in all this sin and Most kids when I normally tell a story, they're like when I ask them if they can get saved, or if Jimmy Moore's dad can get saved, they're like, no, he can't get saved. He's stuck in all that sin. And I a and I tell them, I'm like, What about your sin? What about your lies? And they're like, Well, that's not as big. Lies aren't as big. I was like, Well that's a commandment Thou shalt not lie. And I was like, Well, have you always obeyed your parents? And they're like, Well, no. No, I not always, but they're just our parents. They're there to give us whatever we want. I was like, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what parents are there for. And uh I was explaining to them, you know, you have to honor your parents and actually that's what I taught the younger kids uh this week. But anyways, I was talking to these I was uh talking to these kids at our last church and they were saying, you know, honoring your parents, why? I was like, well your parents aren't slaves. Your parents are there for you, they're a gift for your life. They're a gift from God to help you through your life, to help you grow. And this one kid who is um who didn't come from a very good house, he didn't come from a very good home. with a father that really wasn't uh didn't bring him to church, so he had to bring he had to find a ride himself. His uh family didn't really know Christ. And he was telling me all this and I was I was getting sad and he was like, How am I supposed to honor them? They don't love Christ. Why God wouldn't want me to honor them if they don't love him. I was like, no, God still wants you to honor him. It doesn't say in the Bible, honor your parents. if they're saved. It doesn't say honor your father and mother if they're a perfect person. And I explained to him that you're not perfect, you lie, you do all these things. You're not perfect. You need a um you need honor them. And this kid's like, Well, they have a path, you know, my parents they do all this drinking, they do all this stuff. And I was like You gotta forget all that. You gotta believe in the Bible, do what the Bible tells you, and the Bible tells you to honor your parents, honor your father and mother And this kid was starting to understand he and he started crying, he was crying his eyes out and he um he's like, My parents aren't saved and He was telling me all this and it was really touching me. It started to make me cry. I started crying. And I I don't really cry that much. But this kid, his testimony of his parents, how hard his life is, was just so touching just to hear And he was saying that he never gets to go to church and all this. And this Bible time was the only time he actually got to go to church. He actually got saved many years ago, but he was feeling convicted because he wasn't living the life of Christ. living the life he was supposed to live and I explained to him this exact thought was forget your past. You have a whole future ahead of you. You're only thirteen years old. You're thirteen years old. You have your whole life ahead of you. Forget what you did before and start from right now. Read your Bible every day. Pray every day and move forward. And this kid, he just started crying again. He was like He said, I don't know if I can do this. He said, I can't do it. My parents, they're gonna say something to me. They're gonna say they're gonna think I'm a joke reading this Bible. They make fun of me. And I was I was like, hey, you've got to forget it. Says in Hebrews uh thirteen, six, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I shall not fear what men shall do unto me. And I explained that to him, and he was And he he he was crying this entire time um that brought up his spirit when I shared that with him, shared in the Bible that God is our helper, God will help us. And I and he was like, God's bigger than them. And I was like, Yeah, that's right. God is bigger than them. God's bigger than anybody. God will protect you from anything. And he was really being uplifted. So if you forget your past, if you forget everything behind you, and start from right now, today. You can move forward and have a better future. Reaching forth is the next part. So it says, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth unto those things which are before. Uh it says in Proverbs twenty-four, actually uh Genesis nineteen, s uh twenty-six. Genesis nineteen thirty-six. And this is actually talking about Lot and his wife. Nineteen twenty-six. But his wife looked back from behind him. And she became a pillar of salt. So this was they were just out they were coming out of this horrible city and God told 'em not to look back. God told them, Don't look back. And a when she was walking away, she was thinking of that stuff that she did before, that fun that she had, and she turned. And as soon as she turned, she turned to a pillar of salt. As soon as you turn back in your sins You're gonna fall back. You might not fall back right away. You might not it's not a instant fall. It's not a drop-off. The devil won't do that to you because the devil knows if it's an instant drop-off, you go straight to Christ. He leads you in slowly. He drops you down a slow incline, just like in a swimming pool. You start on the shallow end and it's a slow incline down to the deep end. The devil will never drop you off right away. Because he knows, he's smarter, he lived longer than you, he knows how to do it, he knows how to reach you. God has a plan for everybody every person's life, and the only person stopping that from happening is you Leon Brown was a major league baseball player that started out playing for the Baltimore Orioles. A quote he said was you are you are the worst you are your worst enemy. It is your negative thoughts that hold you back, nothing else. So the only thing holding you back, the only thing stopping you is yourself, your pride. Most people, when they drift away from church, I know of one of my family members, he was in church, he went to college He went to actually Bible college, got ordained as a pastor. He was going to become a pastor. And all of a sudden these people in church started making fun of him. Started being rude to him and he backed away from church. He left everything behind. Left all his college knowledge behind. He never reads his Bible anymore. He left everything behind. And he doesn't want to deal with God anymore. But the only thing that's keeping him behind is pride. Because I talked to him um not too long ago. I always um talk to my family. I call them on Saturdays, which is the days that we're allowed to talk to our family. And I got to call him and I talked to him and the thing that's holding him back is his pride. He doesn't want to go back because he doesn't know what people are gonna say to him. He doesn't know what people are gonna um how people are gonna react when they see him again, when they see that he wasn't in church for the last it's eight years now. It's been out of church. But it he was an ordained pastor. and didn't have to quit. If he were to look towards Christ, which he knew because he went to Bible college, he knew to look towards Christ, but slowly, um In his life he's been before all that happened, he was listening to um worse and worse music. He was going down into the world slowly. And all of a sudden that drop-off happened. He was in the deep end. When you get into the deep end, it's hard to get back. It's hard to get back to the shallow end. It's hard to get back. That's just your mind telling you it's actually not that hard. Your mind tells you it's hard, but it's really not. All you have to do is ask God and he'll put his hand down. He'll pull you right back up. He'll pull you right back in to his arms. So today I encourage you to let go of your past and give your life to God because God knows what is best for your course. Psalms one thirty-nine, twenty-three, uh twenty-three and twenty-four. Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. This was actually an encouragement to me. Uh one day in camp I was really struggling with sin. I was uh it was I was sixteen years old. This was actually Um I was sixteen years old and I was struggling with sin. This was Tuesday at camp and wheel from uh Monday all the way to Friday and I was struggling You know, it's like God, God, I don't even know if I I want to be here anymore. All these people that I'm with, these people, they're all, you know, I I think of 'em as my youth pastor, I think of 'em as this perfect person, but they're not But I was saying, God, I'm I shouldn't be here. I don't deserve to have this kind of preaching. I don't deserve to have this. And I read this verse, and it says, Search me, O God, and know my heart, and see if there be Um, search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Just pray to God and ask Him. Check your heart. Search your heart. Ask God to help you, and He'll always help you. He'll always give you what you need. In the that day at camp, um I prayed and I asked God to help me. I asked God to forgive me for my sins that I was committing. I said, God, I want to start over today. God, I want to start over. I want to start new. I want a clean slate. I ask for forgiveness of my sins I committed, and I want to start over. I ask you to I ask them to help me get something out of the next day's sermon. That next day I went in Uh I went in and we had the sermon. This guy was preaching on dedication. Preaching on dedication. And that day I started crying. I was bawling my eyes out. And I went to my youth pastor and I said Uh Stephen Miller, which is my youth pastor, I went up to him and I said, uh Pastor Miller, I I need I need to pray with you. I need to dedicate my life to God. And that day I dedicated my life to God. I gave my life to God. I said, God, whatever you want me to do. I'm start I started over yesterday and whatever you want me to do today, and for the rest of my life I'll do it. And that that day I dedicated my life with my youth pastor and about two months later uh we went to youth conference and at youth conference They preached on uh ha the call for preaching. And that right there I felt it again. I said, God, I feel like you're calling me right now. And I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do whatever you want. I told you that And right there I told God, I said, God, I feel like you're calling me to preach. And right there I said, God, I'll preach. In my entire life, I hated going to school. I hated going to school. And I was like, I'm not going to college. I'm not going to college. And God's like, You're going to Bible college. I'm sending you to Bible college. You're going to go to Bible college. You're going to preach my word. And I say, God, I told you I was going to do anything, so I will do it And I forgot my past and I move forward. So I just want to encourage you today to forget your past and move forward because God has bigger plans for your life. Pastor. Let's bow our hands and close our eyes. Great truths he presented here and forgetting the past and pressing forward is tremendous and that applies to all ages, regardless of where we're at in life. Put things behind, look forward, see what God has for us, and um and just dedicate ourselves to live for Him and serve Him. Maybe you've not been reading our Bible like we ought to. Forget about that, focus it in, get that Bible out and get reading again Church attendance, soul winning, all these things, pressing forward, forgetting the past. But he also said something else that really touched me was um uh I'm I'm the only one that can keep me out of the will of God The only one that can do that. And so it's up to us, whether we're in the will of God or not. We can't blame others. We can't excuse our sin, our disobedience. It comes down to our decisions. And so um uh Uh hard to give a altar call here, but maybe just make our pews an altar right there and just yield to the Lord however he spoke to your heart. Now, Father We ask, Lord, that you would take this passage pressing forward and yielding our will to you and letting you use us for your glory. uh to point folks to Christ. I thank you for Brother Caleb, his testimony here spoke to my heart. Lord, we want to yield ourselves anew to I'm going to ask Jennifer if she would just play through a couple verses, and maybe there at the pew, uh at your pew, you just want to make that a little altar and say, here I am, Lord God, I'm putting the past in your hands, under the blood of Christ, looking forward. I want to serve you, be faithful. May we need to get ourselves out of the way. Pride. Whatever God speaks our heart about.