Verse thirty-six And the king sent and called for Shimei and said unto him, Build thee a house in Jerusalem and dwell there. Go not forth thence any whither, for it shall be that on the day that thou goest out and passest over the brook Kidron, thou shalt know for certain that that that thou shalt surely die, thy blood shall be upon thine own head Shimei said unto the king, saying is good. And my lord the king, as my as Lord my king hath said, so will thy servant do. And Shemaiah dwelt in Jerusalem many days, and it came to pass at the end of three years that two of the servants of Shimei ran away unto Akish, son of Machaish, king of Gath And they told Shimei, saying, Behold, thy servants be in Gath. Shimei rose, saddled his ass, and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants. And Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath It was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and was come again, and the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him, Did I make thee to swear by the Lord? And protested unto thee, saying Know for a certain on the day that thou goest out, and walkest abroad any whither, that thou shalt surely die. And thou saidest unto me The word that I have heard is good. Why then hast thou not kept the oath of the Lord and commanded that I have charged thee with? The king said, Moreover, to Shimei, thou knowest all the wickedness which thine heart is privy to that thou didst uh that thou didst to David my father, therefore the Lord shall return thy wickedness upon thine own head. And King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord forever. So the king commanded Maniah the son of Jehoiada, which went out and fell upon him that he died. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon. We'll pray, and then we're going to look at this message tonight that I've entitled Don't Cross the Line. Um brother Ed Davis, would you mind opening the service in prayer, sir? Amen. Now I know um pastor has been going through the life of David on Wednesday nights. Um I I know that and um And so I asked him about this, because he uh is it recently he's mentioned Shimei? Has he mentioned Shimei recently on Wednesday nights? Or yes or no? Not yet. So anyway, um I'm gonna back up a little bit for this story. Just bear with me for just a moment. We're going to get back to this story of Solomon in Shimei, but to understand what's going on, we're going to back up a little bit. Go to 2 Samuel chapter 16. 2 Samuel chapter 16. I will read some scripture here. Um to give you kind of a a setting here, the timeline in is when uh David, uh where our story starts out here, David is king, but Absalom is striving for power. David is trying to deal with it. Um and actually he is on the run at the moment. So David is having a stressful time, uh no doubt. So then in 2 Samuel chapter 16 Verses 5 through 13 is when we first are introduced to this man named Shimei. Verse 5 of 1 Samuel 16. Let me go there real quick. First Sam uh excuse me, 2 Samuel. That's why it didn't look right. 2 Samuel. My apologize. My apologies. 2 Samuel chapter 16. And verse five. And when King David uh came to uh Behiram, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Jerah. He came forth and cursed still as he came and cast stones at David and at all the servants of King David. Um that's kinda kind of bully. He wasn't just casting stones at David, he was casting stones at his servants And all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left, and thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man. He's talking to David, and thou man of Belial The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned. The Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand uh into the hand of Absalom, thy son. And behold, thou art taken in mischief because thou art a bloody man. So this this guy's Shimei, he's saying some pretty nasty stuff to David. And um Uh he's he's cursing him. Verse nine, uh then said Abishai the son of Zer Zariah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my king my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. That is cool. Um that's I I I can picture uh some people uh saying that. And the king said, What uh what have I to do with you, ye sons of Zariah? So let him curse because the Lord hath said unto him Curse David, who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so? So David uh elects to to not do anything um at the moment. But um would you agree that's pretty serious for this guy Shimia, uh what he's the way he's talking to the king, that's pretty serious. things he's saying to him, he's cursing at him. Even while he's while he's walking towards him, he's cursing at him. Um and then you keep reading, he's throwing dust at him, throwing rocks at him, throwing rocks at at the men that are with him. A little bit of a violent guy, it appears. And um so then one of David's servants says, Let me take off his head, and he says, No, we'll just leave him alone for now. But then if you go to chapter 19 of 2 Samuel And you look at verses 16 through 23. I will not read all of it just for sake of time. But David pardons Shimei. And it verse 24 says, Therefore the king said unto Shemiah, Thou shalt not die, and the king swear unto him. So David says, Alright, um I'm not gonna kill you. Shemiah has a change of heart. He confesses here Um I I was wrong. I shouldn't have done this. I'm trying to make long story short here. And so David lets him live. But then we go to 1 Kings chapter 2. First Kings chapter two, if you look at verse eight and nine, this is right before David dies, and he leaves uh he's leaving final instructions uh to Solomon he's saying his His final goodbye. In verse 10 is when we see that David uh dies. And what the last thing that's recorded here that he says to Solomon is about this man Shemiah That's interesting. So that was the very last thing that's recorded here that was on David's mind. Verse 8, behold, um First Kings chapter two verse eight, and behold thou hast with thee Shimei, the son of Jerah Benjamite of Behirium, uh which caused uh which cursed me with grievous curse in the day when I went to uh Meniam But uh but he came down to meet me at Jordan, I swear to him uh um by the Lord, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword. Now therefore, hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man and knowest what thou oughtest to do with him. Do unto him. But his his forehead bring thou down to the grave with blood. So basically, as David's dying, he's giving instructions here to Solomon, you do what you want with him. So then Solomon calls him, and that's where we started out reading tonight in 1 Kings chapter 2, verse 36. Verses 36 through 37 here, Solomon gives some very, very clear instructions, very, very clear boundaries to Shemai. Now, could Solomon have said Dad said I can do what I want, you're done. He could have said that. Um, but he didn't. He gave him some im in in my opinion Again, that's just my opinion, but it's a pretty good house arrest setup he's got going on here. And I'll explain what I mean Verse 36, the king sent and called for Shimei and said unto him, Build thee a house in Jerusalem and dwell there, and go not forth thence any whither. For it shall be that on the day thou goest out and passest over the book brook Tidron, thou shalt know for a certain that thou shalt surely die. He gave him very specific boundaries. Stay in the city. Just to be clear, don't cross the brook. And just to be very clear, you can't go. The exact wording was at the end of verse 36, any weather, anywhere. Like that's it That's where you're staying. You're not going anywhere else. Just to be absolutely clear, the brook, that's your line. That's your line. Okay? So then in verse thir and in and actually Shemiah agrees to it. Verse 38, Shimiah says it's good. He agreed with it. Which by the way it didn't matter whether he agreed with it or not, that was the boundaries. Verse 39 through 40, uh Shimei has stayed in the boundary here for three years. At the beginning of verse 39, it says it came to pass at the end of three years. Uh he stayed in Jerusalem and then he has a problem. His servants ran away. That's why I say he had a pretty good house arrest setup. He wasn't in jail. He had servants. That's um that's a pretty good punishment if you ask me. Uh to to stay in a very nice city, um the capital city, have servants That's that's pretty comfortable. That's pretty comfortable. And um so anyway, the after three years these servants run away to the city of Gath, uh Shimei gets mad, uh goes after his servants, brings them back. And in doing so, he crosses the boundary line. And then verses 41 through 46, Solomon hears about this, sends for Shimei, and then obviously um the payment of death was was paid. Shimmi died because he broke the boundaries So this and again this wasn't like the first strike for him, right? This was years ago. He was cursing at David, throwing rocks at him, throwing rocks at the king, throwing dust at him, uh saying awful things to him And then he has the pretty sweet house arrest set up where he's in his own house in Jerusalem, has servants, and he decides he wants to cross um over the brook Kidron. And um that did not end well for him. So interesting story. I know it's almost eight o'clock now. Just bear with me for about fifteen uh twenty minutes or so And I am going to point out just four quick things here this evening. First off, I want us to notice that Shimei's boundaries were laid out. The boundaries were laid out very clear. At the end of verse 36, it says, and go not forth thence any whither. The boundary was clear. Stay in the city, don't go anywhere else. And just so we're absolutely clear, the brook, Kidron, don't cross that line. Don't cross that line. Okay? Stay in the bounds. And if you just look at the way it's worded, it was very, very clear. Stay in Jerusalem. Don't cross the brook, don't go anywhere. And if you do, you'll die. So not only were the instructions clear, the consequences were very, very clear. They were laid out. Don't do this. Don't leave. If you leave, this is what will happen for sure. And He said, okay, it's good. Verse number 38, and he said to the king, The saying is good. My Lord the king hath said, so will thy servant do. He's dwelt in Jerusalem many days. And again, it doesn't matter whether he said it was a good deal or not, which by the way I again I think it is. He had servants Uh it's a pretty good house arrest setup, um like I like I've already mentioned. But uh the the boundaries were very, very clear. Not only the boundaries were laid out clear, but they were also laid out comfortable. They were laid out comfortable. The capital city had his own land, had his own house, had access to everything he could ever want. The boundaries were clear. And to apply that to us today, God has given us boundaries that are clear. God has given us boundaries that are clear. Again, I preach mainly to teenagers and to kids. And so a lot of times I'll reference your parents' rules or your parents' boundaries. It's not just parents that should have rules and boundaries, right? They should come from God. God has rules and boundaries. God has a lot of do's and don'ts. And they're very clear if you will read them They are very clear. I mean, we could just go down through the Ten Commandments real quick. I won't for sake of time, but just to name a few: don't kill, don't murder anyone. Alright? Don't commit adultery. Don't do it, there's rules and it goes into detail on what those laws are, sure. Um but they're laid out Not only in the Bible are the do's and don'ts laid out, the boundaries laid out, but the consequences are laid out. The wages of sin is Consequences are clearly laid out. Okay? And so we we can definitely learn a lesson here from Shemiah. And I I I I remember several uh instances from when I was younger when I was given rules and I got to learn a lot from older sibling breaking rules too. Like I broke rules, right? But I also got to learn from uh others breaking the rules. And when the boundary lines were crossed, bad things happened. Bad things happen. And we were told bad things would happen if we crossed the boundary lines. Lo and behold, when we crossed the boundary lines, those things that they said would happen, would happen, happened. Don't cross the brook, because when you cross the brook, this is what's gonna happen. You're gonna die. You're gonna die. Okay, so The boundaries were clear, laid out clear. The boundaries were laid out comfortable. I also want you to notice the purpose for the boundaries. The purpose for the boundaries. Look at verse number 44 of chapter 2. Second Kings 2 verse 44. The king said moreover to Shemai, Thou knowest all the wickedness which thy heart is privy to. It to just to to say that in a modern vernacular, to say that just to say that a little more um uh modern, I guess you would say, would be this. I know what you're capable of. I know what your heart's privy to. I know what you want to do. You know what I'm saying? He's saying, I know you, Shimei. I know you. He's talking to the guy that cursed David. He's talking to the guy that threw rocks at him. I know you. Okay? I've seen what you've done. We're going to put some boundaries up here for your protection. I think a lot of times we look at boundaries like only in a negative way, like, oh, I can't do this, I don't get to do that. Um, especially when we're younger. We look we look at how they I'm not allowed to have any fun. That's not why the boundaries are there I uh I guarantee you, uh guys, your mom and dad don't wake up in the morning and say, uh, how can I make them suffer today? That's that's not what happens They want to protect you. God wants to protect us, so he has boundaries. What would have happened if he would have if if if Solomon wouldn't have given any boundaries to him And he wouldn't have warned him of what was going to happen. And he crossed the brook and he died. You follow me? Solomon was very, very clear I don't want you to cross that line because if you do, you'll die. I don't want you to die. So stay in Jerusalem. No, no, don't don't go anywhere. Don't go any wither, it says, don't go anywhere. Don't go, don't leave the city. Don't even cross the brook. I don't want you to go anywhere because if you do, something really bad's gonna happen. And and and just again, let me just speak to the the teens and the kids here for just a moment. But mom and dad have rules for a reason. Mom and dad set up boundaries for a reason. It'd be a whole lot easier if we just listened to the boundaries. If we just listened to the rules. It's for your protection. It's for your safety. They don't want you to get hurt. They don't want you to get messed up. They don't want you to fall away from the Lord. They don't want anything bad to happen to you. So it'd be best to just Stay in the boundaries. Okay? But that doesn't just go for young people, of course, right? Does God have boundaries for us? Yes. Are they laid out clear? Yes. Should we stay inside them? Yes. They are for our protection. Again, do we have a sinful nature? Yes or no? Yes. God knows what our heart is privy to. You follow me? God knows what the flesh wants to do. So therefore, he has set up boundaries. He has set up lines. He has put brooks around us that we are not to cross. Third thing, real quick. First, the boundaries are late were laid out. Second, the purpose for the boundaries. Third, the consequences of crossing the boundaries. When Shimei crossed the boundary, what happened? He died. Exactly what the king said would happen. Exactly what Solomon said would be happening when he crossed the boundaries. When we cross the boundaries that are given to us, um Then the forewarned consequences are going to come true. Wages of sin is death. We've already mentioned that, sure. But you could apply that to any Any a any commandment in the Bible where when God says this is gonna happen, if you do it, it's gonna happen. But God says what happens is gonna happen. That's that that just makes sense. So let me give you this last one real quick because I might I might uh stay on this for just a second. But number one was the boundaries laid out, number two the purpose of the boundaries, number three the consequences of crossing the boundaries. If you cross the boundaries, what what God said will happen will happen. Kids, you cross the boundary of what your mom and dad said would happen if you did. It's what's gonna happen Alright? If I catch you doing this, then I'm gonna take your phone. They catch you doing it, they're they're gonna take your phone. Alright, so just so just don't do it. Okay? Um fourth thing. Now I want I want us to think about this for a moment. Why did he cross the boundary? Was it because oh he was this he wanted to rebel? Oh I hate Solomon, I'll show him. No. Why did why help me out? Why did Shemia cross the boundary? To go get his servants. Someone he was Paying to take care of. They were working for him, his employees, if you will. And they ran Okay, from from a from a purely human perspective, okay, that was his. Those were his employees. He said, I'm gonna go get 'em. Now could there have been a different way he could have done this and still got his servants back? Sure. He could have well he couldn't have called 911. They didn't have that then But he could have got a hold of somebody, let the king take care of it. And I'm pretty sure that this, again, this is just a hunch. This is just my opinion. But if he would have told Solomon, hey, you said I can't cross the boundaries, I don't want to, but can you help me get my servants? Something might have happened. But he took it upon himself, and he said, oh, they're my servants, I can leave to go get what's mine It doesn't matter the reason for crossing the boundaries. And here's the point I want to make. We can really spiritualize crossing the boundaries sometime. Okay, let me give you an example. Bible says, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, right? Is that what it says? Yeah, okay, that's what it says. Just making sure. So is that a boundary line God has drawn? It's real easy to spiritualize the reason for going against that. I know that that person isn't saved, I know they're not a believer. But I think I can win them to the Lord. Wow. Does that sound like a good motive? Does that sound like a spiritual thing? Yeah, but it doesn't matter. The boundary lines there don't cross it. Okay? Or, again, going to talk to young people for a minute. You have a curfew maybe. You have uh or maybe there's a time you're supposed to have your phone up, maybe there's a time you're supposed to be home, whatever. And mom and dad say this is the boundary, be home by then But if I I'm s if I stay out a little longer, I might get a chance to witness to this person. Don't cross that line. If this was just a purely teen message, I'm preaching the whole church right now, but if this was just a Wednesday night message, what I'd probably say is stay in your lane, bro. Alright. Bro, back up. Stay in your lane. Solomon said stay in Jerusalem, don't go anywhere else, don't leave the city, don't cross the brook, for if you do, you're gonna die God's saying, Listen, I have given you boundaries. You're holding them in your hand tonight, I hope. He has given you boundaries. He has given you rules. He's given you parameters to stay inside of. There is no reason to go outside. There is no valid excuse to break. the rules. There is no valid reason to cross the brook. Can I just tell you you'd be a whole lot safer. You'd be a whole lot better off. You'd be a whole lot more comfortable If you just stayed in the boundaries that God has given you, quit trying to come up with excuses to go outside of the parameters that God said to stay inside of. Don't cross the line. Stay in your lane, bro. Don't go across the Brook Kidron. Don't do that. Don't do that. There is no such thing as a valid excuse. I hope I made that point. Now here's the thing. When we view boundaries, that's how we view them, as limitations. I can't go here, I can't go there, I can't do this, I can't say this, I can't wear this, I can't watch that, I can't listen to this. All of these boundaries Did you ever stop to think that the boundaries might not be limitations, but might be freedom that's being offered to you? Might be comfort, might be a better life that's being offered to you Uh i i i i i i if shimmy I was looking at this like I can't cross the brook, I can't go across I can't cross the brook, I can't leave the city, I can't go anywhere Well, I'm just gonna go anyway. They're my servants, I can go get them. Was his life more comfortable once he crossed the brook? Yes or no? Once he got outside of the boundaries, was his life suddenly better? No. In fact it ended. We have this in our mind that these rules, these laws, these boundaries are limitations, and I can't do what I want to do. Those are there for your protection and your life will be better as long as you stay inside. Stay in the boundaries. Your life is not going to magically get better once you cross the brook. Your life is not going to suddenly get better once you break God's boundaries. It will not happen. Well, I'm just so frustrated in my marriage right now. I'm thinking about I'm thinking about this and I'm thinking about that. I'd like to, you know what, I might just go try to get attention somewhere else Do you think that it's going to be better when you cross the boundaries? I guarantee you not. Man, I just can't wait to get out on my own again. I'm speaking to young people. I can't wait to get away from all these rules. Do you think life's gonna be better once you get away from the rules? It's not. Oh, I I I wish I could just do you think life will be better? Well I'm just getting frustrated because, you know, this and that and I just I I I I don't like these rules. Uh uh I don't know how God's speaking into your heart, what rules he's speaking about, what boundaries are coming to your mind right now. Leave that up to the Holy Spirit. But don't think for a minute that if you go across the line, it's going to suddenly get better. It's not. It's not Those boundaries are for your protection and for your comfort. They will be good for you, is what I'm trying to say. Now can sometimes life get uncomfortable when we stay in the boundaries? Yeah. You think it was kind of inconvenient when he couldn't leave the city sometimes? Oh yeah. But that inconvenience is way better than him dying. Can sometimes it be kind of difficult to stay inside the boundaries and try to keep the rules? Maybe there's peer pressure, maybe there's a new rule at work, or maybe there's you know something going on and it's kind of hard or it's kind of inconvenient to stay in the boundaries. Sure. But it's a whole lot better than going across the brook. It's a whole lot better than breaking the boundaries. Does this make sense? Okay. So, in closing, you close your Bible. I'm pretty much done. How do you view the boundaries that you've been given? Do you view them like limitations or are you grateful for them? I'd be grateful for them. It's not like your life's gonna magically get better once you get outside of them. Are you trying to justify is there a boundary line you're trying to justify breaking right now? And I don't know what that could be. There's there's a lot of boundaries. Is there one you're trying to justify breaking right now? Hope not. I think it'd be a good idea if tonight, when we have invitation here in just a few moments, if we thank God for the boundaries he has put in our life. Thank God for the brooks he has set up. Life was pretty good for Shimei, especially considering how bad he had messed up, how bad he had sinned. David was lenient with them. Solomon was lenient with them. I i i i if he would have got what he deserved he'd have died long before that. By the way, if we got what we deserved We wouldn't be here would we? We'd be in a place called hell. We got what we deserved. And yet God's given us a place, like like like Solomon gave Shimei Jerusalem. God's given us a place here. And he set up a few boundaries. I think it's only reasonable that we be grateful and thankful and stay inside the boundaries. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one will look around for just a few moments, please. Well I have invitation here in just a few seconds. I did not mention this much, but I would hate to go to a service without mentioning it. If there is someone here, no one's looking around, every every eye's closed, every head's bowed, no one's looking, no one's looking. If there's someone here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, if I died right now, I am not sure that I'd go to heaven. If that's you, could you raise your hand? Pastor Matt, if something happened to me and I slipped off into eternity, I died, I do not know for sure I'd go to heaven. I'm not going to bring you up here, I'm not going to call you out and make you a speech or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. No one else is looking. It's between you, me, and the Lord. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure if I'm going to heaven when I die or if I'm going to hell. I'm not sure. But I I I'd like for you to pray for me. Could you raise your hand See your hand. Thank you. Thank you. Next question is this. You say, Pastor Matt, I know I'm saved, but there's some boundaries in my life that I've been playing with. There's some boundaries I've been trying to justify crossing. Can you pray for me? God spoke to my heart about something. Would you raise your hand? My hand's up. If you can stand to your feet, still no one looking around, but if God spoke to your heart anyway, I always say this to um the the the the teens, but if God spoke to your speaking to you and you don't speak back, that's rude. If someone talks to you and you ignore them, that's rude. So if God's speaking to your heart tonight, I would encourage you to do business with him