Couldn't figure out what he was doing. Let's see. Oh, I heard it. Okay, so if you were here on Sunday, you would have heard me say that uh Sunday morning I was only expecting to do uh to handle uh Sunday school class, and then when the pastor asked me to uh preach uh tonight I decided to put off what I was going to discuss uh Sunday morning for Sunday school and it's probably a good thing. I don't even know if I'm going to get through it tonight. Uh so uh let's you guys can just silently pray to yourselves as I'm trucking right along here. Um but uh one thing I was thinking about, you know, we were talking about the Haitians. I was sitting down there thinking, you know, how many Haitians Um I uh the first thing I thought was, I wonder how many Haitians have died in their sin. But then it occurred to me how many Haitians have not died in their sin as a direct result of it those FBN uh radio ministries being down there. And that kind of underlines what we're doing even in our own backyard here. So I think it's that ought to be on everyone's heart. All these folks who were touched by that radio ministry perhaps I'm certain there were many, so uh but uh that's that was something that just occurred to me while I was sitting there. Um tonight's reading is going to be in the Old Testament book of Exodus. And uh if we can just turn there, Exodus chapter three And uh as I said Sunday morning, I actually had really meditated on this This sort of thought process for quite a while. Um, this passage of Scripture is dealing with the call of Moses to be God's uh point man at the at the time. And uh so let me just read this just ten verses I want to read starting in verse one, chapter three of Exodus And the Bible says, now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that uh that he turned aside the sea, uh that he turned aside the sea, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Uh here I am, here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes, from thy off thy feet, and place uh for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry, uh by reason of the taskmasters, for I know their sorrows And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land, unto a good land, and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites And the Hibites and the Jebusites. Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me, and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. I I had sort of a different t uh title for this earlier, but I I really want to call this uh doubting the call. That was actually the initial title for my paper that I did this So let's pray and then we'll look at this a little bit further. Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for this for this evening you've given us to come together to your house to study from your word. Father, I thank you for your word and for the truths that are contained in it. And uh Lord I pray that uh your spirit be uh wa with me, guide me, direct me as I uh try and thresh out this message that you've uh That you've given me laid on my heart. Uh Father, I pray for all of us that uh that our hearts would be receptive to uh whatever message would be in stored through this. And uh Lord, I pray that you be with Pastor uh as he travels back. Um that You just give him safety on his way home. Lord, we thank you for everything you do, and we give you honor and praise and glory for everything that you've done. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now uh just by way of introduction, I just want to look at this. Uh you know what I better do? I'm gonna plant my watch right next to this thing. Just by way of introduction, let me first say that God calls his servants clearly. and deliberately. You know, whenever people uh get called into uh uh get called to be a pastor or uh uh be a missionary or or what have you I I I believe it must be a clear call for them. Uh and uh and we see this so many times in the Old Testament and the New Testament. God calls his servants clearly and deliberately. Now the revelation, the calling Um, especially in the Old Testament days, is is often a dramatic thing. You can think of all these different stories where God revealed himself to man and had special needs. that uh he wanted man to perform. Uh it was often dramatic, but uh sometimes it would be veiled not by but not by God, but really by man's own inattentiveness But uh one other thing I want to point out, or two really two more things I want to point out. First of all, God's complete will is not known. I don't think there's ever a time when we really understand God's complete will Um in fact Jesus himself uh doesn't even know the time that uh that that he will return. Um you say, how's that? He's God. Well Jesus has chosen not to know that time. But uh but always enough is given to proceed. You get a call, somebody gets a call from God to do something, there's enough that's given, enough information is given for him to go go forward. His call always corresponds to his timetable and not ours. And so we find that throughout the Bible as well. Now there is another half of this equation. If somebody If you're going to call somebody, you want to contact them, in communication with them, you pick up the phone, that's the technologically advanced way to do it these days. You pick up the phone, you call somebody. There's another half to that equation, which is what Yes, somebody's got to pick up the phone. And so there's another half of this equation, which is man hearing that call, receiving that call. And because man has a free will Uh it's always been that way. He uh ha has the opportunity to answer or not. It's up to him. And of course there are um various aspects to man's response when when God does call. I want to point out though that the stalling for time when God's calling you to do something apparently doesn't really all that doesn't work all that well. So Probably ought to not try that one if you're getting a call. And um also there are really only two options that I can see uh when you do get a call from God One is to obey, and the other is to disobey. And that's pretty much it. You can either regard what God is calling you to do, or you can disregard it. And it's your free will to decide. Um but I will say this that the ultimate fruitfulness, and this is c this is just clear teaching from scripture, the ultimate fruitfulness The true worth and fruitfulness of your life on this earth, man's earthly life, always varies directly with his level of obedience to God. You cannot be truly fruitful in this life if you're disobedient to God. In fact, you can be disobedient if you're saved. You can be disobedient to a point where you're not going to be fruitful at all anymore. You're going to be your tickets out. You're done So uh, but I want to uh just very quickly look at the first part of this, and that's God's call to Moses. So uh I want to point out in verse 3, 2, uh chapter 3, verse 2 That um there's a miraculous occurrence here. There's some sort of miraculous occurrence, and that is this bush That is not being consumed by the flames that are apparently there. So there is this miraculous occurrence. Here's the angel appearing to Moses in the flame of this bush. But also notice the attentive Moses in the very next verse in verse 3 of chapter 3. And uh Moses uh you see and Moses said I will now this is sort of comical I hate to say it but it's sort of funny the way he says it And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. Um so we see that there's a sort of an attentive nature of of uh of Moses at this point. He's interested. He sees something that's not normal, so he turns to investigate. And then because of that, in verse 4, we see a responding God. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called on uh God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. So so we see that God didn't really completely reveal himself until Moses gave up his attention to the uh to what was going on. Now the very first thing I think it's very interesting, the very first thing that God does after alerting himself or or allowing uh Moses to know that he's there, he alerts Moses to God's holiness. Look what he says in verse four, or in uh in verse five. Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. The very first thing that we have to understand When we come to God is this is the holy God, uh who is is the only inerrant creature ever, or the only inerrant being of of any time. So we have to understand that the ultimate holiness of God is the very first thing that occurs after uh after a uh after a dialogue is has begun Now we also see in verse 6, God clearly identifies himself. And it's interesting, he he he does that by actually calling in a a room full of witnesses. He says verse 6 I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He's saying, Look, this same God that was your f the I am the God of your father The God that uh Abraham worshiped, the God that Isaac worshiped, the God that Jacob worshiped, I am that God. He clearly identifies himself and he relies on the witness of these others to uh point out who he is to Moses. Um Now, in the next verse, and I want to say I want to say something beyond this care, because you can see in verse 7 The Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry. And then look at the very last part, for I know their sorrows. And I want to say something more than just the care of a loving God. I want to say maybe maybe not even empathy, but sympathy of a loving God. That uh he says I know their sorrows if we accept that God's omnipotence. then he must know it to the point where he can even sympathize as if he knows the sorrow as if it's happening to him. So this is a care, a true care of a loving God. He sees his people in in suffering And then of course in verse 8 he reveals his plan to Moses to some extent. Verse 9 he uh presents a second uh sort of appeal. He says, Now therefore behold the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me And I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them, sort of re uh re uh stating to Moses this is a serious situation, encouraging Moses to get up and get up get about this. And now, verse 10. The call. Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of E Israel out of Egypt. So this is the call. It's pretty clear, pretty understanding. I don't think Moses can uh sort of figure any other way around this. It's pretty clear what God wants him to do. And so this is what I want. Tonight, I want to look at specifically the nature of Moses' answer, because I think this is where we can learn the most. is from looking at how Moses answered this. And and and as I read through this, I kept going through this and I kept seeing there are really at least five instances that I can see that are Uh I don't know, questionable situations. In fact I I I really feel like I mean there's a couple of times where Moses clearly doubts what got what God's up to. Uh but I I think there may be I would actually say there are five times that's that Moses doubts the situation. And those are the types of those are the situations I will look at tonight. And I've grouped them into categories. There's one, the first one we want to look at is self-doubt. This is Moses doubting himself. In the very next verse, chapter 3, verse 11, we see the very first example of Moses doubting himself. And we see this clearly. Moses said unto God Who am I that I should go into Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? It's self-doubt. He's doubting himself. Who am I? Why should I be the one to do this? Now I would point out this is I think this is a very spiritually based view. I don't think that Moses had any uh other reason other than a more of a spiritual base in what he's saying here. And I think You know, he was doubting his care character worthiness. He really was doubting whether he was worthy to do this. In fact, if you looked in uh in in Numbers twelve three Uh God's word says that Moses was meek above all men on earth. He was a humble guy. So I don't think that uh that Moses really um had anything on his mind other than he really was he was being humble here. He was he was full of humility and uh so perhaps of all the doubts that we're gonna see This was perhaps maybe the most justified doubt, because it was truly based in some sort of humility. Although it was doubt nonetheless. He was doubting why he should be called into doing this when clearly God's asking to do it. I would even say, I wrote down here, one might even consider it some sort of a humble worship. I don't know if if you could, but you might be able to stretch it that far. But now look at God's response in verse 12. And he said, this is God speaking, certainly I will be with thee. That's uh wonderful. That's a wonderful statement right there. And uh we can go on, but that's the part I want to capture, this this immediate response of God to to his uh doubtful servant that he's calling on. God says, Certainly I will be with thee So there is another instance of self-doubt, and I want to look at that, and that actually occurs in chapter 4, verse 10. So scoop forward into chapter 4, and I go to verse 10. And uh we see here Moses talking again to God. Moses said unto the Lord, Oh my Lord, I am not eloquent. Neither heretofore, neither since thou hast spoken unto thy servant, but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. But Moses is saying I don't know how you're going to get me to do this. I can't even talk right. I'm I'm a mumbler and uh I I'm slow of speech. I'm of a slow tongue. Um But uh and I want to point out this is definitely more of a fleshly based doubt. He is doubting his own flesh, his own ability, his own basic physical abilities to go out and do what God's asked him to do. And uh so but look here in in uh in the uh verses eleven uh uh eleven and twelve of that same chapter, God's response. And I think it's interesting. He says, and the Lord said unto him Who hath made man's mouth, or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind, have not I, the Lord? Now therefore go and I will be with thy mouth and teach thee what thou shalt say. So what's God saying here? He's saying, you know what, I made you Don't tell me about your infirmities. I made you. I know what you're all about. In fact, um I would ask this um has anybody here ever made anything sort of intricate or or um Uh let me give you my own testimony. I made my wife and tell you this is the craziest thing I ever made in my life. I made a hovercraft one time. And uh bizarre as that sounds, but uh I spent a long time making this thing and believe it or not it worked. Uh but and I always meant to take it down to the lake when the lake froze over and uh take it down there and give it a give it a rip on the ice And I never did and and and there's a reason for that. Because I made that thing and I know what it's possible to do and what it's not possible to do. And uh so in the same way God has made each one of us. God made Moses, He knows about Moses Slow speech, a slow tongue, that's not an issue. If God's still calling them to do this, this is not it, clearly it's not an issue. Um but still it's it's a version of self-doubt, it's a doubt in your abilities. So Just to recap, this part of this issue of self-doubt we see with Moses here. God says basically to him, look, I'm going to be with you. I made you, I know your limitations. Now just go to my work that I have for you. I got a second kind of doubt. And this one's a little more, I don't know, um, I guess it's just a different version of doubt. This is a doubt of others. Doubt of others. Uh look in verse uh ch uh chapter 3, verses thir uh verse 13. Go back to chapter three. And uh this is kind of a subtle doubt, but I think it's doubt nonetheless, doubt of others. Um And uh verse thirteen, Moses says uh to God, and Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, And this is assuming he's going to get ready to go. He said, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, the God of your fathers that sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What's his name? What shall I say unto them? Well there's certainly some doubt there and and may I say though, forty years before this event, uh I think there's a little bit of reason why Moses might doubt these folks. I mean he uh decided to step out of Pharaoh's court be with his fellow Hebrews and uh help out by uh uh assisting uh with a certain uh person who is in in involved in beating one of his brothers and uh ended up killing the man. Next day he comes out to talk to those guys and they shun him as if he never did anything for them And so clearly, and this is right and then that's when Moses took off. He got out of there, got out of Egypt. And uh so Moses clearly had a reason to sort of, I suppose, doubt his brothers, his Hebrew brothers down there. Nonetheless Again, God's calling him to do this. And Moses has doubt, not only in himself, but in the response of these folks when he goes down there. Moses suspected That there was some chance. In fact, actually he's certain of it. He said, and shall say unto them, the God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, that sounds pretty certain. He's certain of this He's certain there's a chance there's some chance that his brethren would ask for some sort of proof that he had come in the name of the Lord. Now what's he gonna do? What's he gonna do? Again, this concern is definitely understandable considering what he'd gone through 40 years earlier. But we see in verse 14 God's response to that. This is just An amazing response. God says unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you. I am. This clearly, clearly lays out the absolute unique Eternally existent nature of this triune God. I am that I am. There's never been any other way for God. He's always been I am that I am, the only thing that can ever say that, the only being that can ever say that. And uh here we see that Moses is going to full authority, the s uh the the uh the sovereignty of an almighty creator who is capable of saying whatever he wants to any part of his creation. Moses is going with that authority. But look in verse 1 of chapter 4 A little bit later on, Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto unto unto him unto thee. Again, clearly doubting himself. In fact, go back and look in uh in verse uh eighteen of chapter three. Chapter 3 verse 18. This is God speaking to Moses, and they shall hearken to thy voice. God just told him that they would listen to him if he goes. And a couple verses later here's Moses saying, They're not going to listen to me. I'm going to go down there and they're not going to listen to me, Lord. But clearly, this is a doubt of not only others, but of what God's saying. Um so uh but uh but we see that uh b uh you know that the here they're uh you know he thinks that they're not gonna believe him. It's a flat out contradiction to what God just said But uh and and also I want you guys to notice, also notice that uh even though God told Moses, if you go down a little bit further, verse 19 of chapter 3 God says a little bit further, he says, And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go. No, not by a mighty hand. But you know in all this, even though God actually told Moses, look, Pharaoh's going to give you more trouble than my people are going to give you. Moses is more interested in how much trouble he's going to get out of his own people. It's kind of interesting. He sort of foregoes the whole Pharaoh issue. I mean, and he knew how how tough Pharaoh was At any rate, God's response is uh we find in in uh chapter four and uh two through nine. And God gives a list of of really these small demonstrations of how God's power is going to work through Moses' rod uh through Moses' uh uh uh hand. He's going to be able to use that to convince everyone that he's come under the God's authority, under the authority of God. And uh so we see and actually uh I forget the name of the the the the uh uh Missionary that was in a uh a little while ago and he had talked about this actually this uh this verse two in chapter four. And the Lord said unto him, What is in thine hand? And he said, A rod This is Moses again. This is a rod. He's got a shepherd's rod. Remember, Moses is a shepherd. He's up on the hills with his sheep. And what does God say to Moses in verse 3? He says, and he said, Cast it on the ground. Then he cast it on the ground. And it became a serpent. And Moses fled from before it. Now, if you're like Brother James and you like to recreate that event, I'm sorry, but I get a good giggle out of that every time I read that Can you imagine Moses, great Moses, tossing this rod down on the ground after God asked him to do it? He goes in and does it. Boom, it's a snake, and bam, he takes off It's pretty funny, I have to admit. Um but you know, and the message that the that the missionary brought was, look, God had been using this training Of Moses being a shepherd up in these hills, this training that was epitomized in the shepherd's crook, uh, this was the symbol of his job, his occupation, and God said, You give that to me. Lay it down, and I'll restore it back to you full of power, ready to do my will uh through you. And it's an amazing it's a it's a whole other uh uh uh uh sermon all in itself, a whole other message all in itself, but an amazing uh uh picture of what God can do with each and every one of us. You might say, I say all the time, how is God gonna use an aerospace engineer? You know, but he can. I just have to lay it down before him. I have to give it to him first. Let him give me the power to take something out of that and to use that. Um at any rate, the same thing is true with any one of us. So Uh but we see that God's response is to uh to give these small demonstrations of of what he's going to do and to recap this this issue of doubt of others. We can just say, well God said to Moses, look, you just go and you testify of my my with with my full authority. Go testify of me. Show my power to the unbelievers and just get to my word. Go to my word. Do that. Now, I want to get to the last version of doubt, and this is probably the most certainly the most serious of all, and that's doubt of God Himself directly. doubt of God himself. Go to chapter four, verse thirteen. And uh And we hear from that Bible says, and he said, O my Lord, send I pray thee by the hand of him whom thou wilt send And uh I have to admit, that phrase is very difficult for me to understand. I had to look around. I had to go around and see what that phrase actually meant. And it turns out this is what that phrase means. It basically means Send someone else. God, please send somebody else. Are you kidding me? Please send somebody else. This is nothing but doubt in what in God Himself If God chooses you to do a job and you say to God, please send somebody else, and you know you've been chosen to do Um and uh and you'll notice that uh and I I would sort of argue that all these doubts have sort of been doubts of God himself, but but this one could be Clearly is nothing but doubt of God. And uh we'll notice that uh actually what God's response is this is a bit different than the other cases. Look at what happens and in the uh very next verse, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses God was not very pleased with the situation at all. Moses is clearly, he's openly doubting God to his face, and the anger of the Lord is kindled against him. And uh Why is there such a difference in this response versus the other ones? Well, I wrote this down to see if this holds any water. Doubt is what I would call the counterpart of the opposite of faith Maybe you can agree with that, maybe not. But I would say that doubt is the opposite of faith. Now, without faith, we know from the Bible, without faith it's impossible to please God. Without faith in God, it's impossible to please God. So then doubting him seems to be, to me at least, a pretty good ingredient. If you were going to mix up a concoction of stuff, you would do Doubt seems to be a pretty good ingredient for encouraging God's displeasure. Another word for displeasure, or you might read that anger. So it seems to me that this direct Uh uh uh lack of faith in what God is openly telling him really is what encouraged God to be not uh uh certainly less than happy. In fact, his anger was kindled against him But look what God does. God allows Aaron to speak on Moses' behalf. Look here a little further. Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well, and also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee. Think by accident I don't And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart, and thou shalt speak unto him and put words in his mouth. And I will be with them with thy mouth and with when and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do. And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people, and he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth And thou shalt be to him instead of God. And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand therewith thou shalt do signs. And so we see God is basically allowing Moses to absorb a little bit of his his doubt, his lack of faith. And God gives Moses somebody on earth That he can help, put a little faith into and go about God's work. Nonetheless, God says, you get to my work now. So Well let's recap this. Doubting God. God says, you doubt God, God says, look, don't doubt my plan, first off. Go with the fellowship of your brother and be about my work Um now I want us to look at Moses' final commitment. We understand that Moses became perhaps one of the most influential men uh in in uh in being a a part of getting God's plan, God's divine plan to to go through. And we know that this is a that uh you know that Moses is a major part of God's plan. He was able to take part in some of the most influential portions of the the his plan for humanity. Think about this. The instruction I was reading over the instructions uh for the Passover And Moses being involved directly in that that that that first picture of the a uh applied blood of Christ, uh and what an amazing thing that would have been to have been the leader of that, leading the exodus of of this budding nation of Israel. Out of Egypt, out of that place that we that we understand represents the world and sin. Providing testimony You know, that rod was awful, awful uh awfully well used, providing testimony of the almighty power of God before the world. And by the way, their history books. Uh countless times over a period of forty years. Um it's in the history books. Think about this. Being the critical human part of the delivery, this is to me, is the probably the most essential part of what Moses did uh uh that what m what God did through Moses, being the critical human part of the delivery of God's law to the Hebrews and then to the world. This was, if you'll recall, we're all saved in here, I assume. This was our schoolmaster. This law, the law, God's law, was uh was the proof of our failure before Holy God. We don't even need to go very far in that list. You ever stole something? Maybe not. Did you did you have you always told the truth? I don't think so. What about disobeying your parents? You know, we don't have to go very far at all, and the law helps us to understand That we are a failure before our Holy God. And that leads us where we need to go. Without the law, there'd be no apparent need for Christ's work on that old rugged cross. If we didn't have that law, we wouldn't know to go there. We wouldn't know to go there. So think about what Moses took part in. Amazing. Now In 2 Timothy, let's come to the New Testament, and actually I can just uh discuss this. In 2 Timothy 3:16, God's Word tells us, and I'm sure many of you have this memorized uh that uh that all of Scripture is given for instruction in righteousness among other things. So now if that's true, and we know God's word to be true, Then this account of Moses' initial reluctance, his initial lack of faith, his initial doubt, it's in his word for some reason. It's in his word uh for some reason and uh and we need to heed this. Um so in this age, the church age With our Savior as the head, and uh with every genuine born-again Christian as part of the body, how are we supposed to apply this this this This uh historical uh account of Moses. Um how are we supposed to apply this to our lives? Well, I would say this. First of all, we need to be attentive. If we're attentive, then we're going to turn to the unburned bush. We're going to see whatever that unburned bush is. And uh in fact, let me tell you something. I got a great example of an unburned bush right here. You wonder how this thing hasn't been burned yet. This is the unburned bush of our day, if anything else isn't. But you've got to be attentive to turn to that. You have to be attentive. for God to talk to you. You have to turn, investigate, see what that's all about. So So here we have this uh we have this situation where we need to be attentive. We need to turn to the unburned bush, so to speak, so that we can inquire of the Lord, so that we can find out what's going on here And what we'll find is that the message now is just as clear, as crystal clear as it was, when Moses heard, coming out of that bush, Moses, Moses. Well what's that message? Uh well first of all let me say this. Go back to verse uh verse six of chapter three. See where uh God says, uh, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? You know what? That's the same God that we worship today. It's the same God. So it is still the same God, the same great I am calling. And look further And the Lord said in verse seven, and the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt. You think he hasn't seen the affliction of today? He saw it 2,000 years ago. He knew what he was doing. He saw it enough to give the world his son. So We have the same God calling to us that was calling to Moses. He hears the same affliction and has and has answered, responded in the same way he was responding to Moses to get him off his stuff and go do something. And uh, but look here, I want us to go to this in Matthew chapter 28. You probably knew this was coming. Matthew chapter 28 And verse 18. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. All power. Does that sound like the great I am? Sure does. All power is given unto me. Verse 19: Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Go ye therefore. Does that sound a little bit like going into Egypt? Sure it does to me. Give testimony. They will listen. Give testimony. Verse 20, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. And so we see teaching them, providing instruction in God's word, discipling believers. Same thing as God, as Moses providing the law. He is with us always. Amen. To that. He is with us always. There's no need to worry or doubt. So, and I'm going to end with this. Looks like I'm not doing too bad at the time. Let me ask this. Are you a self-doubter? I mean, there may be variations of this. Maybe there's a scale of 1 to 10 and you're a 3. I don't know. If you're a self-doubter, let me tell you what God's Word says. We just talked about it. God says, I made you. God made you. He's with you. Go and testify of Jesus. That's all he's telling you to do. He made you, he knows your limitations. Just go Uh are you a self are you a doubter of others? Especially your own brethren, aka I you know, I thought about this for a second, I thought, Who are our brethren? And I thought, well the saved. And I think in this case the brethren really are fellow sinners. And uh are but if you're a doubter of others, if you're a doubter of these fellow sinners, these folks who you think aren't going to listen to you when you testify of Jesus. You just tell them the great I am has sent you. That's all you've got to do. That's what he told Moses to do. Just tell them the great I am has sent you Bear witness of his power in your life. Provide good testimony. Show what Jesus has done in your life, what God's done in your life. Just show that. Go and testify of Jesus. Just go Um, what about this? Are you a doubter of God Himself? Now look, let's not disappoint the Lord with our sorry excuses for lack of faith. Let's not disappoint him. And I'm patting that. I really should be saying let's not anger him. Let's not kindle anger. Let's not disappoint him with our with our doubt in him. He's in control, is he not? He is in control. All power is given unto him. He is in control with our brothers and sisters in Christ. Let's just go forward. Even by twos if we have to. What did Jesus do? Sent his disciples by twos. If we go forward by twos to his work, We can do it. We can testify of Christ in our lives. And now I just want to end with one final thought. And that is this. Imagine if Moses would not have said, Here am I, when God said, Moses, Moses. And imagine If Moses had refused to do what God asked him to do. Imagine. I mean, I can't even understand. I don't even know how that would be if God would have, if, if Moses would have just shut it down We understand man has free will. Moses no doubt had the ability. He could have just decided not to do it. Imagine if he wouldn't have. We know how how how much Moses has affected uh things in God's plan. We know how well he was used of God. But imagine if he would have decided not to. And let's apply that to our own our own lives, our own walk with God and say, you know Am I really responding to the call the way God has laid it out to me? Am I really responding to it or am I not? And uh, you know, to be on a personal note, I I I gotta say this this uh you know, I I've been bringing these uh cause reports month after month. And uh you know I I I I always wonder how much I'm really responding to that. And uh so this is a this is just as much a lesson for me as it is for anybody else, just as much a message. I have to gauge myself. I have to understand how much am I doubting what God says for me to do? It's clear what God wants me to do. I know. It's clear what God wants me to do from His Word. I know at least got to testify of Jesus. How I'm going to do that, I'm not sure exactly. Brother Jamie testified uh on uh uh uh uh was it uh New Year's Eve when he's preaching, he said, he said up here, I don't know how I'm gonna do it. God's called me to preach, and I'm gonna go about it. And uh while I was sitting down right now, I was thinking about Jamie, I was thinking, man, you know, he he he he didn't even have the problems Moses had. Way to go You know? We oughta be like that. Look, I don't know how it's gonna happen. I don't know how God's gonna use this, but I'm just gonna go forward. I'm gonna let I'm gonna trust God and I'm gonna obey obey him and just go forward. Because that's the only way I'm gonna be fruitful in my life Let's pray. Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for this opportunity, this message you've laid upon me, and Lord, I thank you for this opportunity you've given me to bring this before your people. And Father, I pray that just that however this message applies in each and every one of our lives, I pray that you would just use it to the fullest of its potential to just simply bring praise and honor and glory to testify to your name, Lord. And we thank you for everything you do. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.