Tell us for every one of these booklets that we send to the mission field, between four and uh seven people, seven or ten people will read that one booklet. And many of them will come to know Christ as their personal Savior. Some of the booklets have already gone to Kenya, Africa, and we have reports back of over 4,000 people coming to know Christ as their Savior And we're ever much as excited about these going as well and being a real witness and testimony to those people in that country. Well, I I need to say how much we really love being here this week and how much we've really enjoyed being a part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church And uh if every every preacher that we're associated with had the spark and the drive and the excitement and the commitment and the willingness to sacrifice as what your preacher has We'd be able to reach a whole lot more with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I love him dearly. I count him as one of my dearest friends this side of heaven And we're looking forward to spending eternity together. And that's when we're going to kick back just a little bit and enjoy the portals of glory forever and forever. And I want to thank the people of Mountain Lake for the tremendous week that we've had here. Uh from the time that we arrived here Wednesday afternoon till this very morning It has been one activity after another, and all of it has been an exciting time and a great journey and has given us fond memories that we're going to cherish and enjoy till Jesus comes again. And I want to thank the church for your commitment and your willingness to come out and put these scriptures together. I was a little bit um Lacking in faith that we would arrive at that 15,000 mark. But boy, the folks just kicked it into gear. Now let me take that back. The folks just kicked it into overdrive. Uh no, let me take that back. They use jet propulsion uh to get this job done, and my what a tremendous, tremendous job. Let me say this. We had less waste this week. Right here at Mountain Lake in than any other assembly we've had this year. Everything just come together in tremendous order, and we're really excited about what the Lord has done. And and then Autumn Glory. This was my first experience to to be at Autumn Glory, and it was glory all the way. Uh we enjoyed going out yesterday afternoon and uh handing out gospel tracts and getting that seed planted. Uh we were moved so much by that that we're planning next year We're bringing teams of workers in here. We gave out about two thousand we gave about two thousand tracks yesterday And I honestly believe if we'd have had the workers, we could have given out 10,000 gospel tracts yesterday. And that's our goal for next year. We're going to bring in folks and we're going to cover that parade like you've never seen that parade covered before. And uh we're going to reach uh thousands of people uh with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So make that a matter of prayer, that we'll see great and mighty things done for the Lord's glory Let me also say this, that this has been a tremendous week for Beacon the Truth and the Bible ministry. Let me just tell you what's uh happened this week. Uh number one, fifteen thousand four hundred and twenty-nine more Swahili scriptures have been put together to go to Kenya, Africa. I praise the Lord for that. In addition to that, 7,500 Burmese New Testaments were completed down at the plant this week that's going over to Burma to be a blessing and a help to those people. I'm not done yet. In addition to that, 250,000 Spanish Bible covers were printed, cut, and boxed, and are ready to go out and uh be assembled and put together for the glory of God. Not done yet. I'm talking about just this week. In addition to that, a hundred and sixty thousand Spanish scriptures were printed. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 160,000 Spanish scriptures were printed, and we're not done yet. God has just opened the portals of glory and blessed the team of workers down at Beacon of Truth. I I talked to my son earlier this week and he said, Dad, it is a beehive of activity around here. Folks are coming in, volunteers are working, uh the Schofields have been down there, and uh uh preacher, close your ears. We're trying to figure out a way to keep them I can't believe I said that. If we could uh I tell you, if we could just get Brother Schofield, Brother Chester, and Brother Ed, our place would never be the same again. And then throw chip in along with that. And I'm sure you could hear hear the reverberation all the way to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We love these folks and thank God for each and every one of them. We had a good time out at Brother Ed's yesterday and and the good fellowship that was there. Ma what a what a blessing And we've got several projects that are going on, known only the Kenya project and the Burmese project. This summer is A celebration that we're going to cover with the Word of God. It's in France. It's the celebration over D-Day. And a lot of people come into France in celebration for that. And since they're coming, uh we want to reward them for coming. And we're printing, as soon as we get done with the Spanish scriptures, we're printing French scriptures with the plan of salvation in it, and we're going to be sending them over to France. uh to be used by missionaries there as these folks come in to celebrate D-Day and uh what it means to them. So I want you to be in much prayer for these many, many things that are occurring And the souls that are being reached as a result of that. And from the bottom of our hearts, from Brother Dan's heart, from my heart, and from your preacher's heart, and all the folks that are involved in the Bible ministry with us We want to thank Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church for what you mean to us. Your prayers are valuable. Your financial support is valuable. Your friendship does not go unnoticed and is deeply appreciated from uh this preacher's heart. And I I really praise the Lord for the opportunity of being here this week. You've always royally treated us and we thank you for that. We love you folks. And thank God for you. And it's always a blessing to come and be with you. Now we need to get down to some preaching. Join with me if you would, please. Get your Bibles, 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. The book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 5. Going to read a couple of verses of scripture here, and then I'll pray and bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Let's stand together for the reading of God's Word. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Going to begin reading with verse number eight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body, according to that he has done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing there therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are made manifest In your conscience. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Loving Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you for what has been done this week. How our hearts leap with joy and thanksgiving when we think of the potential that is setting on these altars today. When we think about the souls that are going to be enlightened to their need of Christ. The thousands and thousands of people that are going to be confronted with the one true and only way to heaven through your blessed Son, the Lord Jesus I pray this morning, Lord, that you would bless every hand that has touched these books, every person that has prayed over these books. Everybody that has contributed to make these books possible, to go to Kenya, Africa and read Souls for the Savior. We thank you for this church and the fact that we can partner together in fulfilling the great commission that you've given to us. I pray this morning, Lord, as we open our Bibles, the Spirit of God would speak to us. We're needy people. And I pray this morning, Lord, that you would save the lost. And encourage and bless your children. We'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be saved. As I look at this passage of Scripture, there's a thought that comes to my mind, and a thought that I want to ask you this morning, what is it that really motivates you? There's some reason that you've come to church this morning. What's the reason? What is it that got you up out of bed this morning and You made your way. It was kind of a misty day, kind of an overcast day, kind of a lack of sunshine day, uh the kind of day that it would have been a kind of easy to pull the covers up over your head and spend a another hour or two in the sack and just kind of eased into the day, you know, just kind of slithered into the day. But but you didn't do that You got up and you made your way to the house of God. What motivated you to do that? What is it that really grips you and compels you uh to come out on a Sunday like this and some of you are going to be compelled to come back again this evening. What what is it that really moves you and compels you and gets hold of you In order to thrust you forth and do what you really do. I want you to think about your conversations this week. What is it that you really talked about? Because out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Whatever dominated your conversation is really what has hold of you. What has gripped you? What moves you and compels you to do what you do? Did you talk about sports and that was the dominant conversation that you had this week? Talk about your jobs or your your means of income, and that's what dominated your conversation this week. Was it the Savior that you found it easy to talk about this week, and that's what dominated your conversation this week? I find less and less and less opportunity to enter into conversations because little of our conversation really centers around the work of God and around our blessed Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And when you reduce it and take out that, I don't have a whole lot to say What is it that really has hold of you? What is it that really moves you and compels you to do what you do? What compelled you folks to come out this week and put these scripture books together? When I look at this passage of Scripture, I'm reminded that there's two kinds of people in the church. There are spectators and there are participators. I'm gonna have to do the amenon too. This is getting rough. I haven't even got started, and I'm tired already, and you're gonna make me do the amen-on as well. J just so you know, it costs twice as much if I do the preaching and the amen and we're going to raise the the the value of these books to about sixty bucks a box if you Not careful. So get your Ameners out and get it get it warmed up and practiced up. And don't go to sleep on me, because when you do that I throw hymn books at you. It looks to me like we've got new hymn books that uh need broken in anyhow. So but but but there are participators and there are spectators There are a lot of people that are sitting on the sidelines when they ought to be working and toiling and laboring for the Lord, and all you get done is watching someone else do the work. Shame on us if that's the attitude that we carry. Shame on us if we're not involved. I mean, those of us that are safe are to be participators in the work of God. If there's anybody that surely displayed for us that they were laborers, it had to be the Apostle Paul. He said, I labored night and day. I held back nothing that was profitable for you. I went house to house knocking on doors and telling people about the only way to heaven, the Lord Jesus. Paul was a laborer. He was a toiler. And he got his example from the Lord Jesus Himself. Our blessed Lord, when he walked upon the face of this earth. He was driven and compelled and trust in the fields of service because of this. I must work the works of him that sent me. And that is true of everyone sitting in this auditorium that is saved by the grace of God. You must, I must, I must I must work the works of him that has commissioned me and sent me to do his job. The Apostle Paul, through inspiration of the Holy Spirit, reminded us in the book of 1 Corinthians 15 that we're to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And when he talks about being steadfast, he's talking about being firm. He's talking about being firmly planted and and and the ability to uproot you is nigh to impossible. You know what I find today? It's not hard to uproot people and get them away from the things of God. Some little skirmish happens in the church They have feathers and they have wings like a bird and go flying off and pouting and crying and molding and complaining. The Bible says that we're to be firm. We're to be unmovable. We're to be deeply rooted. We're to be firmly fixed. We're to be steadfast. Not only that, but he says that we're to be unmovable. That means that we're to be on yielding in what we do for the Savior. Little little skirmishes are not going to sidetrack us. Little little barbs are not going to hurt us Little things that perhaps might offend others are not going to offend us. Because we're unmovable and we're unshakable when it comes to the work and service for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And then he says this that we're to always. You understand that word always? That means on ending. That means unstoppable. That means that we're unrelenting in what we do, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And when he talks about his work, he's talking about those things that please him, those things that he has commanded us to do. That's the kind of life that the Apostle Paul lived. And I believe it was for three reasons. Three motivational reasons as to why Paul did what he did and why you and I ought to do what we do. The first thing that I see is his compulsion. When you look at this passage of Scripture, the Bible tells us in verse number 9, wherefore we labor. Do you understand what that word labor means? That means toil. That means sweat. That means that we're going to work, work, work. Now I'd say this about your preacher. Work! Work! Work! It's not an unfamiliar word to his vocabulary and the life that he lives. He is one ball of energy. I get tired just watching him I've lived with him this week in his home and he and Miss Kathy are quite the trip, let me tell you. Paul said, I labor, I work, I toil, and I give my best. Why, Paul? Why do you do that? Right there it is. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. You know what that word accepted means? It means that we might be pleasing to Him. Why do you tithe? Why why why why did you sing in the choir this morning? Why did you play that piano over here? Mark, why did you leave the singing this morning? Why? Why why did you go God and glory yesterday and pass out tracks? Why not just go down to the the the the booth and and munch on chips and everything else that was available. Why not just do that? Because we want to be pleasing to him You don't do it for your preacher's sake. You do it for the Savior's sake. You don't do what you do to please me or to please him. Or to please your mate or one another. You do it so that you might be pleasing to him and to him alone. Boy, when you put it in that context, we need to roll up our sleeves and start working. We need to stop sitting on the sidelines and observing and cheering others on. Uh I I I I I We need to work. For the night is coming when no man can work. And if you notice in this passage of Scripture, it was really far-reaching for the Apostle Paul. He said, Whether I'm absent or present with you, I'm going to work. Whether the preacher's looking over your shoulder or not, I'm gonna work. Hello? Whether anybody else recognizes what I do, I'm gonna work. Whether I don't get the pats on the back or whether I don't get the applause of men, I'm going to work. Whether present or absent, I'm going to do what God has called me and commissioned me to do Because I want to live my life for one single motivated factor. My compulsion is to please him and to please him alone. Paul knew no limits to that. He was willing and ready to obey, irregardless of what the consequences might be. It was a compulsion that drove him to the deepest motive. Look what he says in verse number 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Why, Paul? Why do you do what you do? Because I know there's a day of accountability coming. I know that I'm going to answer for what I have or what I have not done in the work of the Lord That day, that day of unveiling is sure to come, and I'm going to answer for it That word appear means made manifest. We must all, you get that word all, we must all appear That means that one day you, irregardless of who you might be, what you have or have not done, you're going to give an account to God and to God alone what you have invested, what you haven't invested, where you have worked, and where you haven't worked, we're all going to give account. The day is going to manifest it, the day is going to unveil it, the day is going to reveal it. It's appointed. It's appointed. And you listen to me. You listen to me carefully. In that day our true character is going to be revealed. On that day, our true deeds are going to be made known I get sick and tired, preacher, of hearing all the excuses I hear today. And I know in the pastorate, I I I pastored for twenty-eight years. I know what it's like. The line of excuses that you hear, you think you've heard it all, and then here comes a brand new one. I'm convinced the devil has a manufacturing machine somewhere that he just keeps spilling out reason after reason after reason why I don't go to church, why I can't go to church Why I'm not going to be in church, why I don't work and serve the Lord, why I don't, why I don't, why I don't, and it comes and it comes and it comes. All manufactured and made by the devil himself In that day, our true motives are going to be seen as to why we do what we do. And do you notice the participants? All. A double all. Now, I I understand that word. M my my wife when I leave town she makes apple dumplings for the kids. I can make request. Never happens. Let one of those kids make a request. She can't get to the store fast enough to buy the apples and everything else, and there's apple dumplings in the in the oven. And then they call and tell me about it. And my mouth begins to water and juices begin to be created in my mouth and the thoughts of of getting back home and and diving into one of those apple dumplings uh the the travel back and the anticipation continues to mount and build and you can't hardly wait to go through the front door. You go busting in. You don't plan a kiss on her lips You don't throw your arms around her and say, Boy, I missed you this week. You go in and you say, Where's the apple dumplings? And then these all two familiar words, they are all gone I understand what that word all means. And when our Lord says all, he meant every last one of us. that knows the name and embraces the name and professes the name of Christ are going to stand before him and give account. One day. What is it that drives you, Paul? My compulsion. It got hold of me. It gripped me. It thrust me. It drives me So that I might be pleasing to him. But I see a second thing here. What is it, Paul, that motivates you to serve the Lord? Remember, he's the one that was beaten. Which one of us have been beaten because of our faith and trust in Christ? He's the one that was thrown in jail. Which one of us had been thrown in de jail because we witness for the Savior or or we make known the name of Jesus? Which which one of them? Us. Which one of us have been left for dead along the street because we were serving and faithfully and diligently working for the Lord? Which one of us have gone through that? Paul did. And yet it did not stop him, it did not prevent him, it did not sidetrack him. If he was thrown into a jailhouse, he started witnessing. Telling those people about Christ. What is it, Paul? What is it that drives you? Not only his compulsion, but his conviction. Notice what the Bible says in verse 11. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. Now that word terror there means fear. Knowing, therefore, the fear of the Lord, knowing the fact that He is to be reverenced and that He is to be feared and He is to be highly regarded and deeply respected. I serve them. I serve them. You know one of the biggest problems that we have in this day in which we live? Men don't fear God anymore. Now wait, now wait just a moment before you jump on the bandwagon and start saying your amens. I'm not talking about just that crowd out there. I'm talking about people sitting in the church house today that no longer fear God. Is he a God that ought to be feared and deeply reverenced and deeply respected? Is he a God that ought to be obeyed and diligently followed? Ask Sodom and Gomorrah whether they ought to fear God or not. Because they embraced homosexuality, same-sex marriage, living in adulterous situations. You say, but now wait a minute, preacher, that's not politically good talking there. It's Bible talking. Homosexuality is an abomination to God Almighty. You say, well, now wait a minute, preacher. Doesn't God love the homosexual? Absolutely. Absolutely Jesus died for them on the cross of Calvary, but He's not going to endorse, and He's not going to promote And he's not going to accept the lifestyle of homosexuality, same-sex marriage, and idolatry and such abomination in his sight. The reason that we have the promotion of those things today Men don't fear God. Ask God's wife whether you ought to fear God or not. You mean to tell me, preacher, that a simple command, don't look back? God is judgment? Absolutely. God's commands are not to be trampled with. God's commands are not to be overlooked. God's commands is not a sears and robuck catalog that you just go through and pick out the ones that you like and reject the ones that you don't. It's God's law, God's word, God's order. Just ask Lop's wife whether you ought to fear God or not. Ask. Pharaoh's army and his crowd, whether you ought to fear God or not. When they were in hot pursuit of Moses. And the Israelites that crossed on dry ground. I feel a shout coming on right now. It was dry ground. It was not muddy ground. It was pri ground. You say, why do you say that, preach? Because the Bible says that. I I get a kick out of these liberals that say, well that there was just one of those those uh uh good foundations that they were able to walk across and it was only angle deep water to begin with, well then it's even that much more of a miracle That a whole army and Pharaoh and his group could drown in ankle deep water and all the horses that they were riding. What a miracle So no matter which way you look at it, God did a miracle that day. Ask that crowd whether you ought to fear God or not. Ask the rich man that's in hell today, crying out for just one drop of water to cool this flaming, parching fire that is surrounding me, whether he ought to fear God or not. Yes, God's to be feared. Why, Paul? Why, why do you serve God? Because of my conviction, He's a God that ought to be be feared. Why is it, Paul, that you serve God? Because of my compassion, he says. Verse eleven Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men I could think of a lot of things that I enjoy doing. And running around this country putting books together like this. What drives you, preacher? We want to persuade men. Persuade them. Convince them And still within them, that there's a God in heaven that loves them, that there's a Savior that waited the depths of hell. Paid the penalty for their sin. They might be saved. Convincing them, persuading them, pleading with them. That's the Savior you need. You know those words on the front of that little book? You know what it says? God loves you. God loves you. I want the world to know that. Paul was able to rejoice in that love. He tells us that it was the compelling love of the Savior that really moved him. For the love of Christ constraineth me. It gets hold of me. It holds me. It propels me. It uh I never have gotten over the fact that God loves me. I could give you I could give you a multitude of reasons why God ought not to love this preacher But in spite of me, he loved me. That's a compelling love. He tells us in verse number 15 that it's a changing love. That they which lives should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. It's not only a compelling love, but it's a love that changes you. When I tasted. Of that marvelous, marvelous love of God. I've never gotten over it. He tells us in verse number 17 that it's a Converting love. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things pass away, and behold, all things become new. Sounds like a change to me. And it's all because of the love of Jesus. And as a problem. It's called sin. There's a sentence that hangs over the head of every man in this world because of that sin. It's called death. And there is a suffering, a suffering that is sure to come for all eternity. If that man dies without Jesus, it's called hell, the lake of fire. Where the fire is never quenched and the worm never dies. That's why we take the message, the message of Christ and His love. What he's able to do in a person's heart. That's why we take that message to the world, pleading with them to respond to that message and come Come to Christ. Let me ask you this question. Are you proclaiming that message? And if so, how? How If you were summoned to court as a witness, all you're obligated to do is tell what you know and what you've seen. You can't add anything to that, and you're not to take anything from that. And when he says you'll be witnesses All you're compelled to do is tell someone else what you've experienced, what you've seen, what you know. Don't add anything to it, don't take anything from it. Are you proclaiming that message? And then let me ask you this Are you living your life? Here, now. Are you living your life In light of the message he's given us and the mission that he's assigned to us. And then let me ask you this. Are you living that life in light of the hell and the pain? And the sorrow that every person is going to experience if they die without Jesus. How are you living your life? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.