It's good advice in that song. Thank you very much, Jennifer. Appreciate that. If you want to take your Bibles and turn with me to James chapter four. Failed to recognize my father's down for the week and uh we're glad to have Dad here. It's always a blessing when he's around. I don't know how that works out. He just happens to show up the week of muzzle loader uh for deer. He says, No, I'm not coming down for that, but that's the only time he ever shows up. So I'm glad to have that here. And also, Brother uh Messrs. Peter Ran Ranama, uh how many weeks you got with us? Two weeks, two Sundays or what? One Sunday. How many more do you have till you go back? Two more Sundays before they go back. So I I hope you'll fellowship with them, get to know them, and uh Uh what a blessing they both have been. They were out in the bus route yesterday visiting with Kathy and been involved every soul winning, everything we're doing around here. They're diving in and uh they have neat stories how God has worked in their families' lives. And I hope you'll uh get to know them and spend some time with them, invite them over, whatnot, and uh you'll enjoy talking to them from Holland of all places, and here they are James chapter 4. I just want to read the one phrase out of verse number 8. James chapter 4 and verse number 8. In fact, just that first phrase, I'd like for us to read it together in unison, if we would. James 4 and verse 8. The Bible says, read it with me, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. I've entitled the message, Draw Nigh to God. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you, Lord, for my wife and her faithfulness to you. her service here at the church, and I'm so grateful for a day that we can just in some small way recognize her ministry and and uh what she means to the life of this church Now, Lord, as we focus into your word, I pray that you would open, your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds, that we would receive what you have for us God, I pray that this would not just be a formality for us, another service, another sermon. God, I pray it would be a time when you speak to us, that we grow and go forward in our Christian life I yield my will, Lord. I present my body anew. Fill me, I plead, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One of the most familiar Stories in the Bible is that of the prodigal son. Just about everybody knows about the prodigal son. And I bring up The story of the prodigal son, because I believe it beautifully illustrates the text that we just read here a few moments ago. Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. I believe there's a principle here that is brought out in the story of the prodigal son that illustrates this, as I said. What happened with the prodigal son? You know the story? He took his inheritance from his father and practically demanded it from him and uh left the home. And went to a far country, and the Bible says there he packed up all and left, and there in that far country, the Bible says that heotous living, wasted his substance in riotous living. Now the question that comes to my mind as we set the stage for our message, why did he leave home? He got the inheritance. Why did he not just stay there? Uh under the roof of daddy, under the protection and the security of that. I want to suggest to you the reason he left all is He could not live in riotous living and live under his daddy's eye. There were things he wanted to do. There was activities he wanted to engage in that he knew he would be very uncomfortable Under the watchful eye of his daddy. He could not waste his life under his father's eye. He could not live in sin in his father's presence. And so he went to a far country. Can I suggest to you that's the reason some people reject God? If they become aware, if they accept the fact that there is a God, that he's all knowing, he's ever present, then they cannot live as they want, and they cannot engage in sin, but their conscience convicts them. So uh not because of any evidence uh That supports the idea there is no God, but rather because they want to live in sin, they reject the idea of God. That's why some people flee from God. About the things of God and the Word of God. They cannot live in their sin and yet be under the watchful eye of a Heavenly Father I believe that's the reason some people welcome the theory, I believe false theory of evolution, that we were not created by God. We do not have an accountability to a creator, but rather we came from nothing This thought, I was um uh about a couple weeks ago, I was uh uh uh cleaning up for the morning, getting ready for the day, and a thought came to my mind. If evolution is true, then we came from nowhere We can't let me think about if evolution is true, we came from nothing. We are going nowhere for no reason. Hmm? Nothing. The reason some people welcome atheism. It's the same reason this boy left home. Could not live in his riotous living and yet recognize a God. That's the reason some people avoid church. They come under church and the presence of God and the Word of God convicts their heart. So they flee to a far country. Reason some people, as I said, you cannot engage them in spiritual conversation. They'll talk about everything in the world. Except the things of the Lord. So you have the prodigal son. He flees from his home, he packs up everything, goes to a far country. And there he wastes his living. He wastes his substance in riotous living. I would venture to guess that I'm speaking to some folks this morning under the sound of my voice. And you are in a far country spiritually. You're away from God. I would like to believe, and I have no doubt, I'm speaking to some folks here this morning, you've never been closer to God than what you are now. Your walk with God is vibrant. You're growing, you're taking steps forward. God is blessing in your Christian life. There's joy and victory. And we thank God for it. That's the way it's supposed to be. But inevitably, in any sized crowd, there's going to be some folks who in their heart you feel yourself slipping, slipping farther from God The old, the things of God that used to stir your heart, the great hymns of the faith, and getting in the church service, and the excitement of being with God's people, and the songs and the word of God would stir your heart, but You feel that slipping. And you feel your heart getting colder and colder. Perhaps I'm talking to someone, you would have to admit in your heart, you admit I'm nowhere near where I should be spiritually. Your walk with God has deteriorated into an empty shell. It's interesting. In Psalm 51, David's great prayer of repentance after his uh his uh uh horrendous uh Issue with Bathsheba and the wickedness that took place there. David, in his prayer of repentance, he says this: restore unto me The joy of thy salvation. You know what he was saying? He was saying, there was a day when I enjoyed my fellowship with my heavenly Father. There was a day. When I enjoyed the things of God and the presence of God was real in my life, and I was excited, my daily devotions were vibrant, and God would speak to my heart, and God was answering prayer, and He says, All of that is gone. God, I need you to restore that. He needs to come home. The only cure for the prodigal son was to return to his father. It's the only cure. The only cure for those who are away from God is to return to God their Father. The prodigal son in that far country, living the life he was living. Going the direction he was going. He could not make things right without going back to the Father He could not stay in that far country and make things right. He could not continue in that lifestyle and have the blessings and the protection and the uh joy of his father's uh presence in his life, he had to go back to the father And even so, those who are away from God, the only way to get things right in your life, the only way to change the course of your life is to come back to God your Father. It's the only way. A person cannot live, continue to live in sin, in unbelief, in coldness, indifference to the things of God, and yet then yet still believe they're going to have the blessings of God. Have to leave the far country and come back to God the Father. Proverbs 16, 25 says this: there is a way that seemeth right unto a man. But the end thereof are the ways of death. I like what uh Brother Bowman said last night at our men's uh steak dinner. He brought a great message. And he made the statement. He says his definition of insanity was doing the same thing over and over and over and over and over, but expecting different results every time you do it. He said if you keep doing what you're doing, you're going to keep getting what you're getting. And if we want to have if we're away from God and things are not what they ought to be We cannot continue to do what we are doing. We must make a change. We need to come back to the Father. Prodigal Son could not get things right in the far country. He had to come back to Daddy. If there is the slightest desire in the most wayward heart, just the slightest desire to return to God That heart is halfway there. Do you catch that? Person can be as far from God as you can imagine. They can be living for self, living in sin, completely neglect and reject the principles of Scripture, the will of God for their life. But if somewhere down inside that cold heart, somewhere down inside that hard heart, a spark of desire, then I want to get back in fellowship with God I want to be right with my maker. I want my life to be what God intends for it to be. The slightest desire is bringing that person halfway there. Just the desire Draw nigh, look if you would with me, look with me if you would in uh James chapter 4 and verse number 8. He says, draw nigh unto God. That phrase caught my attention. Draw nigh. I got looking it up, and it's simply a very simple meaning. It's not a deep concept here To draw nigh to God simply means to put myself close to something. One of the definitions was this: to put myself in close proximity to a thing To draw nigh to God. I'm away from the pulpit. There's distance between me and the pulpit. And I want to draw nigh. I put myself close to it. So the Bible says, draw nigh to God. Get yourself close to God. Put yourself in close proximity to God. Now let me ask you a question. Can we do that physically? Get close to God? No. We cannot be any closer to God physically than we are right now Follow what I'm saying? What is one of the attributes of God? He is omnipresent. What does that mean? He's everywhere all the time. There's nowhere that you can go that God excuse the English, God ain't there. Huh? So he's not saying here in James chapter 4 and verse 8 that we need to get closer to God physically. Listen, I think all Christians ought to go to church. Amen. Let me try that again. That was kind of weak. I think all Christians ought to go to church. Amen. Now you're in church, so you don't have to feel bad. You can say amen to that I think, hey, I'm all for non-Christians coming to church. Amen? But going to church doesn't put you any closer to God physically than at home. It's not talking about a literal physical getting closer to God. Hey, um, uh I'll be honest with you. I feel like our living rooms ought to be just as sacred as the church auditorium. Huh? Wherever we go, our Christianity ought to be the same Monday on the job as it is Sunday in church. This isn't where God is, and then out there God isn't. So he's not talking about a physical closeness to God, a physical drawing nigh, but a spiritual. In other words, it's dealing with my relationship, or you could say my fellowship with God. Did you ever say this about someone? Boy, they're a dear friend. We're close. You know what I'm talking about? Boy, we're close. Well, uh, here's the modern term. We're tight, man. I'm really up on modern terms, you know. I really stay up on that, we're tight. What does it mean? It means we're physically right side by side? No. Our minds are united We have an understanding one of another. We have a relationship that is very dear. Can I say this? We have an intimate relationship. I understand him and he understands me. We have uh similarities. We're tight. We're close And that's the idea here. Draw nigh to God. Get close to God. Whatever differences you may have with God, deal with them, put them aside, and get close to God. Now, how do we do that? I want us, three thoughts. Very quickly, I want to give these to you. Number one, I want us to consider, and I put it this way, the promise of drawing nigh to God. The promise given here. Look at this: draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Now, I'll be very frank with you. When I look at this and I begin studying this, my thought initially is this That's backwards. The chronology here is out of whack. It ought to be God comes near to me, and then I can get near to God. I thought as I was looking at this and I thought, you know what? That's backwards. And I thought of Genesis chapter 3. Remember when Adam and Eve disobeyed God? And what did Adam do after he ate? God showed up in the cool of the evening. And what did Adam do? Did he go running out to God and say, I'm going to draw an eye to God? No, he didn't do that. He hid himself. He wasn't trying to get close to God. He was trying to put some distance between him and God. He and God. And uh God says, Adam, where art thou? So it looked to me on the surface that this phrase is backwards. God came down and came to Adam and pursued Adam. And then as God engaged Adam, Adam responded, and they got nigh to each other. The relationship was restored. God did what was necessary. Adam did what he needed to do, and they were nigh one to another. So it bothered me a little. I thought, uh, what is he saying here? But the more you look at it, the more you begin to notice that that is exactly what's being said here. It is God initiating The drawing nigh to each other. It is God calling out to man, draw nigh to me God is the one initiating the relationship, the restored relationship, the restored fellowship between God and man. He is calling, in fact, it's actually a command here. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. God calling man to draw nigh to him. Now, there's an important principle here, and that is this: God does not force man to do something against his will. God calls, God commands, but it's up to man whether he's going to draw nigh or not. Again, come back to Genesis 3, and as I thought of it in that light, God is calling out to man Draw nigh to me, and I'll draw nigh to you. God's initiating the whole thing. Hey, that's exactly what happened in Genesis chapter 3. God came down. Adam! God's calling out to man, drawing Adam out, letting Adam respond to God's call to restore the relationship. God did not come down. Push through the fine Adam, grab him by the nap of the neck, and drag him out and say, we're gonna get things right. God didn't do it that way at all God gave Adam the opportunity to draw nigh to him. Follow what I'm saying? God doesn't force us against our will. God's not going to save anybody from sin in hell that doesn't want to be. Huh? It's up to the individual. You don't want to trust Christ. You don't want to find forgiveness of sins. You don't want to have eternal life. God's not going to force it on you. God doesn't force anyone as a believer to dedicate their life to Jesus Christ. God doesn't force that. God says, I leave it up to you. What is Romans chapter twelve on? I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercy of God that you present Your body. He said, I'm pleading with you. I'm begging you. I'm asking you. I'm calling to you. I saved you from sin in hell. I suffered the judgment of God on the cross for your sins. I'm beseeching you. Commit your life to me. Present your body. Dedicate yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't force us. He doesn't force any man, woman, or child to get right with God He calls us. Draw nigh to God, and I will draw nigh, and he will draw nigh to you. God wants us to come willingly. God wants you to come to salvation willingly God wants you to dedicate your life as a believer to Jesus Christ willingly. Take your Bibles with me, if you would, very quickly, and I want you to see this in the book of Psalms. Now, if you open your Bible up right smack dab in the middle, you'll be pretty close to Psalms. Psalms 106, chapter 106. And it's a fairly lengthy chapter. I'm only going to pull a few verses out. Psalms 106 and verse 12. I could just read this and quote it, but I want you to see what God says here. This idea of Him calling us to get things right with Him, calling us to draw nigh to Him. Psalms 106. Verse 12. Speaking about the nation of Israel. Now let me just inject this here. The nation of Israel's experience in the Old Testament parallels individual experiences in the New Testament in so many ways. The things that Israel as a nation struggle with, you and I as individual believers find ourselves struggling with. And so there's application here. Psalms 1 and 6, look with me at verse 12. Then Believe they, the nation of Israel, then believe they uh his works. They sang his praise. Very good. They're close to the Lord. They soon forgot his works. That's not good. Now they're getting away from God. Their walk with God is deteriorating. There's distance between them and their Lord. They soon forgot his works. They waited not for his counsel. Look at this. But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness and tempted God in the desert. Look at verse 15. Very sad verse. And he gave them their request Now, if you just took that phrase out of the context and have God giving them their request, that would sound like a good thing. Right? Oh, praise the Lord. He's giving me what I want. But what's that next phrase say? But he sent leanness unto their soul They pressed the they pressed the issue and pressed the issue and they said, we want this, we want this, we want this. They were away from God God wanted them to be back in fellowship with Him. He wanted His perfect will to be accomplished in their life. He wanted to offer them protection, provision, peace, and joy in their life, fulfillment and satisfaction. But they insisted on having their way. And they insisted on rejecting the principles and will of God for their life. And finally, God says, all right, I am not going to force you to be close to me. I am not going to force you to be right with me. You have a free will. You can choose what you want. I will give you what you want. But you must understand You will then have to accept the consequences of what you want. And if you want to live far from God, And if you want to live your life out of fellowship with God, and if you want to live your life ignoring the principles of Scripture and try and live independent of your God and Creator Then you need to be prepared to have leanness in your soul. You need to be prepared to have loneliness and emptiness and lack of fulfillment. Force us to get things right. God doesn't force us to make things right. He gives that up to us. He calls us, throw nine to God But the option is ours. And we can respond to that call or we can refuse and demand our own thing. And God says, listen, there are consequences. You can live away from me if you want, but please know there are dire consequences. As I study my scriptures, I come to this conclusion. Man was not created to live independent of God. We're not made that way. We're not designed to do our own thing We are designed and created to do God's thing. Does that make sense? And anytime we try to live independent of God, anytime we try to live out here Away from God and away from His will for our lives, there is going to be emptiness, there's going to be problems. Look at the world. How many people would say spiritually the world's in good shape? I wouldn't say that. How many people would say morally the world's doing just fine? It's a disaster. The world living away from God, independent of God, is a colossal failure. God says, draw nigh to me. I'm not forcing you. It is my call. I'm calling you. And so, God calls to us. Now, I see in this text, James chapter 4 and verse 8, I see a passionate desire of God God wants our fellowship. God wants us to be close to Him. I like a definition I came across a couple months or so ago of a husband A husband is a a man is someone who wants somebody to be very, very close to them that leaves them alone. I thought that describes me. I want Kathy right there very close to me, but don't bother me. You guys are scared to say amen because your wife's right there. But me being the brave husband, my wife isn't in here right now, so I can say that. God wants us to be very, very close to Him. You know, if you have someone dear to you, wife or a good friend, you want them around to see what you're doing. Huh? You like to bring them to the work and say, this is what I do at work. I do this, this, and the other. You want to want them to see that. You know, this is what I like. This is what I go out fishing. There is where I go fishing. This is what I do that. You know what that's the way God is. He wants us close to him and see what he's doing. He wants us to see what he can do in our life. But our problem is we got a whole sinful heart. And we get our eyes on some little sparkly thing that we think is the most wonderful thing in the world, and we'll sacrifice everything God has for us and put ourselves a distance and give ourselves to something that's nothing more than fool's gold. God says, I want you over here. I've got something real. I've got a life and purpose and plan. I want you to see what I can produce. So there's a passionate desire of God. And then as I think of this promise here of drawing nigh to God, I thought of this. I put this down: the way is paved. In other words, I will go back to before I was saved, and I'll make references a little bit, but the thought that God was so far And I was so sinful. How could I ever get to God? How could I ever live in the presence of God? Hey, the way is paved. How can I draw nigh to God? God has already made the way clear. That's what the cross is all about. Jesus Christ took our sins upon himself. He suffered the judgment of God He was separated from God the Father for our sins so that we can be near to God. What did he say? My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why, God, have you put yourself a distance from me Why, God Father, why have you drawn away from me? The reason was so that you and I can draw nigh To him. He took our sins. He cleared the way. Listen, whatever your spiritual condition is this morning, maybe you're here this morning, you've never been saved The way is clear to come to Christ and find salvation. The path is made, the road's been cleared. Christ has done everything You can come to God this morning and find full forgiveness and new life and eternal life in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, maybe you're here this morning, you're saved You have eternal life. It's settled. But you're living far from God. And you've gotten yourself way out here. And the relationship and the fellowship you have with the Lord at one time is gone. You know in your heart I'm not where I ought to be spiritually. You say, how can I ever get back How can I ever have that relationship and that walk with God I used to? How do I re-establish my fellowship with God? I tell you, the way's all cleared And the same way a person comes for salvation, a Christian finds renewed fellowship. It's through Jesus Christ. 1 John 1. 9. I thank God for 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, it's talking to Christians. He, God, is faithful and just to what? Forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from them. From all unrighteousness. Draw nigh to God. The way's clear. I put this down as far as the promise of God. If I draw nigh to God, God will draw nigh to me. Made a statement in the introduction of the message. Doesn't matter how far a person is from God, doesn't matter how unsaved that person be, if it's possible to have levels of being unsaved. Doesn't matter how hard the heart is, how far a person is from God, how steeped in the wickedness of sin a person may be, if down in the depths of their soul there is a spark of a desire to be right with God. I said that person's already halfway there. Because all I have to do is take one step towards God, and God will take a huge step towards me. If God sees that I want to draw nigh to him, God will comply to draw nigh to me. Again, it's illustrated beautifully in the experience of the prodigal son. He came to himself, we'll touch on this, and he left the pig sty and he left the far country and as he was coming home before he ever got home the daddy came running out to the sun Daddy didn't sit on the porch and say, oh yeah, if he wants to come home, let him come on up here. Face the music. Oh no, no, no. I think implied in the story in Luke chapter 16, the story of the prophet's son, I think implied is daddy's watching, watching, watching. Oh, maybe today. Maybe today he'll start coming home. And lo and behold, after who knows how long, on the horizon he sees a little figure coming over the hill. And daddy looks, and if they had binoculars, he'd have had the binoculars out. And as soon as he recognizes son, daddy's off that porch out that walkway, down that driveway, out the road, and before the son can hardly say a word, Daddy's right out there with him. That's the way it is with our God. You take a step forward. You decide this morning I'm going to make things right with God. You decide this morning, I'm going to submit my will to God. That's what I want. I want God's blessing. I want the joy of the Lord. I want God's perfect will in my life. You make that sincere decision down in your heart, and God will fly down to help you do everything necessary to accomplish that in your life. God is more willing for us to be in fellowship with Him than we are desirous to be in fellowship with Him. Does that make sense? So the promise of drawing nigh to God. Notice quickly the process. Now he doesn't tell us a whole lot here. He says, draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you. Now let me give you some thoughts about how do I do this. Spirit of God perhaps is dealing with your heart right now, and you're thinking, you know, I'm not where I should be, I'm not where I used to be. I need to be right with my God. And you're thinking, how do I do that? Where do I start? Let me offer this suggestion. Number one, I need to consider God and His will for my life. Consider God and His will for my life. I put this down. A right relationship with God begins with an awareness of the reality of God. In other words, I've got to get to the point where this is real. The fact that there is an eternal, all-powerful, all-wise, good, all-knowing God. Man, that's for real. That's the truth. We were down at the parade last Saturday, a week ago yesterday, giving out literature. And one of the gospel tracts that was given out says on the cover it says, Is there a God? And I kind of like the track. This one here, Is There a God? And so I was giving them out, and I and as I approached people, I would make this statement. I would say, let me give you a little gospel literature. The question is the greatest question asked in the history of the world: is there a God? And the lady said, you know, that's a good question. And I said, the answer to that question changes everything. If there is a God, Then that's very significant. We need to be aware of that. If there is no God, then that's significant. And we need to know that. But we cannot ignore it. Either case, we gotta know, is this real or is it not? Is there a God? Does he have a will for my life? Is he concerned about me? Does he know me? Does he have a plan? Can he do anything? And if I'm going to draw nigh to God, I need to consider the reality of the fact that there is a God. He does know me. He has a plan for my life. He has established things that are right and wrong. He does love me. So drawing nigh to God begins with first of all considering the reality of God, becoming aware of the spiritual world that I live in. I remember, as I mentioned a moment ago, before I was saved in January of, I I think in January of 1979. God began working in my life. And I began at that point, I think at that point, I began in my heart and soul desiring to be right with God. I didn't understand what all that was, but I knew what I was doing, the direction I was heading was disaster. I began praying, God help me. And God began working. That little desire in my heart to draw nigh to God, and God began working. And God, it was like God was opening my eyes. And I don't mean this in some do do you know twilight zone weird But I was it was like I was be let me put it this way, I was beginning to realize the reality of a spiritual warfare going on around. And there was a battle for my soul. And I began to become aware of the reality of a of a of a God and a devil. I began to realize the reality of there are things that are right and wrong. And God began working. That's what happened to the prodigal son. If you read his story very carefully, he's in the hog pen. And the Bible says this, he came to himself. Now what does that mean? He started thinking, wait a minute, this isn't good. What am I doing here? And he became aware of the reality of his situation. Before he was blinded by the thought. By the infatuation, by the thrill, and the emotions and the pleasures of all the sin and all this he had never experienced before. This is incredible But he was living in a fantasy world. It wasn't until that all began collapsing and falling apart that he came to himself and he began to realize the reality of his circumstances. This situation. And that's where it begins for you and I to draw near to God is we begin to realize the reality of where I am spiritually The reality of a God that I'm accountable to, the reality of a being that loves me, that's all-powerful, that transcends everything I understand, and yet he has a plan for my life. Considering that. So first of all, I consider God and His will from my eyes. Second of all, I draw nigh to God by beginning to communicate with God. Here's an amazing thing, if you stop and think about it from our limited human perspective. We can communicate with God And he communicates with us. Maybe some of you are sitting there saying, man, you're getting weird now. But the fact the real the fact of the matter is God does communicate with us. God wants us to communicate with Him Hey, I'm talking to a bunch of folks this morning. You've spoken to God and God has spoken to you. You're saying audibly? You mean God talks? No, no, no. We talk to him through prayer. He talks to us through his word. Now I know what the unsaves say, they say, oh pfft, you read a little verse, you read these verses, and God's speaking to you. Tell you what, when God speaks to you through those verses, you know it. Huh? There's a world of difference between reading a little paragraph and reading this and God speaking to you. You have to experience it to understand it. But if I'm going to draw nigh to God, first of all I need to understand, be aware of the reality of my situation. I need to understand where I'm at spiritually. I need to understand who and what God is. Then I need to engage God in conversation. That's what happened to me before I got saved. I prayed, God help me, God help me, God help me. At night, late at night, I'd come home early in the morning and say, God, I need you to help me. I'm uh my life's a disaster And it was not an audible voice, but it could have been, as far as I was concerned. Down inside my heart, read your Bible. I dug through those dresser drawers, found a Bible that had been given to me, and I began reading that. And God began speaking on my heart. He started showing me that I needed Christ. I needed Christ. I needed Christ. Christ. Communication set up. Help me! Read your Bible. And God began working. Communication. I need to get in God's word. Let Him show me His will for my life. Get under the teaching of God's word. You know where I think a person, if a person's saved and they're backslidden, they're out of fellowship with God, you know where they ought to be Sunday morning? In church. Somebody say amen there. Well I I had people tell me this over the years. Well I'd come to church, but I'm backslidding right now. Knucklehead, what do you think That's like saying, uh, I can't go to the doctor, I'm sick If a person's unsaved, they ought to go to church. Find out how to be saved. Now, if they don't come to church, then we need to go out to where they are. Amen. But nevertheless, we need to get in communication with the Word of God. Get in God's Word. Get in the teaching of God's Word. Get to the throne of God in prayer. Hey, I I know it's old-fashioned. I know some churches they frown upon it, but I'm telling you, this old-fashioned altar is a good place to kneel before God when He's dealing with your heart and get in cuts with your Creator Make things right. Draw nigh to God. Um prodigal son did that He said, came to himself, he says, Man, my daddy's servants, they've got a place to sleep, they've got food to eat. Now I'm putting this in leathermanism here. But he said something like this I gotta go talk to daddy. And I made a mess. I gotta go talk to my daddy. I need to talk to him, tell him my situation, and see if we can't get things something worked out. You know what you need? You need to talk to your daddy You need to come to God. Ask Him to help you. Ask Him to show you. What do I need to do? Lord, I made a mess. I'm so far from you. I need to talk to you, God. That's what God's waiting to hear. So God's longing for, yes, come, I'll talk to you. I'll show you. And then commit yourself to the Lord. This is probably the most difficult. I understand the situation I'm in. I consider the fact that I'm far from God. I get in the Word of God. I begin praying. God begins showing me. But at some point I'm going to have to make a commitment to do what God shows me I need to do to get right with him. I said at the beginning of the message I said the the prodigal son could not be right with his father and stay in the far country. There had to be a decision made. I'm not continuing in the far country. I'm not continuing in this circumstance. I'm not going to live in this environment. I am going to make a commitment and I'm going to get over here to where Daddy is, and I'm going to be what Daddy and or God intends for me to be And listen, you cannot continue in sin and draw nigh to God. Our God is a holy God. And he says, I want to bless you, and I will help you, and I will show you what needs to be done. But at some point, you're going to have to make a commitment to say, All right I'll come over here to where God is. I will do what God wants me to do. I will break off this relationship. I will sever these associations. I will change this behavior. I will not do these things anymore. I will not think that way anymore. I would come to the Father. Commit yourself to the Lord. That's what verse 6 and 7 here in James 4 says. He giveth more grace. Wherefore God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the what? Humble, humble myself before the Lord. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Do what He says. God says, I love you, I have a plan for your life, I want to bless you. I want to give you joy down inside your heart. I'm going to take away that shame. But you've got to submit to me. Look at verse 8, the last part of verse 8. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify ye hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Why? What is it? Walk around sad and mourning it. No, over your sin, over the distance you've had from God. Let your laughter out in the riotous living in the hogpen be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord. He'll lift you up. Prodigal son forsook his friends out in that far country. He left the far country because he wanted to be in fellowship with Now, last of all, and I'll just throw this out, what's the product of drawing nigh to God? Number one, brings victory to my life. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. First Peter 5:8 says That we need to be sober, be vigilant, because our adversary, the devil, is as a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour Now let me say this. You can do what you want. You can demand your own way and take things in your own hands and do what you want. But I'm telling you this: you are a sitting duck for the devil. He will eat you up. You can't be a Christian cannot be dumb. We've got to be wise, we've got to be smart, we've got to understand that God knows better for us, that God wants to protect us, and if we step out of that protection, we are sitting ducks for the devil to destroy us. I enjoy hunting. I enjoy bow hunting. Like a bunch of guys in the church do. But the only deer I get to shoot are the dumb ones. All the smart ones know I'm there and leave. But the dumb ones come in and say, oh, look at that big guy sitting up in the tree. Must just be a knot in the tree. Hmm, I smell human. Oh, they probably left. I come wonder I can shoot 'em. Thank God for dumb deer, I'd be hungry. Hey. It's exactly the way the devil is. He's just eating up dumb Christians Just ignoring God's word, ignoring the advice, the counsel that people give them. The devil's just destroyed them. And you know what's sad? Me as pastor and sometimes church folk, you sit back and you just watch people getting eaten alive by the devil. You see their lives being destroyed. You see them making decisions and you try and talk to them and confront them, and man, they get mad. I went my way! You step back and you just see it. Going down, down, down. Devil ripping limbs off. But if I draw nigh to God, I get close to God, I can have victory in my life I can be a Christian that is pleasing to God, that has an influence, that has the testimony and respect of God's people. I pray for victory. I pray for every member of this church and folks that attend regularly have a daily presence. I pray, God, give them victory. Don't let the devil get victory in their life. And thank God for people in church. Pray for me. We've got to draw an eye to God. One bad decision can affect a person's eternity. Well, we could illustrate that just from current news. One bad decision can destroy a life. So drawing nigh to God brings victory to my life. It brings purity to my life. Last part of verse 8: Purify your hearts. Nobody looks in the mirror and looks in the eyes of the person they see in the mirror and says, Boy, I am proud that I lost my purity. Boy, I feel good about living dirt. Nobody does that. Whole think and brag about it in their rock and roll and country western songs. Come on. They can brag about in their rap music and in their movies about living in sin and perversity and disobedience to God. They can brag about all in one. But I know enough about human nature to know this When they're alone and they look in that mirror, they are ashamed. There's no respect in disobedience to God There's no self-esteem in living in rebellion against my Creator. There's only emptiness and shame and reproach. But when I draw an eye to God, and I'm where God wants me to be, and I'm what God wants me to be That shame is gone. And there's purity there. The product of drawing eye to God brings peace to others. Verse 11. We've got to quit. If I am out of fellowship with God's people, I'm out of fellowship with God. Huh? There's no way I can be right with God and wrong with my brother Can't happen. Read read first John. Draw nigh to God. Here's I'm going to end with this. I don't have a story, I don't have a poem, I don't have anything to end with, but I do end with this. I want to ask all of us this morning. To wait, take one step closer to God this morning. Just one step closer, wherever you're at spiritually. Take one step closer to God. I have no doubt in my mind. I've been doing this too long. I know God's Holy Spirit is dealing with some people right now about some area of your life where you need to take a step forward. I know that. God's, I know that. Now I'm asking all of us, what is it? Is it church attendance? Is it an attitude? Is it some association or something I'm involved in that's displeasing to God that's keeping me away from God? Is it a matter of reading my Bible regularly? Is it a matter of uh being a witness, my prayer life? I mean it could be a hundred things, but God's Spirit deals with our hearts, and He says, here's an area. I'm asking you to take one step forward. Whatever that is, go forward in your Christian life. Make that decision. Father in heaven, I pray that this truth would grip our hearts That we need to be close to you. And when we're away, we need to take that step, just like the prodigal son, get up out of that pit and come forward to daddy. God, you promised you'd meet us. You promised that you would help us. You have so much for us. Their heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say this this morning? You say, Preacher, I know exactly what that step is. God's God, the Holy Spirit's been doing our, I know exactly what that step is I need to take to step closer to God. I'm telling you, when you take that step, God comes rushing towards you. How many would say, Preacher, pray with me? I know exactly what that one step is that I need to take towards the Lord. How about it? Uplifted hand. How about it? God bless you, hands all around. Bunch of hands. You know what that means? That means the Spirit of God wants us to draw the earth. Draw nigh to him. And he's showing us what we need to do. He's communicating with us, saying, here's the step I need you to take. And when we take that step, then God comes rushing to us to help us. It's calling us. How about it? Any others? Pray to I know what that step is. It's not necessarily easy. Man, what God's asking me to do is it's hard. I know it. A lot of times it is, but we got to call it Trust and obey them. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray with me. I know what that step is. God bless you. A couple of others. Now there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know. I'm saved. If I die now, I don't know I'd go to heaven. I hope so, but I'm not sure. The Bible says you can know for sure. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know that God has forgiven me and saved me from sin in hell. I know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to know that God has forgiven me and saved me, that I'll hold a home in heaven someday And you'd all father bless our invitation. Lord, I ask you'd use the Word of God and draw us, Lord. We've heard the call now. Help us by faith step out in Jesus. Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer plays a few verses of invitation. Again, we're not going to twist arms. The call's going out. God spoke your heart. Why don't you take that step forward