Thank you, brother. Amen. This has been a hectic morning for me. I don't know why, but it's it's really been How many of you have been praying uh for the evangelist today? Let me ask your hands. I was that bad this morning. Everybody's praying for me. All right. So good to see ya. Let's see. I do have to turn There we go. That makes you feel better back there. Amen. All right. It's been good. Uh this morning we enjoyed it. We have a chalk drawing completed now. It'll be hanging on the wall in Don Williams Gallery. Grace tomorrow night and uh we'll give it away on Friday. And I hope that uh uh what what you see tonight uh we should go through the hidden affair. effects and and uh the lighting effects and so forth. I hope we'll bring you back uh all week long and uh along with some visitors. And uh I hope the visitors bring visitors. You know if everybody'd just bring one we'd pack this place out first night Wouldn't that be exciting? So uh take your Bible and turn with me, if you will, to uh let's look at uh let me see. Let's go to Luke chapter 17. Luke chapter 17. We're going to start reading the verse. And then we're going to go to Genesis chapter 12, Luke 17 and verse 20. I'll ask you to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God, if you will, please. Luke 17, 28, and we'll be reading down through Verse thirty two. The Word of God says, Likewise, also as it was in the days of Lot, they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted and built they builded. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all, even uh thus shall it be uh in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. In that day he shall uh he which shall be Upon the housetop and his stuff in the house, let him not come down and take it away. And he that uh is in the field, let him likewise not return. Return back. Remember Lot's wife. Now go back with me, if you will, to the book of Genesis, chapter 12. And we're going to just read one verse of Scripture. Well, let's read, let's read, uh, let's read four verses there, starting in verse one. Genesis chapter 12, verse 1, the Word of God says, Now the Lord has said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, and to a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, I'll bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-and-five years old when he departed out of Haram. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, once again we bow before you and we thank you, Lord. We have a have the privilege to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. And we thank you, Lord, for a place to preach, and we thank you, Lord, especially for this church and what it means to us personally. We ask you, Lord, uh, to help us tonight as we preach and speak to hearts. Uh we don't know the needs of the folks that are out there, but uh you do and you know the message that we have and I trust that we'll put the two together and it'll meet uh someone's need. that has a special need. We ask it in Christ name. Amen. Amen. He may be seated. Two men were fishing. Uh above a low dam on a on a river near their hometown and and as they were concentrating on catching fish they were unaware that they were drifting until they were not far from the water overflow uh over the When they realized the situation, the current was so strong they were uh so near the edge and so strong that they they couldn't get out of the current and uh it swept them over the the spillway to the uh rocks below and they uh the bodies were uh because of the the way the rock formations were and the water in and out they were unable to find the bodies for a couple of days an eagle was uh uh uh floating along uh looking for something to eat. He saw a uh free meal on a piece of ice floating down a river He soars in, lands on the deer. The deer is a frozen is a frozen body and he uh he decides that he can you know dig at it, pick at it, and get it He knew that down the river where there was a waterfall that uh but he knew that he could get away from it. Uh in Time, plenty of time. And so he began to eat and feed upon the the frozen deer. Sometime later, why uh he hears the roar of the of the waterfall. And as uh it nears, gets nearer and nearer to the edge of the waterfall, why he decides about time to lift off and and find another tree and another free meat. As he raises mighty majestic wings and jumps into the air, he finds that uh he has a problem. His talons have been frozen to the ice. And uh Uh as a result he was carried over the the falls with the the deer and the iceberg and and of course was killed In each of these situations, the one word comes to mind, and that is drifting. Drifting too close to the edge, I guess, would be be uh title of the message if I was to have a mess uh message title Drifting Too Close to the Edge. You know one of the things that I've noticed in in the Christian life, I notice myself. I You know, uh I get a chance to preach at myself as well as you. That's one good thing about being a preacher. You get to preach to yourself. Uh the only trouble is you have sometimes uh as you're preparing the message uh the Lord kind of beats you up pretty good because uh he uh points out your faults. But it's because of my faults that I can point preach to you Because I know we're all the same down deep inside. If you're saved and I'm saved, we all have the same problems, same temptations and the same battles. We fight the same thing. We fight carnality, we fight worldly I know that uh the scripture tells us sin shall not have dominion over you, and I thank God that that that is a a a true uh statement From the Word of God. But I also know that this thing of drifting is something that is of great concern in many churches, and this one probably is no exception. Drifting. Drifting is just is just where it's where the uh things uh uh it just comes to the place where uh you just start going with the flow. Just drifting. Drifting along in your Christian life, I'm talking about. Sometimes uh the unsaved, before a person has trusted Christ as their Savior, they find themselves drifting, drifting along in the world's current And the world of course there's only one place the world will take you, and the world takes you down, down, down, down, down, and uh till finally you end up in a place called So that's what I want to talk about, uh this thing of drifting. And I I can't think of a better example of drifting than than this fella named Lot. The last verse that we read there in the book of Luke, remember Lot's wife? Remember? Lot's wife. Maybe we need to go back and remember a few things about Lot and the choices that he made because he made some of the choices that maybe you and I have made. And maybe if we see where he ended up, it'll help us to avoid that direction in our life So I want us to take a few moments now and just look at this fellow called Lot. Not a whole lot said about him. We know first of all that Lot was a saved man. Uh the scriptures tells that. He speaks of jet just lot, uh back there in the book of Peter. Uh first or second Peter chapter two and verse six says this and it says and turning uh uh turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into uh uh into ashes. He condemned them with an overflow, making them overthrow, making them an ensemble unto those that a afterwards should live ungodly, and delivered just lot Just Lot. He was justified. He was as far as God was concerned, he was a a righteous man. And so uh from the scriptures there we can see that Lot, even though he made bad decisions, was still uh a saved man Now, sometimes we get the idea that being saved, why, it eliminates all these problems that we have, but But uh the truth of the matter is we still have the problems. We still fight the same battles. And just Lot here, we'll see, uh fought some battles, made some choices, but they were the wrong So let's look at some of the things that uh uh we can find out about this guy Lot. One thing about Lot He had a good example. I see here where where when when Abram, when God spoke to Abraham and told him to get out of that area and go into to a place where I'll show you. The Bible just simply says, and Lot went with him. Let me see where that's at. I'm doing something here, making a noise. And uh I'm looking in verse uh verse four there, uh about middle ways down the back in the verse, and it says, uh so so Abraham departed as the Lord spake unto him. And Lot went with him. Well, uh that tells me a couple of things. One thing it tells me is that is that uh Lot had a lot of respect for for for Abraham. Abraham was a spiritual leader. He was the one that God called out in order to uh make this great nation, the nation of Israel. And so uh he recognized So he started off good. You know a lot of people start off good in the Christian life. They have good parents that uh uh that are saved and and on their way to heaven and and they set a good example and it should be that way. Uh but uh somewhere along the line when they start That's what happened to Lot, but but let's let's not get ahead of the story. So Lot's life was influenced by this the this man Abraham. Abraham walked with God. He was a man of God. He loved God with all of his heart. And God saw that and made it made him a blessing to the whole world through this. fella Abraham. Uh some Christians are are uh the problem I guess with uh with Lot was that when he was with with uh Abraham everything When he uh got away from Abraham, that's when things start happening. Some Christians are like that, aren't they? Uh perhaps you're you follow the same pattern Whenever you're with Christians, while you're spiritual as you can be. I know uh uh out on visitation a lot of times you'll run into people that uh, you know, uh maybe you haven't seen them in church for a long time. time but whenever you get with them and you uh talk to 'em, why they just talk so spiritual and they talk about the Lord and everything and but they don't go to church and they don't tithe and they you know they uh uh uh smoke and drink and do all the other thing, you know, and you just kinda s you know rub your head and wonder what in the world is going on here anyway. But the truth of the matter is that uh uh there's a little bit of hypocrisy in all of us I think We have a tendency to kind of go with the flow and we're in an area rather than to to cause conflict while we sort of go along with things. And uh I see that that uh a lot apparently uh was sort of like that. When he was with Abraham, everything was going great. He enjoyed uh being with Abraham, and Abraham was a man of of God and and uh you know made built altars and sacrifice to the Lord, you know. And Abrah Lot went with him. There's a couple of places in the scripture there where it speaks of Lot went with Abraham. Wherever he went, he went As a result of his association with Abraham, both men became very rich. They had a lot to uh a lot of benefit together. Uh Abraham, I think, was blessed because God was with him. And I believe that Lot was blessed because he was with Abraham. Something about that when you're with good people. It seems like uh some of the blessings sort of rub off on you. That's why it's good for for young people to find somebody that's godly and within the church and perhaps It's their own parents and get close to them because it kind of rubs off a little bit. And we need that uh on a on a regular basis just to uh to uh uh be influenced in the proper way. So Abraham uh uh he uh moves out away from the area that God told him goes into the place where he's supposed to be and and uh as a result of uh several things they went down to Egypt and uh Lot went with him down there by the way. Uh when the famine got so bad in the land why uh Abraham went down to Egypt and uh I think that was a mistake that Abraham made because I believe that when Abraham was down there and Lot was down there with Abraham, uh I believe Lot must have picked up some things that he Because after he came out of Egypt, after the two of 'em moved out of Egypt and and uh got back into the land again, that's when that's when Lot decides that he's he's got It seems that the that the uh shepherds, uh Lot's shepherds and and Abraham's shepherds begin to fuss with one another over uh the feeding ground, you know, the past masters for their sheep. As a result of that, why uh they decided it was better if they went their own way. Uh Abraham was a was a Mature spiritual man. But Lot was an immature spiritual man. Spiritual, yes, but immature. And his decisions were based on And it's always a s it's it's always a scary thing when someone begins to rely upon their feelings to determine the direction that they want to go. Uh we're not to to live by feelings. We're supposed to live by faith, trusting God, looking to God for our everything that we need and And uh I'm afraid that Lot uh he began to look around. And when it came time to split up, why it seemed that uh uh there was an area that uh had more of an enticement to him. And I think probably it was because of some of the worldliness and some of the carnality that that he probably uh had uh some touch with when he was in in uh the land of Egypt. Uh because we know that Egypt's always a picture of the world and uh as far as typology is concerned, and is always a a place of uh worshiping four false gods and and and of course uh uh uh picture of the world. And so we find that Lot then and and Abraham uh splitting up and going their way. It's after this that God promises Abraham everything that he could see, northwest, south east, every everything that he could see was going to be his land. And so uh God uh is still blessing Abraham Lot goes, he moves in towards closer to Sodom. Now, the Bible tells about Sodom. It says that it was a wicked city. When God calls something wicked, uh particularly a city, uh he's talking about something really bad. And when you read a little bit more and study a little bit more, you understand that that uh this was a a sexual promiscuous uh city. It was an immoral city. There was uh it seemed like uh uh I don't e I don't even like to make the comparison, but it looks like America is going down the same path. It's tragic when we see what's uh what we what's on television today and and what's even in our uh even for the the stories and the movies that our young people are watching. It's sad to see some of the games that are being played today uh uh where killing and and s uh immorality is uh even promoted on it. It seems like that every everywhere we turn uh we're being bombarded with with sexual indu innuendos and images and so forth. Uh and I believe that Sodom and Gomorrah was just just like that and more so. It seemed like that homosexuality was one of the main the main sins of the Whenever you uh read about uh when the angels came to to take Lot out of the city before it was uh destroyed, uh the men of the city, the Bible says, came to the door pounding on it and said, We want to know these men. And of course the word know there's a a picture of uh uh speaks of a sexual uh uh content to it. So here we have have Lot now, and he has decided that he's going to separate uh from Abraham Abraham gives him a choice. I'm talking about Lot's choices. Lot made a lot of choices. And I want you to know I understand about choices. All of us make choices. Every day we have choices to make. We make those choices. And tragically, we make them without even talking to the Lord, without asking God about any of it Uh we just sort of move off in our own thing. Uh we buy our cars without any uh talk uh uh talking with the Lord about it. Uh we buy our homes, we do this, we do that, we make choices and uh And we kinda leave the Lord out of it. And that's what what happened to Lot. Uh if Lot would have been asking the Lord, so well Lord, what do you think I oughta do? Well, I think the I think the answer would have been a do different one than the direction that he went. In fact I'm positive of it. So whenever you whenever you fail, I want you to understand when you make a choice and you fail I want you to know one thing. If you're a Christian, I want you to know that God has not left you alone. He does not just uh say, oh well, okay, you're going that way, okay. Just one. I understand that uh uh sometimes he let you get the pig pen before he comes back to you, but he never leaves you. The Bible says he never leaves you nor forgets. When you fail, He stands by your side, the Holy Spirit lives within, and the Word of God is given to you as a guide. So uh Hebrews chapter 13 verse 20 says this Now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep Through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom the glory forever and uh be glory forever and forever. Amen. This is the last thing that the Apostle Paul told the Hebrews. book of Hebrews. Now, what it says here to me is that that uh uh God has placed within you the ability to make right choice You have that ability. There's no excuse for an individual, for a Christian to live in sin. No excuse for you you to continue down a path of drifting when you know that it's wrong. Lot had not only choices that he made made but Lot had responsibilities. He had a responsibility to God to be obedient to him, to love him with all of his heart, soul, body, and strength. That's that's the first first commandment. That's the first thing we're supposed to do. Mark chapter twelve, verse thirty. It says that very thing. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And this is the first commandment. He had responsibility to his wife. She looked for his leadership and it wasn't there. She looked for strength and it wasn't there. When he moved her into a into the surroundings that he did, He compromised her thinking, compromised her in every way, made her open to all the garbage and everything that was was available there in Sodom. His children. He had a responsibility to his children. We know what took place later on with his children. But he had a responsibility to Responsibility. You you you dads, I want you to understand you have a responsibility to that wife that you you be the very image of God for her the to provide the leadership, the guidance that she needs. And the strength. The wife being the weaker vessel, and I'm not putting the woman down by that saying at all. I'm just saying that they expect the man to be to take the leadership role in the home, and they want the man to make those decisions. It's important to uh for a man to be strong in leadership because there's people following him. I can't help but think uh uh we've got uh uh I think eleven grandkids now or whatever it is Somewhere in that vicinity. Huh? What? Oh, okay. Okay, thirteen. And uh uh I know those I I know those kids, they They uh they look to grandpa. You know when parents fail if grandpa's the guy you know, that's the one they look to. When parents fail in uh uh in the uh and their the the positions that they have, the place of responsibility, someone has to take that place. And I'll tell you if there's not someone around They'll find someone to lavish their love on. They'll find someone to attach themselves to. They'll find someone. And that someone may not be somebody that you want to be messing with or want them to mess with. So I'm saying that Lot had responsibility, responsibility first of all to God, and uh to love him with all his heart, soul, and mind But uh he failed in that direction. He failed uh when he when he d made the choices that he made, uh he failed God. Because he was looking at the carnal side of life. He was looking at the worldly aspect. He was looking, thinking of of how much money perhaps he could make. Or perhaps uh maybe his his mind was uh thinking of some carnal things that uh uh he could get into get involved with. Today we we face one of the worst uh uh floods of pornography uh that uh has ever been. It's never been as bad as what it is today. It's never been this bad. So easy access, just a touch of the button on a computer and you can have all the garbage that you can think of. Television is a just a it's just like an open sepulchre of of uh death and destruction and and sin and violence. It seems like that everything Everywhere we turn, we're faced with this sa this same line of garbage that's out there. It's easy to drift today. It's easy to get to if your mind is not stayed upon the Lord, and if you're not uh putting in the good things and those things that are right and just and righteous, if you're not putting those things into your heart It's easy to let all this garbage to begin to accumulate and begin to just drift along downstream, downstream, downstream. Downstream, downstream to the destruction that's ahead. We all know what's down there. Just like the eagle, he knew that the waterfall was down at the end of the line, but he also felt well I I know I could And I can you know I can I can just lift my wings and fly away and I'll have no problem. But uh he didn't realize that uh that uh the more he got himself involved in in what he was feeding on the other thing. it was taking a toll on him and beginning to claim him. I don't think Christians understand the toll that's being taken upon them. As they delve into the world. And if we don't put on the whole armor of God and face the world with that armor, then I'll tell you we're going to end up drifting just like Lot did. And we'll perhaps end up tragic tragically like like Lot did He had a responsibility to his wife, to his children, and he had responsibility to how about all the the people that worked for him? Well hardly think about them, but I mean after all he was uh someone who was was rich, he had lots of money, he had uh all these sheep, he had shepherds out there, and he had a responsibility to them. But he was unconcerned about his relationship with God. He was unconcerned about taking care of his wealth. wife and his children, uh he just uh uh allowed them to be exposed to all the garbage that Sodom and Gomorrah had available to them. And And of course, we understand what took place. Lot made choices, but he made the wrong ones. Lot had responsibilities, but he took them too lightly If we don't take the responsibilities that God has given us seriously, the Bible says be sober, be vigilant, be sober uh be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil's a roaring lion, walkth about seeking whom he may devour. What's what are we to be seeking serious about? What is this be sober? Be serious. That's what it's talking about. Be serious and be responsible. Understand this Christian, this this Christian thing is not just something that that we wear as a as a uh a as a name tag where we go into the world and say, Hey look at me, I'm a Christian Christian, that's not it at all. It's a way of life. It's something that's that's living within us. And we have a responsibility to uh to make sure that that is passed on to this next generation and the people around us today. Drifting is never fast and abrupt. It's just a slow and easy move Moving in the flow, always downward and always away from God, drifting, just slowly moving along and And not not doing anything. What what is the answer? What is it we can do about this thing of drifting? Well the first thing is to keep rolling. No. Don't stop. You have to you have to keep on going. You have to keep stroking. You have to keep moving. Uh don't don't Don't don't rest for a moment. The second thing is we need to watch out for the undercurrents. Satan is really good about slipping in the little things into our life that draws our attention away. So that uh we're diverted from the real goal that God has for us. Expect to go against the tide. It's not an easy thing to go to work. I understand that, where you have the ungodly there that uh uh uh tells thirty dirty jokes and expects you to laugh with them and tell some yourself. But I'm gonna tell you, you need to take a stand for Christ. You'd be so surprised at how uh the attitude of the people once they understand I'm saved, I'm a Christian, I love the Lord, and I want to be I want to be a good be a good example. I remember uh when I first got saved, I I was uh uh as I said back earlier, back in nineteen sixty-two and worked with Carnation Milk company back in those days. And uh when I got saved, I went into work the next day and one of the men that was working there, if I'm not mistaken, I think all of them have passed away now that uh worked there with me. But uh uh as I went in that day I'll never forget one of them came up to me he says Hey Don, come on down here. I w I got a joke I want to tell you. And I remember well the jokes that you know, I mean that was they were just dirty jokes. And I participated in them, told 'em myself, I'm ashamed to say, but I'm I mean that was just one of the of the common things everybody gathered around uh you know got their cigarettes out, smoked a cigarette before you know during the break, told jokes and and uh all that garbage. And uh and I just said uh my friend I I just don't want to hear your your jokes. And he said, now you don't understand. Come on, he said, this is a good one. You've never heard this before and I said, really I called him by name. I said, I really don't want to I don't want to hear your jokes. And uh he he looked at me real strange and he s took a step back and he said uh Uh what's the matter with you? And uh I just sort of smiled and I was very nervous because this is going to be the first time I was gonna have to take But uh I remember I I just looked him in the eye and and smiled to him and said, Last night I went to a revival meeting and I trusted Christ as my Savior and He saved me. I I I just don't wanna I just don't wanna hear the jokes. And he looked back first of all, first thing he did was he jumped back like I had poisoned ibeard something. And the second thing was he he just looked at me up and down, you know, and and as if to see if there was, you know, horns sticking out. I don't know what he was expecting, or maybe he's expecting f uh you know, wings on the back, I'm not sure. But uh uh he just he just simply said, Well, I hope you live it. Well, uh you know, that's a tough thing. I hope you live it. And I c I wish I could say I've lived But at the same time, uh I've made the effort and God has uh has blessed us as a result of Just taking a stand. From that time on I noticed a difference in the uh the attitude of the men around me that I worked with. Uh slowly they uh they started changing their attitude about me. Begin to realize I was serious about this thing. It was something that that I took seriously and and I was doing my best to live uh the way I ought to b uh before them. My cigarettes went out the window. My cussing just going overnight was amazing to me because I used a lot of bad language there, uh especially there at the plant where you had men around you all the time But uh I I I just I uh I knew that God had done a work in my life and and I was uh I was thrilled that he had. I watched uh different ones uh come to know Christ as a as a result I think of of the influence that we had there at the plant. And uh one of them was a member of this church at one time, matter of fact Fact. And uh I don't think it would hurt uh brother Fitzwater, Jimmy Fitzwater, was a man that got saved as a result, uh, I think of uh our testimony. What I'm saying is simply this. You have choices today, just like we all do. We all have these choices. And when we make these choices, there's reproduction Percussions. There are results that take place as a result of our actions. And so we have to be careful about the direction that we're going Because we have these responsibilities around us that are looking to us for leadership and guidance. Every one of us has someone that's looking at us, someone is watching you. If you're a Christian, if you have any kind of a testimony at all, someone is watching you and they're expecting that whenever the problems come and the and the situations that most people will fall flat on their face on on and and uh start and just like uh just like job's wife said cuss God and die. You know, that was her attitude. And there's a lot of people that are just waiting for you to make that kind of a gesture that to just cuss God and die in the situation or the circumstance that you're in. But it's in those times of testing that God shows you It's those times of testing when when God does something in your life and you grow just a little bit as a result of every test and every temptation that comes along. that you have victory in. Lot made some made a lot of mistakes. The one thing that he did right was he followed Abraham and if If he continued following Abraham, he'd never ended up in Sodom and Gomorrah. He would never have a uh an incestuous uh uh uh uh uh relationship with his daughters that uh uh caused uh uh children to be born that were uh cursed to Israel, uh Amnon and and um the other one. Uh but anyway. Uh so so what is this? This is all about It's about your life. And it's about this thing of either we get serious with God and we love him with all our heart and we live for him as best we can. Or we allow the world to slip in and we begin to drift. The last thing we need to have a strong anchor. We need to have a strong anchor. We need to be anchored, number one, in Jesus Christ. And that happens when you receive Christ as your personal Savior. As many as received him, to them gave you power to be become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You have a strong anchor in Christ. The second thing is you you you uh you're grounded in the truth of the Word of God. There is no substitute for knowing, memorizing, and meditating upon the Word of God as a Christian There's no substitute for that. You can read all these little uh devotionals and all that. I'm not knocking them. I'm just saying that that if if you neglect the reading and the and the memorization of the Word of God, then you You're taking away one of the strengths that's going to help you whenever the temptation to drift comes along. And then finally, you need to be sensitive to the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit lives within the bosom of every believer. He's there for a number of reasons. Preach a a dozen messages or a thousand messages on what the Holy Spirit is here to do. But I know that a couple of things that He's here to do. Number one, he's Here to uh to comfort you, but he's also here living within your bosom to empower you to live for God. And without the Holy Spirit, uh We'd all fail. So so tonight are you drifting? That's the question you have to ask yourself. Is is is uh Uh is going to church a drag to you? Is reading your Bible so troublesome that that you just uh almost hate to think about it? I mean, you might pick it up and look at it and lay it back down. I mean uh It's that's the signs of drifting. When the spiritual things become so so uh alienated from you that you you just almost rather stay away from it. Is it i does uh when when uh uh somebody who is spiritual, you know, when somebody like the pastor comes and visits you Uh do you uh uh run to the back room and you don't want to talk with him, you don't feel comfortable around him or something like that. I mean, uh do you understand what I'm saying? It's a sign of drifting. the when spiritual things become uh unimportant to you, a sign of drifting. And down the down the current, downriver, is that falls that uh is ready to clean Now I'm not talking about losing your salvation, but I am talking about that there is a sin unto death. And you continue this this dream Drifting on your own, away from God and not concerned about the things of God, not taking responsibilities seriously, and just continuing on in your own way. of the Lord that Hebrews talks about. He loves those whom he chastens, the Bible says. And if there if there if there's no chastening near your bastards and not sons. So if you can get along with sin and just get involved in sin and there's no repercussions, no problems and no chastening hand of the Lord, then you understand you're just not saved you're not saved so now you have to figure it out number one am I saved yes or no and when I say that this hope so salvation that's not These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. That's what the Word of God teaches. Paul says, I'm confident of this very thing. He which hath begun a good work and you shall perform it till the day of the of Christ. He wants you to know that you're saved and be confident in that fact. And if you're if you're saved and know it and you're confident, then you'll have a there'll be a Satan will have a harder time to get you just drifting along, drifting along, drifting along. Are you saved tonight? I hope you are. If we can have these lights out. I'll show this chalk drawing the eighth.