Book First Chronicles and uh chapter number fifteen. Fellow was uh Jake was driving down the road. And he was looking for a place to park, he had an important meeting. And uh he was all worked up. He couldn't find a parking spot. He was late for his meeting, so finally he looked up to heaven, he said, Lord, take pity on me If you find me a parking spot, I'll go to church every Sunday for the rest of my life and I'll give up drinking whiskey. Miraculous Right in front of him, he immediately Jake looked up immediately and said, Never mind, I found one. And isn't that the way we are? We'll do everything until God gives us what we want. And then uh never mind. First Chronicles chapter fifteen, I wanna r read just verse number thirteen. The Bible says, oh by the way, didn't James do a good job reading those names? Looks like somebody taking Hebrew in school would know how to read them, but um he did good He did good. For because, verse 18, for because you did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order. The phrase caught my attention a week or two ago. Screen through here. David says we didn't do it after the due order. I want to speak this morning on the due order. Or another title for the message would be How is Just As Important as What. Or another title for the message would be The Importance of Minor Details Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to speak our hearts now. And uh Lord, I'm grateful for the music. The special choir was a blessing. Congregational singing stirred my heart. Lord, the fellowship has been sweet and a real blessing. We rejoice in your goodness. And Lord, I rejoice in your people What a blessing it is to fellowship one with another. Lord, we have now our Bibles open before us. And Lord, I believe I speak for most, if not all of us, Lord, that we're wanting you to speak to our hearts now. God, it's why we're here. It's why our Bibles are open. And so, Lord, we're asking you to do that. Open our hearts and minds to what your will is for our lives. And Lord, readily again acknowledge, God, I have nothing in and of myself to offer anybody of eternal value. But Lord, you have everything we need. So I yield myself to you now. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me. Be our teacher. Be our preacher, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. Several months ago we brought uh several messages on the Day of Atonement. And the most, we found out in those messages, we noticed, that the most sacred day in the life of the nation of Israel was the Day of Atonement. That one day when the high priest would go into the tabernacle, in past the holy area, into the holy of holies, and there he would sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat, making atonement. For the nation of Israel and the people's sins. That really was a very elaborate, very beautiful, very detailed picture. of the coming Messiah. It was an object lesson, so to speak, for the nation of Israel, what God was going to do someday when Jesus would come and he would be our atonement And he would die for our sins and rise again. So, the most sacred day in the life of Israel was the Day of Atonement. Every Israelite would agree wholeheartedly with that. The most sacred item In all of Israel, we could very easily agree was the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant, the most sacred item in all the world, if there's any one item on the whole planet. During this period of time that was most sacred, it was the Ark of the Covenant. Now, there's a lot of confusion, I think, in some people's mind as to what the Ark of the Covenant really was. There's three arcs mentioned in the Bible. One, of course, is Noah's Ark, and we think of that as a huge ship. There's another ark in the Bible that was a very small sailing um vessel. In fact, it only had room for one little baby. And that was Moses was placed in. uh in the river. Then there's a third Ark mentioned in the Bible, and that is the Ark of the Covenant. It's not a ship, it's no sailing vessel at all. In fact the Ark of the Covenant was uh I guess the best way to describe it was a type of chest. Within the Ark of the Ark of the Covenant was made of wood. This chest type object is made of wood, but That wood was overlaid within and without with pure gold, beaten gold, and so it was, by all appearances, a golden chest. Within this chest, this Ark of the Covenant, inside it, you could open the lid on it, and with inside it, the Bible tells us there were several items. One of those items was the tables of stone that Moses had taken on top of Mount Sinai, and God with his finger wrote the commandments on them. Those very tablets. That Moses carried down, the second batch that Moses carried down were inside the Ark of the Covenant. Not only that, inside the Ark of the Covenant was a bowl of manna And that was the food, you know, that God miraculously provided for the nation of Israel as they wandered in the wilderness. And so there was a bowl of that. There was these uh stone tablets, a bowl of manna, but there was one other item in the Ark of the Covenant, and that was Aaron's rod that budded. If you remember your Old Testament stories, you remember that there was a period of time in the wilderness when there was a number of Israelites who rose up in insurrection against Moses And they challenged his leadership and they challenged his call of God to be their leader. And so God Put a little process together with various uh rods, uh branches and they had 'em trimmed off and they laid 'em out and the rod that would bud that would show blooms the next day That was who uh they chose, and of course Aaron's uh bloomed and uh he recognized the leadership that God established. Well they put that inside the Ark of the Covenant On the lid of this chest, the Ark Was the representation of two angelic-like beings. They're called cherubim. They were, the pattern was given by God to Moses, and he had the craftsman design these. They were of solid gold, beaten gold. And they formed these into these beautiful cherubim, these angel-like beings. And their wings were outspread, each facing each other on the lid of this. Ark, this chest, facing each other with their wings outspread. Between those two cherubim cherubs. Where the lid was was what was called the mercy seat. The mercy seat was a very, very important part of the Ark of the Covenant. That was where the high priest, on the most sacred day in the life of Israel, would take the blood Now there was an elaborate ceremony, and we went over this in previous messages. There's an elaborate ceremony, sprinkle blood here, offer incense, doing things. Eventually, on the Day of Atonement, he would get into the Holy of Holies The only item in the holy of holies was the Ark of the Covenant. He would take that blood and he would sprinkle it on the mercy seat, that part of the ark that was between these outstretched wings of these cherubim. When he did that on various occasions, the Bible says that the Shekinah glory of Israel, the Shekinah glory of God, Would appear on the Ark of the Covenant. Now, we can only imagine what that looked like. We're not really given a description of it other than it would appear between these angelic beings above the mercy seat, the Shekinah glory of his of God would shine No doubt filling the Holy of Holies with the light and glory of God. To those Who understood the significance of the ark? It was more than just a piece of furniture. To those that understood the significance of the Ark of the Covenant, it was not simply some magical contraption. That would magically produce this light. But the Ark of the Covenant, for those who understood Understood the significance of it. It represented the very presence of Almighty God. The Ark of the Covenant was God's representation of His presence with H people. And so The Ark was a very the most sacred item on all the planet at that time. The Ark of the Covenant, as I said, was kept in this Super secret room in the tabernacle, the Holy of Holies. The only person who ever saw the Ark of the Covenant was the high priest. On the Day of Atonement, he was the only one to ever see it. Once a year, he would view the Ark Covenant. It wasn't open to public. Nobody saw it but the priests. Now, sad to say, and this seems to be the way it always goes. But over a period of time, Israel began to lose their reverence for the things of God. They had been through the Day of Atonement and through the sacrifices year after year after year after year for decades, and a long generation went by. And they began to lose their reverence for the Day of Atonement, the sacredness of that day, and for the Ark of the Covenant, the sacredness of that item. And it became familiar to them. And their reverence For the things of God grew cold and they became indifferent. And the nation of Israel, God's people, his chosen people, had gotten to the point Where they could completely ignore God's law, then bother them. They did, they got to the point. We had heard God's law repeated so many times. We recognized the Day of Atonement so many times. We've been taught of the Ark of the Covenant and the significance of it so many times. Our fathers talked of it, our grandfathers talked of it, our great-grandfathers talked of it, and after a while, it simply became dry dead facts. And really meant nothing to them in their everyday life. In fact, it got to the point where the Bible says that every man started doing that which was right in his own eyes. And what God said, God's law, God's thou shalt and thou shalt not, had become meaningless to them. And they could live their lives completely ignoring God's commands. It had gotten to the point where they were taking God's name in vain. The sacred name of Jehovah, God's name, and taking it in vain. It's sad you can't hardly go anywhere today. Without hearing somebody take God's name in vain. And I've often thought if somebody would use that person's name, The way they are using God, their creator's name, they would be very upset. And Israel had gotten to that point. God's law meant nothing to them. Oh, yeah, we know. God says do this and do that, and he said, don't do this and do that. But hey! It's a free country. I can do what I think I should do. And they began taking God's name in vain. The Ark of the Covenant to the nation of Israel, they had gotten to the point where the Ark of the Covenant, the most sacred Single item on the planet, the place that represented God's presence, the place where the Shekin of glory would appear. Became nothing more to them than a religious good luck charm. It was simply a sanctified rabbit's foot, if you will. We got the ark, you know, it's gonna be alright, we got the ark. I always wondered. Didn't seem like that rabbit's foot did the rabbit much good. And they got the idea that somehow this was a magical item. And if I would just have this with me, if we just had this. Then everything's going to be alright. God's obligated to protect us. God's obligated to provide for us. God's obligated to take care of me. As long as I've got my good religious good luck charm here, the ark That's where their thinking had gotten to. Much like some people view the Bible It's not a manual. It doesn't represent, it's not the very word of God. It's just kind of a nice thing to have around. It's just kind of a good luck trauma. I had a guy when I first got saved. I worked in a meat packing plant of all places. And uh work on the butcher shop butcher floor for a while, the kill floor they called it. And um it's almost lunchtime, so we won't go into that. But um Then for the second two years the la I worked there four years. The second two years I worked on the on the uh part where they broke the meat down after it was quartered. I got saved there and began trying to be a witness. God was working on my heart just amazing ways, and I was witnessing to a guy's name was Kevin. Bodybuilder builder. I mean this guy was just solid muscle, reminded me a lot of me in a lot of ways. And um I was trying to witness to him. He's a Catholic fellow, and I just couldn't get anywhere with him. Very foul mouth, hard drinker, womanizer. And finally I said, Kevin, and I just want to give you a Bible. Can I give you a Bible? And I had a little Gideon's Bible. And he says, Yeah, sure He took it and I showed him in there how to be saved and whatnot. And um several weeks or maybe a month or two went by and we got talking and he says, Hey we're working away. He says, Hey, I still got it I said, you still got what? He said, I still got that Bible. I said, Well good, are you reading it? No, he says, but I got it right here. He pulled it out of his back pocket He says, I don't leave the house with this. Everywhere I go, I carry this Bible with me. Into the bars, the nightclubs, everywhere I go, I take this Bible with me. I said, well I'm glad you carry it with you, but that's not the point. In his mind the Bible was a religious good luck charm. Just somehow, if I had the Bible there, then somehow God's obligated to protect me. Somehow God's obligated to provide for me. That's my good luck charm. Well that's the way Israel got to the point with the Ark of the Covenant. In fact, several of the minor prophets, we talked to mention in Sunday school and quizzing, several of the minor prophets rebuked Israel for saying, hey, we have the ark of God, nothing bad can happen to us. This is came to a head in 1 Samuel chapter 4, if you would turn with me there real quickly with your Bibles. 1 Samuel chapter 4. Saul is king of Israel now. And though he started out fine, he deteriorated spiritually pretty rapidly. And he's confronted with the Israelites, I mean the Philistines And in 1 Samuel 4 and verse number 1, the Bible says, and the word of Samuel came to all the fill uh came to is to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and pitched beside Ebenezer, and the Philistines pitched in Aphak. And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel. And when they joined battle, Israel was what? Smitten before the Philistines. And they slew of the army in the field about four thousand men. So what happened? Israel got whooped Four thousand men died in this one confrontation. Verse three And when the people were come into the camp. The elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the Lord smitten us today before the Philistines? Now look what they say. By the way, that was a legitimate question. That's a good question. Why are we getting beat? Let us fetch the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us. That when it cometh among us, what's that next little word there? It may save us out of the hand of our enemies. Hey, if we just get that religious good luck charm, and we're going to take it out of the Holy of Holies. And it's going to become visible. Complete disobedience to God's clear commands about the Ark of the Covenant, the most sacred item in all the planet. Their respect for God, their reverence for the things of God had deteriorated to the point they completely ignored what God said. And we are going to do this our way. And this is our religious good luck charm. We're going to carry it out to the battlefield, and it will save us. Listen, pe wood and gold never saved a person. If they were going to be saved in the battle from the Philistines, it was going to be because God saved them, not because of that little piece of furniture. But they lost sight of all of that. And their religion, their spirituality became nothing more than externals. Look at verse ten. And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten. And they, Israel, fled every man to his tent, and there was very great slaughter. For there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen. And the ark of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were slain. That ark did not save anyone. It represented, to those who understood, it represented the presence of God. God's curse, and we could read down through here, and we'll not take time, but you could read that God's curse was upon the Philistines now. And various things took place. They eventually returned the ark. Come over to chapter 5 of 1 Samuel. Look at verse 11. So they, the Philistines, sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own people, that it slay us not, and our people, for their was deadly destruction throughout all the city, for the hand of God was very heavy there. And the men that died were not uh and the men that died not were smitten with emrods, and the cry of the city went up to heaven. So God's judging them. And finally the Philistines say, We've got to get rid of this thing. So they built a new ark. They didn't have the word of God. They didn't fear Jehovah. So they built this cart and they put it on a cow, took its cap away, and The cow went back, and it gets back to Israel, and the ark is stored in a good man, or there uh they stored it in his house for many years. So now we fast forward. David is now king. There's somewhat of a revival, spiritual revival going on in the land of Israel. David, for all his flaws, was a good man. And he is bringing back the worship of God. And finally he says, Listen, the Ark of the Covenant is not where God intended it for being. It's in that fellow's house. Let's go get the Ark of the Covenant, bring it back into Jerusalem, put it back in the tabernacle in the super secret holy of holies, and store it there as God told us to. Let's obey God. Good or bad? It's good. Right motives. The ark doesn't belong in this man's house. It belongs in the house of God, the tabernacle, the holy of holies. So David has a good thing with the right motive, but there's a problem. He does it his own way. And rather than going to the Word of God and getting the instructions from God on how to transport this thing, he imitates the Philistines. And so they got a new cart. And I can hear their thinking. I can hear their reasoning. Well, you know, I think there's some instructions on how to move this thing. Yeah, I know, but listen, we gotta get that back. It's not right for it to be here It's gotta be in the Holy of Holies. And you know, if we go and get all the priests and do all these instructions, tell you what, let's just pick the thing up Put it on a cart. We'll get an oxen to pull the cart. It'll be a whole lot easier, be a whole lot quicker, and we can get that thing back to where it ought to be. Sounds good, right? It's convenient. It's easier. It'd be quicker. It's a problem. It wasn't the way God said to do it. So you know the story, they go and they arts there, and there's a fella by the name of Uzzah It's going along and the oxen hit maybe a rough spot in the trail. Maybe it's a rocky area or whatever And the oxen stumble and almost fall, and when they do that, it lurches the cart, the Ark of the Covenant, the most sacred piece of furniture on the planet Slides back when that cart lurches forward because of the oxen stumbling, that thing's sliding off the back. Ooza, who's standing behind without even thinking Instantly reacts and puts himself up there to stop the ark from falling on the ground. Question, was that a good thing to try and keep the ark from falling on the ground? Sure. Was he sincere? Absolutely. He respected the ark. He respected this was it. And the second he touched that, he drops dead And the Bible says God killed them. The Bible says David was displeased with God. David said, I'm putting this in my own words, but David says basically he say it he says to God, God, what's the deal? We try to do what you tell us to do. We try to get the ark back and you kill one of us And God confronts David. And for all David's flaws, one thing about him, he was teachable. And here's one thing I appreciate about King David that would be good for all of us to learn. When he was wrong, he was open to correction. And when God pointed out to David that you did not, you're doing a right thing, but you're doing it in the wrong way, David was open to that correction. Now, our text, come back to 1 Chronicles chapter 15. David learned his lesson. He calls the guys together again and say he said, Listen, we didn't do this right. We're going to do it right this time. And he uses that little phrase that caught my attention that I think is an interesting way to put it. Look with me there again at verse 13. Well, let's read verse 12. He said unto them, You're the chief of the fathers of the Levites, sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place I prepared for it For because ye did it not at the first, the priest didn't do it at the first, David just threw it on a cart. Because you did it not at the first. The Lord our God made a breach upon us. Who's a died? For we sought him not after the due order. Look at the end of verse 15. Well, verse 15, the children of Israelites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereof. as Moses commanded, according to the word of the Lord. That phrase, do order, in verse 13, simply means to do it according to the law. He said we didn't do it according to the law God gave us on handling the ark. We didn't do it in the right way. We didn't follow the correct method. Now there's a couple lessons here. I'm going to give them real quickly and then we'll shut her down. Number one, lesson I see in this. God takes disobedience much more seriously than man does. God takes disobedience much more seriously than man does. Uzzah died All he did was try to keep the Ark of the Covenant from falling off the cart onto the ground His motives are right. He was sincere in every sense, but he was disobeying God. He was not to touch the ark. And though we would say, we would be tempted to say, man, it's not that big a deal. We would be tempted to say, isn't that a little extreme to kill the man? Somebody's husband, somebody's father, somebody's son, kill him! Simply because he didn't follow every little detail. God has given us detailed instructions as to what we are to do and what we are not to do Yet, for some reason, we do not see the seriousness of just disregarding what God has told us to do. Just disregarding what God has told us we ought not to do. Who do we think we are that we can just say to God I know you told me I'm not supposed to do this. I know you told me I am supposed to do this. But God, it would be a whole lot easier just to do it my way. God, it would be a whole lot more convenient. Just to do it my way. Listen, God takes disobedience much more seriously than we do. He killed Uzziah. We do not see the seriousness of our disobedience to God. God tried to emphasize this to King Saul. If you would come back quickly with me to 1 Samuel again and Notice with me chapter 15. It's a powerful portion of Scripture, 1 Samuel chapter 15, and verse 22. Remember, our observation is this: God takes disobedience a whole lot more seriously than man does. Saul is a good example. God told him to kill King Agag. and slaughter everything, not take anything back in this battle. Well he went in and he kept the best of the sheep and the best of the oxen and he spared the king's life. God told him very explicitly, you're to kill them all No survivors, no souvenirs. Kill them all. Well, he killed almost all of them. But he kept the best of the sheep for himself and he spared the king's life. And doesn't sound like that big of a deal. I mean, he won the battle. He accomplished the goal. He just didn't do it in due order. He didn't do it the way he was told. And man, God takes him to task. And rebukes him sharply and actually removes the kingdom from Saul and said, Not you nor your children are going to be king anymore. Look what he says to him in verse number 22. This is God's rebuke to King Saul for not doing everything God told him to do. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices As in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of Rams. Look at this. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness is iniquity and idolatry, because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. He hath also rejected thee from being king. Paul is, God is emphasizing to King Saul, I expect obedience. If I say to do something, I expect you to do it. If I tell my people not to do this, I expect them to do not to do that. And if they disobey me, There is a very high price to pay. Uzzah was killed immediately Immediately. All we did was try and stop the cart from coming down, but it was direct disobedience to God. Stop and think about it with a moment with me. Eve. It's in the Garden of Eden. God said you can eat any fruit, any vegetable, anything in the garden, it's all yours. Carrots, tomatoes. Pumpkins, apples, mangoes, bananas, peaches, cherries. What else? Apricots, it's all yours. Eat freely. Help yourself. But there's one tree right in the middle. I don't want you to eat that one. In fact, if you eat it, you will die. Alright. Little time goes by, we don't know how long. Serpent shows up. New Testament tells us that Eve was beguiled by the serpent. She fell for his trick. She didn't chop the tree down. She didn't stand there and blaspheme God's name. She didn't make a false God and bow down and worship it. All she did was eat a little piece of fruit. That's all she did. Man says it's not that big a deal. Good grief. But it was disobedience to God. And God takes that seriously. And because of that one Small act of disobedience, all of mankind is plunged into darkness And death and destruction and eternal judgment of God to the degree that God sends his own son to die for man's sin and suffer the judgment of hell for man All because of one insignificant act of disobedience. This is my point. God takes disobedience much more seriously than man does. I wonder. Am I talking to someone this morning? And you're living in disobedience to God. And you know it. And there's some area of your life that is Being lived in direct known disobedience to what God has said As your pastor and as a preacher of the Word of God, I am obligated to sternly warn you that God takes that very seriously. I'm not an exception. We know what God wants us to do. We know what we're not supposed to do. But like Israel, we decide to do things in what's right in our eyes, and we think this is more convenient, this is a lot easier, this would be more enjoyable, so I'm going to do what I want and disregard what God said I should do. God takes that very seriously. Say, well, nothing's happened yet. God hasn't killed me. I've been getting away with it just fine. My response to that would be, you're trying the patience of God Our God is a very patient God. But there is a limit to his patience. As we see all through the scriptures. And I've been in this thing long enough, and many of you have also. I have seen God deal. With his people when they were disobedient. So the first lesson here is God takes disobedience much more seriously than man does. Another lesson I see here quickly. Under no circumstances are we to alter God's word. Under no circumstances Do we have the liberty to take away from what God has said or to add to what God has said? God said very clearly how you're supposed to transport this thing. It's supposed to be covered with various types of Skins, various colors that all had significance, pointing to the coming Savior. There were staffs to be put through, the ringlets on either side. There was four priests that were to carry this thing. He was very explicit And they took it upon themselves to simply do away with those instructions and simply carry it there. What they were doing was they were altering God's word. Some folks have the idea that certain portions of Scripture are optional. And we can change those scriptures, or we can ignore them or overlook them so that they fit our liking. David and the people of Israel said, as long as we get the ark to the tabernacle, it doesn't matter how. But God had given very specific instructions. God killed Uzzah over a non-essential. What are those little rings for? Uh that's they used to haul that thing that way. You put a stamp through, they're back in the fellow's barn somewhere and You know, we got a cart and we don't have any Levites around. Oh, wonder why they put them there. Well, don't worry about it. Usa dies. Ah, they're not that important. The angels and the mercy seat and the stuff inside, that's important. The little ringlets aren't. They're non-essentials. Usa died over it. Somebody says, ah, how you get baptized doesn't matter. We'll just pour water on your head We'll just sprinkle some water on you. When I was 12 years old, they said I got baptized. I wasn't saved. They sprinkled water on my head. That is not baptism. Bible baptism, you went down in the water, you were immersed. That's what the word baptize means To immerse. I saw a book for sale. It was like a nine-volume series all on explaining. I mean it was a huge nine volumes all explaining why the word baptism does not mean to immerse. Good creed. If you need nine volumes to explain away a word, something's wrong. Well, it doesn't really matter. Wait a minute, God said repent and be baptized. Get saved and be baptized. Be immersed. I'm not trying to be hateful. We just want to be obedient. Well, Lord's Supper doesn't matter whether you take part in Lord's Supper or not. The Lord says, as oft ye do this. God says, I've I've given you this very important Ordinance for a reason. I expect you to take part in the Lord's Supper. Well, you know. God says, no, I don't know. I don't understand. Why would you not take part in the Lord's Supper? Are you not saved? Are you not part of the family of God? Have you not trusted what Jesus Christ has done on the cross for you? Have you not accepted his shed? And is suffering for you. Say, well, don't add to the word of God or take away. Am I right or wrong? I heard a preacher on the radio, not our radio, years ago. Very famous preacher. You probably most of you would know his name if I said it. He's out in California. He said the best Lord's Supper he ever celebrated was on the beach of California with cheeseburgers and Coca-Cola. And they took part of Lord's Supper, eating cheeseburgers for the bread and Coca-Cola for the wine. That, my friend, is blasphemy. That is direct disobedience to God. He says very clearly how and what we're to use in the Lord's Supper. You say, ah, it's not that big a deal. Yeah, neither were those little ringlets on the side of the ark. But Uzzah died. God takes disobedience more seriously than we do. Under no circumstances are we ever to alter God's word by adding to or taking away. In fact, in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, God says very clearly, some people were very sick and others died. Because they did not take part in the Lord's Supper as God instructed them to. Now I'm not here this morning. Listen, don't go out and say goodnight. Preacher say God's going to kill us if I don't do everything right But I am saying this: we don't have the liberty to alter what God's told us we're supposed to do. And if we choose to disobey him, God takes that very seriously. Church government, how the church is run. Well, you know, it'd be a whole lot easier. Well, I think this. Well, you know that. It's not well what we think So what does God tell us? Whatever God has commanded us is important. And we have no right to add to it or take it away Last thought, number three, and I end with this. It's always best to do things God's way. Can I get an amen on that? I know this isn't the most pleasant message in the world, but it could be the most important in a person's life. Learning to obey God. God takes it seriously. We don't have the option to pick and choose or add or take away from what God has said. And it's always best to do it God's way. Now what happened? Why did that oxen stumble and why did that cart scoot off the back of the ark scoot off the back of the cart? Because they weren't transporting it the way God said If they'd have done it God's way, there would have been four men carrying that thing on staves. And regardless of whether it was a hill up or a hill down, if it was rocky, if it was a creek, whatever it may have been, those four men could have carried that thing very securely, very safely across Whatever the terrain was, it would have gotten to where it needed to be if they'd had just done it God's way And there would not have to have been a widow, there would not have to have been some fatherless children, there would not have had to have been some parents whose child died before his time if they'd just done it God's way And I'm telling you, I believe there are a lot of hospital beds who would be that would be empty today. There are a lot of graves That would not have to have been dug. There's a lot of marriages that would still be together if we just do things God's way. It's better to do it God's way. The cart was more convenient, was popular, and probably looked nicer But it was better to do it God's way. I worked not only did I work in the meat pack implant for four years, but after that for four years I worked in the surgery department of the hospital So I went from hacking meat to hacking men. No, actually I didn't perform surgeries. But And I I'm I'm telling you the honest truth. If I ever say the truth, I'll point it out. I'm telling you the truth right now. I saw so many appendectomies. I mean, I was in there, I've seen scores of them. Over four years, I saw scores of them Honest. I saw from beginning to end, taking that little thing out, wiggling. No, it wasn't wiggling. Um And I'm telling you, when I left there, I had in my mind, and today I still half believe it. That I saw enough of them, I think I could have performed an appendectomy. I mean, sincerely, I I think I could have done it How many people would like for me save you some money? I'll do it half price. How many people would like to have me perform your apendectomy? I didn't think there'd be any volunteers Now, if we were somewhere, we're in Burdu, Men's Mountain Getaway, 17,000 miles from civilization. Somebody begins as appendicitis. That thing's ready to rupture. Do you think as their pastor and as their friend, I would sincerely want to do what's best for them? Sure. Man, you know they got uh they're they're sick, they could die if that thing ruptured, poisoned through the body. Uh I I think I can do it. Unsincere as can be, my only motive is to do what's best for you. How many people think that would be a good idea? No. Regardless of how sincere I was, regardless of how pure my motives was, it would not be a good idea to do it my way. The best thing would let somebody who knows what they're doing take care of it. Hey, God knows what he's doing. When it comes to life and what we should do and what we should not do, God knows what's best. And you may be very sincere and you may be very, your motives may be pure, but we've got to do it God's way. Listen If a person is going to be saved from sin in hell, if we're going to find forgiveness for our sins, it must be God's way. The Catholic Church says, well, you do your penance and you do your sacraments, your seven sacraments, and then maybe you can have your sins forgiven. That's not the way God said. Well, you know, you get baptized. Baptism takes your sins away. Baptism saves you. That's not what God said. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, God you need to be saved God's way by trusting Jesus Christ and Him alone as your personal Savior. Not the Baptist way, not the brethren way, not the Methodist way, not the Catholic way, but God's way. So our salvation must be God's way. There's going to be a lot of sincere people that end up in hell. Sincere. Well I know the Hindus uh this week I preached up an effort of BA at say to a motel and there was a Hindu guy run the motel. I was trying to witness to him, I left them some Christian literature, John Erase's little booklet and He's a very nice man. He did not agree with anything I had to say or others that were witnessing to him. But a nice man. I mean friendly. Very sincere. But he was sincerely wrong. The Hindu religion is not the true religion. He needs Christ. I think there's going to be a lot of Christians at the judgment seat of Christ. We're gonna have to hang our heads in shame because we didn't do it, live our lives as Christians God's way We decided like David and Uzzah and the others did, we'll do the right thing, but we'll do it our way. I'll live for God, but I'll live for God the way I want to. I'm afraid we get the judgment seat of Christ. We're going to regret that. Amen. Father in heaven, please bless us and help us. Lord, help us to obey you. Lord, help us just to trust you and realize that you know better what we should do than what we do. God, you've given us very clear instructions in your word what we should do and what we should not do. Help us to take that seriously. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder if some this morning would say, Preacher, I re there's some areas in my life I really need to re-evaluate. There's some areas of my life I really need to give attention to and I want them to be right. I don't want to just do what I think is right like the Israelites did. I want to do what God says is right. I want to be obedient Christian. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Some areas of my life I really need to give attention to. God bless you. Hands all around. Many, many hands. Listen, that's the purpose of the Word of God, to confront us Confront us and then we yield and agree with God and say, God, you're right. This needs to be this, this needs to be in line, and we line things up as God tells us Is there some this morning say, preacher, I know I'm s uh uh uh I don't know for sure if I die now I go to heaven. I can't honestly say that I know God has forgiven my sins and that when I die I'm going to heaven. I'm never trusting Christ You say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help me settle this. And I can know for sure He's forgiven me. I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless our imitation time now. Lord, many hands went up. You know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to be yielded to you. Help us to trust you and obey in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God spoke to your heart as a piano plays. Why don't you slip on out? Why just come to an old-fashioned honor and say, Yes, Lord, I I'm I'm sincere. God, you know my heart God, I want to obey you. I just want my life to count. I want things to be right. I want every area of my life, even what some people would think is in significant, non-essential, I want those to be right. I want the little areas of my life.