God'll speak to his heart and then he'll finish this thing up and uh and you'll be amazed. Wow, I have a great crowd here. Let me see if I can look over my stomach here and see if I'm on. I don't think I'm on. Now I'm on. You know, I'd rather be on than off, wouldn't you? When you get right down to it, I'd rather be on. Well, I w I'm awful loud. Okay, he's taking care of me back there. Uh I want to say once again, thank you for the uh the surprise birthday party last night. I really uh That's really threw me off guard. You know, I had all these nasty messages worked up and and now it's messing me up, you know, I have to preach these good ones and Oh well, but anyway, the uh I didn't mention this this morning and I was chastised by my wife for uh an hour and a half this afternoon because I didn't But uh on the back table back there, uh you know, a lot of people like uh like my art and uh the uh At one time they used to you know want me to do the chalk drawings for 'em. And there was a time when I actually did chalk drawings for folks. It cost them an arm and a leg, but I did it And uh but that got too time consuming. I couldn't do it. So we've we've put a lot of our uh artwork into print. Uh especially artwork that I've done on acry with acrylics and oils and and so forth. And there's chalk drawings back there also. So, and I take uh the the best chalk drawings and usually put them in print and they're available uh you know the following year or years later. So uh anyway, you need to stop back by the table there and you Christmas is coming on, you might find something back there that uh somebody would really enjoy. And my wife is saying I'm sorry, I can't hear you. The other light. My other the other light? Oh I'm glad she's around. She remembered that uh I have two black lights, one above. And voila one below. However, the holder for the one below is up here. This board is too big. And so I have to improvise. And so I found a stick. And I'm improvising with this stick. And uh so you'll excuse me now why Get things together here. Hopefully this will uh suffice. And if it doesn't, tough I don't know any other way to put it. But anyway, uh how many of you uh like the chalk drawing tonight? All right. Uh I like this one. I've I've only done it one other time and and I've made some changes on it for this time. And I believe I like it this time better than I did the first time I did it. But it it turned out real well. I think you'll enjoy it when I show it under the lights. Uh all right. Anyway, there are uh prints back there in the back uh I have to it was still too loud for me Uh but anyway the prints are back there if you're if you have a mind to uh have a couple of them in your home, why that's good. I think Christians ought to have Christian art in their home. Amen. And I'm a Christian, that's my art, therefore it's Christian art. I don't know how else you put it. Uh there's uh one or two back there that has uh Bible verse on it. That makes it real spiritual. That's for the spiritual ones. And there's some animal pictures, that's for the carnal ones, and then You know. So anyway, look 'em over. I think you'll find something you like. And my wife, uh you might as well give up trying to Jew her down, she's not gonna g give an inch. It's gonna cost you just exactly what she's got up there, huh? That is that all you want me to say? Yeah, go ahead. She's been my partner since uh Since nineteen uh fifty five. And uh it's been uh it's been a really rough ride. Yeah. Yeah, she even agrees that. No, it's been it's been good and we've got four children, in other words it has blessed our lives and I just can't I I I just don't uh understand it. I honestly don't understand uh why he has blessed us so. It's just uh amazing to me as I look over what he's done through the years. All right. I'm going to let you turn to the book of Haggai. If you've got an old Schofield Bible, which the preacher doesn't now, has it? It's on page 962. But if you had it on Schofield, that's where it'd be. And uh I want to introduce the message uh by uh telling you a story, I guess. Uh Nan and I uh only been on the mission field I think uh one time and that was or it was a couple of times in the same place down in Puerto Rico that One of the times we were down there, the missionaries we were with do a couple that had uh one of these huge sailboats, the kind that you can live on, you know. But it's a sailboat. And uh so uh he got hooked up with them and and took us uh uh for a uh uh do you say a ride? I guess you could say it took us for a ride. But it uh anyway We got on that sailboat and and it was you know it was we'd never been on one before and it was it was really something special that you know to to be silently going through the water You know, with the f the sails all in full bloom, you know, and uh it was just a good experience all the way around. You know, the oceans make up seventy-one percent of the earth's uh surface. Seventy-one percent. And up until the twentieth century, the only mode for people to get between continents was by ships. That was the only way they could get there. And other than than paddling, the only other way uh that the ships were uh propelled were through through the wind and these huge sails. Now there was a number of uh nations that that uh uh built special you know big boats and so forth The English were really good at uh at building. They're an island nation, and so they they had some pretty pretty big sailboats and so forth. But the Spanish came up in in the 1500s, about middle of the 1500s, they came up with the with a a special narrow-hauled uh uh ship with uh had had three or four masts, it just depends on the size of it, uh that uh they called a galleon And uh those galleons were they were superior to just about all the others because they were much faster because of the narrow hull and it was just a special ship. But I want you to think with me as I uh uh go through this uh little scenario here. You see, uh Almost, can you imagine one of these great, majestic, sleek, four mass Spanish galleons of yesteryear? its glistening white sails bulging in with the wind and and the bow slicing through the white cap waves of a deep dark green ocean. It's on a it's on a mission. It has uh it's been commissioned to to safely carry its precious, much needed cargo to some faraway land and people Then almost unnoticed, the waves begin to calm and and uh the once bellowing sails begin to sag, and slowly this once majestic glory of the sea becomes Not much more than just a piece of dead wood. What's happened? Why are the sails empty? Around the equator, around the earth, is of course the equator. And I I don't think I have to explain that unless it'd be some of the school kids today. They probably wouldn't know what that was. But anyway, uh sorry about that kids. But the equator runs around the center of the earth and uh There is a an area above and below the equator that is uh where the trade winds blow. And these trade winds, due to these uh the uh rotation of the earth, uh they blow uh constantly. It's a and and the ships they they know about these trade winds And there's the trade winds that are in the northern hemisphere, and there's trade winds that are in the south, and they're right there where the equator is, and they're on both sides of the equator. But in the center, between these the two sets of trade winds, there is a there is a an unusual calm. And in that calm, the ships are afraid. I mean, this is something that the that the captains of yesteryear used to fear Because in crossing the equator they had to go through this particular area. And many times that area would stall them because the the wind would be totally dead. And the ships would would actually just just sit there, as I said in the in what I read there, just like a piece of dead wood. And it could it could last for weeks upon weeks. And of course, you know, out in the middle of the ocean with nothing to eat and a limited water supply, that was that could be a very tragic uh voyage That area in there is called the doldrums. Anybody ever heard of the doldrums? Black w uh growing up, I I could remember uh somebody would be discouraged or you know like that, walk around all day. Somebody say, well, they're in the doldrums. Well now you know where the doldrums comes from. It's from that area between right on the equator, and it's between the two sets of trade winds. Well what I found is that the Christian is like the mighty galleon We are vessels of honor and of his workmanship, and we have been commissioned to carry his precious cargo, his gospel cargo, to faraway lands and needy people. That which propels as is none other is none other than he who commissioned us and now empowers us. It's his breath upon our lives that fills our sails and pushes us into isn't that beautiful? I like that. That's reason I'm reading it 'cause I knew I wouldn't be able to to to give it to you any other way. So I'm going to finish reading just like I I wrote it down. It's easy to write stuff down when you have time to think about it. Another thing is try to, you know, get it get it across. That which propels us is none other than he who has commissioned us and now empowers us. It's his breath upon our lives that fills our sails and pushes us and uh pushes us on to fulfill his purpose. But the world in which we live is just like the doldrums. For the influence of the world will suck the wind, the breath of God, right out of our sails, and there you'll be discouraged Disappointed in the doldrums. That's what I want to talk to you about today. Over in the book of Haggai, or Hagai, I guess you pronounce that, we have a group of people that are in the doldrums. But uh the prophet of God has the answer for the doldrums, and so I wanna I wanna uh take this illustration that we've used and the the picture that we've used tonight. And kind of put it in this uh in this particular passage of scripture, and perhaps we can learn something here that will help us in the days ahead. I'm looking in in Haggai in chapter 2. And we're going to start reading in verse 1. And we'll read down about verse to verse 9. In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of the Lord by the prophet Haggai, saying, Speak now to Zerabul, the son of Sheel Til. governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jo Josedak, the high priest, and to the uh uh the residue of the people, saying, Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? Yet now be strong, O Zerubel, saith the Lord, and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedak, the high priest, and be strong, O ye people of the land, saith the Lord, and work For I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts, according to the word that I uh coveted with you when you uh when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you. Fear ye not. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, yet once it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. And I will shake all nations, and a desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord of hosts. The silver is mine, the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts. The glory of this latter house shall be greater than the the former, says the Lord of hosts. And in this place will I give peace, saith the Lord of hosts. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we take a few moments now. And uh get into your word. We pray that the Holy Spirit would would just hover over this auditorium. Lord, that you just uh You just search out the heart of each individual. Point out the areas that need to be changed, the areas that need to be conformed to your image. And I pray especially, Lord, in a congregation this size, there's bound to be people here who have never really been born again by the Spirit of God. Perhaps they're religious, perhaps they just feel like their good works are going to get them through. And it could be a a dozen different scenarios that people believe. But the Word of God is pretty plain that Jesus is the only way. There's only one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus, for there's no none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. So Lord, I pray that you'd take this message and the humble effort of this evangelist and speak to our hearts. And Lord, I pray that it would bring forth fruit Uh for your glory in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. You see, this is a I I assume this is water here is mine. It's alright, it's mine now. Didn't think I was gonna let that go. The uh The people in Israel during the ministry of the prophet Haggai are disappointed and discouraged They were taken into captivity some 50-60 years prior to the writing of this, and uh prior to this period of time that we're talking about They were taken into captivity, and when the Babylonians went into Jerusalem, they stripped the old temple, the temple that Solomon built And you've got to remember the glory of the Temple of Solomon. You've got to all you have to do is just read over that and your your mind is just boggled by the riches of it. They estimated that the just the gold alone that was in there uh was like twenty or forty million dollars worth. It wasn't you know it wasn't just some little old you know no this thing was this thing was absolutely beautiful and and all the wood covered with gold, the walls were covered with gold uh the cherubims on the mercy seed uh in uh everything was was overlaid with gold So this was this was a rich fine for the Babylonians. When they came in they stripped the the uh uh the temple and and took uh melded all the gold off and and uh they they s uh It just it just ravished the the uh the temple of God. Well, time went on. People were taken in captivity, then they came back. And here this this situation here is where the uh where the Jews have come back to rebuild the temple. And uh Let me see if we can get it uh squared away here. For sixteen years the temple remained unfinished, and then God raised up the prophet uh Hagai to call the people back to the task of rebuilding the temple. And the people responded to it, to the the the voice of God's man, and they began to build. But it was only about a month later They hit the doldrums. The next thing you know, they quit. They just didn't want to do any more work. So God just raised up a man to, you know, to uh uh uh remedy the situation. But uh let's look at the at what caused him to go into the doldrums to begin with. And I hope uh uh The word doldrum is is an unusual word, but I'm going to use it quite frequently, I think, throughout this whole message. Let's look at the scriptures and see what what the cause for the doldrums is. First of all, let's looking down in in the I'm I'm looking in verse uh in chapter in verse two of chapter two, where it says Speak now to Zerubul, the son of uh Sheol Tiel the governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedak the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying, Who is left among you that uh saw this house in her first glory? The first thing that I see, the cause of the doldrums, uh, is in these people here was to r when they begin to remember Your memory can be a blessing or a curse. It just depends on how it's used. In this particular case, these these people begin to to remember the the old temple and you've got to remember that these people have just come out of captivity They're not there they don't have the millions of dollars worth of gold to you know start overlaying all they didn't have all that And so as a result, their efforts looked so meager. There was some who were s were there building the new temple that could remember the old temple. And as they remembered that old temple, their memory brought back the glory of it. And then they looked at uh the labor of their hands at the present uh moment and they realized that uh this is not going to be like that And so they became discouraged. They said, I I mean this is this is ridiculous. Look at the look at the difference. No way we can ever measure up You know, it's it's the past is a is a is a wonderful thing, but we have a God of the present and of the future, not of the past. And you cannot live in the past. I'm I'm one of those guys that I I'm uh uh what do you call it? Uh uh I like the old music. I like the you know, I like that king cole. Okay Uh I I like you know, I enjoy the you know, the the old days to me there there's some good stuff in there. Now there's some stuff I don't want to remember. That's where the the mem remembering the wrong things is it can get you in trouble. I I understand and and I'm not familiar with that, but I understand on Facebook why you can uh punch in your sweet old high school sweetheart's name and And uh if she's uh on Facebook, why you can make a contact with her and and uh there's been homes broken up just simply uh the use of Facebook like that. You know what I'm talking about? Nod your head so I know that I'm not over somebody's head on that. I'm saying that that memory is memory is good if it's used for the right thing, but But you cannot live in the past. You cannot live there. These people, listen, that's what they were doing. They said, oh well, you you can't live in the past. God is a God of the present. He's a God of the future. He's always listen, God only has one direction. He just goes forward. That's it. There is no behind for him. The second thing that I see is that that uh there was some things that uh that they forgot. You know, uh if is the Israelites, I don't know what I don't know uh I don't know why the Jews h had some of the problems they had. I mean to me now. This this was me speaking. And if I was living with them, if I was a Jew and living, you know, in their time I would do the same thing. So I'm you understand where I'm coming from here. But I'm just saying, when I think of the Jews and I see how God's hand was on them from the very beginning, and time after time after time, where God performed miracle after miracle after miracle after miracle after miracle How he dealt with them in such a personal, intimate way that y you wonder how they could possibly miss it that they were God's chosen people. How could they possibly not believe it that they were God's chosen people? How could they possibly make the mistakes, the same mistake, over and over and over, and they did it Over and over and over. They'd have bad kings, there they'd go. Have a good king, up they'd come. Bad king, down they'd go. And it was just that it seemed that they just that was their that was their whole way of life. If they would just remember that God was with them in the past. God was with them when the temple that was glorious, when God filled that temple, he was with them then And he's still the same God. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. In our Christian life Every one of us can go back to the day we knelt down at an old-fashioned altar or or we bowed our head in prayer and we called upon God and said, Oh God I'm miserable. I'm lost. I need to be saved. I'm asking you to save me. And every one of us who's saved can go back to that day. And things started happening in that day. I'm not saying that all everything just turned, you know, where it was just one hundred percent wonderful, because not always uh it doesn't always happen that way because Satan is on the other end trying to discourage you all the time with little things But can you remember when Satan would come in and try to discourage how God would come in and encourage and give you some special blessing that would lift you up? You remember those times? When we get discouraged, forget about how it used to was and start re remembering about how God used to take care of you and he still has the ability to do it today and wants to and will do it. They'd forgotten God's dealing with them in the days that have gone by. Didn't think he could do it today. He encourages them in these verses later on as we get into it, but we'll not get to that point right now. The next thing I see is is uh The comparisons they made. Notice what it said here in I'm looking in in verse uh three, in the latter part of it. It said, Is not this in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? So their attention was drawn to the fact that here's this big, beautiful, gold-plated temple, and over here's this little wooden thing that that is very Can hardly tell us a temple. And he's drawing comparisons. And you you know you just can't do that. You know, churches now, this situation in this church and not uh of course not so, but uh I know that w when a church gets a new pastor, that's one of the problems that they have Because there's always a group of people say, well the old pastor didn't do it like that. Brother so-and-so never did it like that. And just because the new one didn't conform to the old one, they uh you know they start getting discouraged And then they start leaving because well he just didn't do it the way the old one did. And you know, whenever whenever a change comes like that, you need to remember something. And you can apply this to different things. But you need to remember something. The change that takes place in your life is a change that God has ordained. No, I I mean I I wasn't I'm not gonna get too deep folks. It's gonna be right up here. That's the only way I know how to preach. But g God has his hand on every believer. And he allows the things in your life that is going to help you conform to the image of his son. And he'll have some things that will be be sifted out of your life in order for you to be conformed to the image of the Son. But the end result is that He wants you to become the image of His dear Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants you to put on the mind of Christ. He wants you to be the physical embodiment of Jesus Christ here on this earth. So this thing of of comparing the old with the uh that just doesn't work out Accept change and understand that God has his hand on the whole situation. We look at the political situation today. I'm not going to get political. But the political situation, for some, it's just I mean it's anathema. It's just you know and for others, hey, it's just boys exactly what I want. Well uh Those of you who are going, well man, I don't know what's going on around here. Just understand sometimes we just get what we deserve. We don't have to go too far on that, I don't think. All right, let's move move on quickly here because I want to show this chalk right because I haven't seen it yet. What we need to look at is is is uh well hit let me hit some of these other couple other things here. Uh When we're talking about comparison, we're talking we're talking about uh other times. Uh you know the good old days, I guess they were good when you were there. But whenever you start looking at the good old days, you find out that usually our memory of the good old days is really better than what it really was. We have a tendency to exaggerate that. And I'm not sure that's really good when you talk to your kids and talk about well in my day, you know Uh because that uh kind of makes it sound like, well, today you're not getting everything God wants you to have. But I want you to understand this day is a great day to be alive We're living in a day when when God is is fulfilling prophecy right before our very eyes. That's an exciting time. This is the day that's 2,000 years after Jesus' promise he's going to come back. And we're 2,000 years closer to that coming than we were back in those days. I'm saying in you know this is these are great days to be alive. One thing, when you get into doldrums And you're gonna you're gonna miss God's promises and his plans for you today You're going to be thinking about the past, you're going to be graming and moaning about the present, and you're going to, I want you to understand, you're going to miss God's purpose for you in this present time. if you get down like that. We could be a source of discouragement. When we allow ourselves to get in the doldrums, we can become a source of discouragement for that young Christian Who's got his eyes glued on us and watching how we handle every circumstance that we find ourselves in. We can we can be so against everything. And you know When people get in the doldrums, they're the most miserable people that there are. And they start I mean it They have a bad attitude. They walk into church and they've got a bad attitude and that bad attitude is just, you know, you know, bless me if you can, brother, but I'm not going to listen to you. You know, it's one of those you know you know what I'm talking about? Do you ever get like that? Listen. He's got like that. I don't know about me, but Yeah, see there he's a million. Amen. Just yesterday he was you know, I'm just kidding. So anyway, uh, and it's all because things are not what they used to be. Think about it. Are you in the doldrums? I want us to look at the at the cure for the doldrums. We have just a few things here, and I think perhaps it'll help us. In the scriptures, we're in in verses three and four. It says, Who's left among you that saw this house in her first glory? And how do we see it here now? Uh how do ye see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? And yet, he says, yet now be strong, O Zubbul, saith the Lord. Be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and be strong, all you people of the land, saith the Lord and work. For I am with you, saith the Lord. The first thing you need to do, we must let go of the past. And begin to live in the future again. Live in the present for the future. We must begin to look up. That's what he's calling your attention to here. He says, For I am, I am with you. In other words You need to look to me. I am with you. Don't look at the circumstances and and the problems that you're facing here. Don't look at the past and try to you know, try to dredge up a uh some f uh vision of what it used to be and try to make don't do that. Do you know that God wants to take you right where you are? That's what he wanted to do with that temple. Listen, they built the temple. If they would have built the temple out of j out of the uh wood and and consecrated, dedicated that thing to God Don't you believe that God would come down and fill that temple just like he did the one that was made with gold? It has nothing to do with the physical characteristics of the temple. It has to do with the dedication, the consecration of the of that temple to him. And it's the same thing with your life. He's not looking at the at the outward and you can you can b have the biggest smile and carry the biggest Bible and and you can just brag up yourself and do all but but God's not look interested in that He's interested in what's in here. Whether it's a heart that's dedicated to him or whether it's a heart that that uh is uh uh occasionally slips off into the world there and in enjoys some uh particular uh area of the world and comes back. God's looking at the heart And these people didn't quite grasp that. That God was concerned about their dedication to the project. God is He just He just wants to be number one in our life. He wants to be the very focal point of everything that goes on in our life. We must look up to view God. He wanted him to view God as as the the source of anything that was necessary That's greater than their circumstances. For God is greater than all the bad, all the circumstances that we find ourselves in. We have a God that's greater than all those things We must look ahead. God only not only uh sends his people he God only sends his people in one direction, and that's forward. He's a he's one who uh believes in progress and the and let me say this I look out here and I see a tremendous crowd. And I'm looking for every one of you back on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday night with your friends and relatives. We'll pack this place out But uh there I run off there and forgot what I was going to say. And then the final thing is found there in verse 4 Notice the the last part of verse 4. And he saith saith the Lord, and and and work. I've got that circled in my Bible. I did that because I have a tendency just to look over that word. But by circling it, my focus goes right to it. Because that's the key. Isn't that the key to building a church? Isn't that the key to building our character? Isn't that the key for growing in grace? Is this this one little four-letter word called work? We don't like it, but that's what it takes, and there isn't any other way around it. There's nothing else that we can do uh uh that would take the place of that one thing. We like to sit around and stew in our juices when we get discouraged, when we get into doldrums And there's a tendency for us to want to quit on God or or start lazy and back. We need to get up and get to work. That's that's the bottom line of it. Our marching orders are found in the book of Romans in chapter 13, where it says this. And that knowing the time that now is it is high time to awake out of s out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than we believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness and let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly, as in the day, not not in rioting and drunkenness, not not to chambering and wantonness, nor uh not in strife and envy But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You know, perhaps perhaps your ship Your once proud galleon has found itself in a standstill Sales empty, looking back at how things used to be, making fruitless and foolish comparisons and asking, what's the use Realize that you're in that dangerous dark place called the doldrums. If you took all these verses, this is what they teach. They teach you to let go, let go of the past. Look up. Where your salvation comes from, where your strength and your help comes from. Look ahead to the future, because God has a plan, a purpose for your life. And then simply I look at the uh Well, let me let me finish off with this. We'll close this up. After the crucifixion, the disciples were in disarray. Their sails were empty. Their ship had found the doldrums. But when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting And there appeared in them cloven tongues like as a fire, and set upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit uh gave them utterance. Now folks I'm not saying we need another Pentecost because that was a that was a uh a uh pro prophesied uh event, one time event that took place. But I am saying that our churches and we as Christians Today, we need the breath of God to fill our sails and our gospel galleons and get on with the business of God to look on the fields that are white and ready to harvest. We need to be praying that the Lord of the harvest would send laborers into the field. That's the challenge today. Now let me ask you this. Have you found yourself kind of discouraged and and uh disappointed here lately? Maybe it's maybe it's your the your work for the Lord is somehow or another it just hasn't been panning out and you just kinda gotten discouraged about it. Well understand where you are and take these these uh three or four things that uh uh Haggai mentions to us. Forget about the past, begin to look to the Lord. Uh look for the future. Look at the present and live for the present. Because God has a plan for you. We can look to the future. If you're here today and you're not saved, then uh what can I say? Why wh why would you wait? Tonight is a good time to come and trust the Lord. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing. That's all it's a little bit. But I think it doesn't go through. Can you start with the stuff? Oh yeah, it's a good thing. Let's remember that it's the Lord that fills our sails. that that prepares us for the work that He's called us to do. I don't know I don't know what your calling is. I've been amazed at the at the ingenuity of certain individuals, Christians that I've run across, the way they have found to serve God Here just recently we we uh did the track thing just like you folks do. And uh Our church got excited about it. We had one one fella that uh hadn't been doing hardly anything for the Lord for years. He would come maybe for the morning service and That was pretty much it. But that something about the the track ministry attracted his attention He began to pass out tracks. Stood out in front of the factories there in town and pass tracks out to everyone that walked out the door. Now he's now he's hitting our track ministry in our church. And here's a guy that hadn't hadn't done anything. He's just an old West Virginia hillbilly That's what I call him when I when I see him I say hi hillbilly, he'll say hi hillbilly, 'cause he knows that's where I'm from too, West Virginia It's just amazing. I just ran across a couple that were the and you've ha I think you've had 'em here, uh if I'm not mistaken, where the lady does chalk drawings and And the husband does the preaching and they go to fairs and stuff like that and do a chalk drawing and and uh he does the preaching and people are getting saved. Wow. That put me to shame. I felt like, man, I I could be doing that in my spare time. I'm just saying that that find find something to do. The last thing in that in that uh uh uh in the in the cure for for the doldrums is a word work. I'll tell you when you're working for the Lord There's some kind of a blessing and some kind of a special thing that God just gives you that encourages you and blesses you and makes you want to get out there. Well, if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, maybe this message didn't mean a whole lot to you. But I know this: Jesus is standing with open arms. The picture here is just simply him in the sidelines there, making his presence known. His presence is known here through the Word of God. Where he says he came to seek and to save that which is lost. If you're here tonight and you cannot honestly say from the bottom of your heart, yes, I know that I'm saved and on my way to heaven, if you cannot honestly say that with full assurance. You need to find your place, this old-fashioned altar, and let some some Christian uh worker go through the Bible and show you how to get saved. and know it beyond a shadow of a doubt. You don't have to walk out those doors with doubt in your heart. That's not God's plan. These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life He wants us to know that we're saved because a person who's confident of his salvation is confident to share it with others Are you saved tonight? Are you serving tonight? Or are you are your sails empty and you're sitting in the doldrums? Heads are bound, eyes are closed.