So I was like, ah I'm gonna have to read the scripture anyways, I might as well just do it all at once. And so I forgot to tell Mark about that. So uh we tried to have this whole like ESP thing going on, but apparently we're still working out the bugs. So uh alright, if you could please uh please turn to Genesis 3 uh 17 through 19 Genesis three seventeen through nineteen. I'll give you guys a chance to get there. So I want to welcome you all out. This this crowd is definitely bigger than this crowd. I I don't know what happened over here. Um but obviously I mean, let's just say it. You guys are the more spiritual ones, you know, I mean I mean that's that's but uh anyways so uh anyways, um Start reading this. Genesis, uh Genesis chapter three, seventeen. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, which I have commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of. Cursed is the ground for thy sake, and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thorns also, and thistles, shall bring it forth to thee, and thou shalt eat of the herb of the field. And the sweat of thy face shall thou eat bread, till thou return to the ground. For out of it was thou taken, for dost art thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. The title of this uh this morning's sermon is Dust Thou Art Um, if you guys uh recall, and uh actually before I go there, I'm gonna give you guys some uh facts that I've that I've learned. Most of the human body is made up of water. I think most of you know that, which means it's made up of H2O. So breaking every breaking our body down into elements, we are made up of, and I believe this is actually an order of weight We're made up of oxygen, then carbon, then hydrogen, then nitrogen, then calcium, then phosphorus. And you guys know that so that so it's oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, and phosphorus. Uh that's I just thought you guys should know that. That was a very interesting fact to me. But um but then I was but then I thought, you know, I wonder what good soil is made up of. And I'm gonna tell you. Good soil is actually made up of about 13 nutrients. The best soil, the top soil in the world, is made up of about 13 nutrients. Now, of these, there's some non-mineral nutrients. There are hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon. And then among the mineral mineral nutrients, the primary ones contain phosphorus and nitrogen, and then a non-primary one, sorry, a secondary one, is calcium It's pretty interesting, right? So so the human body is made up of oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus. And good soil is made up of just a little bit more than oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, and phosphorus. That's weird. It's almost as if we were made up of the same things. Which would be really weird if the Bible tied that in somehow. And let me make let me see if I can find something. Oh yeah, here it is. Genesis 2 7. And the Lord God for man out of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Well that's interesting. So you're telling me that that this book, which was written oh, 3500 years ago, this at least this part of the Bible was. knew that we were made up of the same elements as soil. See I It's almost like God was involved with this book. It's I mean, I I don't even know how and that's weird. That's just weird Um you guys want to know something else interesting that I found out? And I'll take you to Genesis two seven for this. And uh Okay, a second let me get to 27 here. Alright. And the Lord God formed man of man of the dust of the ground, and breathing him in his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And the Lord planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put man where whom he had formed. I'm wondering if we were the first if humans were the first things grown in the Garden of Eden. I don't know if that's true. I just think that would be cool. Because we are formed before the Garden of Eden. That's what the Bible says. Because then he places us there. So I'm wondering if God was like, alright, I'm taking some of this dirt And I'm plant man and man just popped up and he was like, Alright, now I'll put a garden around you. Maybe that's not right. But it'd be kinda cool if we were the first things, because the Garden of Eden had some really cool stuff in it. Can can we admit that the Garden of Eden had some really cool it had a tree That can make that could give you everlasting life. That's kinda awesome. And and then it had another tree that could make you know the difference between good and evil. That's kinda awesome. I'm assuming there were other trees that we just don't know about. But I don't know if there's only two trees that were special like that. Because obviously there's probably apple trees. What if there was a tree that was like I don't know? Give you like the ability to breathe underwater. Oh no, that's true. I'd be a cool tree though. And if there was that tree, I blame Adam for not trying out all the other awesome trees in there before he tried out the one that would of course ultimately doom him, right? But um I just I I just think it's very interesting that we are made up the same set of dirt, and that's what God says. Which really shouldn't be that interesting because God said it. But let's just keep going with this. We're made out of dirt. We're made out of dust. Alright? But I'm gonna say dirt because it says dust, but I like the term dirt because that's what you grow step in. And um and dirt is just it's more fun. I mean dust is kinda like because when we think of dust, it means dirt in what we think of. When we think of dust, we think of dead skin cells. And that's not what I don't think God was talking about. Because it's the dust of the ground and the ground does not have dead skin cells So, it's just dirt. Alright. We're made out of this that is gross icky stuff 'cause dirt's kinda icky, alright? Especially really fertile dirt because it's made up of like a bunch of carbon, a bunch of like And in our day and age, maybe not in this day and age, a bunch of old dead stuff and it's getting a little sticky and it'll get you all messy and you'll get uh black stuff all over your hands if you're digging it, and it'll get under your fingernails and it never quite leaves your fingernails And then you try to bite your fingernails and you're like, oh. So you can't bite your fingernails, and so dirt kind of ruins that. But in fact, dirt is so like on let's be honest, dirt is kind of so beneath us that That when we want to describe something as unclean or filthy, we call it dirty. Dirt's not great. So, let's just be honest, you guys are just dirt. That God just went pfft too. I don't know, maybe he went maybe he coughed on you, maybe like I don't know. But you know the breath of God and dirt makes you guys. So you should be a little special about yourself. Alright? I I feel pretty special, I mean I'm I'm you guys just eat a bunch of dirt. Not of you guys, because I'm a bunch of dirt too. And I'm I'm uh quite a bit more dirt than some of you. But you guys have dirt Which is okay. So God made us. And but but it kind of gives us lessons about ourselves. You see, because because dirt is is really more useful than it is pretty. Alright? Let's be honest. It's it's more it's more meant to be used Then it is meant to be beautiful. Dirt can be beautiful. And there's some landscapes that without dirt would look really weird. So it can be beautiful. But but that's not why God had dirt made. It was meant to be. So uh let's uh our bandity that we have should be kind of Like the vanity of dirt, alright? And let me tell you something, dirt's not very vain. Let me take it to uh second or First Timothy four eight. For the bodily exercise profit little, but godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of life that is now, of which that is to come. Beauty uh beauty is vain. Alright? In fact beauty is so vain, and everyone knows that so much. That Vanity Fair is called Vanity Fair. The magazine? Right? I mean, it's actually called that. Beauty is vain. It doesn't really matter. Alright, listen, the Bible says that bodily exercise profited a little, right? And I believe that. Of course it profited a little. It'll keep you alive longer. And that's good, right? But Beauty itself is vain. And you know what beauty doesn't matter to? I mean yes, beauty matters to like peacocks. Peacock's actually really liked beauty. Like, hey look at that giant that giant like tailsiders, that's awesome. But we weren't made out of peacocks. We made it out of dirt. And so while I like things that look nice, don't get me wrong. I like I I married a pretty woman because I like pretty things. And I I bought this awesome tie because I like pretty things. But you know what? This awesome tie doesn't matter that much. Because dirt's not supposed to be pretty. It doesn't have to be pretty. That's not why dirt exists. It exists to be useful. And let me tell you something. If you're if if your if your beauty when I'm speaking of vanity, but if your looks and what everything looks like on the outside is more important than your usefulness to God Then you're not a good kind of dirt. A good kind of dirt grows things. A good kind of dirt I hate to say it's broken. If you if you're if you're one of the and like this I'm not gonna like insult anyone here, but if you're someone who who would rather not get dirty or get filthy Going and hugging a little kid that rode on the bus and you know oh oh oh oh I've been there. Trust me. Hey kids, like I'm wearing like this. I got a brand new And I'm very vain. Okay, I'm just letting you guys know that right now. I'm very vain. So I'm not preaching against you, I'm preaching against me. I got this brand new overcoat and it was a couple of years ago. It it's the one I wear today. Brand new overcoat. And it was it's nice. It's Calvin Klein. I got a great deal and I was very happy about it. And I get on the bus because I was right because I was picking up kids on the bus. This kid, I'm I'm I know we like like I know y I said you guys were made out of dirt. This kid may have been made out of dirt. Like actually made out of dirt Gets on the bus and he hugs me. And my initial reaction is ah take me on just like and you appeal him off. But But my job on this isn't to look pretty. My job is to be useful. After all, I'm made out of dirt. So you take that hug. And then you and then you cry over your use of tears to wipe off your brand new coat and you're so beautiful and it's just got dirt on it. But our job is be useful. Let me tell you something. Un uh I told you that dirt can be pretty. It really can If you have some dirt that's unbroken. Like the ground, if it's unbroken, it's it can be very pretty. You know, landscapes can be very pretty. But here's the thing. Unbroken ground Unbroken dirt doesn't grow nothing. That's a double negative, I know it, but I want to emphasize it. Grow nothing. Alright? You can't put a seed in something that's too hard on the outside. You want to be useful to God? You want to make yourself count? You gotta let God break you You gotta let God inside of you. You gotta let Him actually penetrate all of your exterior things, and then maybe God can really grow something Because as everyone knows, you just set a seed on top of ground, that it looks pretty right there, a seed on top of that perfectly firm ground. That's hard ground. You ain't gonna grow nothing. You gotta break it. But a vanity extends to more than just beauty. Vanity, unfortunately, extends to riches. Ecclesiastes 2, 8 through 11. I gathered me also silver and gold, and bit and the peculiar treasures of kings and of provinces, and I get men and I got me men singers and women singers and the delights of the sons of men as musical instruments And that of all sorts. So I was great and increased more than there were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me. And whatsoever mine eyes desired from them, or desired, I kept not from them. And withheld not my heart from any joy. And my heart rejoiced in all labor. And this was my portion of all my labor. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had brought. And on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun. King Solomon, richest man probably to ever live, maybe not. I I uh a lot of people like say he is, but you know, I I don't know. Um Rockefeller was a really rich dude. So maybe he'd beat him, I don't know. The wisest man ever. I'll give I'll give I'll give Solomon that, uh other than Jesus of course. But Solomon, very rich man, super rich, had everything he wanted. Everything he wanted. He didn't desired one thing and didn't have it. And and not only that, but he made great business deals. One of the reasons and I believe and I'd some and uh I guess quite a few people believe this or something, one of the reasons Solomon had so many wives was because they were like business deals He'd he'd marry someone so he could get a bunch of land. Alright? Or so he could make a treaty with another country. Very good businessman. And you know what? He got all these riches. But the one thing that he forgot is that we as human beings, our purpose in life is not to get rich. It's vanity. I thought it's life isn't to get rich. You wanna know why? Because we're GERT. We're meant to be useful. For dirt. Let me tell you something. And and this is something I I I went and I didn't read you all the list of uh because there are a few other nutrients um in found in soil. But you know what I didn't find in there? I didn't find any gold. Oh no. I didn't find any silver. I did find carbon, so I guess diamonds could be in there, but I doubt it. Because if you have a bunch of c diamonds in your soil, it's not really gonna grow that well. I found that that when you put riches in soil, we put when you put other things besides what's meant to be in soil and soil. You put an overabundance of one thing. Say you do have a lot of carbon, say you do have diamonds. A bunch of that carbon, it's gonna kinda dry out some of the other stuff that you're still supposed to have, unfortunately. Think about dirt. Is that what makes a soil rich isn't the gold or silver or all the pretty things found inside of it. What makes a soil rich And the term rich soil is how well it can grow stuff. How useful it is. You're made out of dirt. And that's cool, because I'm made out of dirt too. You know what? It's cool with God too. God made you dirt. You could have said that took some gold and some diamonds and some rubies and some sapphires and that breathed on them and then they became humans. But Man, he wanted us to bear fruit. He wanted us to do stuff for him. And so here's the thing. If you're pouring a lot of if you're pouring a lot of gold in your life, if you're pouring a lot of silver, I'm maybe maybe you'll Maybe it'll grow something. I I th I think that by the way, um you go back to eighteen hundreds, mid eighteen hundreds, the gold rush There was gold that they could have just go and pick up on the ground. And there was some gold that was just a little bit deep. You know, it wasn't some that wasn't. And you know what? Maybe it didn't even hinder stuff. And that's great. If you can make a lot of money without hindering your spiritual growth, or without hindering your witnessing to others, or without hindering your church going, or without hindering any of that If you can make a lot of money, please make a lot of money. And then ties, right? Like all right, if you can if you can become a bazillionaire, do it. But if that bazillion dollars which I've been which every time I use this in teen class, one of one of my my very intelligent kids reminds me that bazillion is not a real number. Every time. But I'm gonna keep using it just to ignore that kid. So if you make a mega bazillion dollars Right? That's great. I hope you do make a mega bazillion dollars. But if you sacrifice one ounce of spiritual roast for that That's not good because the more you pour in, and you better pour in some serious prayer because let me tell you something, gold if you have more gold than you have soil in your life, you ain't gonna grow nothing. And maybe you'll be pretty, but that's vanity. And we're dirt what do we have to be vain about? What do we what what do we have to be to like ourselves about? I mean, listen, we're child of God and that's great. But Right now we have this this earthly body. It's not even our spiritual body. We have this earthly body. Which is made it of the same even if you're not gonna take the Bible word, it is made out of the same stuff as dirt And what I mean What good is it other than you're not gonna turn yourself to gold, no offense. Alchemy? Doesn't work. You're not going to turn yourself to gold. You're always going to remain this dirt. So you know what? You might as well be useful. So we should be as vain as dirt. You know what we should also be at? We should be as prideful as dirt as prideful. Because vanities, you know, I mean dirt's obviously not vain, because you've seen dirt. Dirt's like bands of dirt. But Dirt's not prideful either. In fact, I'm pretty sure Dirt doesn't have one ounce of pride. Let me read Proverbs 11, too. When pride cometh, then cometh shame. What the lowly is wisdom. In Proverbs 29, 23, a man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. Let me tell you something about dirt. Have you ever guys ever used the expression lower than dirt? Don't know why they came up with the expression lower than dirt? Because they couldn't think of anything lower than dirt. That's why. Except for like nerds who be like lower than magma. But they're nerds. Alright? You don't want to be nerd. But no, but lower than dirt, it's like man dirt's on the ground. Let's just use that. You know they they want to insult someone. They're like, Jimmy, Jimmy, you're you're lower than he's like looking around, it's like there's a bush. I said oh there's a shrub, it's lower than the shrub you're lowered than a shrub No. They look at it and said, Oh there's dirt. Actually saw the grass and he's like, oh the grass and it's like oh there's dirt underneath the grass. You're lower than dirt. Alright, because they're lower than worms, but you know what's beneath a worm? There Let me tell you something That kind of tells you what dirt is. If dirt is that low on the ground, if that's what we walk on every day. I'm walking on carpet right now, but underneath carpet somewhere is dirt. If we if that's what we walk on, man, shouldn't that tell us how we should react to our own pride? And by the way, this is how cool God is. God breathed on dirt to make us. Let me just tell you that, because that's cool in and of itself. Think about it. God breathed on dirt and he made this. Right? I mean that's pretty impressive. I mean like you know I mean Robbie I mean it's not really that impressive that God breathed under and made that, but but this that's a that's impressive right there. But that's a side point. The fact is, dirt's beneath us. Dirt's beneath everything except for magma nerds. And that's how we should live. Listen, we're not above anyone or anything God has us to do. Church is not really meant to be lifted up high. Let me give you an example. Has anyone here ever taken that cup of dirt when you were in kindergarten and grown a bean in it? Right? Alright, now that cup of dirt, bam, right here. What grows a cornstalk? A cup of dirt that's all the way up here? Or dirt outside on the ground? It gets trampled on all the time. Basically, when dirt gets lifted up high, kind of defeats the purpose. When dirt gets lifted up high, it can't really bury roots that down low. Maybe you have a bunch of dirt up here. Can you go to treatment? I mean, even even if it's a nice little you guys have seen those roof gardens, right? I don't have a roof garden because it wouldn't work. And because I don't like heights and I don't like gardening. So Roof Garden people and me, we're just totally different things. We're both made out of dirt, but we're both different. Because I just don't get it. But it has roof garden people. It's great. And it's cool, you know it's cool. If you're living in the city and you're and you have an apartment, you can have a garden on the roof, and I think that's kinda awesome. Plus it makes the garden the roofs actually look prettier than just like, you know. Um an air vent. That's cool. You know, I I respect them. Although sometimes they can totally leak and it like this is just a side point for you guys thinking about restarting a roof garden. It can leak and come like ruining your ceiling and crashing through and all that jazz that happened a couple years ago I guess. But the point is, there's a root garden, and that's cool. And you can grow some small tomato plants. And you can probably grow a cucumber. Maybe even a bush. But you can't grow an oak tree. But for some reason, even is as well kept as that and how pr and as pretty as that roof garden is. You know what's better at growing oak tree than that? The dirt outside. The dirt that no one's taken care of. That in fact no one's ever touched. No one's ever looked upon to say that's really special ground right there. That's what grows out trees. Hmm. If you're filled with pride, If you've lifted yourself up high, my question is, what can you really grow? Because that's just going to get in the way. That cup, that bean, now I said I have no problem against the bean in the cup. But you know where that dirt probably is gonna be more useful? It was poured into a garden. Then it could be a part of something awesome. Which also tells us about how we are as Christians, which tells us about how we should react to each other. I I love you guys, you guys are great Christians, you're great people, and I love being part of this church, but think about this. If you separate yourself from your other Christians it's like separating, I don't know, a couple feet of dirt from all the rest of the dirt. And maybe we're all separated. Maybe we're all just in little dirt piles everywhere. We could be able to grow something in there. I don't know. I guess I have another gardener. Maybe you can grow something in there. I think we are meant to be together. I think we're meant to work together. And by the way, you can only work together if one of you isn't higher than the other. 'Cause even ground grows things a lot better than than uh than the garden that looks like this, you know Even ground looks a lot better. So so admitting that we're all dirt and bringing ourselves all down to the same level, we can actually make a difference. In this world. We can actually grow some serious fruit. But if we're all separate, no, this is my pile of dirt, and I'm walking up here to this hill. I don't know if dirt walks, but it could. It'd be like walking up to this hill. I'm setting myself way up here on top of all you other dirts. Okay, that's fine. But here's another point about dirt and uh pride. You know that the best moisture is in the valley, not on top of the mountain I I used to live in the Rocky Mountains, and that's awesome because the Rockies are great, but Colorado kind of stinks. No offense to anyone else from Colorado. They're all liberals there nowadays. So if you haven't been there in a while, I apologize, they're all liberals. So if you're liberal, yeah, go for it man. But um I'm just saying move to Colorado. I used to live in the Rockies and here's the thing about the Rockies. They're beautiful. I really like them. But you know what I don't see on top of the mountains? Out there? I don't see any trees. I don't see any trees at all. Now they're cool. And God created them and they are they're really awesome. But man, ain't nothing grows up there. They actually have what they call tree line. Tree line is above this, ain't nothing grows. That's what it means. And yes, that's another double negative. Nothing grows. Why? Because the higher you lift yourself up, the higher you are, the more useless you become to God. Sorry, it's true The higher you're lifted up in your own spirit, I'm this important, so I can't do this, or I won't do this, or I don't have time for this because I'm too important doing something else. You're just lifting yourself higher and higher, and maybe you'll go by that tree line and God's like, Well, I can't use that till it comes down the mountain. And you know how dirt gets down a mountain? Rockfalls. Which are painful. Here's something else about being in the valley though. Lowering yourself as much as possible. Get a lot of moisture down there. When the rains come, and uh and if anyone doubts this, they can look out there in the ditch on a rainy day. When the rains come, you don't see up here next to the sidewalk, you know oh you don't see a big puddle up here. You they get wet, obviously But the all the water gathers at the lowest possible point inside of the ditch. And if you guys know your Bible, water is a representation of Christ. Water goes to the low places. God comes to the man who lowers himself. You want to know God? Maybe you're too high up on yourself. Maybe you're too interested in knowing yourself right now. You know, that's one of the things about college. Um I went to secular college for a couple of years. And something one of the things everyone tells you is you'll learn yourself. You'll know yourself better. And that's not necessarily a bad thing to know yourself because you know what your strengths and weaknesses are and you know what you want and all that jazz. But But if you're constantly on a journey to find yourself, you might never find God. Because here here's the cool thing that I've that I've learned about God is that you find him you you try to find yourself. You know what? Maybe you'll find him. But if you find God first, you'll know where you are exactly. You know your position is too when you find God, you know your position. You know where you are. And you know where you are, unfortunately? You dirt. And I and I say unfortunately. I don't really find it that unfortunate. I I think it's kinda cool. Dirt's where or uh the low places where all the moisture are. The low low places can grow better things than uh anything else. But um And flatter surfaces grow better than uh rocky surfaces. I just want to say we work better when we're brought down low. Where dirt should be, without pride. And I have one more uh one more point. But first one was, of course, dirt but we should have about be about as vain as dirt is, because that's what we are. Second one is we should be about as prideful as dirt is. Because we're dirt. But the third one, usually you're supposed to like uh line up your points and I learned this, you usually supposed to line up we should be this and this, we should be this and this. Okay, this third one, not at all involved with these points. But I'm just gonna go back to the uh text. Till thou return to the ground, for out of it wast thou taken. For dust thou art, and unto thus thou shalt return. You see, we need to examine ourselves as dust, as dirt. Right? We need to examine ourselves as without pride, without vanity, without importance. As something to be walked upon, but as something to be used for God, for for the gardener. Right? That's how we need to examine ourselves, that's how we need to look at ourselves, and that's how we need to feel about ourselves. But here's something else you can learn from being just like dirt, is eventually you're going to return to the dirt. Dust thou art, and in the dust shalt thou return. I hate to say it. It's one of it's one of those points I don't think anyone likes to talk about. You wanna know one of the most uh for sure things in life is? Probably the best bet you'll ever make. Not really a betting person, but if I was, you're the best bet you're ever gonna make. You're gonna die. Alright, that's That's just it, you're gonna die. In fact, and by the way, and and this is something you need to God did raise us from dirt. Right. You know, he raised us out of dirt, but you know what? Man messed up, man sinned, and so now man will be lowered back to the dirt. It's kind of like a little contract. Alright, this pile of dirt here, you're gonna become a human. But if you sin, you're going back to the dirt. And you know what we sinned? We're going back to the dirt. Nothing you're gonna be able to do about it. Let me uh Romans 5:12, wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, were that all of sinned. I really like it when the Bible says something better than you can. So I'm gonna read it one more time because as much as I can preach that you're going to die because of sin, the Bible says it a lot better. I mean it was written by God, so that's why. But wherefore, as by one man, sin entered into the world, in death by sin And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And then let me uh read one word to you about our our mortality. Hebrews 9 27. And as it is appointed unto men once did I, but after this the judgment. See here's the thing. The verse uh and unto dust thou shalt return wasn't known until after man sinned. But now that we sinned, uh but we were given life, and uh Though we were dirt, we were given life. God gave dirt life. That's kind of cool. Dirt was life, right? But through sin, we squandered that opportunity. So that as the Bible says, we're going to return to that dirt. But let me let me let me run back to uh Genesis 2. 7. I just want to prove something to you. And the Lord for and the Lord God formed men out of the dust of the ground. And we know that. We've been talking about that this whole time. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Right? And man became a living soul. Okay. So here's the question then We're dirt. Our bodies made out of dirt. Same same nutrients, right? Same same elements? Can they approve that to you? Same elements as dirt. So we're made out of dirt. But when we return to the dirt, something's left over. Alright? It's your soul. Well the soul wasn't made out of the dirt, the soul was made made out of God the breath of God's nostrils. As I said, nostrils in the verse. Did I make that up? I'm gonna read it one more time. Are you sure? Yeah, no, it says nostrils. So we're formed out of God's breath. Well that doesn't return to the dirt because that was another ingredient. It's like if you mix a bunch of blue marbles and three red marbles. You take away all the blue marbles, put them back in their blue marble case, what's left? Three red marbles. God can't turn his breast into dirt because that's not what it was. That wasn't one of the main ingredients. So he created a soul. Well now this soul exists. So what happens to it? When the when we return to the dirt, when our bodies return to the dirt I'm going to read uh that r uh Hebrews 927. Um just because I'm one of those people who uh if you tell me something once I won't listen to it, and if you tell me again, um I probably won't listen to it, but it has a better chance of that sound Hebrews 9 27. And as it is appointed unto men once to die, that's us returning to the dirt. And then you say, well, what happened to that soul? But after this The judgment. That's kind of scary. Because if we are perfect, we um If we were perfect, we wouldn't have been returned to dirt anyways. So obviously we've already failed our opportunity. We've already failed as as someone as some as someone deserving a soul. So what happens to you? So so you know so that's why God gave us the choice. That's why God gave us Jesus Christ. He's like, alright, you guys, you're sinning, I get that, and I want you to stop sinning. So here's what I'm gonna do. This is God, this is what God thought. You have a place we need a place for your soul, because your soul can't return to the dust. So because wickedness, sin, goes to hell, you would automatically be bound towards hell. But I don't think God wanted to do that. I don't think God wanted to send everybody to hell. So you know you know he did? He's made throughout history. Ways, in all these ways, leading up to sending his son Jesus Christ, right? And he said, Alright, here's your way to where you're going to get another body. If you believe on Jesus' Christ, On Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you're going to get another body. After your old one's gone. Obama, take that breath of life, and I'm going to put it in another body. And and you know what? This body ain't gonna be made out of dirt. It's a glorified body. And there's nothing glorious about dirt. So I'm assuming this new body that we could get ain't gonna be made out of dirt. So I really don't know what its purpose is going to be. I know it's going to be praise God, but I'm pretty interested. I don't know if you're interested too. But here's the thing: you either have the choice Have a choice to have your body returned to dust. And I know most of you know this, but listen, you either have a choice to have your body returned to dust and your soul without a body. For all eternity in hell, or you have a choice To make your body that's made out of dirt right now, useful. And then when you lose your body, wait for it, you get another body that's even better. I don't underst and and all you have to do, you don't have to climb a mountain to find a magical crystal, although I think some people would find that easier, then what you do have to do. You just have to have faith in God. You have to have faith that God sent his son. You need to accept that. That's all you have to do. You need to accept that Jesus came, paid for your sins with his blood, and then rose again. That's all you need to do. My question is if you haven't done that yet and you know this, if you don't know that, it's your not your problem. It's like like someone who uh Okay, I'm one of those people who like I'm like, oh I have a headache and my wife's like, did you take some Motrin? I'm like, no. We'll see Motrin would cure that headache. But if you don't know about the motrin, then you're never going to take it. But here's the thing. If you know about it, so I don't want to call you stupid. Because that's not very nice. I'm not going to call you ignorant because you know what it is. So we're going to call you on the fence. Alright? If you never accepted Christ as your Savior. But I will liken it to someone. Let's let's talk about Bob. Bob was a guy who uh who leased a car, right? Didn't have the money to pay for it, but he leased a car. And um And the guy who lists it to him is like, all right, here's the thing. You sign this deal that says that that you don't have the money to pay for it and you want me to pay for it and listen, I'll pay for it. You just have to ask me. And if you do that, you know what I'm gonna do? After you leave this car, I'm gonna give you a whole new car. It's gonna be a better car. And Bob's sitting there thinking. If your name is Bob, I'm not talking about you. But um that to is that really a hard choice? I will pay off your car now and give you a new car when it's done. Or you're just gonna lose this car and have no money. Or car. If someone offered that to me, I would take it. And Bob should take it. But Bob's pretty prideful. He doesn't want no one paying for his car. He doesn't even believe that money's going to come through. Because he won't give it a chance. Even though it doesn't cost him anything except for his signature Now that guy I would call stupid, but I'm not going to call you stupid if you haven't accepted Christ as your Savior. But I will say this, this that's exact because you know this is a matter of faith. I'm gonna be real honest, this is a matter of faith. And I understand it's scary. I understand that you don't know if you can trust God or not. And I get that. You don't know if you can trust this man named Jesus. Who that I who I claim was God, but you don't know that. And I understand why you're on defense about that. It's not as simple as the car thing, but But here's the thing about that car thing. In the simplicity form of all it takes is an agreement, all it takes is an admission of you can't do something and that someone else can. That is how simple that is. So this is my plea, you're made out of dirt. And I'm made out of dirt A plea is it. Is that before your body returns into that dirt, before you're buried Do you find a way to take what God has given you, this soul, to take what God has given you, and put it into another body through Jesus Christ. I gotta have to come and play panel, that'd be great. Y'all could bow your head and uh close your eyes. I just want to open up the invitation here. Are you my first question for you today is are you vain? Do you live thinking that things in life are more important than what you're meant to do? Or that it was that what you look like or what what people think of you is more important than what you were meant to do. Dirt is again dirt is dirt. Are you vain? But then I want to ask you, are you prideful? Do you lift yourself above others? Do you separate yourself from others? Do you not do you not let Jesus Christ Do you not want are do you are you are you more stuck on being up on top of everything than being down where Jesus Christ is? Are you more concerned with yourself than what you were meant to do? And lastly, do you know what happens when your body returns to dust? Do you want to be for sure on what happens to that breath, that soul that God gave you? Do you want to be for sure? And if you do, I want you to come down here and we'll have someone talk to you.