Uh constant battle around here. Oh, good crowd tonight. Thank the Lord for each one of you. Glad you're here and uh We got some visitors. We have four chalk drawings completed now. And uh I think it's this time of the week when we need to find out uh which is the favorite so far this week. So uh if you don't mind, let's just vote on them. We just take uh a moment here. Let's start with the very first one we did. How many like that one the best for the week? Let me see your hand. The one with the soldier kneel. All right, we got at least uh I'd say about fifteen. And then we did the one on Monday night. Uh how many like that one on the pathway? How about that one? The old paths Okay, we got about four or five on that, six over there. And then we did the one last night with the mountain and the Lord there and the and how many like that one on the cross. Ooh, okay, that's probably a tie for the first how many like this one the best, let me see. Okay, that's good. All right. It appears that uh at least I've got enough people liking some of 'em that uh Makes them all worthwhile. So take your Bible, if you will, and turn to me to the book of John, if you will. John chapter eight. John chapter eight We're going to uh start reading in uh oh let's see. Let's start in verse 19. I'm going to ask you to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God as we read down through a few verses here, five or six or so. Word of God tells us in John chapter 8 and verse 19. And then said they, that is the Pharisees, he was talking to He said, Where is thy father? And Jesus answered, He says, Ye neither know me nor my father. If you had known me, ye should have known my father also. These words spake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple. And no man laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, ye cannot come. And then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come. And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above, ye are of this world, and I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that you shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am He, you shall die in your sins. Then said they unto him Who art thou? Jesus says unto them, even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. I have many things to say and to judge of you, but he that sent me is true And I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. They understood not that he spake to them of the Father. Let's pray. Our Lord, we're grateful for once again the opportunity to preach. And we thank you, Lord, for this church, what it stood for through the years. And tonight we come to you to ask a special blessing on us as we uh once again preach the word of God, speak to our hearts, challenge us, and I ask your blessings on the the chalk drawing. I pray that uh that it'll all work out fine, that it'll honor you, and everything it's done will honor you in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. You may be seated John chapter 8 has a a lot of things to s uh to say about a lot of different topics. And he starts off We're gonna go through this again. I'm not really sure what the problem is. But he starts off there I notice in the bef in the earlier verses here in chapter eight, that's when the the woman caught in adultery is uh is brought forward, you know, and they go through that process. And then he goes through a several verses here, from about uh verse twelve on to through where we read He deals with the condition of lost man and uh talks several things about that. We may get into that, I'm not sure But then he comes to this one place where he begins to speak about death. I suppose that there's one subject that I would be on the top of my list of not wanting to talk about. Probably would be death. Uh it's uh it's one of those things that's inevitable. Uh and unless the Lord comes back, you know, and takes us home as Christians But uh uh I notice myself though as I get older uh checking the obituaries a whole lot uh more than what I used to So, you know, it's all around us. It's it's and it's evident you can't uh go into a town if you don't pass uh a graveyard on the way in and one on the way out And so, since death is evident, there needs to be some understanding about what death's all about and the conditions that we can die in. And Jesus speaking to these Pharisees, whom later on he says, you are your father, the devil. And so these are these are lost people, even though they're very religious people uh which tells us one thing and that is that religion isn't something that saves somebody. Religion, uh you can have all the good morals and and uh and You know, you can dot your I's and cross your T's, but that doesn't make you a Christian. Just the same as being born in America doesn't make you a Christian. Uh I believe America is a Christian nation, but not because every person in here is a Christian, but simply because it was founded on Christian principles, and uh some of those principles are still evident in our laws and so forth even today. But just because you're an American doesn't make you a Christian, as we most of us in here understand that, just the same as being born to parents who are Christians doesn't automatically make you a Christian It takes something more than that, and we'll probably cover that. So in these verses here, he gives us one place And he's speaking to these Pharisees who uh obviously are people who uh are lost. They do not know Christ as their Savior, obviously. They don't believe it that He is the one that that uh uh He says he claims He is. uh that he's not of the Father, he's not a son of he's not the Son of God, and so forth. And and so this is what he says to him. He says, You're from beneath and I'm from above, and you're of this world, and I'm not of this world. Now how much plainer can you get? If you're not of this world, what world are you of? So they didn't believe him. And so verse 24 says, And I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. For if you believe not that I am He, you shall die in your sins. And then once again he says uses the same terminology three different times in those verses that we read earlier Verse 21 on down, three different times he speaks of this thing of dying in your sin. And the question is, first of all, what does that mean? And uh it pretty well speaks for itself, but perhaps we we haven't really uh grasped the truth of what it is. But I know one thing, from what I can gather in the scriptures, to die in your sins It's probably one of the worst things. In fact, it would be the worst thing that could happen to you as a human being to die in your sins. I let it sink in just a little bit. To die in your sins. To die with the weight of your sin upon you. To die with the burden of sin upon you. To die with the condemnation of sin upon you. To die in your sin. That's the worst thing that can possibly happen to you. There's three reasons, basically, that I believe that, and one of them is that, first of all, if you die in your sin, you die unprepared to meet God. Unprepared to meet God. You mean we have to prepare ourselves to meet God? You know there's some people that that that meeting God is something that's so far behind them as far as their mind is concerned and so far uh out away from that they don't even want to think about it, they don't think about it, and they just sort of put it out of their mind and they just go on living their life. They hit their 20s, they hit their 30s, and they hit their forties, and somewhere around the 60s, why you start uh thinking about something besides living. Because now you're you're pretty well over, and that doesn't mean your life is over at sixty, don't get me wrong here, because uh as far as uh Uh I I think about Nan and I. We're having a great life and I'm you know, I'm seventy-seven. So uh I know that the life doesn't end when you hit sixty or when you hit sixty-five and and uh the the retirement age, quote unquote I don't know where we got that, but anyway, uh I know that uh that that uh that there's there's still a lot of life left is what I'm trying to say. But at the same time We have to think about it. We have to think that somewhere out there there's a hole in the ground for us. That's not very pleasant, is it? The truth is truth, and we have to face it. So it's important If dying in your sin is the worst thing that can happen to you, then we need to find out about it and what we can do about it because we don't want to be that way. I understand this is Wednesday night. Majority of people in here have trusted Christ as their Savior, but there's a few visitors that I don't know everybody's heart. I preached a meeting up in uh uh in northern Indiana and uh on uh I think it was Tuesday or thir Tuesday, believe it was on Tuesday night, maybe Wednesday Tuesday I think it was that she came uh the wife of the pastor came forward and got saved. And that she'd been they'd been in the ministry for like 10 or 15 years. So you see, I don't know people's heart. Only you and only God. And sometimes sometimes people don't know their own heart. Sometimes people have savved their conscience to the point where they're convinced that they're all right. But the tragedy is that they, you know, if they've never trusted Christ, they're not all right. They're going to die in their sins. And so it's inevitable that you face this this grim reaper. I listened to a a commercial today, and they used a phrase that I'd never heard before, and I know it's to be politically correct. He said every let's see every I think he said every house no he said every tent has a camel, a black camel. uh kneeling in front of it. Well whoever heard of that before this politically correct situation has come and and the uh the Muslims have uh kind of taken over uh in many people's minds our society almost Where they're given special privileges and so forth. And I don't want to get into that, but I'm just saying that was kind of an unusual way of saying that that death is going to knock on everybody's door. But I'd never heard that expression, a black camel is going to knock uh uh kneel at your door one day. A black camel? That conjures up all kinds of things, doesn't it? But anyway, what I'm getting at is that this is inevitable. It's a point in the man wants to die, and after that the judgment, and we need to be prepared to meet God. We look back in the book of Amos, we see how God was dealing with the nation of Israel, and after he had rebelled, after he had chastened them and chastened them and chastened them. and beat on their head and took their young and and uh took away their food and their water and and uh caused the enemy to attack 'em. I mean he did everything in in in that he could think of to to uh get their attention and to bring them back to a place where they'd listen or look up to God at least And they would not return to him. And so he said, because you would not return to me, prepare to meet God. And he's talking to his own children. Those were God's people, those were God's chosen people, and yet they needed to prepare So just because just because you're sitting in here tonight and you're saved doesn't mean that you do not have to prepare to meet God. As far as your the salvation of your soul, that that's taken care of at the cross. And if you've been to the cross of Christ, received Christ as your Savior, that part's taken. But listen, there's still There's still that judgment that we call the judgment seat of Christ where we are going to be there held accountable for the works that we've done. Whether they be good or bad, and will be rewarded accordingly. So prepare, preparation is important for this thing of meeting God. Every every t every uh month at our church, I don't know uh what it is here, but every month at our church we have communion. And in the communion service, we are admonished to examine ourselves before we take the communion. Why is that? God wants us to have a clean heart, to be prepared that when we once uh uh one day stand in his presence We're not going to be ashamed. We're not going to have undone things in our life. Things that we should have taken care of down here. First of all, if you die in your sins, you're unprepared to meet God. I speak now of the of the of the unbeliever These who Jesus was talking about, the unsaved. First of all, why? Why do we need this preparation? Why is it the Why are we unprepared to meet God? First of all, it's because sin separates. In Isaiah chapter 59 In verse 2 it says, Your sin has separated between you and your God, and your iniquities has hid his face from you, that he will not hear your voice. Sin separates. Sin separates from God in the believer's life. Sin, when you are involved with sin and you fail to confess it and you continue to Involve yourself in that sin. You have put a separation between you and God so that when you pray to God, He can't hear you And that's kind of scary when God is is so separated from you that that Well, that he doesn't want to hear your prayers. He says, But your iniquities have separated between you and your God. Your sins have hid his face from you. They will not hear your voice. And in verse 3 says this, For your hands are defiled with blood. and your fingers with iniquities, and your lips have spoken lies, and your tongue hath muttered perverseness Paints a vivid picture, doesn't he? Doesn't leave a whole lot to to uh imagination He just lays it out there in such a way that you start thinking about these things. He talks about, he says, you're you uh he says that you're defiled with the with blood Your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips, good night, spoken lies. Have you looked at yourself lately through the eyes of God? That is, through this book That's one of the things about this book is that when we get to reading it, we begin to realize it's a mirror. And it begins to reveal to us when we're out of line. It's one of the reasons why we don't like it One of the reasons why we don't spend a whole lot of time in it. We get right with the Lord, we we start in looking at it, and it uh it's just a joy to read uh the blessings that God has, but but uh we get a little bit backslid and start getting away from it and we start to read it in a backslidden condition And what we see here is a condemnation. We see it as a mirror reflecting the awful iniquity that's in our life, the sin that's there. Separation. That individual is unprepared who does not know Christ because his sin is separated between him and his God. There's no, there's uh there's a wall there that uh that uh God's blessings can't get through. And then the second thing, second reason why if you die in your sins It's the worst thing that could happen to you, is that you're unfit to stand before him. Now back in the book of Psalms, if you'll go back there with me, in Psalm 24, he gives us in verse 3 an account there. And he he asked this question. Psalm 24, verse 3. He said, Who hath ascended up into the hill of the Lord, or who shall stand in his holy place? Now we could say, okay, that's talking about the Lord Jesus. He's the only one that could stand in the hill of the Lord. When he talks about the hill of the Lord, he's talking about the very presence of God. And he says, who shall stand in his holy place? Well, stop and think about it. Isaiah experienced that. He came in a vision, was taken to the very throne of God, and he found himself not standing at all Found himself on his face as he listened to the seraphims fly around the throne saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Who shall ascend of the hill of the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place? And then he answers the question in verse 4 when he says this: he that hath clean hands, And a pure heart. Clean hands. What's he referring to when he says clean hands? Supposed to wash your hands every day? Is that the is that it or Maybe twice a day, or three times, or whatever. I don't think that's that's what he's talking about at all. I believe it refers to the to the efforts that we make here in this world I believe it refers to the works. Look at Matthew 5. 16, where it says this. He says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. And then he says in Matthew 18, verse 27: For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he shall reward every man according to his works. In Ephesians 2 and verse 10, and of course he's speaking here of the believer. He says, For we, the Apostle Paul speaking, we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. God expects good works. And he expects us, we stand before him, to have clean hands. And then in Colossians chapter 1, verse 21, it says this, and you That were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath ye reconciled. So you see, there are wicked works According to that verse, he says, of course, it's referring to the enemies. He's talking about the lost people. So the wicked or the lost cannot do anything That would give them clean hands. Everything they touch is defiled, as the leper that touches anything is defiled and must be washed or burned. That's the condition of the unsaved man. And so the question is, uh who can stand in God's holy hill? Who can stand in the holy place? And it's those that have clean hands. And who has the clean hand? It's the it's the born-again believer. It's the one who has been cleansed by the blood of the Lamb. And the unsaved stands there with their hands uh uh Stained with blood. Stained with whose blood? With the blood of Jesus Christ. It's his, it's it's a sinner's uh uh Uh how can I how can I say it's Christ's blood on the sinner's hand because it was his sin that placed him there. Clean hands In Titus chapter 1 and verse 16 it says, and they profess that they know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. So we have a problem. It says there in Psalm 23 that whosoever ascendeth to the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in his holy place, he that hath clean hands, and then a pure heart. Well, that brings a whole new problem then. Because you see, the heart of the unsaved is defiled. It's an abomination to God. The heart of man is wicked. So what does he need? He needs a new heart. And and we find that over in the book of Ezekiel, there's a couple of verses over there in Ezekiel that refers to he's talking about Israel of course and their their rebellion against God and their rebellion against the Word of God and anything that's godly and spiritual And he speaks in Ezekiel 18 verse 31. He says, cast away from you all of your transgressions, whereby have you transgressed. And in other words, he's saying, turn around, repent, get things right. And he says, and make you a new heart and a new spirit. For why will you die, O house of Israel? You see, Israel had a choice. They could have turned around. At any time in their history that they were backslid, they could have changed They could have listened to the prophets. They could have listened to those who spoke out the truth and told them the direction we were going. They could have listened to the admonition of God. Just as these revival meetings and and the preaching that goes on here every Sunday and every Wednesday night, you can you have a choice of doing one of two things. You can accept it And I'll let it become a part of your life, or you can reject it and say, Oh, I don't want to get I don't want to go that far You can draw your line in the sand and say, this is as far as I go. I'll surrender up to this point. But there's some things that I still want to continue doing, or I want to enjoy, or I want to be involved with, or some friends that I need to keep that I want to keep regardless of where they dragged me to, and because of that, uh you've rebelled The tragedy is that sometimes we let that take us too far. In Ezekiel 36 and verse 26, it says this. It says, A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put in you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I'll give you a heart of flesh. Well, isn't that exactly what God did in the New Testament? I like what he says in Romans chapter 10 and verse 10. It says, For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness With the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and the mouth confession is made unto salvation That's the blessing of the New Testament. That's why it's a better covenant, according to the book of Hebrews, is because God does what needs to be done. Back in the Old Testament, could they make their heart different? Could they change their own heart? Obviously not, because they didn't do it. But in the in here in the New Testament, in this church age, the blessing is that God knows we can't do it for ourselves We can't pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps, and so he does it for us. And all he expects of us is to exercise what he calls faith. And that faith, when we by faith receive Christ as our Savior, He imparts within us a new heart. And then he, the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2 there, he says, you are my workmanship created in Christ Jesus. So he not only gives us a new heart so that we can stand before him in this holy mount, but he also creates in us the desire for good works. The other side of the coin is that we have still have a choice. That's the other side of the coin. God creates the desire. If we put that desire down and say, Yeah, but I'd rather do this. Okay. God just is not going to make a robot out of anybody. If you serve God, you serve God because you want to serve God. You you if you're going to serve God, you serve God because you love God. He puts the desire in there. If you act on the desire, he blesses your life and your love blossoms and grows in Christ. But all you have to do is just kind of back off a little bit. Hey, listen, God is not going to beat you over the head and make you do something you don't want to do. He just doesn't do it. Sometimes we all know that sometimes he makes us wish we had. Sometimes he uses adversity to bring us back to a place where we're willing to listen again and willing to accept what he has for us. Those times happen all too often. Pure heart, clean hands, a pure heart. I notice in that verse He continues on uh in that uh in verse four of uh of the Psalm twenty-four. He said he he when he answers the question he says he that hath clean hands and a pure heart, he's the one that can ascend to the hill of of the Lord and stand in the holy place. And then he goes on though, and he says this He says, Who hath Not only with clean hands and a pure heart, but who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully? He just simply pointing out, I think, uh s somewhat of what Solomon was talking about back in the in the uh in the book of uh uh ecclesiastes where he said he'd tried everything and it was all just vanity, vanity, and vexation of spirit. Let me ask you a question. Are you prepared? Are you prepared to meet God? The the the the third th reason I believe the worst thing that can happen to you is to die in your sins. It's not just that you're uh that you're unprepared to meet God, and that you're unfit to stand before Him, but also you're unpardoned. When you stand at the great white throne, if you've never received Christ as your personal Savior, you stand there in the nakedness of your own sin. Unpardoned at the Great White Throne. Probably I don't I I've heard different things and I have a tendency to believe that the believer is going to be there. At that judgment. I don't believe he'll be there to be judged, but I believe he'll be at presence there when these lost people come filing past the throne. And the books are opened. And when the angels read the name and and read the works and see what's in the book and checks the the book of life to see if or the Lamb's book of life to see if if the lamb if that individual's name is there. And so forth. I believe it's going to be uh probably one of the the toughest times for the believer. Perhaps that's where the tears will be, that will be wiped away, and there'll be no more tears But I do know it's going to be uh a scary time for even the believer. I I don't know there's We talk about the fear of God, and somehow we've relegated the fear of God to just a sort of a just a respect for God. But I want you to understand the word fear, it means more than just respect. It means like afraid. That makes sense? Afraid? You say, well, are we supposed to be afraid of God? I believe we ought to be afraid of the fact that this is God, the one that created the universe, I think there ought to be more than just a casual, well I respect the the I respect the office of God. I think it's more than that I think there ought to be a genuine fear as we stand before this awesome God that created everything with just a spoken word. This one that has been forever, that the great I am, you know, that has never ceased to exist, that has always existed. I wish I could understand that, but I don't just can't, you know, I can't grasp it. The atheist says, well, where does God come from? I said, well, where does all this dirt come from? You know, it just is goes back and forth. But the point is that when we stand before the great white throne judgment We may may be standing beside the throne or behind the throne or we may be on our face before God here and the lost or walking in in front and being judged each one and the angels were coming one at a time and grabbing them and tossing them into the lake of fire. And somehow or another I think it's going to be uh it's going to be Something that'll unnerve us at that time. I wonder I wonder if maybe We'll be there and all of us will see our neighbor come up, you know, and and God will uh say, get the books out And that neighbor cries out, well, uh I you know, I I've been I went to church and uh everything and I did and you know the story. Maybe maybe it's your neighbor and you didn't witness to them, wouldn't that be awful? I mean, even if you did witness to them and they didn't get saved, wouldn't that be awful? It's not going to be a pleasant time. Revelation chapter 20 and verse 12 says, and I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, another book was opened, which is a book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works The sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to his works. And Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 17 says this. And they refused to obey. Neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou diddest among them. But they hardened their necks. And in their rebellion appoint a captain and return to their bondage. But thou art a God ready to pardon Gracious, merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookest them not. I read that last verse just simply. I want us to understand that what we've talked about in the great white throne and all that is a horrible thing. to contemplate, to think on. It's terrible. But we have a God who is ready. I like that. He's ready to pardon. He's ready for you as a Christian. He's ready for you to come to Him for the umpteenth time and confess your sins so that He can cleanse and forgive. He's an awesome God. And he's ready to pardon. That one who's lost, and he may have and and I think uh I think of The years that I've blasphemed the name of God as a young man. Use this name in vain just over and over. And he could have struck me dead at any time and put me in the lake of fire, and I'd have no complaint because I deserved every bit of it. But he was ready to pardon. Every one of us in here can think of any point in our life prior to our salvation, and God could have taken us at any moment. And yet he was ready to part. And when you were ready to come to him and call upon him, he was gracious and merciful and he saved your soul, gave you a new destination. Give you a new heart. Put the desire in your heart to serve him. Sometimes We forget about his mercy and his grace. But he's ready. Here tonight. You're lost. You've never been saved. He's ready tonight He's ready tonight to pardon you. He doesn't want you to stand before him at the great white throne. He doesn't want to judge you and listen to your cries as the angels carry you off and bind you hand and foot and cast you into outer darkness. That gives him no pleasure at all. All he wants, he's ready to pardon. And if you're ready to come to him with a repentant heart and just say, God, I deserve hell and I'm just asking you to forgive me. And save me. God will save you. If you can't pray that long of a prayer, you just say, God, be merciful to me as sinner. He's ready to pardon Don't be like these Pharisees. These Pharisees were men who had already made up their mind. This man is a blasphemer And he is not what he says he is. Do you know God Jesus told me, he said, believe, believe me for the work's sake Believe that, I mean, you've seen me heal the sick. You've seen me raise the dead. You've seen me cause the blind to see and the lame to walk and the deaf to hear. Believe me for the for my work's sake. But they were blind, and they died in their sin. And if you die in your sin, there's no hope. No hope after the grave. Understand that. There's no second chance when you get to that point. No second chance Are you saved tonight? I hope you are, and I think most of you are perhaps. But I don't know. But I know this. If tonight that you have a doubt, if there's something twinging in your heart right now that That says, you know, I'm just not really sure about this. I you know, maybe yeah, I'm just not positive. Maybe I ought to do something about it. Then you ought to do something about it. You ought to do something about it. You say, well, I've been to the altar before. Hey, listen, I'll not be one who will talk you into being saved. If I can talk you into being saved, I can talk you out of being saved. But I'm just going to say this. If you're here tonight and you have doubts, you're not supposed to have doubts. You're supposed to simply have the confidence to know that God is going to continue the work that He began when you trusted Him as Savior. You need to come if you have doubts. But if you are not, if you just in your heart and mind right now, you know you're not saved, boy, when this invitation starts, you need to come and let somebody show you how to be saved. Don't be one who dies in their sins. If we have these lights out, we'll show this chalk drawing