Book of Ezekiel, chapter 36, and we're going to be reading uh verses 25 through 38. Now your bulletin will probably say uh 25 through 28, but there's a typo there So we're going to look at verses 25 through 38. Ezekiel 36 begin beginning in verse 25 The Bible says, Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments and do them And ye shall dwell in in the land that I gave to your fathers, and ye shall be my people, and I will be your God. I will also save you from all your uncleanliness, and I will call for the corn and will increase it and lay no famine upon you, and I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field, that ye shall receive no more reproach of famine among the heathen Then shall ye remember your own evil ways and your doings that were not good, and shall not loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations Not for your sakes do I this, saith the Lord God, be it known unto you. Be ashamed and confound it for your own ways, O house of Israel Thus saith the Lord God, in the day that I shall have cleansed you from all your iniquities, I will cause you to dwell in the cities, and the waste shall be built. And the desolate land shall be uh tilled, whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by. And they shall say, This land that was desolate has become like the Garden of Eden and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are become fenced and are uninhab are inhabited, then the heathen that are left round about you shall know that I the Lord build the ruined places and plant that that was desolate. I the Lord have spoken it and I will do it. Thus saith the Lord God, I will yet for this be inquired of the house Of by the house of Israel to do it for them. I will increase them with men like a flock. Verse 38. As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her solemn feast So shall the city, the waste cities, be filled with flocks of men, and they shall know that I am the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, again, we do thank you for loving us. We thank you for this day you've given us. Lord, we just pray you would uh speak to hearts and help us to be receptive to when you are speaking to our hearts, Lord. And we do ask that you would give our pastor a complete filling of your Holy Spirit. Lord, if there's someone in our midst that's not saved, may they receive the free gift of salvation today. In Jesus' name, Amen. If you would take your Bibles, turn back to Ezekiel chapter 36. Ezekiel chapter 36. It's football season. Is there any West Virginia fans out there? Anybody? I know there's two somewhere around. A guy has uh had tickets for a West Virginia game and he sits down and uh A fellow comes up beside him and says, Ask if anyone's sitting in the seat next to him. He said, No, that seat's empty. And the guy said, Who in their right mind would leave a seat empty for a West Virginia game and uh and not use it. He said, well actually the guy sitting there said, actually the seat belongs to me. I was supposed to come with my wife, but uh she passed away. We've been to every home West Virginia game since 1962 when we got married. The guy says, Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. That's terrible. Couldn't you find someone else, a friend or a relative to sit there with you? He said, No, they're all at the funeral. And so So West Virginia fans can be awfully loyal. Ezekiel chapter thirty-six I just want to read verse number 37, Ezekiel 36 and verse 37. Thus saith the Lord God, I will yet for this be inquired of by the house of Israel to do it for them. I will increase them with men like a flock. He says, if Israel will inquire after me, Then I'll do this what I promised. If they inquire, then I will do what I've promised I'm entitled The Message An Earnest Inquiry. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we ask now, as we look into your word, that you would uh help us to focus our attention on the truths that you have for us this morning. God, I uh again and readily acknowledge the fact that I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal or spiritual value for anyone here. So Lord If we're going to get anything to help us, it needs to come from you and your word. And go, Lord, with that in mind, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your spirit that you would speak through me to our hearts. Help us, Lord, to uh give our attention to the Word of God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. When I was in college, I worked in uh bus ministry. I met my wife there And the uh church we were involved in had an extremely large bus ministry. At that time, they had forty-two Sunday school buses. They ran every day all through the city And brought in, I think, if I remember correctly, it was an average of 1800 boys and girls every Sunday morning. And we had all these Sunday schools and afternoon Sunday schools, and just a great endeavor The fellow heading it up was a dear friend of mine. I looked up to him so highly, I still do, and uh the director, in fact he s spoke here a number of years ago, Brother Tom Sexton I remember one time as he would help me in a lot of different areas. I'd talk to him about different things. One time I came to Brother Sexton, I asked him. I said, how in the world do you get in your Christian life to the point where you're consistent? Just walking with God, having success and victory in your life, just consistently. And I'll never forget his profound answer. He said, When you find out, tell me. And the fact of the matter is, that is one of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is simply being consistent. Day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, just staying faithful, just staying at it. That's one of the greatest challenges, I believe, in the Christian life. It's a challenge for the church. To stay at the commission God has given us year after year, decade after decade, just staying at it, holding the course, holding to the Word of God. It's a challenge. And Israel had that same challenge. God chose the nation of Israel to be his ambassadors. In Isaiah, he told them that they were his witnesses. As a nation, Israel was to be an intest was to be a testimony. to the rest of the world as to the holiness of God, the goodness of God, uh, the the that God was the only God And they were to be his witness, his testimony. You know, sometimes Israel did great. And they were a great testimony to the world of God's holiness. And God's goodness. And they would trust him and they would obey him. And God did great things through Israel. Sometimes they did great, and other times they did terrible. Being consistent was a problem they had. Israel was very much like many of us. They easily got sidetracked by the things of the world They very easily got distracted by the things of the world. We're coming off of a revival this week, and I think we had a great meeting with Dr. Williams. He did the chalk drawings each evening over here. You see them there, and folks brought visitors out. According to my count, we had over a hundred visitors here this week through the different things. And so we thank God for that And some people, your hearts were stirred, and some of us, boy, God got a hold of us, and there were certain areas of our Christian life that we got straightened up, and some things that had crept in, and we got them out Now here's the challenge. Keeping that thing going. Keeping that spirit of revival in our hearts. Keeping that tenderness to the Lord and not getting distracted By the things of the world. Israel had that struggle. They would get sidetracked by sins and, believe it or not, idolatry. And God would respond to their waywardness. He would respond by sending prophets. Men of God, filled with the Spirit of God, who would stand and proclaim God's word. And if you read through the prophets here, many of them, the primary emphasis of their message was warning. Don't wander from my word. Don't stray from my will for your life. It'll bring terrible consequences. God is a holy God. He will deal with that. And they would send out a warning to God's people. In conjunction with that, sometimes God would send an invading army. They would come in and invade and and uh uh uh uh Bring destruction to the land, and God would deliver them. And all of that, God was working in the nation of Israel to keep them consistent. To keep them close to the Lord, to help them be that testimony he intended for them to be. God does the same thing for you and I God, whether we want to recognize it or not, God is working in our lives. God is allowing events into our lives. God is sending Christians buyer, maybe a church service or a revival meeting to get our attention and to stir us and bring us back into tune with the Lord Israel as a nation had the same struggles that you and I had have as Christians. We come to the book of Ezekiel. The book of Ezekiel is an extraordinary book. I would venture to say very few people say the book of Ezekiel is their favorite book of the Bible. In many ways, the subject of Ezekiel is very difficult. Ezekiel had some extraordinary visions that are hard to interpret. We understand, it's hard to understand what exactly he was seeing and what necessarily the significance of it was. We know very little about the man Ezekiel. We're not told anything about him other than a little bit in the Bible here in the book that bears his name. We know that he was a priest But other than that, we do not know much about him. Josephus, who was a Jewish historian, tells us a little bit about Ezekiel, but really not much. In fact, we're not even sure that Ezekiel was his name. Some have suggested that Ezekiel was a title that he held Maybe he's true, and maybe his name we don't know. Either case, the word itself simply means this or variations of this God is strong is one of the definitions given for the name of Ezekiel. Or another definition given sometimes is the man that God strengthens. I like that definition for Ezekiel. It seems to fit his ministry and his role as a prophet in this period of Israel's history. If you would keep your place here and come back to the first couple chapters of Ezekiel and God kind of sets the tone for Ezekiel, what his ministry is going to be like and More significantly, how the people are going to respond to Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter number two is where I'd like for you to turn with me. I'm just going to read a few verses beginning in verse 3. And God, as I said, is setting the tone for Ezekiel He is saying, Ezekiel, I've called you to be my prophet, and this is how the people are going to respond to you. Now put yourself in his shoes as he's hearing this from God. And he said unto me, verse 3 of chapter 2, Son of Man, I send thee to the children of Israel. Stop right there. Now I don't know about you, but as a preacher and someone who God has called into the ministry, God says, I've called you to the nation of Israel I'm thinking in Ezekiel's mind, it's praise the Lord. I can stay home. I'm called to my people. When I was in Bible college, again, I we would have huge mission conferences. And there was a number of times where God would stir my heart concerning missions. And I remember one year in particular at the missions conference, and I was at the altar, and God had stirred my heart about world missions, and I felt like I wanted to go to the Philippines And I nailed at the altar and I told God, I said, God, I want to go to the Philippines. You're doing great things there, and there's a need there. And I remember praying for a lengthy period of time. Lord, that's where I want to go. I never had anything settled in my heart that God wanted me to go to the Philippines. I waited on God. Years went by. I met my wife. We got married. We're in Indianapolis four years, Colorado three, and then God called us here in 93. In 1999, the church sent us to Dominican Republic, my wife and I, on a mission trip. And from that we've had many since. When we were down in the Dominican Republic, God stirred our hearts. We saw the need there, we saw what God was doing. We saw souls being saved. We saw towns of hundreds of thousands of people with no gospel witness. Our heart was stirred. And the last night I spoke they had all the missionaries from the island there and a couple other islands come in and had like a missions conference for the missionaries. And I had the privilege of speaking a couple of times to them. On the last night we spoke, and then Dr. Creed spoke, and when he gave the invitation, Kathy and I knelt at the altar there in uh Santo Domingo, the capital. And in the upstairs, second floor of that church building where the auditorium was, we knelt there and we sobbed. And we said, God will come here. We will leave America and come to the Dominican Republic. We'll serve you here if that's your will. And God settled in my heart that He had called me not to the Philippines, not to the Dominican Republic, but to the United States of America. I believe today with all my heart I'm exactly where God wants me to be. Now As strong as a desire I had to go to these mission fields, you know, there's a real joy in being having the opportunity to try and reach my country for Christ. To have an influence. And that must be the way Ezekiel fell. He says, Ezekiel, I'm calling you to the house of Israel. Not Nineveh, like Jonah. Not uh other nations, Egypt and other places. I'm calling you to Israel. But that's where the good part ends. Look at the rest of the verse. Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel. And I hear Ezekiel say under his breath, Praise the Lord. Amen. Then he says, To a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me, they and their fathers have transgressed against me even unto this very day. For they are an impotent, they are impotent children, and stiff-hearted. I descend thee unto them, and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God. And they, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear, for they are a rebellious house, yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them. And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briars and thorns be with thee, and thou dost dwell among scorpions Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they be a rebellious house. And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear. For they are most rebellious, but thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee, be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house. Open thy mouth and eat what I give thee. Boy, what a call Imagine that. Look with me if you would at chapter three and verse number seven God says again to Ezekiel, but the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee. For they will not hearken unto me. For all the house of Israel are impudent and hard-hearted. Behold I have made thy face strong against their faces, and thy foreheads strong against their foreheads You know what God was telling Ezekiel? You and the nation of Israel are going to butt heads. Isn't that what he says? I'm going to make your head strong against their forehead. He says they are not going to listen to you, they are not going to follow you, they are not going to respect you, they are not going to obey your message. They are going to do their thing, but that is the people who I've called you to, and you must preach what I've given you to preach. Boy, that's encouraging. Imagine that. Take a church and God says they're not going to do anything you say. They're not going to follow you, and you're going to butt heads. But God says to him, and this is where the name The definition of the name Ezekiel falls in. God says, You're gonna butt heads, but I'm gonna make your foreheads strong against theirs. In other words, they're going to crack, not you. Your message will stand true, whether they hear it or not. So Ezekiel is called to the nation of Israel. A rebellious house, an impudent house. They're not going to hear, they're not going to believe, they're not going to trust. They're not going to obey, but Ezekiel is sent to them. So his name means the man whom God strengthens. And we see that in his ministry. The timing of Ezekiel's ministry was toward the end of Israel's experience as a nation. They were divided, but the unique thing about Ezekiel was this. Sometimes you have like Isaiah was called to Judah. You have uh various prophets were either called maybe to Israel, the northern kingdom. Others were called to Judah, the southern kingdom. Of course, Israel was divided at the time, but uh Ezekiel's ministry was to both kingdoms. He was the priest to the northern and the southern kingdom, and uh his message, his timing of his ministry was just before The northern kingdom, the southern kingdom, were to be taken into captivity during that period of time while they were taken away. In other words, he was there during a very, very difficult time in the nation of Israel. It was during their downfall. It was during their collapse and their entrance into captivity. His message was threefold. First of all, his message to Israel was the destructiveness of their sin. In other words, he was telling them all this devastation, all this hurt and heartache and difficulty that you're going through, you brought it on yourself. Now here's what Israel had a tendency to do. They would disobey God. Hey, I've got news for you. When we disobey God, there are consequences. Amen? Israel would disobey God and there were negative consequences. And then Israel would do this. Hey, are you with me? Israel would do this God, you're not good to me. Look what you're doing to me. And God's reminding them, I'm not doing that to you at all. You've brought that upon yourself. And we have a tendency to do the same thing. I see it all the time. People will ignore God, people will try to live their lives independent of the principles of God's word, they'll take things into their own hands, they'll make their own schedule, they'll make their own values and priorities, they'll spend their time, money, and efforts and talents in what they want and completely set God aside. And then they have all kinds of problems in their life. They have all kinds of heartaches and difficulty, and they say something like this: Well, God's not been very good to me. Look at this. Why would God let this happen? I'm afraid a lot of times God never intended for that to happen. It's simply the consequence of our own decisions. And that was Ezekiel's message to Israel. Listen, you wouldn't have had to go through this. You would have had to have been in this tight this situation. It could have been differently if you would have just trusted God, if you just obeyed Him. His message also included not just uh warning them of the destructiveness of their sin, but when they went into captivity and they were under the chastening judgment of God, his ministry was to them to uh encourage them not to lose faith in God. They were still God's people. Though they had sinned against God, though they had rebelled, and now God was allowing them to go through these captivity and these wars, losing these wars and the destruction of their land. They were still God's people, and Ezekiel is trying to encourage them, listen, don't lose faith in God. I may be speaking to someone this morning and God has been dealing hard in your life. I may be speaking to someone this morning. And uh you may be having to deal with some of the consequences of previous decisions made, and we all do to some degree. And God's word for you and I is: listen, you may be going through the chastening of God, but don't lose faith in God. He does love you, and he still has a plan for your life. And that's God's message to Israel. I'm not done with you. You have to go through these trials, these difficulties And uh it's a consequence of decisions you've made. But I'm simply trying to purge you. I'm simply trying to chase and discipline and correct you. You're my people. And I will yet bless you. And his third part of his message to Israel, Ezekiel's message that God gave him to Israel, was that God wouldn't deal with his their oppressors. The Babylonians and the Medes and Persians and the harshness that they treated Israel with, God's going to take care of them. And it reminds me, the New Testament in, I believe Romans says, vengeance is mine, I will repay. God will take care of it. Amen? Say, preacher, somebody's done me wrong. The guy at work lied about me. She did that and he did this or they didn't do that. And oh I'm so bitter. Wait a minute. Let that thing go. God will take care of it. Amen? Maybe not the way you and I want, but God will do it in the best way. And we don't have to go out and seek veggies. God says, you trust me. I'll take care of it. Now we come to our text Ezekiel 36 verse 37. Thus saith the Lord God through Ezekiel to Israel I will yet for this be inquired of by the house of Israel to do it for them. In this verse, we have a great principle of Scripture. And it is this God's God gives to Israel some great promises And Brother Mike read them here earlier in the previous verses. A new heart. Put my spirit within you. He gives them all these promises, but They must ask him for it. They must seek him for it God's promises will only be applied to Israel as they seek him for them Now I hope uh is everybody with me? Everybody okay? Hi folks, glad you came to church. Say amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Is Lewis awake? Lewis okay, good. He just got back from New Zealand and he's jet like So uh I thought I saw him laying down on the pew and sort of. Here's the principle and this is the message I want to leave with you this morning. It's all through scripture. It's this. God gives wonderful things to those who seek Him for them. James chapter 4 and verse 2 puts it this way: ye have not, because ye what? Ask not. God says there are things that you and I could have from God if we sought Him for them. God says there are some things that you and I are going without. There are some lacks and needs in our life that we do not have because We don't come to him and seek him for them. God says to Israel through Ezekiel, I made you so many promises Look what he says there. He says, I will yet for this be inquired of thee by the house of Israel to do it for them When they come and inquire of me, when they come and seek after me, when they come and look to me, then these promises will be applied. That word inquire there is a word used to express prayer. It's used 150 times in the Old Testament, and it means this: the word inquire means to diligently seek after, or I like this definition, to care intensely about. God says to Israel, when you get to the point where you intensely care. Whether I bless you or not, when you get to the point where you diligently want what I have to offer for you, then you can have it. You can have it. What does he say? That word inquire means to seek after, as I said, to diligently desire and hunger for. And I believe this is what God is telling Israel and telling us. We need to find out earnestly what God has promised us. And then seek for it. Then ask God for it. Now, here's a problem we have in certain elements of Christianity today. We have people seeking from God things that He never promised. We have people asking things from God that He never promised to give to us. Our responsibility in this matter of prayer is to find out what God says he will give us, what God will do for us, and then seek him, come to him, seeking him to do that which he promised. Now, listen, if you would, to 1 John 5, and verse 14. Here's a New Testament scripture that supports this principle from Ezekiel. Listen to 1 John 5, verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him. Now listen, are you listening? Everybody everybody out there? Everybody okay? Listen to this. This is the confidence that we have in him. That, listen, if we ask anything If we ask anything according to his will. He heareth us. Now some people teach and preach this. If we ask anything, he heareth us. But that's not necessarily the case. He says, if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. In other words, there are some things that God does not want me to have. And I can ask him all I want. He's not going to give it to me. Amen? I must determine what is God's will. I need to come to the promises of God. I need to come to the Word of God. What has God told me He would give me What has God promised he would do for me? I need to find out the perimeters that God has established as to what he will give and do for me, and then I seek for them. Then I inquire after him for that. And we see God do great things. A lot of people have the mistaken idea that I can just ask God for whatever I want, like a spoiled little kid. And if God doesn't give it to me, then I'm not obligated to do what God says. And that is nothing more than spoiled bratism. There's a new word for ya. Bradism. Write that down. I'll put that in my Leatherman dictionary I'm coming up with. But do you follow what I'm saying? We gotta be careful as Christians. We are not God. God is God. He's the one that sets up what the primitives are, not us. And we fall in line with God's will. We don't get God to fall in line with our will. Now He's very merciful. Amen. In fact, Proverbs and Psalm says if uh he says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. What's he saying? He's saying, if I will surrender myself to God's will, commit my way unto him, Lord. I am committed to the word of God, the principles, the values, the instructions of your word. I commit myself to that. Then God gives me the desires of my heart. Now there's two ways to apply that. One way is that God will give me that which I desire, the things that I desire, if my way is committed to Him. And that's true. But I see it this way. God's the one that gives me the right desires. Before I was saved. I had a certain set of desires for my life, but once I trusted Christ and I yielded my life to Christ, suddenly those desires changed, and now I had a whole different set of desires. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Lester Roloff used to put it this way, you need to get your wanter fixed. Huh? The desires are changed. And he says, if you'll inquire after me, if you'll seek Try and find out what it is I want to give you, what I want to do for you, what I've promised you. If you inquire after that and then seek me for it, I'll give it to you. I'll do it for you. And I'm convinced, hey, listen, God is not dead. God is still all powerful. And I'm tired of certain elements of Christianity claiming all the miracles. Listen. Our God is still a miracle-working God. But He works within the framework of His Word. He operates within the perimeters of His promises. And when we get in on that, when we yield to that, find out what it is, and operate within that, then we can see God do some great things. Prayer. I'm afraid many times we seek for things God never promised to give us We long for things that God is not willing to give. But when we seek diligently for the promises of God, then we find great answers to God. I'm afraid that we do not value prayer because we do not understand prayer. I'm afraid that prayer plays such a small role in our lives, practically speaking. Because we simply do not understand how prayer operates. We do not understand the potential of prayer if we operate as God has given to us. Now I I'm not gonna ask you to raise your hand on this, but I know one thing about all of us, every one of us here, we need something. Huh? Every one of us in our lives. I'm not talking about stuff. I'm talking about spiritually in our heart and soul in our mind emotionally spiritually. We need God. Listen to me. If you're here this morning and you think you can live your life independent of God, you are heading for a train wreck. You are heading for disaster. And God operates in response to prayer. Yet prayer plays such a small role in our lives. Prayer is such a small factor in our everyday living, I think, because we don't understand it. We do not understand what it is. Let me give you a few thoughts and then we quit. I want to I want to encourage you to jot this down. Very simple. I think I'll encourage you. Great blessings are the result of great prayers. Great blessings are the result of great prayers. All through Scripture From Genesis all the way through, you see God doing some amazing things. I mean amazing things. But without exception, it's in response to prayer. I was thinking about, remember when um Moses showed up in Egypt and he's let my people go and uh the ten plagues. How many people remember that story? Oh there. Uh five people, praise the Lord. And they come out and the Zapara lets them go and they come out and they come to the Red Sea. Oh no They got the Red Sea in front of them. They got Pharaoh's army. He changed his mind. He's coming out after them. What are they going to do? Oh, God, help us. What did God do? Split the water. That mirac how many people think that's pretty incredible? That's pretty amazing. About ten people thought that was incredible You know what that was? That was God doing something great in response to prayer. Do you think they expected that? I don't think so. I think if anything, they thought God was just gonna lightning strike the I don't think they even knew what they were gonna do. They were just And God did an amazing thing. And you go all through scripture. Remember how many people here remember Elijah? I mean, not personally, you remember the story of Elijah. What a man! Great prophet of God! And he challenges 400 prophets of Baal. And he says, let's pray. You pray to your God, and I'll pray to Jehovah. And the God that answers by fire, let's just settle it here and now, He'll be God. And prophets of Baal say, okay. And so they pray and pray and pray and do all their things, nothing happens. Elisha prays, and fire falls from heaven. Now I don't know about you, but fire falling from heaven and consuming a soak and wet altar is pretty amazing. That'd be incredible. Imagine if we did that, we'd get a crowd. Well you know what? It was a response to prayer. I say this again: great blessings are the result of great prayers. Pentecost, Acts chapter 2, God's spirit falls on the little church there in the upper room in Jerusalem. And the Spirit of God fills them, and they go out and they preach with power. And 3,000 souls are saved, baptized, added to the church. But if you read earlier in chapter 1, they were an upper room, 120 disciples. And what are they doing? They're praying. Pray. God bless us. God. God Jesus had promised them He was going to send them power from on high God, you've promised this to us. God, you said you would give us the comforter. Please, God, give us the power of God. You promised it in your word. And they inquired of the Lord. For that which God promised them. And God did great things. Has God changed? No. Has his word changed? Have his promises gone bad? No. Great blessings are the result of great prayers. Now let me throw something out here. A word of caution. It is important to understand that until a person is genuinely saved They cannot get their prayers answered by God. The Bible is very clear on that. Somebody says, Oh, well, I wasn't I'm unsaved, I wasn't saved, and I'm praying God did this for me. God sends rain on the just and the unjust, but he answers the prayers of his children. If you're here this morning, there is one thing God wants to do for you. He wants, if you're here this morning and you're not saved, you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that God has forgiven your sins, that when you die, you're going to heaven. There's one thing God wants to do for you, and that is this. He wants to save you from your sin and from the judgment of God. You can pray for all these things you want, but until you settle that, those prayers go unanswered. So, our first thought is this: great blessings are the result of great prayers. Now, what here's my second thought quickly. Why does God wait on us to pray before he does that which he promised he would do? Why would he do that? He promises us something, then he waits for us to diligently, earnestly seek him for it, then he gives it to us. Why don't he just give it to us? Well, there's a number of reasons. One is by making us seek him to receive that which he promises motivates us to seek the Lord. If God just gave us, well let me back up here a little bit. What is the purpose God created us? Some people say God created man so man could be happy. So he could enjoy life and enjoy the pleasures of life. God created man for man's pleasure. It's not what the Bible says. God didn't create us for our pleasure. God created us for his pleasure. God created us to have someone in his image that he could love and could love him back. Someone in his image that could respond back to God, not to the same degree, but in the same kind of love. You follow what I'm saying? And so God created man. But the problem is sin entered man's existence and separated man from God. And now man has something. That God did not initially create him with, and that's a selfish will, sinful nature. And now man naturally does not seek after God. In fact, it's interesting, we're going to get this in Sunday school probably next week, but it's interesting. You always find God seeking man. Because we're selfish. And so God set it up in such a way that if we want to get the things He's promised, we have to come to Him. We have to come into his presence. We have to get in fellowship with him. We need to come. And that's what he created us for. You do it with your children. I imagine some of you do. You come home with the small children. You come home, you have a little gift, you'll sit down, you'll hold it up here, come up and get what I got. And so they climb up on your lap. Come up here, here I got something for you. Come here, I got something for you. Come here. Here I got something for you. Come here It's what God wants from us. He wants us to come to Him. He wants us to search our hearts and appreciate what He gives to us. It motivates us to seek the Lord. Why does God wait on our prayers? I think if another reason is prayer itself brings a blessing to our soul. If you have a bur I know this as pastor, I know this is true. Somebody has a burden on their heart, somebody has a difficulty, they have a real need. Sometimes they need to come to somebody and just sit down and talk about it. Huh? I don't consider myself a great counselor. I think I know the Bible some. I can give answers and give you know Bible solutions to people's problems. I think I can help. Do you know what I found out in counseling? A lot of times it's just sitting down and letting somebody talk it out. I don't know how many times I've sat in my office and somebody comes crying, preacher, and they'll go on, I'll just sit there, I won't say five words And they'll just pour their heart out. You know what they say? Oh thank you, preacher. You were such this helped me so much. I'll never forget what you did. I didn't even do anything. I could have been on a statue sitting there, you know But just sharing it brought comfort to the heart. And God knows that. How many times have you or I had a broken heart, just overwhelmed? And we come and get alone with God and we just pour it out. Get up and walk away and feel so much better. Huh? God knows that praying itself, whether the answer comes or not, just the act of praying. Comforts the heart. Comforts the soul. I think the reason some people so bitter is they never bring it to God. Just hold on to it, hold on to it. They're never at the altar, they never pray, never get alone on their knees, God. They never find that comfort that only God can give. They never find that peace of heart and peace of mind that only God can give when we come and just pour it out to them. Why does God wait on us to pray? He's promised these things. Then he wants us to diligently inquire after him. I think sometimes it's because the effort of prayer itself teaches us to value the answer. How many folks have found out your children appreciate something you give them if they have to do something to get it rather than just giving it to them? I found that out was when I was youth pastor. We have an activity. We just I get somebody to sponsor, pay all the kids away, didn't cost them a thing. They never enjoyed it nearly as much. But we said, hey, you need to raise the money. You need to raise ten, fifteen bucks, whatever it was. You get out, we can hire you, do this, that, and the other, you've got to raise it. Boy, then those kids, they appreciated it. Hey, to do something for it. My wife was telling me it and I hope I'm not out of line saying this, but she was telling me that recently they um There was a organization was giving food away locally here. People were lined up and they ran out. And it was free food. They're just giving it out for free. Didn't have to do anything. Just show up. It's yours. And they ran out. And she said it was near riots. People calling up furious. What do you think? We got down there. We need this. What? They were giving it away free. God says, listen, I've got some wonderful things for you. But you need to come and ask me for it. You need to come and seek after me for it. You need to come and understand. I am the source of all your blessings. I am the source of all your provisions. We've turned into spoiled brats. We want God to do all this stuff, but yet we don't want to take some time to humble ourselves, get our knees, and seek Him for it. Great blessings come as a result of great prayers. The purpose God waits on our prayers are numbers. By the way, when God answers by prayer, then he gets the glory for it. And let me end with this. What should be the focus of our prayers? God has given us promises. I think we can put those promises into a number of categories. One thing I think we ought to seek diligently, inquire of the Lord for is our own personal walk with God. I tell you what would help all of us a lot if we would get alone with God or maybe kneel at an altar, at least occasionally, and get before God and say, God, help me to be a good Christian. God, help me to live in such a way that you can fill me with your Spirit, that I can be the testimony you intend for me to be. God, convict me of sin, challenge me, charge me, God, help me. Instead of always asking God, give me this and give me that and I want a raise and I want another car and I want a new house and I want Why don't we come and say, God, help me be the person you intend for me to be? God, bring into my life whatever is necessary for me to be a godly, spiritual happy testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. Inquiring after God. Listen, I think some r one reason some of us are such sorry Christians is we never inquire after the Lord to make us anything better than that. We're just satisfied with being sorry Christians. We ought to pray for ourselves, our personal walk with that. We ought to pray for our families. Husband should earnestly inquire to God for his wife. Husband ought to regularly be on his knees seeking God to bless and help his wife. God pity a husband that does not pray for his wife. What a sorry Sorry, failure as a husband to not pray earnestly for my wife A wife ought to pray for her husband. Earnestly, daily, regularly, inquire of God. God bless my husband, give him wisdom. God help him, give him spiritual understanding. Help me, Lord, to be what he needs. Father, bless my wife. Help her, Lord, to find the strength she needs to be my help me, God, help me to be a good husband to her. Parents should pray for their children. If we would pray for his children as much as we gripe about them, we might not have anything to gripe about them. Am I right or wrong? Amen. A daddy should be on his knees regularly praying for his children. Don't let the devil get your kids without a fight! Pray! See, well, they're just little infants. That's the time to start. We prayed for our children when they were still in the womb. Amen. Remember my wife? She'd lay on her back on the bed, she looked like a pyramid She lay on her stomach, she looked like a uh seesaw. I put my mouth up against her belly. I said, Hello in there. Didn't I? Don't know who you are, I haven't met you yet, but I love you. We put our hands on her tummy. We pray, God, bless that little soul in there. God, keep them from sin and temptation. Children ought to pray for their parents. Amen. Say, my parents are such idiots. It's amazing how parents go from being idiots to geniuses, you know. I'm not at the genius part yet, but I'm getting well you go from being a genius to being an idiot to being a genius as the kids grow. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what's sweet touches my heart? Some of these young people that come in on the Sunday school buses. If you watch the imitations given, you'll find them at the altar. You know what a lot of them are doing? God, please save my mom. God, save my daddy. Pray the day would come to church. Dr. Lee Robertson told the story of a little girl came to prayer meeting. And they did the way we do on Wednesday night, they'd have a Bible study, and then they would end with a time of prayer, and people would pair up and pray. The pastor was done praying and he looked up and everybody was gone except the little girl was at the altar by herself, head bowed. And he thought she fell asleep. And he went over and he just touched her on the back and said, sweetheart, prayer meeting's over. And he heard sobs. And he knelt down beside her and she was praying, God, please bring my daddy to church. Please bring my daddy to church. Please let him get saved. He knelt beside her and he began to weep. He saw how broken her heart was, how earnest she wanted God to save her daddy. He began praying. And there was a few people in the back heard it. And they came up and they gathered around. They began praying and crying that God would save this daddy. Dr. Lee Robertson said that went on for a half hour. People crying and sobbing. The next thing they knew, they heard a voice in the back door and they looked back, and here was the girl's daddy. And he came down, said, sweetheart, what do you want? He said, Daddy, I want you to get saved. I don't want you to go to hell. A preacher knelt with the daddy there, and he trusted Christ as Savior. And they found out the story was about the time that that preacher knelt down beside the little girl. True story. Her daddy was out doing something in the garage and he said he had this overwhelming impression came upon him that he needed to go to church. Something there about his daughter. He just had to get there. He says, I don't know what it was. I just knew I had to get to church. Something was going on. You know what was going on? There was a little girl inquiring after God. And God heard that and answered in a great way. And saved that girl's daddy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help us to value prayer, dear Lord. Help us to believe that what you've promised us you can and will do if we will seek you for it. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm going to approach God's word in a different way. I'm going to look for what God has promised me in His Word. I'm going to look for the perimeters, the areas that God has said, what he would do for me. And preacher, I'm going to inquire, I'm going to pray for God to do those things that He has promised That he would do for me if I will ask him. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I have needs in my life. I have needs in my heart and soul as a Christian. And I want to look to God and have Him meet those needs according to His Word. Many hands raised. Are there others? Preacher, God has spoken in my heart, and this is an area in my life where I've got to give attention to. I've got to seek after God. How many would say, preacher, there's somebody dear to me that's unsaved? Preacher, I need they need Christ. And you say, preacher, I haven't been praying for them like I should. I'm going to seek God. I'm going to ask God to do whatever's necessary in my life. So that he can use me in one way or another to bring them to Christ. Is there any like that? By the off of the hand. Preacher, there's somebody I'm burdened for. They need Christ. I want God to help me pray like I should to bring them to Christ. God bless you, hands all around. One last question. Are you here this morning? Do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? Can you honestly say that you know that God has forgiven your sins? Now, when you die, you're going to heaven and not to hell. God wants to settle that for you. God can do that for you this morning. But you've got to seek Him. You've got to come to Him. Somebody say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm concerned about that. Would you slip your hand up where you are and I'll include you in the prayer for others? Pray that God will help you settle that matter. Is there any at all this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven someday. Father in heaven, bless our invitation time. Lord, a lot of hands went up. You know our hearts God, you know where we're at, help us to pray, teach us to pray, in Jesus' name of the