Number thirteen, I want to begin reading there. This last part of chapter three of James is talking about, is addressing the subject of wisdom, two types of wisdom that are in the world Earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom is the terms I'm giving them. I want to read this whole section, and uh really what I'm gonna do tonight, if I I I've had a message I prepared on the first portion here, uh but It seems like every week I tried to preach it, it kind of got chopped up into different things. So I'm going to try and come back. I'm going to be a little bit repetitious, re-preach some of it, and then try and just bring the whole thought together tonight. So I think you'll see what I'm trying to do here in a minute. But notice in verse number 13, I want to read this whole section, keep it in context. It says, who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Alright, so who's wise? How do you know who this wise man is? Look what he says. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is what Earthly, sensual, devilish. For where envying and strife is, there's confusion in every evil word. So that's the first kind of wisdom. He says, this wisdom, and he gives a description of the characteristics of it. Then verse 17, but the wisdom that is from above. Now he's contrasting the two is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits. without partiality and without hypocrisy. So he's presenting two types of wisdom, earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom, that which is from above and that which is of the earth. And he and he tells you this is how you tell the difference. by the characteristics of it, what it produces in the light. Then verse 18, he kind of summarized the whole thing, and the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. So we're looking at this aspect of earthly wisdom. And uh so let's pray. Like I said, I'm going to review a little bit and I will try and bring this all together into one Thought. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd bless. At the end of your day, this is the Lord's day, as we finish out our day. We're preparing for a great week, a busy week. a week of service and and uh activity and and ministering. I pray that you would just, God, I guess I ask this evening, that you would move on our hearts and minds. That we would see this week and the children, we'd see our lives, we would see life, our world, our society, we would see it from the heavenly perspective. Give us the wisdom that is from above and not from the world's perspective. So maybe you can use some thoughts tonight to challenge us and help us in this way I present my body anew to you. I yield my will. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you would speak through me to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. I like Proverbs chapter 4, verse 7. It says this. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. In other words, he's saying one of the most important aspects in life is that we be wise. If we be foolish as Christians, if we are foolish as Christians, we are going to be defeated Uh we are going to be uh uh eat up by the devil. We have got to be wise, therefore we need to invest ourselves in seeking wisdom. That's one of the reasons that I encourage so much and um and that I try to practice myself is read a chapter from Proverbs every single day that corresponds that that month. And um that has helped me a lot. I think I had somebody just recently said, uh maybe last night at the picnic, somebody said, you know, I'm reading uh chapter that uh of Proverbs that goes along with that month and they were saying different things they were learning Wisdom's the principal thing, therefore get wisdom. It is vital to living a successful Christian life. Not everybody that claims to be wise is wise Proverbs chapter 1 talks about those professing themselves to be wise, but they saw things from earth's perspective, they evaluated things, they pushed God out of the picture, and the Bible says they became fools. They professed to be wise, the world considered them wise, but from a heavenly perspective, they were really just foolish. Two kinds of wisdom, as I said. There's heaven earthly wisdom and there's heavenly wisdom. How do you know the difference? You're listening to somebody, maybe somebody on the radio, and not our radio station, but there's somebody you're listening, and they're giving all this advice out How do you know which is wisdom from above and which is wisdom from below? Well, that's my first thought. My first point, and again, we already touched on this several a month or so ago, but the contrast Between earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom. Look at verse 15. I kind of pointed this out as I was reading. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly. Verse number 17, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure. Then he goes on. So you have two completely Different perspectives on reality. I had mentioned, if you remember, my grandmother would make quilts, and many of you ladies no doubt made quilts. If you look at that quilt from underneath with that they're doing that great design and the is it called cross-stitching I think and they're doing all that and you look from underneath and uh it's just chaos. There's threads, colors, it makes no sense And uh looks like there's no purpose, no rhyme or reason. But if you look for at it from above, from where the ladies that are sewing see it It's beautiful design. There's purpose, and every little uh thread and every line makes sense. That's the way uh the wisdom is. We live in a world that sees things from man's perspective only. God is pushed out of the picture. And so man looks at the world and he says, There's no plan, there's no purpose. We evolved. There's no God. Doesn't exist. We're just here by chaos chance And there's no reason or rhyme to life. Therefore, there's no perimeters. There's no right and wrong. It's just earthly wisdom. But If we understand Scripture, we look from above and we see God has a plan. God has a purpose. God is working there. And so uh how do you tell the difference between Earthly wisdom and heavenly wisdom, I suggest this. Number one, is it scriptural? If somebody is giving advice and say, here's how you ought to act, here's how you ought to think, this is how you ought to behave I've got to ask myself, is it line up with scripture? Is it scriptural? If something is not scriptural, it is not of God. It's not scriptural. It's not of God. I had a lady years ago. We uh um she was uh wanted to join the church and a very nice lady, very sweet, we were friends. I met her daughter just uh not long ago. She's married now, has her own kids, but um She was talking, see, I was interested in joining the church. And so we were going through, she I had some questions. She asked questions about eternal security. And so I showed her some verses in John ten, twenty-eight, and different ones. We went through and said, This is Uh, you know what the Bible says? And she would say this, and and this happened several times in uh in my office. My wife is there. She would say, I'd say, Well, do you see what Jesus says there? She goes, I know what the Bible says, but I was always taught We'll say, well, we understand what you hope, but we want to go by what the Bible I know that's what the Bible says, but I was always taught And she never could get beyond what she was always taught and just take the Bible for what it says. Now listen, anything that is contrary to Scripture is not of God. It has to line up with Scripture. So here's some advice being given. And by the way, we said we live in a world full of advice. TV, radio, newspapers, everything, the internet, good grief. All this advice, all these suggestions, we need to know, is it of Scripture? And then the other question is, what does it produce? How does it affect my behavior? I thought that was interesting in James here, that the emphasis here is what the wisdom produces, the effect it has on earthly wisdom. There's confusion, there's strife Uh there's uh envying, bitter envying. That's what the world's thinking produces. Heavenly wisdom produces peace. It's peaceable, it's pure, easy to be intruded, full of mercy, and so uh the contrast. Number two, uh we looked at the characteristics of earthly wisdom. And uh there's two primary characteristics of earthly wisdom. I think we already touched on this. Uh bitter envying. Notice he says in verse 14. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, lie not against the truth, this wisdom descendeth not from above. Earthly wisdom is intensely selfish. It revolves around me. It places myself above everything else. That word bitter envying has the idea of a intense zeal for myself. Um I think we see this in much of our society today. It is all about me, myself, and we see what that produces. I was Uh I was when I was studying this, uh a lot of this the riots down in Baltimore were going on. And it was front page news and you know all this thing and you saw it as it's happening on the news And these incredible riots. And uh I was reading this, I was studying this while that's going on, and I got thinking, here is a live example of what this wisdom produces Chaos, intense zeal for self, complete disregard for any type of order or respect for others whatsoever, and just absolute chaos. And that is what earthly wisdom is characterized by. Bitter envying. And then strife, he says. And the word strife there is the idea of contention and and fighting for myself. I want what I want. I'll get it regardless of the price. It's a breakdown of peace and harmony. And so if there's fighting, if there's anger, if there's bitterness, and there's hatred involved, then I know that's not heavenly wisdom. That that's earthly wisdom. That's not of God. I wish I could say, and I thank God that that uh it's not been experienced here at Mountain Lake, at least not during my tenure. But uh uh I tell you, I've seen and I've been uh seeing where churches, if they're not careful, they stop, they they forsake heavenly wisdom. And they start thinking along the lines of earthly wisdom. And when that happens, all of a sudden you've got strife going on. You've got fussing, you've got bitterness, you've got anger, you get hatred towards others. And I'm telling you, listen, tonight, whether it's in a church setting Whether it's in a home, a setting of a home, or in a job or an employment, I'm telling you, if there is anger in your heart, if there is bitterness and hatred in your heart towards someone, that strife is there I'm telling you right now, you are not operating according to heavenly wisdom. That is earthly wisdom produces that. Look with me again. Look at verse 17. The wisdom that is from above is first what? Pure, then what? Peaceable, it's gentle, it's easy to be entreated, it's full of mercy I tell you what we need. We need a little bit of mercy. We need a little bit of heavenly wisdom. So listen, if there's bitterness, uh you live in a world, if if if somebody is angry And they have hatred in their heart, they're proud of that. They'll boast about it. Yeah, we hate them. We hate that class of people. We hate that race of people. We hate those the rich people, we hate the poor people, we hate this, I hate them, I hate the Listen to me. That is not of God. That is earthly wisdom. And hatred and bitterness and all that. I think a lot of our society operates on earthly wisdom. And so the characteristics. So we have the contrast, earthly, heavenly, two types of ways of thinking, two views and perspectives on life and issues Heavenly or earthly. The characteristics of earthly wisdom, bitter envying, strife, anger, hatred. Now, let me get to the third point real quick. The cause of earthly wisdom. Where does this earthly wisdom come from? You say, well, it comes from earth. Well, that's very observant. But what's the source? We're given in verse 15 several things. Number one, I put this down, it's not from God. It's not from God. Look at verse 15. This wisdom descendeth not from above. As we said, anything contrary to Scripture is not of God. Can I take that a step farther? If I take that a step farther, anything that exalts myself is not of God. Anything exalts myself. Now that the rubber hits the road there. Sometimes in my circle, among preachers and whatnot, even independent baptism movements, sometimes we get the idea we like to exalt ourselves. We don't brag about how many we had saved. We don't brag about what our attendance was. We don't brag about how big the offering is. Listen, it's one thing to rejoice in God's goodness. It's another thing to try and make myself look good. The issue is not whether we look good or not. The issue is whether God gets the glory or not. And so any wisdom that exalts myself, any way of thinking that lifts me up The Pharisees were guilty of this. They used religion to exalt the self. They loved the praise of men. But they didn't care about the praise of God. That's earthly wisdom. That's not of God. That's not of God. And so it's not of God. It's earthly. I want you to notice something. How many folks are still with me? Uh I feel like maybe I'm rambling here a little bit. Everybody on everybody uh happy? Amen. How many folks are awake? About a third of the crowd. Good. But this is fascinating. Look with me if you would at verse 15. Now you've got to put your thinking caps on. This wisdom descendeth not from above. He lists three things. But is what? Earthly? What's the next one? Sensual, and the third one devilish. Earthly? Sensual? Devilish. The Bible tells us we have three enemies. As Christians, we have three enemies. What are the three enemies? The world, the flesh, and the Earthly, sensual, devilish. You see it? Every one of our three enemies, the world, my own flesh. And the devil are involved in this earthly wisdom, this thinking that excludes God, this thinking that exalts myself. Earthly is wisdom of the world. Ecclesiastes. We mentioned Ecclesiastes. Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. He uses that phrase over and over again. You read Ecclesiastes and you exclude all other scripture and you can read that, man, it's depressing. And he says, I've tried everything in vanity of vanity, always vanity. Listen, you take God out of the picture and I'll tell you everything is vain. What is life? Well why well if there's no God then life is just meaningless And uh. So it's earthly. God is out of the picture. This wisdom relies solely upon man's ability to reason. And by the way, man has a corrupt heart, so our ability to reason is very limited. Somebody asked me again at the picnic, I like that picnic. It was great I keep referencing the picnic. But somebody said to me a picnic, we're sitting around talking, and uh they said, What do you think about the Confederate flag issue? Oh brother, there's a can of worms I said, you know, this is the way I see it. This is man's thinking. This is the world, earthly wisdom. Some fool Walks into a church of all places and guns down nine people in cold blood. That's wicked. I don't care what the setting is, that's ungodly. That's horrendous. And the only solution that man can come up with is get rid of a flag. What does that solve? What does that change? To me, that whole scenario was revealed blaringly the bankruptcy of human wisdom. The complete vacancy. I'm telling you, I've said this before recently, I say it again, I'm absolutely convinced of this. Our world has no answers to man's problems We cannot, our world without God cannot figure out how to respond to the sinful nature of mankind. Tell you what our world needs. Our world needs some heavenly wisdom. They need the word of God. They need the answers from God. Because man's not coming up with it. We are not solving these problems. I mean the more man without God tries to solve our problems, the worse they get. And you take we'll end up taking every flag down in the world. You know what's going to happen? Man's still going to be killing people It's not the flag that flies that kills people, it's the sin in the heart that kills people. Until that's dealt with, uh nothing's going to change. And so earthly wisdom, it's it's uh political correctness, they call it, um trying to intimidate people. Into thinking their way. Romans chapter 12, teach you therefore, brethren, by mercy of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, accept of God, which you reasonably serve. And be not conformed to this world Don't think this way this world thinks. Don't function the way this world functions. We've got heavenly wisdom available to us. And so the earthly wisdom. Then he says it's sensual. The word sensual has the idea of appealing to the appetites of the flesh, the passions of the flesh. Earthly wisdom is sensual in that the desires of the flesh become the authority. My flesh's desires are the authority of my life. What the flesh wants, the flesh gets. Of course, we see that in our day and age being taken to an extreme. And so any wisdom that exalts myself, that exalts the flesh, puts the flesh in charge. Puts the flesh in the driver's seat. Any wisdom that does that is not of God. So we've got it's earthly. Looks to society, the accumulation of man's knowledge and what he thinks should how life should be lived. It's sensual, the flesh decides. And then there's a third aspect, the devilish There is an element of worldly wisdom that is inspired of the devil. The Bible talks about doctrines of devils. I believe, now Brother Grant is teaching on Wednesday nights throughout the summer on different cults. A lot of people involved in a cult are simply caught up in the false teaching. But I'm telling you, there is behind every false teaching, there is a demonic influence. Doctrines of devils. What was Satan's philosophy when he approached God in Isaiah chapter 14? He says, I will be like the Most High. I will be exalted. It was all self. And Satan will take that philosophy, that wisdom, that way of thinking, and it'll put it in, and it'll make want to I will want to exalt myself. Here's what I'm trying to say. I believe Anytime I get selfish, and it's me, and it's mine, and my way, we have to be very, very careful. There is a spiritual aspect behind that that is not of God. Selfish. And you say, yeah, it's just selfish. No, no, no. It's more than that. That's devilish. Satan's whole thing was self. I, I, I, I, I. And whenever we get that same way of thinking, we need to be very, very careful. That wisdom is not of God. Operating by the world's wisdom has dire spiritual consequences. Now here's what I wanted to bring it to a head, and I'll end with this. Verse number sixteen tells us the consequences of earthly wisdom. Look at verse sixteen. For where envying Now he's relating back to this earthly wisdom, for where envying and strife is, there is what? Confusion and every evil work. The word confusion there has the idea of instability. Up and down, on and off. Instability. Would you agree a lot of our societies, particularly our cities, are very unstable? Man, they could blow up at any time. There's confusion there. You don't know how it's going to happen. Inconsistency. Disorder. There's no uh mutual confidence. In other words, the idea of this confusion has kind of this idea. We don't trust anybody. They don't trust me, I don't trust them. I'm telling you, when we're operating by man's wisdom, we can't trust one another. But I tell you what, when somebody's walking with God and has God's perspective and is going by the word of God, he can trust that person. But when they're operating on earthly wisdom, they cannot be trusted. Every man out for himself. By the way, this has nothing to do with a person's race or their social standing. It has everything to do with the condition of the heart. and the way they think. It's what it's all about. Confusion, self-centeredness, instability, and then every evil work. Morally corrupt behavior, ethically corrupt business. That is what man's wisdom produces And so, as we see the Bible removed from our society, as we see the wisdom of God taken out of society, we see a deterioration of morals We see a deterioration of spirituality. When earthly wisdom dominates society, you're going to see the morals go down. I think we've made this pretty clear the year. I haven't said much about it lately, but listen, I, as your pastor, am adamantly opposed to contemporary Christianity. Adam and Leah. You say you mean the music. No, I'm talking about the whole philosophy. Contemporary Christianity, let me say this: contemporary Christianity is more than just a style of music. It is a whole different approach to Christianity. It is an entire different philosophy of Christianity. And you know what I found? The farther people get from the Word of God, the farther people get from the fundamentals and the standards and the principles of Scripture. And we try and incorporate the world and the entertainment of the world and the thinking of the world and the appeal of the world and the values of the world, the more we incorporate that, you know what I found A lot of times those morals will start to slip. A lot of times those standards that were once there of right and wrong will start to go down. And go down. And I've seen people that once walked with God and strong in the Lord and strong in their faith. And they get pulled over that way. I find them doing things they would have never done before. I find them going places they would have never gone to before. I find them allowing things they would have never allowed before. Now listen, we've all got room to grow. Amen? We've all got room to grow But I am saying this, we start incorporating allowing the earthly world of thinking, the earthly's way of thinking, the world's way of thinking, we start incorporating that into our thinking We start getting away farther and farther from God. I like Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. That would be a great life verse. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not into thine own understanding In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Let's ask the Lord as individuals and let's pray for our church that God would help us to operate by his wisdom. The wisdom that is from above, that is first pure, peaceable, easily entreated, gentle, merciful. All of these things. And let's pray for that. We need wisdom. We need wisdom. You know what this old world needs? You know what I think? When we preach on this morning, you know what this whole world needs? This old world needs some Christians that just humbly walk with God. And don't lean on their own understanding. Don't influence by the world. But just love the Lord Jesus Christ and say, Jesus, I trust you. I'm going to live for you. I want you to direct me and lead me according to your word. I'm telling you, there's peace that comes down on that. We die to self. We yield ourselves to Christ and we live for Him. I'm telling you, there's a peace and there's a gentleness and there's a joy there that this world can never ever give us. And so let's ask the Lord for wisdom. I hope this message was helpful tonight. I tried to bring it all together. And let's pray and ask for that. Father in heaven,