Whatever we bring or bring me away, God only Where I praise to the God holy man, even the great I am Forever praises with God's holy land, not me not really. All glory and liar God Very like a day we went into the grave, carrying all my shame. But when three days had passed, he found your death at last. I pray I am forever, pray with me, God for we are Matthew chapter 21 says, beginning in verse 8, it says, And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strawed them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of God, Son of David Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. I want to begin this morning by asking you a very simple question. What would it be worth to you to have every sin, every wicked thought? Every unkind deed you've ever done completely erased from your record. Number of years ago I read about a tombstone in upstate New York. It was in a very, very old cemetery. And the record goes, the fellow that was relating the story said that when you go into this cemetery, if you go to a very back part of the cemetery, the old portion of the cemetery, most of the tombstones Weather has worn off the names and the dates. And you can tell very little about the people who are buried there. But he said there's one tombstone. Way back in a corner underneath a large oak tree, as I remember him telling the story, and he said, if you got down on your knees at just the right angle and you looked carefully at that faded weathered tombstone. There's no name, there's no dates, but there's one word that still stands out. And that word is this forgiven. Forgiven. What would it be worth to you to know that the day when you stand before God All your sins have been forgiven. What would you be willing to do to have that said true? That God has forgiven me for everything I've done. Some people go to phenomenal lengths. I was reading this week, in fact I printed out the article I was reading about over in the Philippines, and I understand this is a pretty common occurrence on Easter over there But they have some followers of Jesus, so to speak, and they're so concerned about being forgiven for their sins, they do not want to die facing God in their sins that they go to this length They literally, and I have a picture up here, I doubt you can see it, but they will literally flog themselves in trying to imitate what Jesus Christ has done, and a number of these fellows will literally have themselves nailed to a cross. And they'll bleed and they'll suffer. Now they take them down before they die. But the whole idea is this. They are trying desperately to get their sins forgiven. To come under conviction of God and to realize the seriousness of what it means to be a sinner. And what those consequences are is very sobering. And when we realize what it means to be a sinner and what the consequences are, I wonder how far we would go to have those sins removed. Now here's the thing, and I'm kind of spilling the beans here a little bit But the fact is, everything that needs to be done to have our sins forgiven has already been done. It's already been done. That price of your and your and my disobedience to God has already been paid. The judgment has already been carried out. If you read through the scriptures, there's two animals in Scripture that are referenced over and over and over, and they're very unique. One is a lion, and one is the lamb. Now, as I said, the Bible will reference these animals throughout. You'll read about the lion of the tribe of Judah. We read about the Lamb of God and the lambs that were sacrificed all through the Old Testament ceremonies. And there's a reason for that. Now we know what a lion is. We know the characteristics of a lion. A lion if you were going to describe the characteristics of a lion in one word, what word might you use? Anyone think? Fierce. Lion is very fierce. I I I thought somebody else say something? What's another word? Anyone think of it? You're allowed to talk when I ask you. What? Ferocious. How many people were thinking of that word? Yeah. I was thinking of the word bold. Courageous, fearless, strong, and powerful, mighty So the Bible uses references a lion in referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, God's Messiah, many times throughout Scripture. But this lamb, a lamb, I would say would be the exact opposite of what a lion is, in as far as its characteristics are concerned. You don't think of a lamb being ferocious I get out and knock on doors and visit with people a lot. I have never yet had anybody have a sign on their door. Beware of the Lamb. A lamb is meek, s a little bit cowardly sometimes A lamb is not known to be. A lamb's primary purpose, among other things, one of the purposes of a lamb in the Old Testament was to be a sacrifice. To be offered up to die in the place of those who had sinned. And as I said, both these animals, the lion and the characteristics of the lion, and the lamb and the characteristics of the lamb, both of these are used throughout scripture. To illustrate the Lord Jesus Christ, this Messiah that God had promised to Israel that was coming someday, they would refer to him as the lion, bold and mighty and powerful, the king. But it also referred to Lord Jesus Christ as a lamb, meek and lowly, to be sacrificed. Now the Jews, who God was addressing and telling them of his coming Messiah, they got a hold of this concept that the Messiah would be a lion. That there that this this Christ would come as a King of Kings and Lord of Lords and they got in their head that when That Christ would come, the Messiah would come, that he would come as this lion, and he would conquer Rome, and he would deliberate Jerusalem. And he'd make their lives a whole lot nicer and they'd uh have more political freedom. They caught that concept of the lion And that's what they were looking for. That's what they were anticipating. But they missed The concept of the Messiah coming first as a lamb. Meek, lowly, to be sacrificed. The Jews Saw the lion aspect, as I said. But they failed to see this. They failed to see that before Jesus Christ, before the Messiah would rule from the throne in Jerusalem, He had to first of all rule from the throne in their heart. Before they would be delivered from their outward circumstances They had to have their inward condition altered first. And that's where the Lamb comes in. And Jesus Christ came to be God's holy Lamb and to die for the sins so that they could be made new from within. So here in our passage that I just read here, Jesus is entering Jerusalem. And he knows, and God had ordained, that he is coming into Jerusalem not to set up a kingdom. But he is coming into Jerusalem to offer himself as a sacrifice for the sins of mankind. But the Jews don't get it, so they're cutting down palm tree, uh palm leaves, and they're gathering straw and they're throwing it out in front of Jesus Christ as he makes this Triumphal entry into Jerusalem, and they're crying out, Hosanna, thinking that a king was coming. When in reality a sacrificial lamb was entering That's fine. But bigger was that we're not going to be able to do that. So kids, oh channel, oh sad, we see that we see, what should it be to come? We know that our Savior is Lord of Lord, and he is our Almighty. All triumph and glory to me and all, as we left our point is to say, a devil return, you changed the king, all death. The battle battle we see the name of the bell battle we see the cannot be seen with you. As a almost nineteen year old teenager in the north side of Philadelphia, my life had gotten so empty I would Sunday mornings my daddy would wake me up. It was just my dad and I living together, and he would wake me up. He'd say, Son, it's Sunday. It's time to go to church. I want you to come to church with me. And I did as I did had for years. I grumble and grumble. I'd just gotten in a few hours before. I said, I'm not going. Quit bugging me. With a heavy heart, Dad would go off to church by himself, and I'd be left at home. As I approached my 19th birthday, God was working in my heart, and the emptiness of a life without Christ, an emptiness of a life lived for myself, was taking its toll. I remember vividly many times I would go and dig through the old family albums, and I found pictures of myself as a small child. I remember one time in particular I was in the dining room and I had spread these pictures of me as a small child there by myself. Just me and God dealing with my heart, and I spread them all out. And I would think in my heart, if only I could go back and start over. If only I could go back to be a kid again. and start over and make different decisions. Well, I later found out that could happen, not go back and be a kid, but I could get a new life. But it didn't happen the way I anticipated. In fact, in my mind, there's no way it could happen. There's no way I could ever have a new life. My course was set. It's kind of the way the Jews were, and it often works this way with God. God doesn't always work the way we anticipate he will work. God doesn't always do things the way we think that he will or even that he should do things. God does things his way because he is all-wise and we're not. And that's the case of the Jews here. Their excitement of anticipating this coming king turned to frustration because they didn't understand what God was doing. Jesus Christ did not come and overthrow Rome the way the Jews were expecting. He did not come and take back Jerusalem. He didn't do any of that. You know what he did do? Jesus Christ showed up at the age of about 30 and his ministry began. You know what he started out doing? He started out preaching against sin. And if you'll read the Gospels very clearly, Jesus was probably the most, not probably, Jesus was the most powerful preacher against sin that has ever walked this planet. He pulled no punches. He would look at the crowd and say, You hypocrites? You liars You put on a big show, you've a whitened sepulcher, you look good on the outside, and on the inside you're full of adultery. You're full of drunkenness. You're full of dishonesty. And I mean to tell you, Jesus Christ was tearing them down. He especially zeroed in on the Pharisees. He says, You're self-righteous. You can go around and you can find everything wrong with everyone else around you, and you fail to see the sin that's in your own heart. You've heard the story of the moat and the bee? He says, you're going around finding moats, faults, and other people's little speck in their eye, you've got a big old two by four sticking out of your own. Of course, he was exaggerating, but he was trying to make a point. The point was this. More than we need a change of government, we need a change of heart. And until the heart is made right with God, it doesn't matter what my outward circumstances are, I'm always going to have problems. And Jesus clearly pointed out it's the heart of man that's the problem. We have a sinful, sinful heart. He preached on bitterness, unforgiveness, selfishness, pride He painted a dark, dark picture of the spiritual condition of your heart and my heart. And that infuriated the Jews. This was not what they expected. This was not what they wanted. They wanted a king. They wanted a king. Jesus did not come to overthrow Rome. No, he came to be a sacrifice for the sins that he was pointing out in the hearts and lives of his listeners. He came to be a substitute, to stand in their place, to stand in my place and your place before God and be judged for our sins. To be a substitute for us. He came, I like this thought. Now, if we're all honest. If we were honest, if we were sitting alone one-on-one and we and a surge of honesty came over us. Every one of us would say, you know, I've not lived up what I ought to be. I've said and done things I ought not to say and do. I've thought things that are horrendous. If people knew, I would die. Now here's what I like that I I love this concept. Jesus Christ came and he says, I'll do this. I'm not coming to be king at this point. But I will come. And everything you've said, every blasphemous word, every deed, every selfish action, every wicked thought, I will take responsibility for you. I'll take responsibility for that act. I'll stand before God. I am responsible for these deeds, and I'll accept the consequences. In other words, he was he was judged by God for our sins. He was our substitute, our substitute. He did not come to change the world, but he did come to give new hearts and new lives, eternal life. But first he had to die. He had to be judged by God in our place, be buried and rise again. And the world rejected that. Rejected that. His own people. If he would not do what they wanted done, then they would reject him. If he is not coming to be the king of Jerusalem, if he's not coming to take back the throne, then we will crucify him. And the astounding thing is, is the crowd that was throwing those palm leaves and the straw out as Jesus entered Jerusalem anticipating him to become king of Jerusalem, anticipating him to overthrow the Roman government with his miraculous power, supernatural power A few days later, they are crying out, crucify this guy. They're saying, he isn't what we want, he isn't what we thought. Kill him! The very lips that cried Hosanna are now crying, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. He's rejected, rejected by man. Turn to she thought of delay thrust using while you may be There is no promise of tomorrow. You only have today turn to Jesus. There is no promise for tomorrow. You only have today and duty. Oh so are you weary and trouble? There is life for us to death as a life for us by death and great. Turn to Justin Wild. There is no promise of tomorrow. You only have today learn to be done so. His words shall not fail you, he promised. Believe him, and all will be well. Then go to a world that is dying It is perfect to tell you For you only have to take Turn to Jesus Trust us. Take your while you may turn to Jesus. The Bible begins with the assumption that God exists. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1 says, in the beginning, God. It's no argument to try and prove God's existence. There's no evidence given that we're going to prove that God exists. It simply assumes that every what everyone really knows in their heart, God does exist. And I believe the heart of every man and child or throughout the world knows deep down in their soul that there is a God. Romans chapter 1 tells us that God gives us this knowledge. It's obvious all around us But man works very hard at quenching that knowledge. Man looks very hard to explain it away and somehow prove to himself there really is no God when it's obvious all around there is a God. The Bible presents to us, the Bible doesn't try and prove to us God exists. What the Bible does is tell us, reveal to us, what God is like. And one of the chief characteristics, I believe, the one characteristic God wants to be known by more than any others is this. And you don't hear this much anymore today. But it's this, God is holy. Isaiah chapter 6 The angels round about the the uh around about the Lord Jesus Christ, they're crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. All through Scripture, the Lord God is holy. The Lord our God is holy. God is a holy God. He wants man to understand that he is first and foremost holy in every aspect. Now, what is holiness? What does it mean that God is holy? That's tough for an unholy mind to grasp. To be holy has the idea of being utterly perfect in purity, in goodness, and in righteousness. God is absolutely, and I like to use this term, blindingly holy You'll find throughout Scripture, when God reveals Himself to man, almost without exception, man falls on his face before God. Because God is holy. And we're not. We're unholy. And here's the problem: God's holiness is the standard of acceptance. Because he is holy, the only kind of being he can accept into fellowship and into union with himself is a holy being. And we're not that. We are anything but holy. Jesus went to great lengths through the Gospels, pointing out to his listeners That they were not holy, they were sinners. And you and I have sinful hearts. And we cannot meet God's standard. Try as we might, as hard as we can. We cannot live up to that standard that God's holiness requires for us to be accepted by our Creator. We're separated from him because of his holiness and because of our sinfulness. We cannot be accepted by him. As I mentioned, we get out a good bit and we knock on doors and we try to talk to people, invite them to church, talk to them about the Lord Jesus Christ. And almost without exception, when I go out, somebody will say something like this to me. I'll ask them, do you know for sure We'll we'll talk a little bit and I'll say this at some point. I'll say let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that if you die now or whenever you die, do you know for sure that your sins are all forgiven, that you'd go to heaven, be accepted by God, and not go to hell? And almost without exception, the answer is something like this. I think so. It'll go like this. I hope so. Sometimes people just say this, no. There's no way I'd be able to go to hell. You know what all those responses communicate? What they're saying to me is they know down inside their heart, I haven't lived up to that standard that's required by God. That's why I what I hope I can. I don't know. I haven't lived up. I hope I can I think I might. I know I haven't lived up to that. No, there's no way. I had a fellow not long ago say, no, I wouldn't go to heaven. I'd go to hell. I know I would So if that's the case, how in the world How in the world do I ever get accepted by God if his standard is so high and my heart is so simple, there's no way I can live up to it. How in the world? What we need is somebody to meet that standard for us We need an advocate. We need someone that will step in in our place and be perfectly holy for us. And thus Jesus is born. God becomes man. Holy God, blindingly holy, perfectly pure and good in every ounce of his essence. And he becomes a man. He takes on the form of a man. And for 33 plus years, he lives a perfectly holy life. He does what you and I cannot do, lives up to that standard required by God. And then he offers himself on the cross. And there, three hours of darkness settles down, and Jesus Christ cries out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And God pours out his holy, wrathful judgment for my sin and your sin on Jesus Christ rather than us. He pours it on him. He's buried and he rises again. You say, preacher, would God do that for me? He would suffer hell for my sin? Not only would he, he did. Or he did. I know this feeling. Maybe you're here this morning and you say, preacher, to be honest with you, I feel like in my life God has forgotten me. I feel like in my life that God has completely looked another way. I've had people say to me, Preacher, God don't care about me. God don't care about me. If you would happen to have that attitude here this morning, God don't care about me, He don't care about my situation, I want to be very frank with you, I want to be very blunt with you this morning. You're wrong. God does care about you. I've had people say to me, Preacher, I understand what you're saying, but you don't understand you don't understand how bad I've been. You don't understand what I've done. God would God could never save me. God could never forgive me. I could tell you about a man I was I I bury uh I I I didn't bury him, but I busy with him up until his death And he told me some things he'd done. He put the family out. He came and told me some things he'd done. And a 70, late 70-year-old man sobbing like a little child. He said, God can never forgive me for this. God can never forgive me for this. I screwed up beside him and I said his name and I opened my Bible. I said, let me show you something. And I showed him that not only can God forgive him, God would forgive him if he'd simply trust Jesus as a Savior. So God is holy. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. We're unholy. We're sinners. So God became man, lived a perfectly holy life for me, so that in my place, because I can't, he did it for me. Then He took the judgment of God for my sins that I failed, so that I can be forgiven of my sin and I can have this holy righteousness that's needed to be accepted of God. He did it all for me. Preacher, God would never do that for me. Oh yeah? I want to remind you about a fellow that was hanging on a cross beside Jesus. He was a murderer, he was a thief, and he was condemned by society to die. And as he hung there, nailed to a cross, just like Jesus, bleeding and dying on his last hours of life, about to go out into eternal hell. He leaned over to Jesus Christ and he said, This, will you remember me when you come into my kingdom? What Jesus said to him? He didn't say, sorry man, it's too late. He didn't say to them, sorry, you've sinned too bad. I can't do that. Jesus said, Today, you'll be with me in paradise. He was accepted by God. He was forgiven. Because Jesus Christ died in his place. The thief on the cross. Sinful, but he trusted Christ. Remember me. Remember me. My life was broken. And scarred by my sin, wood of meaning with no hope within. Steparated from God up on high. Judgment came, I was sent. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Remember me of the my cavalry I make this One request of The mother was hearing a mock price that day. Prince in Sorrow be turned to grave. The take or the Lord from the hall. Here is pride when he showed his life. I now surrender my God unto you. Please forgive me is my humble plea. In rejection my life has been spent. Now, dear Lord, I do truly repent. Lord, remember me when you come into your team. Lord, remember me a deep. I make this one request. Remember me, Remember. They crystallize on one they watch in there and The ball is all the name, he painted God, that's why he came for me to I think it crossed me down for me for terrorists. Eternal life, Christing to God, that's why. We're taken by what we're saying. That's why we My phone began ringing. It was about 2 30 on a Sunday morning a few years ago. And when I sleep, I don't know about you, when I sleep, I sleep And so by the time I became aware that the phone was ringing beside my bed, it had quit. And so I reached over and looked and it was a number that was out of the area here. I didn't recognize it, there was nobody in my list of contacts. And when you're a preacher, you get a lot of weird phone calls. So 2 30 in the morning I figured, well, the bar's closed at 2, somebody's out and so I didn't give it much thought. About that time It beeped that there was a voicemail. A new voicemail. I said, aha, somebody left a message. So I uh so I Turned on the voice message and I listened to the message and it was this. There's music, loud music playing in the background. I could hear people laughing and carrying on. And this guy said, I got your little pamphlet on my door today when I got home. We had been given out tracts that day, gospel tracts. And he proceeds to start reading into the phone what that little gospel tract said. And he went through the first part that God loves. I mean he just read it verbatim. I'm listening to the voicemail He just read it verbatim. Rock and roll music in the back, laughing. It's obviously a party setting. And he came down that were all sinners and he kind of chuckled and is obviously he was inebriated For me folks from West Virginia that she's drunk, but uh I'm sorry. Man, I said I wasn't gonna do anything like that It's obvious the guy was drunk. And so I'm listening, I'm thinking, oh brother. But he's reading down through About halfway through that gospel tract, this statement was in the tract, and he read it verbatim. One day you will die. And when he read that, you could tell in his voice, it hit him. And he stopped. Click. God's word had touched his heart. You see, we have, here's the term. You're going to be impressed with this, I'll tell you for sure. Sanatophobia. Sanatophobia is a fear of death and dying. And we all have Sanatophobia. We have hired hardwired into us an aversion, a fear, a uh of death. We will do just about anything to avoid dying. To avoid dying. What in the world is on the other side of death? This heart stops beating, these lungs start pumping air, and my I leave this body, I die, this body dies. What is over there? What happens? The Bible's incredibly clear on that. There's no question. We go to one of two places. Immediately upon death, either we go to heaven and be in the presence of God, or we're separate, or we go to hell, separated from God for all eternity, end up in the lake of fire. That's the only two options. There's nothing else. You say, well, somebody told me, nah, it doesn't matter what somebody else says. That's what the Bible says. Heaven or hell. Heaven or hell. The Bible says in Romans chapter 6 and verse 23, for the wages of sin is death. That's not referring to physical death, that's included, but it's talking about spiritual death, separation from God, all eternity in hell. That's the consequences of our sin. Now here's the point of what we're trying to make in this whole program on this Easter Sunday morning. We are sinners. Because of our sin, we're under the judgment and wrath of the holy God. Because of that, if we die in those sins, we are separated from God for all eternity in hell. Horrendous. Jesus preached more about hell than he did about heaven. He gave horrendous details about it. But the good news is this. Romans 5. 8 says, But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we are yet sinners. Christ died for us. He has a substitute for us in our place. He paid those wages of sin for us. He was buried. And the one of the, if not one of, if not the most proven event in all of history. On the third day, Jesus rose again. Proving to God and the world that the payment for your sin and my sin was complete. It was done He didn't have to be dead any longer. He didn't have to be separated from God any longer. The judgment was all carried out. The debt was paid. He rose again. Rising for our the Bible term is justification. We are now cleared of all sin death. Jesus died for us. was buried and rose again. He was our substitutionary Lamb Welcome from the great bear. Welcome from the great bear. Are they living now? Have they living home? Are they living everyone? With a mighty triumph for his road We arose the victor from the dark and he It's forever with this week through waving. We are rolling. Jesus, my Lord. Praise your joy and try out. From the great mighty enjoyable recourse, the victor from the dark to make. And he lives forever with this week to write He alone, he always does. Jesus Christ rose from the dead the third day after he paid for your sins and my sins. The Bible tells us that that crucifixion, that death of Jesus Christ fully satisfied the holy requirements of God for you and I to go to heaven and be in God's presence. He rose again the third day. He is alive today. He's at the right hand of the Father. He saw clearly, more clearly than you and I did, everything that took place this morning here He knows every thought that's gone through our minds. He knows what we're thinking at this very moment. He is God and He's alive. Now, just because Jesus died for our sins, just because he was judged for our sins on that cross and fully paid the debt, 1 John 2 tells us that he was the propitiation for our sins. In other words, He fulfilled it all the requirements. He fulfilled them all so that we can go to heaven and be with God, so that we can be forgiven and have a new life. He did all of that. And now he's alive at the right hand of the Father. Now this is the point I want to make. Just because Jesus died and paid the debt for our sins doesn't mean everybody's gone to heaven. You say, oh good, now we just all get to go to heaven. No, it doesn't work that way. God says that eternal life, having my sins forgiven, having new life, and going to heaven when I die, is a gift that God offers A gift that can be either accepted or rejected. The gift of God is eternal life If somebody offers you a gift, maybe you had a little Easter get together and have gifts or whatever, and somebody offers you a gift, they don't make you pay for that gift. That won't be a gift, it would be a purchase Somebody offers you a gift. Uh we were back there and somebody gave us a little chocolate bunny. I love chocolate bunnies. You say, yeah, we can tell. But um they don't give us that little chocolate bunny and say, all right, that thing cost me fifteen bucks, pay uh that would I'd be buying it off of them. It wouldn't be a gift, I wouldn't be receiving a gift. If they gave that to me and said, all right, we'll give you that gift, but my car really needs to be waxed. This winter tore it up. Well, I shouldn't wax my car and I'll give you this. That wouldn't be a gift. It would be a payment for services provided God says having my sins forgiving, having a new life, having going to be accepted by Him and entering heaven, it's a gift that He offers to me. I can't pay for it. You say, Well, I'll get baptized. Baptism has its place, but it ain't going to buy you eternal life. Church membership, all of that. I either accept it or I reject it. Either I take it, yes, I want this eternal life, I want this forgiveness, I want this new life to be mine. Or I say, no, thank you, I don't want it. But it doesn't just automatically send everybody to heaven. So you say, okay, preacher, I know I'm a sinner. There's no doubt about that. I gotta be honest. I've broken God's law. I'm a sinner. If I die now, there's no way I'd make heaven. There's no way I'm good as good as God's holiness requires. So what do I do? What do I do? The Bible says that if we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in our heart that God hath raised him from the dead, we shall be saved. Saved from hell, saved from the judgment of our sin. Now what does that mean? It simply means this. I recognize and acknowledge to God, God, I failed to live up to that. And let me inject this in here. It means I care about the fact that I've sinned against God. It's not a flippant, oh yeah, I've sinned against God. I don't know. It's like this. I've sinned against God. God. Need to understand that Jesus died for that sin for me. I turned to him in repentance in faith, and I say, Jesus, I want you to come in my heart and life and be my personal Savior. I want you to forgive all my sin. Romans 1013 puts it this way, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's whosoever, anybody. To call in the name of the Lord simply means I like to illustrate like a person drowning and they're calling out to someone on shore. They're calling out to someone on a boat, help, save me, help They're drowning. They're going down. They can't save themselves. There's nothing they can do. They're going to die unless somebody saves them. And they call out to that person. That person reaches over Crabs and pulls them out and saves them from drowning or dying. That's the way we are, we're sinners on our way to hell. We're under the judgment of God. There's nothing we can do about it. We can't be good enough. And Jesus is there, and he was good enough for us. And he died for our sins. And we cry out, Jesus, I'm trusting you, I'm looking to you, I'm depending on you to forgive me and for you to take me to heaven someday. Calling on him. Trusting him to do that. And when we do that, God promises that we shall be saved. Shall be saved. The choir is going to sing another song. After that, I'm going to give what we call an invitation. And I want you to consider two things while the choir sings. If you're here this morning and you're not certain, you don't know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven and not to hell. If you don't have that settled in your heart. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. Now, I want to caution you here. These are not magic words. It's not like saying the rosary. This is simply a little prayer that if from your heart you really want Jesus Christ to come in your heart and save you from sin and from sin's judgment from hell, you want Jesus to be your personal Savior. All I'm doing is helping you. Call on the Lord to be your Savior. And the other invitation is going to be this. When they're done singing, it's going to be this. If you've trusted Christ as Savior, And that's settled. You know Jesus has saved me. My sins are forgiven. I know God's accepted me. I'm going to heaven. If that's the case, and your testimony as a Christian is not what it ought to be. And the invitation to you is, as a Christian, come and say, Lord, I'm yielding my life to you to live for you because you have saved me. Because of what you've done for me. Now stop and think with me for a moment, Christians. All that Jesus Christ did for us, that horrendous price that He paid so that we could be forgiven. Looks to me the least I could do would be trust him and obey him and live for him as a Christian. Amen or not? It's the least I could do. So if you're here this morning as a believer, you've already been saved. That's settled in your heart biblically. The testimony isn't what it ought to be. Maybe this morning on Easter Sunday morning We consider God's holy lamb will be a time of renewing my commitment to live for Christ and please Him. There is no promise of tomorrow. You only have today. For me, birth before I tell me I was the spell I Take this one preparation. We pray and go, pray, we're holy land, but he does my. . God's holy land our great Let's bow our heads and have a word of prayer with our heads bowed and eyes closed. You're here this morning, you'd say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell, and you're concerned about that. You know you're a sinner. The Bible condemns us as sinners. We know that in our hearts we failed God horrendously. We know if you died now, you'd be under God's judgment You want God to forgive you and cleanse you of all your sin. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. Again, I reiterate, it's not magic words. Just saying these words isn't going to do a thing. But from your heart, you want God to come in and forgive you. You want to turn from that sin, repenting and trusting Christ. God will hear you, and I believe God will answer you. You can in your heart, between you and God, pray this simple little prayer. Here it is. Dear Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. I believe you died for my sin and rose again. This morning I repent of my sin and I'm calling on you. To be my own personal Savior. Forgive me and save me for Jesus' sake. Amen. With our heads bound and eyes closed, if you just prayed that prayer with me, you say, preacher, I meant it with all my heart. I prayed that prayer. I called on Christ this morning. You're not ashamed of that. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. Would you just slip your hand up around? How many would say, Preacher, I just prayed that prayer with you this morning? I meant it with all my heart. God bless you. How about it? Any others Preacher, I prayed that prayer just now. God bless you and you. How about it? Sir others, preacher, I prayed that prayer. I called on the Lord this morning to be my own personal Savior. There any others? Any others God bless you. Maybe this morning you're a Christian. You know you're saved. That's settled fact. That's not an issue. But maybe your testimony isn't all that a Christian's testimony ought to be. Considering all that Christ has done for us, maybe this morning you'd say, Preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me. And pray for me. And God will help me. There's some areas in my life as a believer that really need attention, that need some adjusting. I need God to help me make things right, to be the Christian God saved me to be. Is there any like that across the auditorium? Preach or pray for me that God will help me. God bless you. Hands all around Now there's an old-time practice in Baptist churches, I'm sure others do it. It's called the old-fashioned altar. And it's a good place when God speaks to our hearts, and maybe there's some spiritual decisions. that need to be made. It's a good place to go before we leave and get caught up in the Easter schedule. Maybe just meal at an old fashioned altar. Say, God, here I am. I thank you for saving me, and I just want to live for you. I want you to help me to be the Christian you saved me to be And if there's any concern about your eternal destiny, we can help you. We can show you from the Bible how to have that settled. Father, I pray you bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. The choir is going to sing very softly. The piano plays. God spoke to your heart this morning. Maybe there's some decision that needs to be made between you and God. As they sing softly and as the piano plays, why don't you come to this old-fashioned order and just do some business with God? Why don't you come on this morning? Why don't you come on this morning and do some business with God? How about it? Let's make things right. Do you know for sure? Do you know for sure that when you die your sins should be given? On your way to heaven. This church can't save you. We can't save you, but Jesus can. And He will. We want to help you trust Him and have that matter settled. What a wonderful thing it is to say I know that God has forgiven me to know I'm going to heaven. Maybe there's someone here this morning that you know someone that's unsaved or not judgmental, but it's obvious they need to be a good one. Christ, you would want to come and pray for them, pray that they be saved and saved soon before it's too late. Oh your own. Thank you, Father in heaven, for speaking to our hearts. Thank you, dear Lord Jesus, for coming to earth and being God's holy Lamb in our place. That we can be forgiven. We can have new life. In Jesus' name we thank you. Amen. Thank you.