It's possible to overemphasize the importance of prayer in the Christian life. Prayer is essential for my spiritual well-being. We are designed by God to need him. He created us to need him. And prayer is perhaps one of, if not the most essential elements in my spiritual well-being. What I'm trying to say is this there are very few, very few activities in the Christian life that are as important as prayer is. And I'm suggesting to you there are no activities in the Christian life that are more important than prayer. Think about this. Think about it with me. We've heard about prayer. We talk about prayer But stop and think with me. When we are praying, we are engaging the creator of the universe. We are talking to God. Now that's a staggering thought. When you stop and really contemplate what that means, that we're approaching the holy powerful, wise God that created everything. I, Dennis Leatherman, am talking to him. We are intimidated sometimes if we meet a very powerful uh person, maybe a uh a politician or something. We go down to the um we go down to the uh Capitol Connection in the spring. Brother Brant and I have been gone for a few years and We've invited others, but uh there sometimes you get to rub shoulders a little bit with some of the men and women who have tremendous power in our country. And I tell you it's a little daunting to approach someone uh that has that type of power but stop and think about it when we're praying who we're talking to Who we're addressing? That's a significant thing. We're addressing, we're engaging in conversation the ruler of the universe. Literally, actually. And Hebrews tells us we can come boldly to his throne in prayer. So Prayer is vital, vital in our Christian life. It is very significant. And here's the thing. Sometimes I don't think we grasp this. God is active in our world. God has not removed himself from the world. God is not an absent God. He's active in our lives. God is working in your life and my life I was talking to someone before the service and they were telling me some things going on in their life. And he made this statement. He says, I don't believe, he says, I tend to believe, something to this effect, I tend to believe that this is God working And directing me. I tend to agree with the person, but think about that. God is active in my life. God is working in me of the billions of people in the world. God is active and working in my life. God's working in our world. All these events, the nations and the conflicts and the changes and the rearrangement of things, you know, that's not all just happenstance. God is ruler over all. And that is who we're talking to. That's who we're engaged. If you pay close attention when you read through your Bible and I say this often, I want to reiterate it here. Every Christian at some point in your Christian life ought to begin reading the Bible through. I believe every book of the Bible ought to be read by every Christian at some point some point. Now a new Christian, you need to maybe be a little selective and start out in certain areas. But at some point I ought to get to the point where I'm reading the whole Bible. And when you do that, pay close attention And notice that God, every great movement of God in history and biblical history, every great movement of God. To some extent had prayer involved in it. Every great movement. Now, do I have the young people's attention? I got everybody's attention. Put put the phones away and let's pay attention to God's word. Every great movement of God, tremendous thing that God has done in his word in history, had prayer at some element. I was thinking about when Israel came out of Egypt. And what a historic event that was. But you know, that comes back where Israel in Egypt is crying out to God, and God heard them, the Bible says. Of course, it was all part of God's plan. But I'm saying this. God is active in our world. God is active in our lives. But prayer is such a part. Of God working in my life. Real, genuine prayer. Read back through the histories, the history of revivals in the Christian church And I'm telling you, behind every revival, behind every great movement of God, there was somebody praying. There was somebody seeking God. So the prerequisite for a great work of God is prayers of God's people. The prayers of God's people. So we come to our text here. We're in James chapter 5 and verse number 16 we've just read together. This is the classic instruction on prayer. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. I think in that little concise statement, God has captured for us his concept of what prayer really is all about. It's effectual fervent. It is a righteous man, and it avails much. Now we pointed out in the previous message, I believe last Sunday night, we noted there's three elements here, at least I see three elements in this statement. The first element we already looked at, that's passion in prayer. The effectual fervent prayer. If you remember, we pointed out that idea of effectual fervent comes from From one word, let's translate it from one word, and it has this idea, and this is kind of my definition of it, uh a desperate prayer. There's a sense of desperation In this passionate, effectual, fervent prayer. I put it this way: a desperate zeal, a desperate earnestness. The idea is this, God, I you have to do this. God, this is vital to me. And um I believe this passion in prayer, we've already preached on it, but it expresses itself many times in hot tears. Weeping. You read through the scriptures of folks that have prayed passionately and you find them sobbing and weeping in prayer before God. They're so stirred. The need is so great. The desire is so strong. God, I need you to do this. Sometimes it displays itself in folks laying prostrate before God in prayer. Just casting themselves before God in prayer. Fasting is often a part of this effectual, fervent prayer. It's so intense. The burden, the need is so great. That food is neglected. My physical well-being sometimes is neglected. Moses prayed for 40 days. Jesus is in the wilderness 40 days. Extended time in prayer. So one of the elements in prayer, as God presents it to us, is passion, and we need that. The second element, what I want to look at quickly this evening, is purity on the part of the one pray. Effectual, fervent prayer of a what? Righteous man availeth much. Notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say effectual fervent prayer availeth much. He puts a qualification in there. The effectual fervent prayer, not just of any man. But of a righteous man. A righteous man. I think sometimes we gripe about God not answering prayer. Oh, we don't publicly, but we just kind of We kind of think lightly of prayer because maybe I prayed and I prayed earnestly and God didn't answer my prayer, didn't avail anything But I think sometimes we need to be careful, am I really the righteous man I need to be so that God will answer prayer? I think sometimes we want to live like the unsaved and God ha treat us like we are saved I think sometimes we want to live unrighteously and expect God to treat us as if we are righteous. And God's under no obligation. To do that. And God's put a condition here. And then the third element, which we'll have to look at in the future, is the powerful effects of prayer. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And that's a tremendous statement there, and I look forward to us getting diving into that a little bit, but the powerful effects Of when a pure man prays fervently, passionately, and what God can do So what does he mean? Let's look here. The perpetual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. The purity on the part of the one praying is necessary if we're going to see these answers to prayer that God promises. What is a righteous man? What does he mean by a righteous man? Well the word righteous means has this idea, one who observes God's laws. A righteous man is somebody that pays attention to what God's laws are and then he obeys them. He heeds them. He does what they say. A righteous man, one definition I came across was a man of virtue. A virtuous man. Proverbs talks about the virtuous woman. A righteous woman. Has the idea, now there's two other definitions, and this is what I want to park at for a little bit. One is a righteous man is someone who is accepted by God. Here is a righteous man. This is a man that God accepts them. They are approved of God. They're received of God. That is positional righteousness. We'll talk about that. Then the other definition is one whose actions and behavior are approved by God. And that's two different aspects. Here is one person who is righteous, and the person himself is righteous, and God accepts them. To put it in simpler terms, God allows them into heaven. God allows them into their presence. They are righteous. The other aspect is one whose behavior or lifestyle or actions are approved of God. God says they're behaving, they're acting, they're living their life. The way they are is approved of me. It's more not the second definition is more of what I'm doing, how an action type thing, and the other is more of a positional type thing In fact, there's theological terms, and this is a little doctrinal message tonight, but I think it'll be helpful to us. What he's addressing here are two types of righteousness. One is, and bear with me here, but it's positional righteousness. It has to do with my standing before God. my acceptance to be before God. I preached on this recently in a message recently. But the only righteousness I had before God as far as my position is Concerned, as far as my standing before God is concerned, I cannot of my own self make myself righteous enough for God to accept me I cannot do that. It is impossible. So the only way I can be righteous before God to such a point that He accepts me is I need Christ to be righteous for me. I need his righteousness put to my account. Now, if you have your Bibles, let me show you a few verses. Turn with me if you would, not too far away, the book of Titus. back towards the beginning of your Bible. 1 and 2 Timothy, Titus, and Philemon. If you're at Hebrews, keep going towards the front. Get to Titus. Titus chapter 3 and verse number 5. You got your Bibles there, young people? And uh Titus chapter number 3, and if you would, notice with me verse number 5. Notice what the Bible says here. Not by works of what? Righteousness which we have done But according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit. What is he saying here? There is nothing that you and I can do in and of ourselves To make us good enough for God to accept us. All the baptism in the world, all the Lord's Supper in the world, all the giving, charitable giving in the world, all the uh civic uh duties I do, all that, none of that can make me righteous before God. God does not accept us based on our own righteousness. In fact, what's Isaiah 64:6 say Even our righteousnesses are as what? Filty ray. Turn with me, if you would, to another passage. I'd like you to notice Romans chapter number four. I love this passage. There's a lot of stuff in the Bible that's pretty theological, and I enjoy studying it, but I like when I come across something that I can understand. It's just simple, clear, and I can understand it. Amen, David. David, amen. That's right. Um, and that's my kind of thing. I can read it and it makes sense to me. Good. And Romans chapter four is kind of that way. Romans chapter four, and I want to look at a few passages in this chapter. Verse number three Romans 4 and verse number 3. For what saith the scriptures? Abraham believed God. Look at this. And it was what? Counted unto him for righteousness. Now, circle or underscore that word counted. That is a very important word. Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not, what's that word? Reckon. Underscore that word somehow. That is a very important word. Now him that worketh is a reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is what Counted for righteousness. Alright, what's he saying? He's saying it's not what I work, it's not my doing, my living, it's not all that makes me righteous It is believing, and by believing, then righteousness is counted to me. Now bear with me. Explain that in a minute. If you come down to verse 6, even as David also described the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputed, another key word, righteousness without works. Alright, come over if you would to verse number twenty. Speaking of Abraham now He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God, being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to form. Therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. That word imputed in verse 22, the word imputed in verse 8, we didn't get to that one, verse 6 imputed, verse 5 counted Verse 4 reckoned. Verse 3 counted. That all comes from the exact same word. It means this: to put something to someone else's account They didn't earn it. They maybe don't deserve it, but I'm putting it to their account. I'm computing it to their account. It's considered to be theirs. Even though it wasn't, I put it to their account to consider to be theirs. Some of you with grown kids maybe had grown up uh moved out of the house you might appreciate This. On occasion, sometimes my boys will come, there'll be a need or whatever. They've got this amazing little thing on the phone. I can put in some information about my boys, and it'll tell Take money out of my account and magically put it into their account. But uh on a number of occasions on birthdays or different things, I can get in there and I'll punch in a few things on my little phone and um and put the amount in there. And a little bit later, I'll get a message from the boy. Hey, thanks, Dad. Appreciate it. That was a blessing. And uh I gave, I I spurred. I give him, sometimes I give him 50 cents. And uh it's incredible. But what is happening? They didn't work for it. They they didn't really earn it in any sense, other than they're my son and I love them, and I want to be a blessing and be a help Give them a little something. And so what it takes, it takes the money from my account that I work very hard for, and uh it applies it to their account It imputes it. It's counted and reckoned to be theirs. Now that is exactly what happens when you and I accept Jesus Christ as our Son The righteousness of Jesus Christ is imputed to our account. It's counted as if we were righteous. Enough. Let me ask you a question. Is Jesus good enough for God to accept him? Absolutely. Jesus is perfect. He's without sin. He is holy, through and through, righteous. And so Jesus Christ came to earth, and he said, when he died on that cross, when we trust him as our Savior, what he did for us, he imputes to our account. His righteousness, his perfect life, is what the mind can. It's imperial The Bible talks about Abraham. He believed God, and it was imputed to him righteousness. David says, Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute unrighteousness. And so the more how many folks here tonight you're saved, you know it. Say amen. Now that's true, no reason to doubt it. That's true. That means you're standing before God. As far as God's concerned, when He sees you you are as righteous as Jesus Christ. You are as pure and holy and sinless as Jesus Christ. That's I love 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. For he had made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, Jesus never knew any sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Because I'm in Christ, because I'm saved, God sees Dan Sleatherman, as pure and holy and righteous as Jesus Christ. I have, and those all of us that know Christ, have positional righteousness So when the Bible says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much, part of that qualification is that that man be what? Saved. He needs to have that position of righteousness. An unsaved person that does not have the righteousness of Christ put to their account, they have no access to God. We are separated from God But when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, all our sin on our account is put on Jesus, He becomes responsible for it, all of His righteousness is put to my account. Now I'm completely accepted I have full access to the throne of God because of Jesus Christ's righteousness to put to my account. Isn't that a wonderful thing? It's like a spiritual Multi-billionaire has put all his riches to your account and my account. And we have unlimited access, unlimited, as far as our standing before God. That's the That's positional righteousness. But there's another righteousness that I think he's addressing here. Now it's part of it, but that's practical righteousness. And that means my life here as a Christian, I live a righteous life. I do what God tells me to do. I believe what God promises me. I live my life according to God's instructions. in his word. I live a righteous life. Not so that God will accept me. I'm already accepted in Christ. But I live a righteous life Because God has accepted me. It's a result, a consequence of my salvation My righteous position before God impacts my lifestyle in this world. I had people come and say to me, I had some Mormons in Indianapolis and we were living out there one time came by and I have several folks over the years, they'll say something. I'll uh I'll witness to them and we'll say how that we're saved by grace. Just by faith. We accept Christ as our Savior and we're saved by grace. And these Mormon fellows in particular, they say, well So if you're saved by grace, and then along with that eternal security, if that's the case, then that's just a license to sin. You can live and do whatever you can If we're saved by grace, if it's just God's righteousness, if if uh that I and my answer to that is no. The security of my salvation, the fact that my I'm righteous and accepted before God because of what a Christmas Does for me, not what I'm doing, doesn't give me a license to sin. It gives me a powerful motive to live right. Because Christ has given me his righteousness, now I have a powerful motive to live a right and pure life. I found, my experience has been, I have no doubt there may be some exceptions. But my experience has been, generally speaking, people who understand salvation by grace, biblical teaching. Salvation by Christ, generally speaking, live more righteous lives than those who think they have to earn their salvation. But between love and fear, love is the stronger motive. Every single time. And so here you have a person who's trying to be accepted by God and they're trying to live the best they can, they're trying to be established their own righteousness, and they're scared to death that if I'm not good enough, then I'm lost, I'll go to hell. Now that's fear is a pretty powerful motive. But on the other hand, you have another person who God freely forgave. And suffered hell in their place, and they grasped the price that Jesus Christ paid for me and what God has done for me. saving me and making imputing this righteous me and they grasp what God has done and they love God and they love the Savior I'm telling you, that's a powerful motive. I want to live right. I want to do right because I love my Lord for what he's done for me. And I'm suggesting to you, and I believe the Bible clearly teaches, that our love for what Christ has done for us, our love for Christ for what He's done for us. is a much more powerful motive to live a righteous life than having to think I have to earn God's acceptance. Am I making sense? So the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man. Now, let me give you a few verses to back up what I just said. John chapter 14. Would you turn over there real quick? John chapter 14. Jesus made some significant statements here. Of course, all the Bible was significant, but he made some Some very, very significant statements on this matter of living a righteous life. Not to be accepted, not to be righteous before God. That's already in Christ But because I am righteous, because Christ has done that for me, look at John 14. Look with me if you would at verse 15. Now if you mark in your Bibles, I'm going to give you some suggestions here Verse 15, Jesus speaking, if ye love me, what? Keep my commandments. Do you get what he's saying? He says, if you love me, then you'll keep my commandments. The keeping of the commandments, the living a righteous life, being righteous, is a result of loving God. I circled that verse, number 15. I drew a line down to verse 21. Look at verse 21. Jesus says again, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that what? Loveth me. Now, the keeping of the commandments is practical righteousness, living a righteous life. And he that keepeth my he that has my commandments and keep them, he is that loveth me. I circled verse 21 and I drew a line down to verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto them, If a man love me, he will what? Keep my words. I circled verse 23 and drew a line down to verse 24. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. Well, that's an interesting statement. I circled verse 24 and drew a line over to verse 31. Now look at Jesus speaking of himself here, and he's kind of setting him up as a pattern. But that the world may know that I love the Father. And as the Father gave me commandment, even so do I. So that the world may know I love the Father, I do what God's commanded me to do. And every one of those verses I gave Did you notice that the motive behind keeping God's commandments, the motive behind living a righteous life is love for the Savior Love for the Savior. Never to make myself acceptable to God. It is always the result of God saving me and And I in turn love him, and that love prompts me and motivates me to live a righteous life. Anyone notice we're not in heaven yet? I get people when I'm witnessing, they'll say, Well, I think we're in hell right here and now. I say, Well, it ain't heaven, but this ain't hell either. But we're not in heaven yet. We're still in a world, in a world that is incredibly sinful. And it is of utmost importance that we guard our hearts and we guard our minds from unrighteousness. We have got to keep our hearts and minds pure because Jesus has done so much for us. And we love Him. And we do not want to presume upon his grace and mercy. And because of what he's done for us, I want to live for him. I want to keep his commandments. I want to live a righteous life. Life. That's practical righteousness. Because of what Christ has done for me, because I love him. In this old sinful world, I want to keep faithful to him. Let me ask you a question. Let me make a statement If I am willing, get this. If I am willing to disobey one of God's commands I believe that will make me willing to disobey any or even all of God's commands Now think about that. If there's one command to say, alright, I'm willing to disobey that command. If that's true, then no doubt I would be unwilling to disobey another command. Maybe any of his commands. Maybe all of his commands. We need to be very, very careful about making some statements that we often make. Sometimes we We need to be very careful. If I'm willing to do this that is wrong, it's a real good possibility I would Would be willing under the right circumstances to do that which is wrong. Follow what I'm saying? So righteousness In an old sinful world, I have positional righteousness when I accept Christ Savior, and all the perfection of Christ is put to my account. Wow Now I'm still on earth. Because of what Christ has done for me, I want to live a righteous life. I want to keep God's commands. I want to follow his instructions. Now, what does it mean to live a righteous life? I just put it this way. To daily, moment by moment, I submit myself to the Word of God On a daily, moment-by-moment basis, I seek to obey God's instructions and live and do what God instructs me to do, and live the way God instructs me to live. Grounded in my love for my Savior. Here's the great thing. And if you're like me, I think, man, how do we do How do I live day by day, moment by moment, in obedience to God, trusting and obeying His instruction Instructions. You know, humanly, that's pretty tough. It may be impossible. But here's the thing: God never instructs us to do something without giving us the ability. Need to do. And he's put within us the person of the Holy Spirit. And I'm telling you, I don't care how wicked this old world is, you and I, as children of God, indwelt by the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit of God, we can live righteous lives. There's too much excuses being given as to why we are living unrighteous. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. That term, righteous man, is vitally important in our prayer life. A righteous man is a saved man that is so in love with the Lord that he has committed himself to trusting and obeying God in every detail of his life. When a righteous man who is so in love with Jesus Christ that I'm committed to obey God in every detail of my life, and then I come to God in prayer and passionately pray That brings powerful results to answered prayer. I think, and we don't have time, I think 1 John 1. 9 is a factor in all this. Say, preacher, I know, I want to, I try, I'm living, you know, I'm I'm committed to living for Christ, I've devoted my life to Christ, mess up, I fail to live up to my own expectations. Paul did the same thing Day in Romans 7. 1 John 1:9 comes in. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So if I'm going to be a righteous man, if I'm going to live a righteous life, practical righteousness, 1 John 1. 9 has got to be a very important part of my life because I'm constantly having to deal with the unrighteousness that comes out of my life. And if I confess it, as God instructs me, he's faithful and just to forgive me of all that unrighteousness. And I can live a righteous life. I can live a righteous life. I read about a fellow, Sir Ernest Shackleton. In the summer of 1908 into 1909, that year, he and three companions attempted to travel to the South Pole They had winter quarters down there in Antarctica, and they were going to travel the South Pole. They started out, they had four ponies to carry the load After several weeks into their trek to the South Pole, and up to this point in time, they had made it closer than anybody else in all of history. After several weeks, their ponies were dead, their rations of food were about gone, and they finally gave up and turned back to their base. Their goal was not accomplished. For 127 days, they trekked over that frozen Arctic. He says in his records, he says the time was spent traveling back. Now their horses, their ponies are dead, their food's about completely gone. He said they spent their time talking about food. He said we talked about elaborate feasts in detail, great gourmet delights, sumptuous menus. And as they staggered along, they were suffering from dysentery, not knowing whether they're going to survive. Every waking hour was spent thinking and talking about food. It's what kept them going. They survived. They made it back. You say, why do you say that? Jesus made a statement early on in the Sermon on the Mount. That touches on what these guys experience. He said, Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Then he said this, for they shall be filled. I think the Lord's statement there Just like those guys that are so starving for food, it's all they can think about, it's all they're committed to. We had to get some food. Jesus says, when you and I get to the point in our Christian life, we're so in love with the Lord Jesus Christ That our consuming desire is to live a life that is pleasing to God, a life that is righteous. Not to be accepted, we already are, but just out of love for the Lord. When we get to that point Then we pray will be filled. Needs will be met. Desires will be given. And our prayers will avail much. Prayers will avail much. Now I know this wasn't real dynamic tonight, but I think this is a key to you and I getting to the point where we can pray and we can say See God do great things. Now sometimes we want great things just for the sensational value of it. But we need God to do something, not for sensational, not so that people will think we're something or get attention. But we get to the point where God, I need you to do this for no other sake than I need you to do this. I need to see my Loved ones saved. I need to get victory in this area of my life. I need to be more bold in my witness. God, I need that. And we get passionate about it. Our heart and life is pure. Our mind and life is pure. You put those two together. Those prayers. to this verse of Baal much. I started out by making this statement. I want to end with. We so often, I'm saying we so often, we live Like unsaved people, and then expect God to treat us like savings. We disregard God's instructions. But then we come and try and claim this problem. Cannot overlook that condition. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd stir our hearts. That you would put in our hearts a love for you and a desire to live our lives Pleasing to you and according to your word. Lord, we need our prayers answered. We have situations, God, in our church, in our lives, that only you can solve, and only you can change. Lord, there's people that are unsaved and they seem so hard and so indifferent. God, we can't change them. God, we need you to save them before they go out into each other. So stir us on our part to be passionate, to be pure, so that we can see you answer our prayers. With our heads bowed.