Praise the Lord for our children's ministries. And one thing we can be certain of that uh what took place this past year and even what took place tonight uh is going to stick in these children's hearts and minds for the rest of their lives. They will remember this. And this is this means a lot and tremendous accomplishments I really like all through the years I'm getting little m little notes from the kids. Oh preacher, you're the best in the world. Oh we love you, preacher. I get all these notes from them. And uh cookies show up every now and then. So I love master clubs. And uh it's a blessing. Matthew chapter or Matthew, James chapter number five, verse number sixteen. We already looked at the first half of this verse. I want to just look at the second half, and actually this evening we're not, we're only going to look at the first statement in the second half of verse 16 of James chapter 5. The Bible says, verse 16 says, confess your faults one to another. And pray for one another that you may be healed. Now look at this last phrase. This is one of the great passages on prayer in Scripture. Second half says this. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. I just want to speak real quickly, and I see what time it is, but I just want to speak real quickly, give a few thoughts on having passion in our prayers. Passion in our prayers. Let's ask the Lord to bless the message. Father, I'm grateful for the young people and their commitment to you, Lord, decisions they're making and the truths that are being planted in their hearts and minds. I pray for these little children, these young people, that you would just protect them throughout their life. I pray you guard them against Satan and the world's assaults on them. And I pray, Lord, maybe out of this group you'd call some preachers, missionaries to serve you in a great way. And we're grateful for the workers. I ask your blessing on every person and invest time and effort into the souls of these young people. Now, Lord, as we look in your word and we consider the matter of prayer, I ask that you would stir our hearts there be a real revival of prayer in our church and in our homes and our personal lives. I present my body anew to you, and I yield my will, and I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me tonight and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Effectual, fervent prayer, passion in prayer. I believe the greatest need of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church If I would ask you, if we'd sit down in my office, you'd come in, I'd say, listen, I'm looking at our church, and I would ask you, what do you think is the greatest need of our church? Some people might say, well, preacher, you know, we need a bigger fellowship hall. It's so crowded and get in there we have to go out uh off the property and rent places and different things. Some people might say, well, you know, we need more workers Our bus ministry, we need workers, our children's church, various ministries and our teams and all of these things. Some might say, you know, we need a bigger budget. If we had more money, we could support more missionaries. We could do this, that, and the other. Others might say we need better programs. I think we got pretty good programs going on around here Somebody might say we need more programs, we need uh better programs, those types of things. Some folks might say, and I'd Tend to agree with you on this one, maybe. Might say we need better preaching around here. And um I won't argue with you on that one But my suggestion is the greatest need of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I believe, is effectual, fervent prayers that avail much. If we can get to the point as a church where our prayers are what God intends for them to be, And we see the results to prayers that God promises we will see if we meet the conditions, then buildings, budgets, programs, that's not going to be a problem. If we can get the prayer factor taken care of. I believe James chapter 5, verse 16, that second half, I believe that what is being presented here is God's ideal prayer. That God is putting here, presenting to us, prayer as God intends for it to function Effectual, fervent prayer of righteous men that avails much When prayer is functioning as God intends for it to function, it is the most powerful force in the universe You think of the sun and the power that comes off the sun and the influence it has on our world, our solar system But I'm suggesting you, this matter of prayer, if it is done the way God says it should be done, and if prayer in my life is functioning as God presents it in his word, It is the most powerful force on all the world. Nothing can withstand the movement of God. In response to a Christian's prayer, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. I believe prayer is the greatest resource known to man. Now I look at this. I see three elements to God's ideal prayer. We're not going to look at all three of these. I just want to give a thought about one of them. But I notice where he says the effectual fervent prayer. To me, that's passion. Affectual fervent. Passion in my prayer. Of a righteous man, that's purity. For my prayers to be effective, my heart must be pure. My life must be pure. I must be, in every sense of the word, a righteous man, a righteous woman, a righteous person So I see passion in the prayer, effectual fervent. I see purity as it's a righteous man, and then I see prayer as productive, availeth much. We're going to look at the other two later on in future messages, but I want us to consider quickly, and I'll get us out of here in just a few minutes, but I want us to consider Just quickly, this matter of effectual fervent prayers, passionate prayers. Those two words, effectual, fervent, they actually come from one single root word, which means this, has this idea. If something is effectually fervent, it has this idea, it has such energy behind it that it has an effect. There's such power behind it that it affects what it comes in contact with. I was trying to think of a way to illustrate what the meaning of this word means. And the best I can come up with, and this is really pretty lame, but the best I can come up with is kind of like the idea that you have a nail that you need to ha hammer into a board or a wall or something and you're just kind of tapping it and just kind of tip tip just tapping away. And it's not very effectual. It's not fervent. There's not enough energy behind that hammer to drive that nail in. And you pick up that hammer and somebody comes along and says, give me that thing. What? And they put the energy behind it, they put the power behind it, and it drives the nail into the wood. That is the idea behind this effectual, fervent prayer. It is powerful. It is fervent and it has an effect. I was studying this, looking at this passage, and I began to ask myself, have I really prayed? Effectually and fervently in my life. As I studied this passage, I wondered how passionate are our prayers? How how passionate are we when we come to God with a need or a situation or a s uh a problem that needs to be solved? Effectual, fervent prayer. The idea behind here on this matter of passionate prayer is it's an intensely passionate prayer. Um, careless, casual, ritualistic prayers have no effect I'm afraid a lot of times we pray and we see no results of our prayers. We see our prayers have no effect on anything, and I wonder if it isn't sometimes. where we really aren't that passionate about God answering that prayer. It really doesn't matter to us a lot of times, I think, whether God answers or not. And he's telling us here, when we get to the point in our spiritual life, and we have a situation and we have a circumstance where we absolutely have to have God do something We absolutely have to see God save this person's soul, change this person's life, solve this person's problem. If we get passionate about that, then I think we start seeing God working. If you would, take your Bible, turn to me not far away, Revelation, last book of the Bible, and chapter number three Revelation chapter 3, and the Lord is addressing the church at Laodicea. And he makes a statement to them in verse number 15, Revelation chapter 3, verse 15, he says, This, I know thy works. That thou, look at what look at the statement he makes. I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor high. I would that thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art what? Lukewarm Neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of thy mouth. The Lord warns us about lukewarm Christianity. What is lukewarm Christianity? I'm gonna say this to you. Lukewarm Christianity is Christianity that has no passion behind it, no fire in its heart, no zeal in its soul. To live for God and live for God passionately and live for God with all my heart. And he rebukes the church here at Leia to see. He says, listen, you're going through the motions. And you've got the talk down, and you've got the appearance, and you've got all that, but there's no fire in your soul. There's no passion in your Christian life. And that disturbs God. When we as Christians are just going through the motions and we're just going through the rituals. Of what the Christian life is like. And there's no fire, there's no passion, there's no love for God in our hearts. That disturbs God. In fact, he makes a very strong statement there. He says, I will spew thee out of my mouth. The Christian life with no passion is a powerless life. Now notice in verse number 17, he gives the characteristics of a Lukewarm Christian, a passionless Christian. Verse number 17, because thou sayest, I am rich, increased with goods, have need of nothing, and knowest not. That thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Oh, you've got the words down. You can say the right things and you can put on the right show and By all appearances you look fine and great. He says, but in your heart and soul, you're dried up, you're poor, you're dead. There's no passion there. So God warns us very strongly here in this passage about lukewarm Christianity. Christianity has no passion. Indifferent, I put this down, indifferent Christians are disturbing to God. It bothers me. I believe it disturbs God. When God is working, and I'm not rebuking anybody or anything here, so don't read more into this than what I'm saying. But there's something wrong when God is working in people's hearts. And people in a church service like this morning. And God is speaking to hearts, and people are under conviction. And souls are on the verge of getting saved and trusting Christ. And a professing Christian has no concern and gives no attention whatsoever to what God is doing. When Christians can sit in a service where Jesus Christ is being exalted and the Word of God is being preached in the power of the Holy Spirit And people are under conviction and they can sit there with their cell phone in their hand and text away and have no concern whatsoever what God is doing in that service. I'm telling you, that is passionless Christianity. We can talk and horse around and joke and poke around one another when souls are in the balance and the Holy Spirit of God is convicting souls. And we're teasing and playing at the threshold of salvation of souls. I'm telling you, that is passionless Christianity When we ho hum and just give little concern for folks that need Christ, people dying on their way to hell. It doesn't bother us, doesn't affect us. That is passionless Christianity. When Christians, and again, this is not a rebuke, so don't take it that way. But when cre and it's true across the board, it's true around the world. I've seen it in countries around the world. Where people can come and To church where God is worshipped and the word of God is preached and Christ is glorified and the gospel is presented, and they come to church and never bring a Bible with them And give no more respect to the Word of God than an unsaved person does. I tell you, it disturbs me. Disturbs me when professing Christians treat the Bible no differently than unsaved people do. Never crack it open. No concern, no attention to the Bible when the Word of God is being preached. That is, at best, lukewarm Christianity. That is at best passionless Christianity. And the Lord warns us strongly Lukewarm Christianity disturbs God to the point he says, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Now, I said all that to say this. The Lord warns against passionless Christianity, and he equally warns us against passionless praying. If you would, turn with me another passage to the Gospel of Luke. And verse chapter number 18. And here's another one of the classic passages in Scripture on prayer. Luke chapter 18 and verse number 1. The effectual, fervent prayers of a righteous man availth much. Effectual, fervent Luke 18 and verse number 1, the Lord speaks a parable to his disciples and says he spake a parable unto them to this end. That men ought always to what? Pray and not to faint. That prays not to faint has this idea. Don't get exhausted. Don't get weary in that prayer. The idea behind it is this. Don't lose your heart in your praying. Don't Don't pray without spirit. Don't pray without passion. Don't pray without zeal. You stay fired up. You stay stirred up about it. Don't get weary in prayer. And so the Lord warns us against passionless praying. I'm telling you, the spiritual warfare for the souls of men is too important for us just to go through the motions in prayer. I'm talking to some people that have unsaved children. Children that are lost. I'm telling you. The destiny of an unsaved soul is too horrific for you and I just to go through the motions of prayer. Would to God He would stir our hearts to the point where we get so burdened for our family members, whether it's a child or a parent, we are so burdened for them, we are so concerned for them that our prayers become passionate. They become fervent. Oh God. I need you to save my child. Oh God! I need you to save my daddy. Until we get to that point, as long as we really don't care whether they get saved or not, we're not going to see much result. It is the effectual, fervent prayers of a righteous man that availeth much. You read the old history books of church history. You read the old time evangelism Preachers, John R. Rice, Billy Sunday, these great men and what names we never heard of in back collar uh revivals throughout uh our land And you read about some of these people, and when revival came and when God stirred, people were on their faces before God, crying out to God with passion. The revival For souls to be saved, lives to be changed, deliverance from sin. Old uh Jonathan Edwards, he preached this famous message: sinners in the hands of an angry God. And they say that, of course, there was no electricity, the lights were dim, he was very hard of seeing is the way I understand it, he had his uh sermon written out. He had to hold it up to the light. People couldn't even see him. There was no gestures. He just held it and read the sermon like this, uh right word for word. And the power of God fell on that place. People were crying out in their pews, God have mercy on me. When a revival began. When the people got passionate and they really cared They became fervent in their prayers and their concerns. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. David, King David, had a profound impact on Israel. He had a profound impact on his nation, on his generation. And I'm telling you, if David was anything, David was passionate. Whatever he did, he did with all his heart. The sad fact is, and I say this often, the sad fact is when he failed, he failed with everything he did had also. But David had a profound impact on his generation. And listen to some of the statements he made. I'll just read them. In Psalm 119, verse 20, he says this: My soul breaketh for the longing it hath unto thy judgments at all times. How many of us can say that our soul is broken over God's will being accomplished in my life, in my church, in my family? Passionate, turbent prayer. Psalms 42, verses 1 and 2, he says this, as the heart panteth after the water book, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for thee, God, for the living God. David had a tremendous fervor in his soul in his prayers. Psalm 38, verse 9, Lord, all my desire is before thee. Listen to this. My groaning is not hid from thee. David's prayers apparently at certain times were nothing more than just groaning before God, oh God. I'll tell you the exciting thing about that is God knows the desires of our hearts. Some of us perhaps have been at points where we could even express The burden of our heart, no words can express the feelings of our heart. We just groan before God. Our God is such a gracious God. He hears that, he sees on our heart, and he knows and he understands. But God give us some passion. We live in a world where people are so passionate for the things of the world. People are so passionate for the next pleasure, passionate for the next experience, and they'll give themselves wholeheartedly to things that are so temporary and so meaningless and so shallow. And you and I as Christians have a God Almighty that can change lives. And it's just we're so So unconcerned. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. The Apostle Paul was passionate. Man, what an impact he had on this world in the brief time he had to serve God. In Romans chapter 15, verse 30, he talks about striving together in prayer. The word strive there has the idea of putting all your energy into it. I wonder how many of us ever got up off our knees in prayer. And I'm preaching it myself as much as anyone else How many of us ever get up off our knees in prayer and we were absolutely worn out because of pouring our heart and praying to God? You know what happens more often than not? We fall asleep while we're praying. What an insult is that to God. Imagine if you take your wife out, you go out with your husband, and you're talking, and they're listening, and you just fall asleep while you're talking to them. And here's a God Almighty that loves us and we come to Him and we fall asleep. Time stand work is different things. Thank God. But Paul said we're striving in prayer, striving in prayer. In Colossians 4, verse 12, he references a fellow by the name of Tapprus. And he says he's always laboring fervently in prayers for you. Laboring fervently in prayers In Romans chapter 9, verse 2 and 3, Paul says that his heart's desire is that God would save his people, Israel. And in chapter 10, verse 1, he makes this statement. I'm paraphrasing here, but he makes the statement. He says, I wish that I could be cut off. I could be cursed. So that you would be saved. Paul says, My burden for your salvation and my prayers for your salvation are so intense, are so fervent, I'd be willing to sacrifice my salvation. for you to be saved. I'd be willing to lose my salvation and go to hell if you could be saved from hell. What a passion. What fervency! I tell you, God did great things through the Apostle Paul. Great answers to prayer. Say, preacher, how do I get passion? How do I do that? It's not something we work up. I can't make myself passionate. Alright, I'm going to be passionate. What happens then is I start putting all the What happens then? I start faking tears and trying to make sure everybody knows how much I'm crying. No, no, no. That's phony. Passion begins in the heart, not the brain. And passion is put in the heart by God. We need God to stir our hearts. And Make our Christian lives passionate again. And give us a fervency in our prayers that actually begins to affect things. I like what Adam Iram Judson said He said passionate prayers drive away sleep, overcomes hunger, and brings great results. We get to the point where we're praying so intensely that we forget about sleep, forget about the meal. Oh, it's lunchtime, I forgot, it's in prayer, praying for my child to be saved, my daddy to be saved. My co-workers, I need victory over the sin. I was so intense in my prayers. I forgot about sleep. I forgot about food. It's not something we can put on. It's not something we work up. It's something God stirs our hearts. Of a righteous man availeth much. I think as we end the Lord's day, it's a good day. I think these little children this morning and again tonight, how desperately they need our prayers. I'm telling you right now, they are in the crosshairs of the devil's guns He will devote himself to take these kids down. Destroy their lives before they ever have a chance. You know what they need? They need some righteous men, some righteous women who are effectually fervently praying for their souls, their lives, their protection. need the prayers of this church. I'm looking at folks out here right now. You have loved ones who are unsaved and lost. I know you do. You know what those lost people need? They need prayers. They need the prayer prayers, fervent, earnest friends of God's people. I'm asking our church tonight to do this. As we finish out this Lord's Day, we start a new week. Let's ask God To put passion in our hearts again. Let's ask God to put a fervency down in our hearts. Let's ask God to send revival to our families. For our children, let there stop to revive our church. Let there be a new zeal, a new curve for God. I think it I think we all understand today, perhaps as much as Not more than ever. Our country needs God. Ungodly people killing ungodly people. What a mess. What a heartache. What an absolute tragedy in every sense of the word. Listen, empty, heartless praying, we just want to covet anymore. We can go through the motions as Christians all we want. And we're just keep getting more of the same and worse and worse. At some point we try to say, you know, I've got to get serious about this Christian life. You know what I'd like to see, and I thank God for Pastor Grant and I'll do it. You know what I'd like to see? I'm just talking to you now. I'd like to see some young people before God on their knees saying God I'll stir my heart for the things of the Lord. Wouldn't that be wonderful? I'll stir my heart. Wouldn't it be wonderful to see moms and dads hanging together at an altar praying hot, send a Bible to our home? Lord, we need it We have to save our children. How to save our parents. I'm asking God. I I don't know if this passes have an effect on you as it only. But I'm going to And I don't want empty, careless, ritualistic prayers anymore. How about God to put passion in our heart, in our church? And Father in heaven, I don't know if I did this passage justice to none. Lord, your word is powerful, and I know you it disturbs you when we're lukewarm. And I pray in this matter of prayer that you would put in our hearts. A real passion to get a hold of you and see you do the things that absolutely have to be done in our hearts, our homes, our church, and our land. Please help us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many tonight would say, Preacher, I'm going to ask God to send revival to my heart? Ask God to stir my heart, to put effermancy there to my prayer life Would be what the Bible presents it to me. Is there any like that about the uplifted heart? Preacher, my heart's stirred tonight. God bless you. And if nothing else, let's just ask God, stir our hearts anew, put a fervency and a deal in our prayer of it so that we can see God do the things that need to be done. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, you're not sure about your salvation, God will save you if you call on Him and trust Him. We invite you to come. We'll show you how to be saved. But those of us that know the Lord, let's Let's ask God to do what this verse teaches us. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen.