First Peter chapter five. I want to read the first three verses. We're just going to look at the first verse, kind of get us started here, is it's kind of a transition in Peter's letter to these believers scattered everywhere. They were talking about suffering. Now he's transitioning over. He's talking about the leadership here in the church. Notice in verse 1, he says, the elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Then he goes on, he gives these instructions to these elders. He says, feed the flock of God which is among you Taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock. He's talking here about the elders. And what I want to speak this morning, and I'll just, like I said, we'll just get started But I want to look at elders and the church. Elders and the church. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask your blessing now on our service this evening. It's been a good day. We're so grateful for your blessings. Lord, it just humbles me to think that you would use us to bring other people to Christ, to have an influence on our community with the gospel. And so we give you the honor and glory, Lord. And I pray you'd help us as a church, beginning with the elders and on down, help us, Lord, to please you. Help us to be faithful and true to your word. So I ask tonight, as we look at this passage, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. Pray and ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. You would speak through me, Lord, and be the teacher tonight, Lord. Please be the preacher. Have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think the great need in the New Testament church, particularly in this situation, if you'll remember, it was about two weeks ago, we introduced this section here, and we talked about elders And what I think is happening here in the situation that Peter is addressing, and we say this all the time, but these believers were being persecuted. They were being pushed out of their homes How many people remember me saying that 497 times? I've been saying that. I repeat it because I believe it's vitally important to understand what's being said. They've been pushed out of their communities. They've been run out of their homes. Many of them paid dearly for their faith in Christ, their commitment to the Lord Jesus. Some gave their lives. And so they're out in these new areas of the of the Central of Asia Minor there. And they're settling into communities that are new to them. People they don't know. They're trying to re-establish themselves in in uh a new regions, establish some sort of occupation And what inevitably happens when Christians are pushed out like that, what inevitably happens, like magnets, they begin to attract one to another. They've been run out. You turkey hunters know what I'm talking about. You bust that flock up. And then you make start making calls, what do those turkey do? Anyone here know? They all start coming back together. Wilbur helped me out this morning. He had something. I asked him if I could have it, and this is your cube. So you follow the instructions up here. So all God's people said So that's what turkeys do. But anyway You're not gonna see the last of this, I'll tell you that. I like that, Wilbur. Thank you. So but anyway, they've been pushed down these areas and they're gravitating back together. And what's happening is churches are being established Here where these people have been have been run in run out to. And all these regions, these churches are starting. They're assembling together. They're getting together in congregations and and uh getting organized and establishing these churches. And so Peter's writing is addressing this because leadership in the local church is vitally important. is important in the New Testament. And I put down a list of things here, just by way of introduction, that are necessary in the leadership of a local church. Leadership needs to, first of all, I put this down, be biblical. Be biblical. In other words, we need to have the leadership the Bible tells us to have. We need to go by the book. I don't want to be a part of a church that doesn't care about what the Bible says how that church should be run. We will be true to the Word of God. So it needs to be biblical leadership. I put this down, it needs to be godly leadership. A church needs godly leadership. A church needs mature leadership. We're going to talk about that a little bit. The leadership of the church must be mature. We don't want immature leaders in these churches, especially in this New Testament setting where they're under intense persecution. They are paying dearly for their faith. Physically, uh emotionally, financially, they're losing jobs They need some mature, godly, biblical leadership as they come together to be able to lead them to be what God wants them to be. And then I put this down, there needs to be humble leadership. I tell you, nothing will kill a ministry quicker than allowing pride to creep in. And start thinking I'm something. Start thinking whether it's in a bus route or a Sunday school class. uh in a choir behind the pulpit pastoring a church. I tell you, you let pride creep in there. We start thinking we're something, and we are going to lose the grace of God. We're going to lose the power of God. We're going to lose the presence of God like that God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. And so that was the need in that day and age In this situation, biblical, godly, mature, humble leadership. I quoted this recently. Um uh Dr. B. Robertson, the pastor down at Highland Park, uh Used to say this all the time. Many have heard this statement, I'm sure. He said this. Everything rises and falls on leadership. And that was true back in the New Testament age, and I believe that's true today. Whether it's in a home In a company, in a church setting, in a government setting, everything rises and falls on leadership. How many people have noticed in our country leadership matters? Leadership matters. It sure does. And in a church, it certainly does also. And so the great need in the New Testament churches was biblical, godly, mature, humble leadership. And we could add to that list. Now why was this so important? Why was it so important they had the right the right leadership as they were coming back together? I think there's various reasons. Number one, there was opposition from society Now we live in a unique setting, and for the most part, you know, our community has been pretty nice to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. For the most part, uh they've been good We've had a little tusses here and there a little bit. But I tell you this last uh two years, getting that building permit, Mark, to get the town to let us build the building, man, they were just right with us right there and various other things And so we're very, very grateful for that, but that is not common. Jesus told his disciples, he said, the world hateth you We live in a society that despises everything we stand for. I'm telling you, Jesus said over and over again, the world hates you. They hated me. Don't be surprised they hate you And so we live in a world that has opposition from society, a world that hates disciples of Christ. And so there must be good, godly, biblical leadership. Because we have so much opposition from society. I put this down. There's spiritual opposition. Hey, listen to this. Satan hates Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You mark it down. Satan hates any church that is standing true to the Word of God. Satan hates any church that is preaching the gospel. Satan hates any church that's holding the standards high Satan is opposed to what we are doing. There is a spiritual warfare going on here. And uh by the way, I thought of this during testimony time. The young boy that Brother Mark led to the Lord this morning He is actually the result of a bus girl about 10, 15 years ago That rode this bus, and every Sunday, as I stood in the back there, she would come by and she would say, Pastor, please pray that my papi get saved. Zoe Hardesty And she would come by and say, please pray, my papy, get saved. Please pray, my papy, get saved. And I sent uh I sent the two hound dogs for from heaven, uh Ed and Char Charlie I said, you guys go out there and get this guy. He needs to get saved. I sick them. They were like And I I let low I let go of the ropes and they went out after that guy. And they led old Bushrod to the Lord Not something. Bushrod got saved and it was just like you throw a rock in a pool and that ripple effect went out and I mean his brothers got saved is Sister got saved, family members got saved, and Bentley is an indirect result of a little bus girl wanting her papy to get saved. Isn't that something? And like I was saying uh on testimony time, um the daddy came to take uh the child home after Sunday school. He wanted to leave him here for church and think he talked him into staying And I got thinking about that. I wonder, now this is this is just me, but I wonder if there wasn't some unseen spiritual warfare going on for that little boy's soul And Satan was trying to get him out of here before he hears the gospel. And God stepped in. That little boy was able to hear the gospel and trust in Christ as Savior. I think that's very likely the case I really do. I really do. What I'm trying to say is this. There's a spiritual warfare that goes on about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We don't see it. We can't hear it We can't feel it. I'm telling you, there is spiritual activity going on every time the gospel is being preached, every time the word of God is being taught, every time people are being reached, Satan is fighting that tooth and nail. And fighting it. And we need God. And we need the power of God, the presence of God, and we need good leadership in our ministries. To be able to lead in this spiritual warfare. Would you agree with me? I'm reading a book about World War II right now, Europe, Eisenhower. And um he emphasizes in there the importance of leadership They're on the battlefields, down where it's taken place. And leadership is important in the midst of spiritual warfare. So we have opposition from society. We have opposition, uh spiritual opposition. Satan hates our homes. I mean, I'm telling you, it is just incredible to me how he is making an absolute mockery of marriage and the whole If we weren't living in the midst of this, if we'd step back and look, we'd think this is some kind of circus. What is going on in our society? Satan hates the home. He hates it. He wants to destroy it. And he's doing it. Uh, Satan hates our church, as I mentioned. Can I say this? Satan hates every individual m member of our church. I'm glad Jesus loves me. Glad Jesus loves you. I'm telling you, Satan hates us. He wants to destroy us. He did everything he can to keep us from getting saved, and he'll do everything he can to keep us from living for the Lord. He want to destroy our testimony. He want to destroy our walk with God. We need to be aware of that. And so godly leadership, from the youngest to the oldest, uh I like these uh young people sitting down here. Where'd Nikita go? Oh, she's asleep. Shh I tell you what, I'd rather have her asleep in church than home watching something on TV on Sunday night I'm telling you, Satan hates these girls right down here. This young man, these little children around youngest, Satan hates our senior citizens Well, he'd like to destroy them. The older I get, the more concerned I am that I finish well. I don't want Satan to destroy me. Or you or this church. My pair, here's something I pray. I'm just talking a little bit here now. Here's something I pray often. Lord, if this church ever goes liberal, God forbid, but if this church ever goes liberal, I pray the whole ceiling on all the buildings collapse in on everything. I pray the foundations crack, the walls fall in, and uh what else? Catches on fire. I don't want the devils have this property, amen. I I don't want the liberals I should say. Uh I don't want I I don't want the Liberals over in our new auditorium, uh our new uh not auditorium, our new uh Fellowship Hall Activity Center. I don't want them using that I want independent King James Bible Baptist kids throwing volleyballs around over there. All right, get back on track here. Satan, opposition from society, we need godly leadership. Spiritual opposition, spiritual warfare, we need godly leadership. Hey, we have opposition from our own sinful nature I study this, it's interesting, we're going to look at this here in a minute, but I can't find anywhere in the Bible where church leadership is presented as anyone any more Than simply sinners saved by grace. What I'm trying to say is this: the pastor of a church The elder of a church, the shepherd of a church is just as much sinful nature as any other member of the church We don't have any superior spiritual standing with God. Hey, everyone sitting here has just as much access to God as I do. I have just as much a simple nature as you do. We're just sinners saved by grace. I was singing that on our vacation. Only a sinner saved by grace. We must never forget that Sunday school teacher, don't ever forget you're nothing more than a sinner saved by grace. Bus workers, special choir member singers Whatever it is, we're just a sinner saved by grace, and it's only God's grace that allows us to do anything for the Lord Jesus Christ. So nowhere in the Bible do you have this idea that, well, this is the clergy, and these are the laymen. No, you know what it is? We're all a bunch of sinners. God uses us in different capacities. Actually, we're more than sinners saved by grace. We're saints. How about that? Did you know you're a saint? You say, preacher, I ain't no saint. Yeah, you are. The moment you got saved in God's eyes, you're set apart. You're a saint. A few minutes ago we had Saint Mark leading the singing here. How about that? Saint Matt preached this morning, and um we should maybe start calling each other, hey Saint Evan, and you know, just talk like that. And so we need spiritual leadership because we need good guy leadership because we got a sinful nature. A sinful nature By the way, that was all true in the New Testament age when these persecuted believers are gathering together. Peter writes to them and says, Hey, you elders, you elders, you feed the flock of God. You take the oversight, not by constraint, but willingly, humbly. You lead these flocks in the way they ought to go. You oversee them, keep them true to the Word of God, keep the world out of there. You lead these flocks. What was true then is true in 2022 We need good godly leadership in our churches, our ministries. Keep the devil out. Keep the world out. Keep us true to the Word of God I like it, Wilbur. That's that's gonna help me a lot. I should have had that twenty-five years ago. So Peter is addressing, look here at our text. Peter is addressing the elders. And if you remember, a couple weeks ago we talked about elders. And depending on the context is how the word is being used. If you remember just quickly, sometimes the elders is simply referring to senior citizens. Let me just put it this way. Sometimes just talk about old folk. Elders. There's older folks. Older folks. Senior citizens. Sometimes, when he uses the term elders, they're referring to spiritually mature people in the church, not necessarily holding an office. But just spiritually mature people that have input and have advice and you can go to for good godly counsel. They're elders. They're mature. They they uh they know a few things about the Lord and living for God. I'm grateful we have a good number of elders in our church. Uh folks been around a while, they've seen a few things. This ain't their first rodeo. And they've seen what God can do, and they've seen what happens when we trust the Lord, seen what happens when we don't trust the Lord. I'm grateful that we have people like that. And by the way, the young people, you ought to take advantage of that And listen to what they have to say. I've always thought I'd love to have a booth out at the county fair and have a bunch of our old folks sit there and just give free advice Had people come by. But then I thought about it and thought, well maybe not uh depends who's behind that table there. But sometimes elders is just spiritually mature folk in the church. And then sometimes the term elder talks about a specific office in the church. And this is what we said and pointed out a couple weeks ago. Sometimes the term elder is referring to the pastor. And there's different terms used in the New Testament for the office of the pastor. A biblical church, a Baptist church, which is a biblical church, only has two offices. What are they? Pastor and Deacon. And that office of pastor has is there's you there's various terms used to describe it, to refer to it. Bishop. Timothy talks about the bishop, it means to oversee. The work. Pastor is a term. Shepherd is a term, very close to the word pastor. Minister sometimes is used as a title. The minister, we're all really ministers of Christ, but sometimes it's used as a title for uh the leadership of the church, and uh elder, elder, elder. Um so the context is the key. To determine what exactly is being addressed here. Look at verse number one here. Again, look at our text. The elders which are among you. So he's addressing, we're going to see here in verse two and three The context tells us he's talking about the pastors, those in that office of overseeing and providing leadership in the church, shepherding the church. If you would, keep your place here and come real quickly over with me to Hebrews, just a few pages to your left. You get back, you'll run into James and then uh Hebrews You're running John's and then Hebrew James and then never mind, I'm confused. Just go to Hebrews chapter 13. And look with me, Bud, at verse number 7. I've been out in the desert sun all week, so you bear with me. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7. Kind of ties in with 1 Peter 5, 1 through 3. Verse 70 says, Remember them. That word remember doesn't mean don't forget who they are. It means be mindful of them. Give heed to them Remember them which have the rule over you, elders, who have spoken unto you the word of God. That's where he says feed the flock. That's what he's talking about. Whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Come over to verse 17, talking about the office of elders, this position here. Look what he says about it. Obey them that have the rule over you, follow their leadership. Obey them that have the rule over you. Submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. Now look at this. Now for me, this is fearful. Personally, this is fearful for me, as that they must give an account that they may do it with joy. And not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Did you catch what he says there at the end? The pastor of a local church has to give an account to God for his leadership of that church. I'm telling you, I'm fearful. You say, why are preachers so picky about why we do this and why we do that? I'll tell you why. I've got to answer to God. Can I tell you my thinking a little bit? This has been my thinking for decades. I would far rather get to heaven and find out we could have done some things we didn't do than get to heaven and find out we did some things we ought not to have done. I just want to play cautious. I want to be careful. I don't want to displease our Lord. I don't want to bring any shame on our Savior's name. I don't want to stand before God. Before the Lord Jesus Christ, and hang my head and say, Lord, I'm sorry we did this in your church. Lord, I'm sorry we failed to carry this out. So it's a responsibility. And so Peter is addressing these pastors. Now let me real quickly give you three what he's showing them here. First, notice his dedication as pastor. As an elder. Look at verse 1 there, back in Peter. The elders which are among you. Alright, here is who he's addressing. Look what he says. I exhort who am also an elder. He's addressing these elders and he wants to exhort them. What's it mean to exhort someone? Now you all bear with me. Help me out. Now talk to me. Means the what is it? Praise, but it's a little bit more than praise. I exhort you. Lift them up. It has the idea of challenging. In that word is kind of the idea I'm pleading with you. Listen, do right. Do right. Wind soul. Share the gospel. Repent of your sin. Read your Bibles. Pray. Be faithful to God. That's exhorting, challenging, and building up. Say, hey, you can do this. I did a little bit with Lacey there, bus workers. Keep those buses running. Stay at it. Keep teaching. That's the idea. And Peter says, I'm exhorting you, pastors. I'm challenging you. I'm encouraging you. I want to strengthen you, help you. This is what you need to do. So he's exhorting them, but it's interesting, before he gives any exhortation to them, he presents his resume. He gives his credentials. Look what he says. The elders which are among you, I exhort. Now you have to skip down to verse 2 to get the actual exhortation. But between the first part of verse 1 and verse 2, he kind of throws in his resume. He says, who am also an elder? And a witness of the sufferings of Christ and a partaker of the glory that is revealed. I think what he's doing here, he's simply saying this: listen, I'm one of you guys. I tell you, he's not he's not some upstart coming up that has no experience and no uh uh just some Uh young punk, right out of Bible college, thinks he knows all the answers, gonna come in and fix everything and tell everybody what they ought to do. He says, I'm not that at all. I've been through it. I'm one of you guys. I've been where you are. I've I I've seen some days I tell you, when I was a young preacher, we were told, and I'm draping here a little bit, getting this off my chest But when I was a young preacher, I was told, listen, you young preacher boys, you be quiet and you listen to the older preachers. They've got something to say. You can learn from them. How many people agree with me? That's pretty good advice. And I tried to do that. All my counselors were men 30, 40 years older than me. All of them. They'd say, you be quiet and you listen to those older preachers. You listen to what they had to say. They've been through in the battle. They know what they're talking about. Now I'm an older preacher. You know what I'm being told? You be quiet and listen to these young preachers. They know this generation. They know a whole lot more about I'm telling you. Hey, hey, you can't relate. You got bald head and gray hair. Listen, I'm not concerned about relating to a generation. I'm concerned about pleasing my Savior And being true to that book. And Peter's writing to them say, hey you elders, hey, I'm an elder too. I'm not I'm not somebody coming up, I get this guy, um uh I followed a little bit on the computer there. He's going to start a church. Young guy out of college. Oh, he's going to start a church. He actually preached here years ago a youth rally for us. Many years ago. So I knew him and I followed him there a little bit. And oh boy, he's putting all this to all this information how to start a new church. And you've got to do this and you can't do that and He got to the point where he said you you can't have the name Baptist on there. If you're gonna start a church, you ain't gonna be able to have any church named Baptist. You gotta drop the name. Then you can't use the King James, you've got to use other versions. You'll never start a church. And he's just gone on and on and on. All this And so, lo and behold, thankfully after about five years, he started church. Anybody want to guess how long it lasted? He was there a year And he announced to the church, had a handful of people announced to his church, uh, I need to take a one-year sabbatical. This has been so hard on me, and I need a sabbatical for one year. And so what a sabbatical is, is basically a one-year paid vacation. And so he stepped out, church folded, went on. What I'm trying to say is this: don't take advice from somebody that isn't doing it. Get advice from folks. You want help in your marriage? Get advice from somebody that's been around for 62 years. Peter's writing to him saying, listen, I'm I've been there, I'm one of you guys. I'm not some I'm not somebody that doesn't have any experience, doesn't know what he's talking about. I've been through it. Look what he says, look what he tells them here. He says, he says, look, he says, I identify with you guys. The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder? He doesn't claim any authority over the local church. I think it's interesting, Peter does not refer to himself as the Pope. Amen. He'll say, uh you elders I exhort, I'm your Pope. He ain't no Pope. One of the criteria for a Pope is he can't be married. Did you know in Matthew chapter number 8 verse 14, we're told that Peter had a mother-in-law? What kind of idiot as a mother-in-law and doesn't get married? He doesn't claim any authority, over though church, he's not a pope. He doesn't claim any denominational authority over that. He's not saying, listen, you're a local church there, but I have an authority over your local church. I'm telling you, there is no man, there's no organization, there's no denomination that has authority over the local church. Jesus Christ is the only one that has authority outside this local church here. We don't answer to Nashville, we don't answer to the Vatican. We don't answer to Murfreesboro. There's nobody as much as I love Dr. Sheldon Smith. He is not an authority over our local church. Jacarding is not an authority over our local church. They are ministers to our church. You follow what I'm saying? And so Peter's uh writing them and saying, hey, I'm just an elder just like you. I don't have any authority over your church. It's amazing how many people come and want to tell us how we should run our church. By the way, the government doesn't have authority over our church. God and God alone is the authority over our church. So Peter's writing to him and he says, uh uh he says, I don't have, I'm just an elder just like you. He's just identifying with them. I'm just a preacher, just like you. I'm just a pastor, just like you. And so he identifies with them The New Testament church submits to no authority outside the local church. I'll tell you right now, as long as I have any say in this Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church will bow to no man-made authority. We bow to Jesus and Jesus alone. That's where we stand. We are independent fundamental Baptists. That means we answer the Lord. So one, he identifies with them. Number two, he witnessed firsthand the suffering, crucifixion, and resurrection of Christ. Look what he says. I exhort you also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. Now when he refers that phrase the sufferings of Christ, he's talking about the crucifixion, burial, resurrection. A witness is someone with a legitimate testimony. It's a legal term. He said, I saw it. He's on the stand, under threat of perjury. I saw Jesus Christ suffer. I saw him die and be buried. I saw him rise again. In other words, he said, I'm a witness. I saw firsthand the very thing that we preach. I'm one of you guys. I'm an elder. I saw firsthand Christ's death, burial, and resurrection. And then look thirdly and last of all, look at look at verse one. He says, a witness of the sufferings and a partaker Of the glory that shall be revealed. Now I don't have time. Let me just tell you what he's saying. The word partaker means this, an associate, a companion. You know what he's saying? He is saying, I am absolutely confident When it's all said and done, I'm going to be in glory with the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I've got assurance of my salvation. I know what I'm talking about. My relationship with Christ is not a hope-so-think-so relationship. It is settled. I'm a partaker of the glory that shall be. There was no doubts or questions about his standing with God. He had it settled. Three words here. He says identify, which are among you, I am also an elder. He identifies with them. He's a witness and he's a partaker. He's a partaker. Can I say this? A hope-so salvation is no salvation. If I ask you tonight, do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? And you say I hope so, I'll say you don't have it. A hope-so salvation is no salvation. Now maybe you might need to be taught, may need some teaching there, but I'm telling you this, churches and preachers going around preaching that you don't can't know whether you're saved or not, they are dead wrong. And they're hurting people. They're hurting their people. My Bible says that we can be saved and we can know it. Peter says, I know I'm a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Here's the statement. You can't lead people to somewhere you ain't. If I don't have assurance of my salvation, how in the world can I give anyone else assurance of my salvation? It's Father's Day. Let me talk to fathers. Let me talk to parents. I can't leave my kids somewhere where I'm not. Did you ever hear this? Kids, you kids do as I say, not as I do. You're a fool. You can't those kids will never come somewhere you're not. You've got to be what you need them to be And Peter says, listen, uh I'm not I'm not trying to tell you guys something that I haven't been there. I know I'm saved I'm an elder just like you guys. I saw firsthand. He's given his credentials. He says he's establishing the fact that he is qualified to lead them to somewhere where he already is. I can't lead people somewhere I'm not. Sunday school teachers, it's going to be a hard time leading my class higher spiritually than where I am spiritually. I've got to walk with God. Uh, buses, any ministry at all. I've got to walk with God. I can't lead people somewhere I'm not This past week, years ago, I noticed this, and I noticed it again. It came to mind again. Got an airplane, they're getting ready to push back. And the the the uh attendants get up there in the aisle and uh they said, all right, uh, we're getting ready some safety instructions. And uh this is how you buckle your seatbelt and uh and then you push this button, chch, I want so bad to go, duh. And uh and then you do that and they go through anybody know what I'm talking about? And you gotta get the little life preserver thing in the unlikely event of a water landing. It ain't landing, it's crashing if it's in the water Uh an unlikely event. Ah, there's little life preservers here and you can blow on them and they'll blow 'em up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They go through all that little ord of things and little spiel And then they get to one that caught my attention thirty-five years ago. They said in the unlikely event of a loss of pressure key uh cabin pressure, uh oxygen air mass will drop down from the ceiling. Anybody ever hear 'em say that? And add a little pitcher or sometimes they'll hold it there. And this is how you put it on. You put the straps behind your head and firmly affix it across your face and just breathe normally. And if the bag doesn't inflate, don't worry. Oxygen is flowing, so don't worry about that. I'm sitting there thinking, oh, this is wonderful. And then they make this statement. Before you help anybody else Make sure it's firmly affixed to yourself. I thought, I can't help anybody else spiritually in somewhere that I don't have settled. It's going to be awfully hard to leave someone else to Christ if I don't have assurance of my own salvation. It's going to be awfully hard to help someone else live for God if I'm not living for God. It's going to be awfully hard to help someone else have the power of the Holy Spirit upon them if I don't have the power of God upon my life. It's awfully hard to help someone else have a pure mouth if I don't have a pure mouth. Peter said, hey, I'm I'm I'm where you I I'm telling you, I'm part of you guys. I'm not trying to take you somewhere where I'm not at myself. Maybe this week, let's ask God to go forward in our Christian life. How many people here tonight say, preacher, I got some steps I can take forward in my walk with God? Anyone here? Let's do that And then let's bring other people along. Are you with me? Follow what I'm saying? Let's bring other people along. Let's bring other people along. Father, I ask now you'd bless. We're going to take part Lord's Supper here in a minute. I pray you'd stir our hearts to live for you and just be real so that we can help others live for you and be real. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to place them