Who have dedicated their lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. They've committed. They've made Jesus Christ Lord of their lives and they're paying a heavy price for it. They've been uh there are many of them are uh come no doubt from Jewish homes, and the Jewish families have driven them out of their homes, dis uh dis uh disowned them Uh they've lost their employment because of their faith in God. Um many of them have suffered physical abuse, violence, because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ These are not thugs, they're not drunkards, they're not thieves, they're not immoral people in that sense of the word. They are godly believers that love the Lord. Many of them, most of them new believers, young in Christ. And yet they paid a heavy price and they've been driven out of their communities, driven out of their homes, driven out of their societies, and they're scattered throughout this region, as we say all the time reminding you what the context here is. And now as they're settling into these regions, they are reassembling together As believers, as churches, they're re-establishing the churches they once were back home, but now driven out into foreign areas. And Peter is addressing this And notice in verse number one of chapter 5, as these churches are re-establishing, he's concerned about the leadership in these churches that it be what it ought to be. Let me say this, and I said it before, leadership is important. Dr. Lee Robertson always said everything rises and falls on leadership And so that's what Peter is addressing here. And he says in verse 1: The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God which is among you. He's addressing these elders. Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint But willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage But being in samples to the flock. Talking about elders in the church. And I'd like to finish this up. We've been looking at this a little bit. I want to try and finish this up this evening. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. We ask now as we look into your word, particularly on this matter of leadership in the church, I ask that your Holy Spirit would teach us. Be our teacher tonight. Lord, challenge us, our faith, our walk with you. And Lord, I pray that through your word and the truths that we're going to glean out of your word, you would prepare us to be a good witness in these coming week, with this coming work week. I yield my will to you again this evening, Lord. I present my body anew With all my heart, I pray once again, Father, you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, you please speak through me. Just use my body as a conduit to speak your word to our hearts And we ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. He's addressing this leadership, as I said. And the first thing you notice in verse 1 there is Peter establishes his own credentials to be addressing the elders of the church. He says, the elders which are among you. Now these are no doubt the pastors that had been in churches before they were driven out of their area. Now they're reassembling, as I said. And what he does is first of all he says, hey listen, I'm one of uh I'm one of y'all I'm an elder also. And he gives kind of his resume there in verse number one before he even gives any instructions to the elders. And one thing we tried to learn from that was this I can't lead people somewhere I'm not at. And so if I'm going to be able to help people, I've got to be able to do that from a position that I know what I'm talking about. And Peter was saying, I know what I'm talking about And what I tried to practice from right off the get-go in the ministry, I've sought counsel and I've looked to others as mentors in the ministry, but I did not I look to my peers as mentors. I looked to those that had been through it. Most of the men that I look to for advice. that I looked to for counsel and direction in the ministry, particularly early on in the years, were 20, 30, some cases 40 years older than me. And they have been in the ministry for years, and I think that's maybe one thing I did in in my years of ministry that uh was a wise thing to do. And I advise that now I'm getting older, a lot of my mentors are passing on to heaven. But that's what Peter's doing. He's establishing himself as an authority, as uh that he's one of them. So he gives his credentials there, and we talked about that Then that was, first of all, the dedication of Peter as an elder. Then we began last week looking at the duties of elders. And that's where we pick up in verse 2. And we started this, and if you remember, we pointed out that the church, a New Testament church, has two offices. Now there's a little bit of teaching here we've been doing the last couple of weeks. But there's two offices in the church. What didn't somebody name those two offices? Pastor and deacon. Pastor and Deacon. Period There's no other offices in the church. Now we have trustees. That's a legal thing for incorporation. There's nothing wrong with that. The Bible doesn't forbid that. But that is not a biblical office And uh we looked at that, uh pastor and trustee. Now, this matter of an elder, we talked about that. An elder has is used three ways in the Bible. Sometimes it's just old folks Sometimes it's people that are mature in the faith and they're they're um they don't have an office necessarily in the church, but they're a tremendous influence in the church for God and for good It would be an elder in a church. We have a number of folks in our church that have walked with God for many years, been faithful to the Lord, and they have a spiritual influence in our church. How many people know what I'm talking about? And their their presence and they have something to contribute from walking for years with the Lord. They would be an elder in the church. Not an office necessarily, but a tremendous benefit to the church. And then sometimes, uh and in the case here, the uh the elder is referring to the office of pastor. And the Bible uses various titles for the office of pastor. Elder, pastor, minister On occasion he's referred to as minister. Bishop is a term that is used to for the office of pastor. So that's what he's addressing here, and he gives three duties For the elders in the church. The first one we looked at last week in the first part of verse 2, he says, feed the flock of God which is among you And I think these are listed in order of priority, to be very honest with you. I think the first and foremost, the pastor, the elder of a church, is to feed the church the word of God. We nourish the church, the Word of God. If you remember, we pointed out Matthew 4, 4, Jesus said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by what? Every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. Listen, we need more than just uh wheat sandwich bread with um with uh uh um uh honey baked ham and swiss cheese and lettuce and tomatoes on it. Sorry, I'm getting hungry. By the way, we comes come to church Sunday night. We need more than roast hot dogs. We need the Word of God. We need the Word of God. And so preach the Word, he says to Timothy in uh 2 Timothy chapter 4, Hebrews 4. 12. The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. And so the pastor, the elder of the church, first and foremost responsibility is to preach that old book. You can do everything else right, but if the pastor isn't preaching the Bible, he's failing as a pastor. I wouldn't give you two cents for a preacher who doesn't preach the Bible. And I wouldn't give you two cents for a preacher who hedges his messages. Because he's worried about who's there and won't preach all the counsel of the Word of God, but stands and says, Thus saith the Lord, regardless of who is in the audience. And so preach the word. Feed the flock of God. If you remember, we pointed out the flock of God, not the flock of the pastor. This is this the church is not the pastor's church, it's God's church. It's the body of Christ. The pastor, the elder, is delegated authority by Jesus Christ. to prov to lead that church, to be in a leadership position, it is not his church. You know what I found out Generally speaking, if somebody lends you something, now there's exceptions, you're all going to think of an exception, but generally speaking, if somebody lends you something of something value, it's not yours Generally, folks try to take care of that. That's not mine. That's somebody else's. I gotta take care of it, right? Generally speaking. I remember we went up to um I was preaching up in Michigan years ago when I was in Bible college. We were doing a Bible time rally. And the guy picked us up at the airport, Logan Airport, is that right? Logan Airport in in uh in Boston, Boston. And uh The guy picked us up there in a Mercedes-Benz sports coupe. I mean this this is 1986 And uh this thing was fancy and he had w uh he had uh all these gadgets and gizmos in there. He picked us up and we're riding I'm stuck in the back, you know, it's just a little back thing there, convertible, the top's down, our luggage is piled up in the back. And we're driving along. We finally get to the place uh that we're supposed to stay. We got our stuff out, and uh we're walking out, and he tosses the keys to the car to me. He says, Here's your car for the week Whoa. And uh we said, all right. How many people believe I did that? No. I was like, this thing's a $80,000 car. It wasn't ours. It's very valuable. It wasn't ours. We're going to take care of it. Hey, I want to remind you, the church isn't ours. It's Jesus. It's very valuable. We take care of it. We be very, very careful. And so he says, feed the flock of God which is among you. Then second responsibility, that's the third responsibility. Feed the church, of the elder, the pastor, feed the church Number two, look at verse two. He says, feed the flock of God which is among you. Then he gives number two. Taking the what? oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's inheritage. God's heritage. Now he says, taking the oversight thereof. And did you notice he goes into a little bit of detail. He spends a little bit of time there qualifying And explaining that oversight. He's putting all these cautions on there. Did you catch that? He says, taking the oversight thereof, but then he puts on there, not by constraint But willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of ready mine, not as being lords over God's heritage. And he puts all these cautions on there. Do you know there can be a real danger in given responsibility to oversee something? And he puts all these cautions in there to make sure that they oversee the church correctly. Now I put it this way, number one, feed the church. Number two, lead the church. Lead the church. The phrase taking oversight thereof, the word oversight, this is gonna blow your mind, means to oversee something. What's it mean if somebody is overseeing something? They're on a job site and this guy's overseeing the job site. That means he's doing what? He's doing nothing. He's watching everybody else. No! He's making sure he's do- that's being done what? Right. He's overseeing that job. He's overseeing it, making sure things are done right. It means it has the idea of providing direction. To what's taking place. Want to oversee. The elders of the church, the pastors of the church are given the responsibility by God to oversee the church. To make sure things are being done right. Make sure things are being done according to the Word of God. Make sure the church is going in the right direction. Another aspect of overseeing something is protecting it from danger. You think of a shepherd with a flock. And he's to oversee that flock, those little lambs and those sheep. He's to make sure they're nourished. He's to make sure they're where they need to be and when they need to come into the fold at night, but he's to protect them. From the wild animals and dangers that are out there also. And the Lord tells the elders, He's writing to the elders here, and he says, Listen You take the oversight thereof. You provide direction. If you would, keep your place here. Turn with me to Acts chapter number 20. Now, as a pastor, I love Acts chapter 20. And the reason being is, Paul is heading back to Jerusalem And in Acts chapter 20, he makes a call for the elders of Ephesus, these various pastors in that part of the country, that part of the world, and he calls them to meet with him one last time before he heads back to Jerusalem. And he shares with them in my mind, he's sharing with them his philosophy of ministry. Now I read this as a pastor, a man, I connect with this. And if you would, notice in chapter 20, look at verse number 17. This is, it says, From Miletus, he, Paul, sent to Ephesus and called the what? Elders of the church. So he's having this preacher meeting, this pastor meeting. And he wants to talk to him. Boy, I don't know about you. I'd sure like to have sat in that meeting and heard Paul talk to pastors. Wouldn't that be something? I just got back from the sword conference preaching to preachers, and man, what a time, what a meeting this would have been. The Apostle Paul. And come down with me to verse 28. Notice what he tells these pastors Acts 20, verse 28. He says, Take heed thereto unto yourselves and to all the flock, there's the church, over which the Holy Ghost hath made you what? Overseers. Now he says almost the same thing Peter does. To feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood For I know this, verse 29, look at this. That after my departing shall what? Grievous wolves. That has the idea of violent, cruel. Grievous wolves shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. These are spiritual wolves. These are people who come in, they're going to come and infiltrate the church. They're going to change the doctrine. They're going to spiritually harm that flock of believers. And he says, after my departing they'll come in, and verse 30, and also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things. Look at this to draw away disciples after them. Now look what he says. Therefore, watch. And remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance. And he goes on, I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. I'm not looking after filthy lucre So what's he saying? He's saying the job of the pastor, the elder, is to provide direction for the church and to provide protection for the church. Protection from the church. We are in a spiritual warfare. And I'm telling you, we may think, well, we're just a little church up here in the mountains. You know, it's not that big. I'm telling you, Satan hates Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You mark it down And if he got his way, if the devil got his way, he would destroy this church. I mean he'd eat it alive And we have got to be diligent, and I, as pastor, have a phenomenal responsibility, overwhelming sometimes, to make sure this church stays exactly what God says it should be. And that's the responsibility of the elders, to provide oversight. Take your Bible, if you would, turn with me to Hebrews. Back there, Hebrews, chapter number 13, last. Last chapter in the book of Hebrews, chapter number 13, and Paul is addressing this same matter that Peter is. And in Hebrews chapter 13, he's speaking not to the elders in this point, but he's speaking to the church folk, the flock itself. And look what he says in verse 7, Hebrews 13, 7. Remember them which have the what? Rule over you, the oversight. That are overseeing this flock. Remember them. And the word remember there doesn't mean don't forget who your pastor is You know, it's more than uh I was out visiting. This has happened to me several times. This is a couple years ago I was over I think towards Gorman over that way I was just knocking on doors. I went to the door and a guy came to us. I'm Pastor Lutherman, Mount Lake Independent Back Church. Love to have you come there. So I went through my little spiel and I said, Do you go to church anywhere? He goes, Oh yeah Uh uh we go to church. I said, Where what church is that? Oh, it's the one over there across uh across the hills there, and he said somewhere. I said, Who's the preacher over there? Oh, let's see, it is um Yeah, we go all the time, every Sunday. What's that preacher's name? That's not what he's Paul's talking about here Remember them which have the rule over you. It means be mindful, give heed to intently. Remember them which have the rule over you and spoken unto you the word of God. That's the feeding. First part, have the rule over you, that's leading, have spoken to you word God, that's the feeding, whose faith followed, that's the example. Considering the end of their conversation. Remember them. Look over at verse 17 Obey them that have the what? Rule, the oversight, the responsibility to oversee. Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. Look at this. This is what sends shivers down my spine. As they, those that have the rule that are the oversight, as they must give account. And what I understand that little statement to mean, someday Pastor Dennis Leatherman is going to answer to God for my leadership in this church And every other pastor of a church will do the exact same thing. This isn't a game. This isn't just a little ego show. You want to get up in front of everybody and do your thing. That's not what it's about at all. It's a phenomenal responsibility that the pastor answers to God for. And nobody should ever take the pastorate of a church lightly. You go into that very serious, very understanding. This is a tremendous responsibility. Now it's a great joy. I love it. I don't know if you can tell. I have a blast. But I tell you, there's a seriousness to it. The leadership, oversight of the church. Now come back to Peter here real quick, and I'm going as quick as I can because I'm really hungry for those hot dogs Look here, he says. He says, feed the flock of God, whichever you verse two. Take in the oversight thereof. Now he lists three cautions. that he tacks onto this. You have the oversight. You've got that responsibility. But you be very, very careful about it. Number one, he says, don't be lazy. Don't be lazy. Look there in verse 2. Taking the oversight thereof. Now you've got to look at this. You've got to think about this. Not by constraint. Not being forced to do what you need to do, but what? Willingly. I think what he's saying here is, if a person's going to be the elder of a church, they've got to be self-motivated. You're not you're not you're not doing what you do because you're forced to do it. You have well I've got it. These preachers drive me nuts. They, oh I gotta preach Sunday Listen, that's not what he's a preacher ought not to get up and preach because he has to. It'll be something down inside his heart and soul burning. He wants to preach, he's willingly doing that. I was reading some articles about pastors and different things. I'm just looking for help and ideas or whatnot, and this guy was saying, Y'all pray for me. Oh, I gotta preach twice next week. That's a good grief I have no res Can I make this statement? I have no respect for lazy preachers. No respect. A preacher ought to a pastor of a church ought to be self-motivated. If somebody wants to get away and slide by without doing much, you get in the ministry, you can get off the radar. You know you only work one day a week. You know, you can just c you can just cruise by and sit around do nothing and fool everybody. I tell you, I have no respect for that. I believe one of the hardest workers in the church ought to be the pastor, ought to be the elder Stirred, working, giving himself, go, go, go. Work hard. So he says, number one, don't be lazy. Number two, look what he says, take in the oversight there, not by constraint, not being forced to, but Self-motivated, you're willingly serving and doing what needs to be done. Then he says, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. In other words, don't go, don't, don't be a pastor for money. For money. For money. The word filthy lucre, uh the word itself, the word filthy, anybody want to guess what filthy means? Dirty, unclean. Lucre comes from our English word. We get the our word is lucrative. Something's lucrative, it's very profitable. You can make a big bucks out of it And so when he puts the two together, filthy lucre is unclean, dirty, undeserved gain In other words, making money off of something you ha did not deserve or earn. In it for the money Listen, I don't want to paint with too broad of a brush, but I'll tell you there's a huge percentage of these TV preachers, I'm telling you, are in it for filthy lucre. I uh listen, uh uh there's nothing wrong with taking care of a pre preacher and this church treats me like a king. I'm telling you right now I'm I'm uh I'm humbled and I'm grateful for it, but when you get preachers going around needing to drive Mercedes-Benz and the best of this and the biggest of that and the fanciest of this, I'm telling you something's not right. Something's not right. When you go into the ministry, a pastor when he gives himself to that position of elder It is all of him, not just a few hours a week. It's his finances, his emotions, spiritually, physically, financially, every aspect is committed to that flock of God that God has called him to serve. Every bit of it, every bit of it, filthy lucre. That phrase filthy lucre is used four times in the New Testament. If you say, preacher, why are you yelling at us? You're the one that this applies to. I just thought of that. Maybe I'm yelling at me. That word filthy Luke is used four times in the Bible 1 Timothy 3 and verse 3 talking about bishops. In fact, we got a couple minutes. Turn over there real quickly with me. 1 Timothy 3. Are you all turning there? All right. First Timothy chapter 3. Look at verse 1. This is a true saying. If a man desire the office of bishop, elder, pastor. It's a leadership position. That's what Bishop is. He desireth a good work. By the way, notice it says a good what? Work. It's work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach Not given to wine? How many people are glad your preacher isn't given to wine? Yeah. No strength? Look at this. Not greedy of what? Filthy lucre. Not in it for the money. By the way, over in verse 8, it's mentioned again. Look who it's talking about here. Likewise also must the deacons be great, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not what? Greedy of filthy lucre. Nobody in the ministry ought ever be in it to get what to for what they can get out of it. See what I'm saying? Not for filthy lucre. Titus chapter 1 verse 7. Again, talking to pastors, filthy lucre. Here in Peter, filthy Lucre. Hey, if God warns us one time about something, we ought to pay attention. If he warns us four times, we ought to really pay attention. God means business on this. He's not playing. Filthy lucre is a dirty desire for money, a corrupt desire for money. It's being covetous. I have no respect for a lazy preacher, and I have no respect for a greedy preacher. Ready mind. Of a ready mind. Look there again, Peter. Come back here if you would. Let me get back here. Notice he says, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. In other words, not in it for what you get out of it, but you're internally motivated. Whether, you know, regardless of what the financial compensation was, I'm in this because God's called me. I have a ready mind, ready and willing to do this. And so, uh not not lazy, not after money. Uh number three, not looking for position or seeking power. Look what he says there. Neither as lords over God's inheritage. You're not in it to uh because of position. Oh, I want to be called pastor If that's all a person wants in the ministry is to be given some title, then the best thing they'll do is get out of the ministry. Get out of the ministry. Oh, I uh because of title or a power. Notice he says here, he says uh Not be as being lords over God's inheritage. That word lords there means to subdue others, to have dominion over them. Placing others in subjection to me. Listen, the responsibility of me as pastor is not to get you in subjection to me. My job is to get you in subjection to the Lord. Not me. I like what it says about John the Baptist, that when he spoke, the people followed Jesus. He directed all his disciples. They ended up being disciples of Jesus. That is the role of the elder, not to lord it over people, so everybody's in subjection to me. Y'all do what I say. No, y'all do what God says. Here's the thing about the elder. Here's the thing about the shepherd of God's flock, the church. The shepherd is a sheep. Do you ever think about that? Say, well, he's the shepherd of this flock. Yes, that's a responsibility. But I'm one of the sheep. I'm one of the sheep also. And so not to lord it over, not to have people in subjection to me. Go there real quick. Come back to 3 John. If you're in Peter here, go back towards Revelation. You run into 1 John, and um after 1 John, you're going to see 2 John, and then after 2 John, 3 John. How many people are glad you came to church tonight and learned that? Look at verse number nine. John is writing He's an elder, verse 1. He refers himself as an elder, and he warns the church about this character diatrophies. Look at verse 9. I wrote unto the church, but diatrophes, who loveth to have what? He likes to lord it over. He likes being in charge. He likes telling everybody what to do. He likes being boss. He has the preeminence among them received us not. He's deciding who can and can't. Wherefore, if I come, I'll remember his deeds, which he doeth. Look at this, pratting against us with malicious words And not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, forbidding them that would, and casteth them out of the church. I read that about the Otries, I get the impression this guy's got his own little kingdom he's trying to set up. That's where cults start. That's where people get off track when the when the pastor forgets. That he's an under-shepherd. So not looking for position, not power. And he says, notice he says, God's heritage, not his heritage, not my heritage. The church is God's. The church is God's It's the Lord's church. And then last of all, I end with this. 1 Peter 5, look at verse 3. Neither is being lords every hearing. But then he gives them one more admonition, but being examples to the flock. He says, uh, being sampled. So number one, the elders supposed to feed the church. Number two, lead the church, and number three, be an example. An example to the church. A pattern. That word ensample means to be a pattern. Something to follow after, a picture. If you would, one last passage, would you go to Hebrews? We're right there. Just come backwards a little bit, Hebrews, and go to chapter 8. And look with him if you would at verse 5. He's talking about the tabernacle in the Old Testament, and this whole context is the Ark of the Covenant. And he makes an interesting statement. That tabernacle and the Ark of the Covenant, they were just temporary earthly items that were patterned After the eternal tabernacle in heaven, mate not made with hands. The ark that Israel carried around with them in the wilderness and had there, David tried moving, remember he moved it with a cart and that Didn't turn out well. That ark was just a was just a model of the real one in heaven. When I was little, anybody here remember when you used to put model cars together, model airplanes? We'd work on that and paint them, put the little stickers on, glue. And uh put all that together, then we'd stick firecrackers in them and blow them up. It was great. It was fun. Pour a little lighter fluid, light it on fire. Ah But those weren't real cars. They were modeled after, they were patterned after the real car. And that's what he's saying here in Hebrews 8. Look at verse 5. Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. He goes down, he says, See, saith he, that you make all things according to the pattern showed thee in the mount. You know what, if I understand Peter correctly here, the elder, the pastor, he's to be a pattern for the believers to follow. He's to be an example, an sample. Well, well, what is a Christian? And he's to be that way. Now here's the problem. Like I said, the shepherd is also a sheep. And so there's not an elder in the world that's going to be a perfect example of everything a Christian should be, but they ought to be an ensample. You ought to at least set a pattern for that. I like what Paul said, and I'll end with this. He put it this way, follow me. As I follow Christ. And what he was saying was this: if there's some aspect of my life where I'm not following Christ, don't you follow that. You only follow the aspects of my life where I'm following Christ. You see what I'm saying? So Peter's writing to these elders that have been scattered all over and they're reorganizing their churches, all scattered in regions beyond. And he says, you guys, you make sure you feed that church. You preach that book. And you take the responsibility. You oversee that church. Make sure that thing's going the right direction. You keep the garbage out. And then you be an example to what that church is. And tremendous admonition to the pastors. Now here's my invitation. I thought I was praying all afternoon. I thought, how in the world do I give an invitation to myself But also, I think, to our church, and this is what I've been asking God this afternoon. I don't know if I'm going to be able to say that. I'm going to do the imitation a little different tonight. I want to ask our church to pray. That God would send a heaven-sent revival to our church. I mean, I think we're doing good. Tonight coming in, I don't know how you were, but I just sensed the Spirit of God, an air of anticipation. And I tell you, we've seen what God can do. We've seen this auditorium packs chairs in the aisles. We've seen that before. Let's ask God to do that again Let's, as a church, let's ask God, we know what you can do, God. Fill this place up. Let's see people say, let's see lives genuinely changed. I mean soul saved and life saved. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's a hunger in my heart as pastor that we see something that cannot be explained any other way than God did that. God is doing that. And I know there's more than just people in pews. But let's pray for a real. Would you do that? Pray with me for that. And let's ask God, move in our midst. And do something unusual, do something supernatural in our community through our church. Father in heaven, please bless our invitation tonight We want to be what you instruct us to be. Help me to be that elder that you've called me to be, and help us to be the church you've called us to be. And we pray for revival. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. You're here tonight and you're not saved. I can't press upon you how important it is you get that settled. Please don't play games with your soul. If you're here tonight and you're not right with God and there's something in your life you know it's not right, that's between you and God, but I've I've played with you. Don't play games with that. Let's make it right. You say, preacher, it's hard, I know. But right is right, hard or not. And let's just decide to do right and let's ask God to send revival. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As Jennifer plays that invitation hymn.